                                      Document of
                                     The World Bank



                                                       Report No: ICR00001582



              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                               (IDA-39040)



                                          ON A

                                         CREDIT

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 36.9 MILLION
                            (US$ 61 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                         TO THE

                          ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

                                          FOR A

                   PUBLIC SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT



                                      March 29, 2011




Finance and Private Sector Development Unit
Pakistan
South Asia Regional Office
                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective July 23, 2010)

                      Currency Unit = PAK Rupee (Rs)
                          PKR 1.00 = US$ 0.0117
                           US$ 1.00 = PKR 85.5
                              FISCAL YEAR
                              July 1- June 30

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AGP    Auditor General of Pakistan
BOI    Board of Investment
CCP    Competition Commission of Pakistan
CDWP   Central Development Working Party of Planning Commission
CPS    Country Partnership Strategy
CSA    Civil Services Academy
CSR    Civil Services Reform
CSRU   Civil Services Reform Unit
DA     Designated Account
DPCO   Debt Policy Coordination Office
EAD    Economic Affairs Division
EDP    Executive Development Program
EIP    Entity Improvement Plan
ERP    Economic Reform Program
FBR    Federal Board of Revenue
FBS    Federal Bureau of Statistics
FM     Financial Management
FMC    Financial Management Coordinator
FPSC   Federal Public Service Commission
FMR    Financial Management Report
GOP    Government of Pakistan
HRIS   Human Resource Information System
HRM    Human Resource Management
IA     Implementing Agency
ICR    Implementation Completion Report
IDA    International Development Association
IMF    International Monetary Fund
ISR    Implementation Status and Results
KANA   Kashmir and Northern Areas
LTU    Large Tax Payer Unit
MBA    Masters of Business Administration
MIS    Management Information System
M&E    Monitoring and Evaluation



                                                                  ii
MoC     Ministry of Commerce
MoF     Ministry of Finance
MoPMW   Ministry of Petroleum-Mineral Wing
MoWP    Ministry of Water and Power
MTU     Medium Taxpayer Unit
NEPRA   National Electric Power Regulatory Authority
NIPA    National Institute of Public Administration
NSCC    National Steering and Coordination Committee
NSPP    National School of Public Policy
OED     Operations Evaluation Department
OGRA    Oil and Gas Regulatory Authority
PA      Participating Agency
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PASC    Pakistan Administrative Staff College
PC      Project Coordinator
PCP     Privatisation Commission of Pakistan
PCU     Project Coordination Unit
PDEV    Professional Development Program (PDP)
PDO     Project Development Objective
PDP     Professional Development Program
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
P&DD    Planning and Development Division
PPF     Project Preparation Facility
PPMI    Pakistan Planning and Management Institute
PPRA    Public Procurement Regulatory Authority
PRSC    Provincial Public Service Commission
PRSP    Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSCBP   Public Sector Capacity Building Project
PSDP    Public Sector Development Program
PSE     Public Sector Enterprise
PTA     Pakistan Telecommunications Authority
SBP     State Bank of Pakistan
STARR   Sales Tax Automated Refund Depository
TPFU    Tax Payer Facilitation Unit
TARP    Tax Administration Reform Project
UFG     Unaccounted For GAS
USAID   United States Agency for International Development
USO     Universal Service Obligation
WB      World Bank
WTO     World Trade Organization




                                                             iii
      Vice President: Isabel Guerrero
    Country Director: Rachid Benmessaoud
     Sector Manager: Joel Hellman
Project Team Leader: Shabana Khawar
   ICR Team Leader: Muhammad Waheed




                                           iv
                                                          COUNTRY
                                                          PAKISTAN


                           PUBLIC SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT


                                                          CONTENTS


Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information                                                                                                     vi
   B. Key Dates                                                                                                             vii
   C. Ratings Summary                                                                                                      vii
   D. Sector and Theme Codes                                                                                               viii
   E. Bank Staff                                                                                                           viii
   F. Results Framework Analysis                                                                                           viii
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs                                                                               xii
   H. Restructuring                                                                                                         xii
   I. Disbursement Graph                                                                                                   xiii

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 8
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 13
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 16
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 16
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 18
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 20
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 21
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 22
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 27
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 28
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 30
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 31
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 32
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 40
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 41
  Annex 10: Borrower’s ICR …………………………………………………………...42
  Annex 11: MAP …………………..……………………………………………….. 192




                                                                                                                                  v
A. Basic Information
                                                                   PAKISTAN- PUBLIC
Country:               Pakistan              Project Name:         SECTOR CAPACITY
                                                                   BUILDING PROJECT
Project ID:            P083370               L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-39040
ICR Date:              26/02/2011            ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                   Government of
Lending Instrument:    TAL                   Borrower:
                                                                   Pakistan
Original Total
                         XDR 36.9 million      Disbursed Amount:   XDR 28.73 million
Commitment:
Revised Amount:          XDR 28.9 million
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Finance (MoF)
Ministry of Commerce (MoC)
Federal Board of Revenue (FBR)
Establishment Division- Professional Development
Establishment Division - Civil Services Reform Unit (CSRU)
National Electric Power Regulatory Authority (NEPRA)
Oil and Gas Regulatory Authority (OGRA)
Pakistan Telecommunications Authority (PTA)
Planning and Development Division
Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (PPRA)
Economic Affairs Division (EAD)
Ministry of Water and Power
Statistics Division
Federal Public Service Commission (FPSC)
Privatization Commission (PC)
Competition Commission of Pakistan (CCP)
Board of Investment (BoI)
Ministry of Industries and Production
National School of Public Policy (NSPP)
Ministry of Women Development
Ministry of Petroleum
Punjab Government
Balochistan Government
Kashmir and Northern Areas (KANA) Division
Co financiers and Other External Partners:      None




                                                                                       vi
B. Key Dates
                                                                       Revised / Actual
     Process            Date            Process        Original Date
                                                                           Date(s)
Concept Review:      06/25/2003    Effectiveness:       08/05/2004       08/05/2004
Appraisal:           11/17/2003    Restructuring(s):
Approval:            05/20/2004    Mid-term Review:     06/30/2006        11/30/2006
                                   Closing:             11/30/2009        11/30/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
Outcomes:                                 Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:              High
Bank Performance:                         Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                     Moderately Unsatisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower                 Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Unsatisfactory     Government:            Unsatisfactory
Quality of Supervision: Moderately         Implementing           Moderately
                        Unsatisfactory     Agency/Agencies:       Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank            Unsatisfactory     Overall Borrower       Moderately
Performance:                               Performance:           Unsatisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                          QAG Assessments
                              Indicators                                 Rating
      Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem       Yes               Quality at Entry    Moderately Satisfactory
Project at any time                        (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any No                 Quality of          Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                             Supervision (QSA):
 DO rating before        Moderately        Implementation      Moderately Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status: Unsatisfactory    Performance (IP):




                                                                                       vii
D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                76                  76
Sub-national government administration                           15                  15
Tertiary education                                                9                   9




Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
 Administrative and civil service reform                           29                 29
 Debt management and fiscal sustainability                         14                 14
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                   14                 14
procurement
 Regulation and competition policy                                 29                 29
 Tax policy and administration                                     14                 14

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                      At ICR                           At Approval
Vice President:           Isabel M. Guerrero                 Praful C. Patel
Country Director:         Rachid Benmessaoud                 John W. Wall
Sector Manager:           Joel Hellman                       Joseph Del Mar Pernia
Project Team Leader:      Shabana Khawar                     Asya Akhlaque
ICR Team Leader:          Muhammad Waheed
                          Muhammad Waheed and
ICR Primary Author:
                          Kiran Afzal


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (PDO) (from Project Appraisal Document)

The overarching goal of the proposed Public Sector Capacity Building Project (PSCBP) was to
improve the Government of Pakistan's (GOP’s) capacity to implement its Economic Reforms
Program (ERP). Focusing on strategic areas, the project had the following three distinct capacity
building objectives:

 (a) broad-based professional development of public sector officers;
 (b) capacity enhancement in key ministries/agencies; and
 (c) strengthening of regulatory agencies.



                                                                                             viii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                              Original Target     Formally      Actual Value
                                                Values (from       Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value
                                                  approval         Target       Completion or
                                                 documents)        Values       Target Years
                 Enhanced capacity of public officials occupying middle level policy positions in
Indicator 1 :
                 GOP, in the area of economic management
Value            Lack of technical skills in Core group of at                549 officers of core
(quantitative or the area of economic        least 450-500                   group completed
qualitative)     management                  (later readjusted to            training.
                                             550) middle-senior
                                             level officials in
                                             the government
                                             acquire
                                             technical/specializ
                                             ed training.
Date achieved                                11/30/2009                      11/30/2009
Comments         Target enhanced and achieved
(including %
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Improved in-house capacity to perform key economic functions.
Value            Lack of capacity in key Entity                               11 of the
(quantitative or economic ministries.        Improvement                     Implementing
qualitative)                                 Plans (EIP) of at               Agencies (IAs)
                                             least 90%                       fully implemented
                                             participating                   EIPs. 10 IAs
                                             agencies/                       managed to
                                             ministries                      implement only
                                             implemented.                    partially.
Date achieved                                11/30/2009                      11/30/2009
Comments         Achieved up to about 70% as just over half of IAs representing most important
(including % key economic ministries implemented their EIPs fully, while, the remainder
achievement) implemented their EIPs partially up to about 50%
Indicator 3 : Enhanced regulatory capacity in NEPRA, OGRA, and PTA to regulate and
                 monitor performance of the utilities
Value            Lack of capacity to         Entity                          EIPs mostly
(quantitative or regulate and monitor        Improvement                     implemented
qualitative)     performance of the          Plans (EIP) of                  successfully.
                 utilities.                  National Electric
                                             Power Regulatory
                                             authority
                                             (NEPRA), Oil and
                                             Gas Regulatory


                                                                                               ix
                                       Authority
                                       (OGRA), Pakistan
                                       Telecommunicatio
                                       ns Authority (PTA
                                       , Pakistan
                                       Procurement
                                       Regulatory
                                       Authority (PPRA)
                                       implemented
                                       satisfactorily.
Date achieved                          11/30/2009                         11/30/2009
Comments      Partly achieved. Only some low priority consultancies/studies were not
(including % undertaken. (see para 2.2.9 and Annex-2)
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                                           Original Target Formally          Actual Value
                                           Values (from         Revised      Achieved at
Indicator       Baseline Value
                                           approval             Target       Completion or
                                           documents)           Values       Target Years
                Around 450-500 civil service officers (middle-senior level) receive
Indicator 1 :
                technical/professional training in identified areas
Value           Most civil servants lack 450-500 (later                      Professional
(quantitative professional                 readjusted to 550)                training imparted to
or qualitative) competence/knowledge to officials complete                   549 officials:
                perform key economic       professional                       363 received
                functions and formulate development                              PDev ;
                informed decision          training (PDEV),                   186 completed
                making.                    Executive                             EDP;
                                           Development                        841 officials
                                           Program (EDP),                        received
                                           and other short-                      specialized
                                           term training).                       short- term
                                                                                 foreign training;
                                                                                 and
                                                                              519 officials
                                                                                 received local
                                                                                 training.
Date achieved                              11/30/2009                        11/30/2009
Comments         Fully achieved, in fact exceeded original target.
(including %
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Key technical studies completed; advisors/staff hired; specialized training
                imparted; and facilities and services upgraded in key economic ministries


                                                                                                x
Value           Most economic ministries Technical studies:                   18 studies
(quantitative lack technical staff;        At least 5 critical                completed. 81
or qualitative) expertise; and training to studies completed.                 consultants/tech.
                make informed decisions. Staff Hiring: 7-10                   staff hired. NSPP
                                           advisors/technical                 operational; MoC
                                           staff hired.                       Digital Library
                                           Facilities/                        functional; FBR –
                                           Services:                          MTUs established
                                           National School
                                           of Public Policy
                                           (NSPP)
                                           Operational;
                                           Ministry of
                                           Commerce
                                           (MoC)-Digital
                                           Library; Federal
                                           Bureau of
                                           Revenue-Medium
                                           Taxpayer Units
                                           (FBR-MTUs)
                                           established
Date achieved                              11/30/2009                         11/30/2009
Comments        Substantially achieved as most of the capacity building measures envisaged
(including % under the EIPs were undertaken. The legal advisory cell could not be
achievement) established in the MoC and some studies were not undertaken e.g., Board of
                Investment (BOI) Study for facilitating investment (see para 2.2.1 to 2.2.8 and
                Annex 2).
Indicator 3: Key technical studies completed; advisors/staff hired; specialized training
                imparted in NEPRA, OGRA and PTA.
Value           Newly established           At least 40-50                    97 officials of
(quantitative regulatory agencies lack         staff receive                      new regulatory
or qualitative) technical staff and            specialized                        agencies
                expertise, and training to     training;                          received
                make informed decisions.  At least 3-5                           training;
                                               key studies                     4 studies
                                               completed                          completed; and
                                            At least 3-5                      3 senior
                                               Senior                             advisers hired.
                                               Advisors
                                               hired.
Date achieved                              11/30/2009                         11/30/2009
                Partly achieved. The training plans were not fully implemented; however, the
Comments
                need was largely met through recruitment of qualified and trained staff. All the
(including %
                planned studies were not carried out, the critical ones were however undertaken
achievement)
                and completed (see para 2.29 and Annex 2 )



                                                                                                xi
G. Ratings of Project Performance in Implementation Status and Results (ISRs)

                                                                             Actual
        Date ISR
                                DO                       IP              Disbursements
        Archived
No.                                                                      (USD millions)
  1  08/25/2004       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                        3.00
  2  03/31/2005       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                        7.72
  3  09/27/2005       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       11.54
  4  05/03/2006       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       16.95
  5  12/15/2006       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       19.55
  6  06/15/2007       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       24.63
  7  12/20/2007       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       29.86
  8  06/27/2008       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       35.05
  9  12/30/2008       Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory            37.85
10 06/29/2009         Moderately              Moderately Satisfactory            40.91
                      Unsatisfactory
11 02/09/2010         Moderately              Moderately Satisfactory             43.97
                      Unsatisfactory
H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                              Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions

No formal restructuring was carried out. However, at mid-term Review in December 2006, there
was a disbursement lag of about 32% due to slow progress made by some of the IAs. Therefore,
it was decided to reduce allocation by 50% for those IAs who were unable to spend more than
25% of the initially allocated amount. This was subsequently implemented. Surrendered funds
by some entities due to savings or changed priorities were also reallocated to new entities
namely, Competition Commission of Pakistan (CCP), Privatization Commission of Pakistan
(PCP), KANA Division, and Women Development Division.




                                                                                          xii
I. Disbursement Graph




                        xiii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal
With a few noteworthy exceptions, the capacity of public institutions in Pakistan and the quality
of services that these provide have been in a state of decline for some time. In the early 2000s,
the Government of Pakistan (GoP) recognized that if Pakistan was to accelerate and sustain
growth, reduce poverty, and enable citizens and the private sector to compete in a global market,
the country’s bureaucratic culture would need drastic improvement. To this effect, a civil service
reform program was initiated at both the federal and provincial levels, 1 However, based on
analytical work and stakeholder consultations, several key issues were identified that constrained
the reform process.
1.1.1 Weak Technical and Managerial Skills: Over the past couple of decades, the technical
competence of civil servants has eroded, due to declining standards in pre-service and in-service
training. For existing civil servants, human resource development has been inadequately
resourced and access to international training opportunities limited,2 causing attrition in existing
skills. Reductions in funding for public sector universities had eroded the quality of higher
education institutions, resulting in deterioration in the quality of entry level civil servants.3 The
burden of redressing these inadequacies during pre-service and in-service training fell to the civil
service training institutes, which had also experienced declines in quality over time. Given these
shortcomings, significant changes in the structure and resourcing of public service training
programs was considered a necessary precondition for the successful transformation of the public
service.
1.1.2 Limitations in Recruitment Process and Placement Policies: Recruitment in the civil
service was overseen by the Federal/Provincial Public Service Commission (FPSC/PPSC).
Although the examination process was considered rigorous and competitive, outdated
examination curricula and inappropriate application criteria (for example, minimum qualification
for initial recruitment required a bachelor’s degree) distorted selection outcomes. While a
systematic policy for promotion existed, processes for placements and transfers commonly
lacked professional and technical justifications, leading to a mismatch between skills and
placement outcomes.
1.1.3 Lack of Capacity in Newly Established Regulatory Agencies: A few years before
project appraisal, GoP established three new regulatory agencies: Pakistan Telecommunications



1
  A Framework for Civil Service Reform in Pakistan, World Bank, 1998
2
  According to estimates of the Committee on Civil Service Reforms, annual expenditures on civil service training
since 1980 had been less than 0.5 percent of total compensation. The percentage of officers in Grades 17-19 who
had obtained post graduate degrees varied from 2% to 8% among ministries. Many acquired this under the United
States Agency for International Development (USAID) overseas training program during the 1980s.
3
  Higher education expenditure as a percentage of total education expenditure declined from 17 percent in 1987-
1988 to 12 percent in 2001-2002


                                                                                                                    1
Authority (PTA); National Electric Power Regulatory Authority (NEPRA); and Oil and Gas
Regulatory Authority (OGRA). 4 These agencies faced similar problems to the civil service,
although, with greater autonomy, they were able to recruit more qualified and suitable staff. At
project preparation, the agencies were in their formative stage of development and needed
assistance to meet international standards in establishing a regulatory framework for the
respective sectors.
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
1.2.1 The overarching goal of the Public Sector Capacity Building Project (PSCBP) was to
improve GoP's capacity to implement its economic reform program. To facilitate this, the project
focused on fulfilling the following objectives: (a) broad-based professional development of
public sector officers; (b) capacity enhancement in key ministries and agencies; and (c)
strengthening of regulatory agencies.
1.2.2 The project also aimed to strengthen government capacity to create a skilled, professional,
merit-based and performance-oriented civil service and, in turn, facilitate an improvement in the
overall quality of policy formulation, reform implementation, service delivery and human
resource management of the public sector. This was to be achieved through: (a) availing
advanced and specialized training opportunities; (b) accessing international and local expertise
and advisory services for capacity building; and (c) procuring goods and equipment to support
capacity building of the participating agencies.
1.2.3 Key Performance Indicators: Several input, process, and output indicators were
developed to track the success of project interventions over the five year implementation period.
Indicators identified for the three components of the project are listed below:
       1.2.3.1 Overall expected results at an aggregate project level:
          (a) Approximately 250-300 civil servants, including ex-cadre (grade 17-19 or equivalent)
              acquire Masters Degrees in specific areas where the capacity is lacking;
          (b) Approximately 200 civil servants, including ex-cadre (Grade 20-21 or equivalent)
              undertake specialized short-term (6 weeks) training;
          (c) Completion of technical studies and implementation of capacity building programs,
              as per EIPs
       1.2.3.2 Professional development -- Expected results:
          These indicators broadly focused on the number of public officials trained, hiring of core
          faculty for training institutions and number of domestic training programs designed.



4
    PTA, NEPRA and OGRA were established under Acts of 1996, 1997 and 2002/3.




                                                                                                  2
    1.2.3.3 Capacity development of participating ministries and agencies, which included:
       (a) Ministry of Finance: Debt Policy Coordination Office, Corporate Finance, and Policy
       Wing;
       (b) Federal Board of Revenue;
       (c) Ministry of Commerce;
       (d) Establishment Division’s Civil Service Reform Unit;
       (e) Economic Affairs Division;
       (f) Planning and Development Division; and
       (g) Public Procurement Regulatory Authority.
    1.2.3.4 Strengthening Capacity of Regulatory Agencies:
       Primarily output indicators were proposed for NEPRA, OGRA and PTA, and mainly
       included work on various standards, frameworks and technical standards within the
       respective sectors.
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
There was no revision to the PDO. Indicators similar to those applied to ministries/agencies in
para 1.2.3.3 for other ministries/agencies qualifying for entry during implementation were to be
developed and included in the project.
1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The immediate beneficiaries of project activities were further defined as:
 (a) Middle- and senior-level federal and provincial government officials, including ex cadre
     officers;
 (b) Federal Ministries and Provincial Departments;
 (c) Public sector training institutions;
 (d) Federal Public Service Commission;
 (e) Civil Service Reform Unit; and
 (f) Competition Commission of Pakistan.
1.5 Original Components
The three main components mentioned in para 1.21 comprised 13 sub-components that follow:
1.5.1 Component 1: Professional Development (US$23 million): This component addressed
the capacity and technical skills gap in the civil service and focused on the professional




                                                                                              3
development of federal and provincial civil services and ex-cadre officers, including district
officers. Its three sub-components included:
     1.5.1.1 Professional Training Program (US$17 million): Under this sub-component, the
     Establishment Division implemented two training programs (degree and non-degree) for
     middle to senior level officers: Executive Development Program (EDP) for senior (grades
     20 - 21) civil servants; and Professional Development Program (PDP) for younger (grades
     17 - 19) civil servants. The programs were open to all federal, provincial, district officers
     and ex-cadre on a competitive basis.5
     1.5.1.2 National School of Public Policy (US$5 million): Strengthening and upgrading the
     country’s training capacity through support of training institutions (National School of
     Public Policy (NSPP), National Institute of Public Administration, Civil Service Academy,
     etc.) and partnering them with international institutions. The major emphasis was on NSPP
     which had recently been established to build domestic training capacity.
     1.5.1.3 Federal Public Service Commission (US$1 million): Improving the civil service
     recruitment process by undertaking needs analysis in coordination with the Establishment
     Division and NSPP and strengthening the following areas: entry-level examination process;
     management of promotion examinations; handling of promotions; curriculum development.
1.5.2 Component 2: Strengthening Economic Policy and Management (US$21.4 million):
The focus of this component was on capacity building of key federal and provincial ministries
and divisions. Its seven sub-components included:
     1.5.2.1 Finance Division (US$4 million): This sub-component included capacity building
     of various wings to enable them to effectively coordinate implementation of economic and
     fiscal policies and reforms. The project supported an integrated medium-term program
     comprising professional training of staff and short-term specialized training; short- and
     long-term consultant support for specialized analytical work and policy reform programs;
     and upgrading of infrastructure and information technology facilities.
     1.5.2.2 Establishment Division - Civil Services Reform Unit (US$2 million): This sub-
     component aimed to strengthen the capacity of the Establishment Division to address the
     broader civil service reform program. The Civil Service Reform Unit (CSRU) of the
     Establishment Division was designed to oversee GoP’s civil service reform and support
     reform pillars, such as devolution; recruitment and promotion reforms; pay and pension
     reforms; professional development; monitoring and evaluation (M & E); and coordination.



5
  Priority areas for degree programs (international and domestic) were: economics; business administration; public
policy and public administration; regulation of public monopolies and public utilities; governance; devolution and
decentralization; fiscal decentralization; fiscal federalism; local government administration; law and regulatory
economics; international water law, financial and economic law; trade and technical law; social sector development;
irrigation and natural resource management; and infrastructure planning, policy and management.


                                                                                                                  4
    1.5.2.3 Ministry of Commerce (US$2 million): This sub-component aimed to strengthen
    the capacity of the Ministry of Commerce to modernize and improve Pakistan’s trading
    regime and practices, deal with WTO-related negotiations and implementation and other
    technicalities of international trade. This included strengthening research, analysis and
    information management in the public and private sectors through training of officers,
    establishment of a Data Cell / Digital Library, creation of a Legal Advisory Cell and a
    Stakeholders' Awareness Program.
    1.5.2.4 Federal Board of Revenue (US$6 million): This sub-component was part of the
    overall tax administration reform strategy of the Federal Board of Revenue (FBR), to be
    supported under a larger Tax Administration Reform Project that was then under preparation
    with Bank assistance. As Project Preparation Facility funds were already committed, and the
    larger program support was unlikely to be effective in the short term, immediate reform
    initiatives commenced under this project and bridged the financing gap. Initiatives proposed
    under this sub-component included: development of Human Resource Information System;
    capacity building and training of FBR employees; change management workshops and
    communication; Large / Medium Taxpayers Units; Dispute Resolution Complex; Sales Tax
    Automated Refund Repository; Taxpayer Education and Facilitation Centers; Customs Pilot
    Project; and Universal Self-Assessment Scheme.
    1.5.2.5 Economic Affairs Division (US$1 million): This sub-component aimed to
    strengthen the capacity of the Economic Affairs Division to better coordinate with donors
    and manage donor funded projects effectively. The project provided for building capacity of
    officers via long- and short-term training; improving procedures for each wing; and
    improving the management information system.
    1.5.2.6 Planning & Development Division (US$5.4 million): This sub-component aimed to
    strengthen capacity of staff in the areas of: economic planning; design; appraisal;
    implementation; monitoring and evaluation of public sector development programs;
    formulation of sectoral master plans; and integration of provincial programs with the federal
    development programs and projects.
    1.5.2.7 Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (US$1 million): This sub-component
    aimed to strengthen the capacity of the Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (PPRA) to
    regulate public sector procurement and develop modern, transparent, and cost effective
    public procurement and procurement monitoring systems. This was to be achieved through
    capacity building based on training of the existing and future workforce of PPRA in
    specialized areas, after which the trainees would join the relevant posts. It was proposed that
    PPRA also train relevant officials of public sector organizations and the Auditor General of
    Pakistan (AGP) to familiarize them with revised procurement regulations and procedures.
1.5.3 Component 3: Strengthening the Regulatory Function (US$5.6 million): This
component supported capacity building of the new regulatory agencies through: (a) specialized



                                                                                                 5
training of officers; (b) specialized technical consultancies for undertaking analytical studies; and
(c) procurement of equipment and related materials. The three sub- components included:
    1.5.3.1 National Electric Power Regulatory Authority (US$2 million): This sub-
    component supported skill development; technical studies; seminars; and advisory and
    management services for the National Electric Power Regulatory Authority (NEPRA).
    NEPRA proposed to form a unit to implement the regulation and oversee information
    dissemination and management.
    1.5.3.2 Oil and Gas Regulatory Authority (US$2 million): This sub-component supported
    studies pertaining to key regulatory activities and relevant degree and non-degree training of
    staff of the Oil and Gas Regulatory Authority.
    1.5.3.3 Pakistan Telecommunications Authority (US$1.6 million): This sub-component
    supported the professional development of younger (grade 17 - 19) in deregulation,
    telecommunications policy; financial and tariff analysis and telecommunications technology.
    The training plan included short-term training courses and visits in specialized fields for
    PTA officers in relevant institutions, participation in international and regional meetings and
    conferences, workshops, symposia, seminars and exhibitions.
1.5.4 Project Component Unallocated (US$11 million). This unallocated amount was to be
disbursed to additional ministries and agencies following approval of individual proposals by the
National Steering and Coordination Committee (NSCC) based on the following eligibility
criteria: (a) full alignment to project objectives with the agency's overall strategic vision; (b) an
Entity Improvement Plan along with indicators for monitoring progress; (c) strong agency
ownership and leadership to champion the reform; (d) clearly defined proposals with timelines of
activities and budgets for all the components; and (e) agencies having their first year's program
ready for implementation.
    1.5.4.1 Interested agencies prepared sub-project proposals in consultation with the Project
    Coordination Unit (PCU) and submitted these to the NSCC through their respective
    secretaries or agency heads. The proposals were shared with the Bank before submission to
    NSCC. After NSCC’s approval, the concerned Planning Commission-1 (PC-1) forms were
    submitted for the approval of Central Development Working Party of Planning Commission,
    following which PCU allocated resources from the un-allocated amount to the new
    participating agencies.
1.6 Revised Components
The three basic strategic components remained unchanged. However, after the mid-term review,
GoP decided to include a larger number of participants in an effort to utilize the unspent funds
due to slow utilization by some of the original participants. Fourteen further institutions were
approved by NSCC for participation under the second component. As three of these (Railways,




                                                                                                   6
Cabinet Division, and Ministry of Petroleum [Mineral Wing]) were unable to participate due to
problems of PC-1 approval6, only eleven institutions were added as sub-components.
1.7 Other Significant Changes
1.7.1 While there were no changes in the project design and implementation arrangements, an
unforeseen increase in the scale of the project occurred as the total participants rose from the
original 13 to 24. The Bank agreed to these changes in response to the GoP’s request. The names
and final allocation of loan funds to the 24 participants is given below:
        (a) Finance Division: US$6.2 million; (b) Economic Affairs Division: US$1 million; (c)
        Establishment Division (PDev/EDP): US$23 million; (d) Federal Board of Revenue: US$6
        million; (e) Planning and Development Division: US$5.4 million; (f) Ministry of
        Commerce: US$1 million; (g) Federal Public Services Commission: US$0.5 million; (h)
        National Electric Power Regulatory Agency: US$1 million; (i) Oil and Gas Regulatory
        Agency: US$1 million; (j) Pakistan Telecommunications Authority: US$1.1 million; (k)
        Public Procurement Regulatory Authority: US$0.5 million; (l) National School of Public
        Policy: US$2.5 million; (m) Civil Services Reform Unit – included under Establishment
        Division; (n) Privatization Commission: US$1 million; (o) Ministry of Water and Power:
        US$1.5 million; (p) Competition Commission of Pakistan: US$1.5 million; (q) Board of
        Investment: US$0.5 million; (r) Ministry of Industries and Production: US$1 million; (s),
        Statistics Division: US$0.2 million; (t) Women Development Division: US$0.5 million; (u)
        Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources: US$1 million; (v) Punjab Provincial Finance
        and Planning Departments: US$3 million; (w) Balochistan Provincial Finance and Planning
        Departments: US$0.4 million; and (x) Kashmir and Northern Areas Division: US$1 million.
1.7.2 Disbursement Lag: At the mid-term review in 2006, project disbursements were slow and
32 percent behind the original schedule. From 2007 onwards, political changes caused senior
GoP officials to pay less attention to civil service reform and progress fell behind schedule. After
June 2008, the Steering Committee did not meet and hence the issues behind slow utilization of
funds were not addressed. GoP requested an extension of the project closing date by two years to
enable utilization of allocated IDA funds, but due to inadequate GoP commitment and lack of
timelines in the utilization plans (including delayed and uncertain PC-1 approval by the Planning
Commission), the Bank decided not to extend the closing date. The unutilized balance of $14
million was cancelled as mutually agreed to be allocated to a new project for Pakistan. The
project subsequently closed on November 30, 2009.




6
    PC-1 is the application form for seeking GoP’s Planning Commission approval of projects.




                                                                                                  7
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
2.1.1 Project preparation started in 2004 based on Bank-financed analytical work on Pakistan’s
civil service that documented the deterioration of the capacity of the country’s civil service over
the past two decades and the resulting consequences for the government's policy-making
capacity, operational efficiency, and delivery of public services. Design was also informed by an
Operations Evaluation Department review of Bank assistance to civil service reform projects.7 At
design, three factors were identified which adversely affected public sector performance: (a)
endemic overstaffing; (b) misaligned organizational structures, poor human resources, and
weakened administrative capacity; and (c) a lack of accountability of state institutions due to
cumbersome rules, political interference and cultures of non-performance. The project attempted
to address mainly the second area, but expected to indirectly impact the others factors through
generating a critical mass of reform champions.
2.1.2 The project design was inappropriate to the nature and scale of the problems afflicting the
civil service in Pakistan and the uncertainty concerning the commitment of GoP to reform in this
area. A key flaw in the design was a failure to employ a robust conceptual framework to develop
project inputs individually necessary and collectively sufficient to achieve outcomes associated
with the project development objective. Specifically, while pre-project analytical work identified
a broad series of factors as collectively responsible for undermining the capacity of the civil
service, the project proposed a narrow, but thinly-spread, scope of activities focused on training
and professional development. The design of the project insufficiently appreciated the low
probability of such inputs affecting the desired outcomes and failed to develop a more effectual
suite of inputs and/or to support complementary reforms necessary to attain project objectives.
The development of a rigorous logical framework linking project inputs, outputs, and outcomes
could have potentially avoided this.
2.1.3 The risk of slow implementation of civil service reform was considered at appraisal and
rated as “substantial”. However, the project implicitly assumed that the high-level government
commitment present at the design stage would continue and would ensure the implementation of
reforms necessary for increasing civil service capacity. The design thus did not seek to develop
mechanisms to support these reforms or to develop mechanisms to mitigate the risk to the
attainment of the project objective in the event of a loss of government commitment. As the
project proceeded, however, government commitment waned, hindering achievement of project
objectives that were dependent upon the reform process. The failure to embed, within the project,
the risk of a lessening in government commitment and develop activities accordingly was a key
oversight in the project design.




7
    Civil Service Reform, A Review of World bank Assistance, OED, World Bank, August 1999


                                                                                                 8
2.1.4 The scope of project activities was too small and too thinly-distributed to be capable of
generating the desired critical mass of reform champions or to create a discernable difference in
the overall capacity of the civil service. Out of a total of 5,000 civil servants and approximately
19,000 ex-cadre officials, only 500 officers were planned to receive training through the project.
Given the distribution of such beneficiaries across 24 (13 at design) ministries, selection of
beneficiaries without regard to occupational status or professional networks, and the lack of
formal networks among training beneficiaries, the potential of such training activities to
contribute to the creation of a critical mass of reform champions was minimal.
2.1.5 A serious short-coming of the project design was the development of Project Development
Objective (PDOs) which focused on outputs, rather than outcomes. This not only adversely
affected the development of an appropriate monitoring and evaluation framework to measure
project milestones and identify project impacts, but also inhibited the development of a logical
framework in which to base project activities and delivered perverse signals to stake-holders,
participating agencies, and team members concerning the overall goals of the project.
2.1.6 While the project design made provision for ensuring retention of trained officers by
requiring beneficiaries to sign a bond for 5 years service after return, no attendant efforts were
made to address the significant risk identified at appraisal that trained officers would not be
placed in areas relevant to their newly-acquired education. The failure to formulate a placement
policy and program of professional support for trained officers was a significant shortcoming in
the design of the project. The policy which was eventually developed by the Civil Service
Reform Unit and approved by the GoP in 2006 did not provide for the optimal utilization of
trained officials and thereby undermined the ability of the project to create a critical mass of
professionally qualified officers to drive civil service reform.
2.2 Implementation
2.2.1 With 24 participating federal and provincial agencies, the project was very complex. The
National Steering and Coordination Committee (NSCC), chaired by the Minister of Finance, was
formed by GoP to ensure effective implementation of the project. The Project Coordination Unit
was established within the Ministry of Finance for overall coordination and submitting quarterly
monitoring reports on project progress, mid-term review, and final evaluation. The Civil Service
Reform Unit (CSRU) was established within the Establishment Division for managing the
broader civil service reform in addition to the sub- components financed under the project.
2.2.2 Project implementation started slowly due to delays in finalization of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements. At mid-term review in November 2006, the disbursement lag was 32 percent,
amounting to a delay of 9 months, although no project restructuring or revision of the
disbursement schedule was carried out. The mid-term review recommended GoP reallocate funds
from slow moving entities and also reallocate funds surrendered funds due to savings or changed




                                                                                                 9
priorities. This resulted in the introduction of 14 additional entities, of which 11 eventually
participated in the project.8
2.2.3 Under the professional capacity-building component, 363 middle-management government
officers gained foreign post-graduate qualifications. This was in excess of the original 300-350
planned.
     2.2.3.1 In the first cohort of trainees, officers initially secured university admissions in
     subjects of their choice without clearance from CSRU and thus sometimes undertook
     training of little or no relevance to their work. From the second cohort onwards, CSRU
     approved subjects that could be chosen based on sectoral needs.
     2.2.3.2 The process of selecting candidates for training changed over time. Screening tests
     were dropped as being too expensive, and instead, CSRU compiled a short- list of
     candidates who had secured admission to a qualifying course, with the final selection made
     by a committee chaired by the Finance Minister. Beneficiaries were observed to be sourced
     mainly from the following groups: Income Tax, District Management Group, Customs and
     Excise, Pakistan Audit and Accounts, Provincial Civil Service and Police Service.
     2.2.3.3 Nearly all (95 percent) of trained officers returned to the government after training
     per their agreed bond. The majority (about 70 percent) is working in their original ministries
     or departments, with the rest have been transferred to other departments. A third of the
     returnees has been promoted to the next grade in their original departments or in the
     departments to which they were transferred. These promotions were not based on their new
     qualifications, but in accordance with the routine procedural system.
2.2.4 Foreign training under the Executive Development Program (EDP) was availed by 186
senior officials, which was slightly lower than the original target of 200 officers. The training
consisted of six weeks of customized courses for Pakistani officials conducted at the Harvard
Kennedy School of Government. Feedback from participants indicate a disappointment at the
lack of opportunity for interaction with foreigners during the course and also with the irrelevance
of course material to the Pakistani context.
2.2.5 Short-term specialized training for officers was provided by the project according to needs
identified by participating agencies in their Entity Improvement Plans. 841 officers received
short-term foreign training; 519 officers received local training in collaboration with foreign
institution, 3,196 officers received training at local institutions; and 444 support staff members
received training in accordance with their job description.
2.2.6 The Federal Public Service Commission completed revamping the federal civil service
entry system. Three studies were carried out under the project and 18 senior officers were trained.


8
  PC-1 approval for participation of the Competition Commission of Pakistan (CCP) came one and half years after
NSCC approval but did not receive support from the PCU. Thus, CCP only had about 6 months to implement which
resulted in their inability to utilize their allocation of the funds except for some training.


                                                                                                            10
Based on this, syllabi were revised, the examination system was improved, and the civil service
entry system was automated.
2.2.7 The sub-component focused on upgrading the civil service training institutions (Civil
Service Academy, National Institutes for Public Administration, and the National School of
Public Policy (NSPP) faced delays and subsequent restructuring. The proposed partnership
between NSPP and a recognized foreign institution did not eventuate due to the country’s
deteriorating security situation and the incipient nature of the institution. GoP instead opted to
revamp the curriculum internally and focus on recruiting faculty domestically under an enhanced
pay package. The allocation to the sub-component was reduced by the mid-term review from
US$5 million to US$2.5 million and restricted for capacity building, with NSPP utilizing project
funds mainly for upgrading technical infrastructure. NSPP has now received accreditation to
award post-graduate degrees to officials successfully completing the mandatory courses for
promotions in the public sector.
2.2.8 Performance of the Federal Board of Revenue sub-component was satisfactory in terms of
intermediate output indicators, with all targets met in a timely manner. Sub-components focused
on the Planning and Development Division and the Public Procurement Regulatory Authority
also performed satisfactorily and largely met their targets. The Privatization Commission and
Competition Commission of Pakistan could not execute their ambitious plans, except for some
short- term training, due to extensive delay in approval of their PC-1. Achievement details and
funds utilization by all the participants are shown in Annex 2.
2.2.9 The new regulatory agencies (National Electric Power Regulatory Authority [NEPRA], Oil
and Gas Regulatory Authority [OGRA], and Pakistan Telecommunications Authority [PTA])
could not send significant numbers of officers for training as the Cabinet Division did not
approve their nominations, a procedural issue not recognized during project preparation.
Scheduled consultancies and studies were largely carried out with some changes due to altered
priorities. Although three officers of NEPRA gained post graduate degrees from abroad and it
successfully prepared Financial Programming, General Equilibrium and Micro Simulation
models, it did not hire full-time advisers and thus its technical staff was not exposed to
international experience as envisaged. The evaluation of the OGRA regulatory system based on
the Bank Handbook was not carried out, while PTA successfully implemented the deregulation
policy and on that basis private sector invested extensively. Based on consultants support, Cost-
Based Interconnection Charges Framework was prepared and implemented. Framework for
Universal Service Obligation was completed and Quality of Service Standards issued. These
actions however, did not suffice for PTCL to improve the quality of its services due to obsolete
infrastructure.
2.2.10 The National Steering and Coordination Committee (NSCC) served as GoP’s high-level
decision-making body for the project and was intended to ensure effective implementation of the
project. It met eight times during the implementation period, but less frequently after 2006. After
meeting in June 2008, the NSCC did not meet until November 2009, at which time the project


                                                                                                11
was closing. The infrequency of meetings deprived project implementation of advice and
guidance. At this time, it was also observed that the GoP lost interest in the broader civil service
reform. During the early stages of the project, the PCU failed to prepare regular quarterly
progress reports on a timely basis, although an improvement was noted following the mid-term
review.
2.2.11 Procedural issues caused delays in implementation of the project. Opening of foreign
currency accounts required GoP approval from different agencies and each person receiving
foreign training had to obtain such approval. Approval of PC-1 also caused extensive delays in
project activities and fund utilization for most of the participating agencies.
2.2.12 Only at implementation of the project, it was realized that PDOs focused on outputs rather
than outcomes, requiring an adjustment of the monitoring framework. Based on this, the Bank
started discussions with GoP counterparts on a proposal for restructuring the project to align it
with the Country Partnership Strategy and to reallocate funds based on utilization progress and
new entrant’s needs. There was no overall progress in this regard and the project was not
restructured as GoP did not show any interest in it. Nevertheless, the training program target was
revised upwards and funds were reallocated based on utilization progress and the needs of new
and existing entities, causing further dilution of project focus.
2.3 M&E Design, Implementation and Utilization
During the project, the Bank carried out 11 supervision missions, project implementation and
results tracked in accordance with the appraisal targets, and an impact evaluation was
commissioned by the Bank in 2008. The overall M&E framework for the project was very weak,
however, owing to the failure of the project design to develop outcome-based PDOs and devote
resources to attempting to accurately measure such outcomes. As a result, while the M&E system
could track some project outputs, such as the number of people trained by the project, it had no
mechanism to identify whether project activities meaningfully impacted any of the outcomes the
project was ostensibly designed to achieve. It is thus very difficult to assess whether the
resources allocated to the project have or will yield any improvements in the capacity of the civil
service or the quality of services delivered to the population of Pakistan.
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
2.4.1 None of the safeguard policies were triggered by the project. Acceptable audit reports were
received, as were quarterly Financial Management Reports, albeit with some delay. With regard
to procurement, ex-post reviews of selected participating agencies were carried out annually,
with no significant issues identified, other than minor non-compliance related mostly to delayed
submission of procurement plans and contract rosters.
2.4.2 Continuous year-round engagement with project management occurred at all implementing
entities during the life of the project. This was largely due to the inclusion of many executing
agencies and 9 Designated Accounts (DAs), each of which triggered financial reporting
requirements. During these interactions, as well as ex-post procurement reviews, no governance


                                                                                                 12
issues came to light (as per ISRs), although FM / procurement capacity at the PCU and at some
of the implementing entities was observed to be weak.
2.4.3 The Federal Board of Revenue, National Electric Power Regulatory Authority, and
Pakistan Telecommunications Authority completed their activities before project closing, but
failed to refund their outstanding balance and consequently suffered exchange losses of about
US$5,500, US$28,000 and US$10,300 respectively. This was in spite of repeated warnings by
visiting missions of the consequences.
2.5 Post-Completion Operation / Next Phase
2.5.1 The project closed on November 30, 2009 and disbursements completed on March 31,
2010. GoP requested a two year extension to enable the projected procurement and expenditure
by some of the participating agencies under their Entity Improvement Plans to be completed. The
Bank did not agree to this due to unsatisfactory future implementation plans, a lack of progress
in implementing the broad civil service reforms envisaged at appraisal, and a failure to
demonstrate high-level commitment and oversight. The undisbursed balance of $14 million was
therefore cancelled before the closing date to ensure that the IDA allocation remained available
to Pakistan for other projects. As some of the participating agencies had on-going operation and
maintenance costs, GoP decided to continue funding using internal resources up to June 30, 2010.
2.5.2 Most participating agencies appreciated activities received under the project, although
viewed the training as insufficient for adequate strengthening of the government agencies given
their large size and expressed a desire for a follow-up project to expand the scope of previous
activities.
3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The project’s objectives were unclear throughout the project given the failure of the design or
subsequent restructuring to adequately delineate outcomes expected to be associated with the
proposed activities. However, the general goals of improving the capacity of Pakistan’s civil
service and quality of service delivery were relevant at appraisal and became even more so, as
the country’s economic and political situation deteriorated in the subsequent years. Of the three
main pillars of CAS, the project supported strengthening government effectiveness.
3.2 Achievement of PDOs
3.2.1 The project succeeded in providing long- and short-term training to government officials
and improving the IT infrastructure of participating agencies as stipulated in the relevant PDO.
As noted above, the PDOs were restricted to output-based indicators and thus do not serve as an
appropriate yardstick to assess project effectiveness. On the project’s broader goal of facilitating
an “improvement in the overall quality of policy formulation, reform implementation, service
delivery and human resource management of the public sector”, project impact would appear to
be marginal. At appraisal, three main factors were anticipated as major contributors to the


                                                                                                 13
capacity of the project to meet this objective: (i) continued implementation of civil service
reform; (ii) the creation of a critical mass of trained officers to lead the desired change; and (iii)
appropriate placement of officers upon return. Each of these factors is discussed below.
3.2.2 Civil service reforms which were to complement the project did not progress as planned
and were a major contributing factor to the failure to achieve the envisaged outcomes. This was
partly due to political instability which necessitated increased focused on economic and security
issues, but also due to a lack of high-level GoP commitment to the reforms as demonstrated by
the fact that the Cabinet Committee for civil service reform never met. During the project, the
role of the Civil Service Reform Unit (CSRU) in implementing reforms was transferred to
National Commission for Government Reforms (NCGR), but when NCGR recommendations
were not followed, the role was reverted to CSRU.
3.2.3 The project was based on the implicit assumption that providing a mix of short- and long-
term training to a relatively small group of 500 officers (of a total of 24,000), improving
technical infrastructure in ministries and agencies, and delivering short-term advisory services
would be sufficient to create a critical mass of capacity to effect improvements in civil service
capacity. These changes do not appear to have occurred. The design of the project thus appears
to have been based on an insufficient analysis of the necessary and sufficient conditions for
achieving the desired institutional changes.
3.2.4 The placement of trained officials did not support the development objective to the extent
feasible. At appraisal, the project did not formulate a placement policy, which was instead
prepared by CSRU and approved by the GoP in 2005. The approved policy directed officials
trained under the Professional Development Program to return to their parent departments as a
first priority and simply recognized the advisability of spending time at the National School of
Public Policy. By not attempting to match acquired qualifications with job requirements, the
policy did not provide for the optimal utilization of the created skills and thus undermined the
project’s contribution to the capacity building of the civil service generally.
3.3 Efficiency
Not applicable
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Unsatisfactory
The project is rated Unsatisfactory due to the inability of the project to enhance the institutional
capacity of Pakistan’s civil service. The critical failing of the project occurred in design and was
based on unrealistic expectations that the extension of education and training to a small portion
of staff, improvement of technical infrastructure, and provision of short-term advisory services
would be sufficient to motivate broad-based civil service reform. In particular, the design of the
project did not appropriately support Pakistan’s broader civil service reform, the failure of which
ultimately precluded the achievement of project objectives, and did not effectively specify



                                                                                                   14
policies necessary to support the effectively utilization of inputs provided by the project, such as
pertained to placement of trained officials. Implementation of the planned activities was also
hindered by the large number of participating agencies and bureaucratic obstacles, eventually
resulting in the cancellation of $14 million of the $61 million credit. The lack of client ownership
in the project during the later stages was underscored by the fact that the National Steering and
Coordination Committee did not meet after June 2008.
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
3.5.1 Due to the lack of evidence that project succeeded in achieving its direct objective of
strengthening the capacity of the civil service, no impacts on poverty outcomes are anticipated.
3.5.2 As women are under-represented in the Pakistani civil service and as selection for the
professional development program were gender neutral, female officers represented only 12
percent of officials trained under the project.
(b) Institutional Change / Strengthening
3.5.3 The impact of the project in effecting institutional change and strengthening is unclear. The
project succeeded in providing 363 middle-management government officers with foreign post-
graduate qualifications and in providing 186 senior officials with short-term training in foreign
countries. Despite these achievements, the number of officials trained by the project, both in
terms of individual entities and the civil service generally, is considered too small to effect
meaningful institutional change. In addition, placement policies for trained officers and a lack of
mentoring, guidance, or coordination of trained officers further atomized impacts of training
programs and limited the extent to which the program could succeed in strengthening institutions.
3.5.4 The project provided participating agencies with improved technical infrastructure and
short-term advisory services. These activities can be considered to have a moderate short- and
potentially medium term-impact on the ability of agencies to implement core competencies.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
3.5.5 The project enabled many officers in lower management grades to obtain post-graduate
degrees from prestigious universities. Given the failure of the project to develop an appropriate
placement policy, the potential exists for trained officers to be over-qualified for their current
positions, under-remunerated, but unable to access high-management grades due to unsupportive
system. In such cases, retention of trained officers beyond the existing 5-year bond for service
may be an issue, although the development of career paths or other forms of professional
counseling by the Establishment Division may ameliorate such problems.
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
An Impact Evaluation Study included a limited survey of trained officers. The results indicate
that beneficiaries were generally satisfied with the quality of the training and believe it enhanced



                                                                                                 15
their human capital, although participants in the Executive Development Program expressed
disappointment at the limited opportunities for interaction with non-Pakistanis and the lack of
relevance of the courses to issues facing Pakistan. Training beneficiaries were less optimistic,
however, concerning the impact of training program on the capacity of the service. This was
considered partly due to the relatively small number of training participants and their dispersion
across multiple ministries and agencies, but also due to the failure to ensure the professional
development of those returning from training. In the view of some beneficiaries, organizational
cultures in parent departments were not receptive to changes suggested by returning trained
officers, particularly when other staff and managers had not received similar exposure. To rectify
this, beneficiaries recommended that returning officers should be given greater authority to select
options for posting and to provide recommendations for the improvements in their assigned
departments.
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: High
The project successfully completed the Professional and Executive Development Programs and
most of the beneficiaries have returned to the public service with bonds to remain for a further 5
years. However, due to the relatively small numbers of trainees, their dispersion across a large
number of agencies, and a lack of proper placement, and post-training coordination, it seems
unlikely that the training will contribute significantly to achieving the development outcomes of
the project.
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Unsatisfactory
5.1.1 Project design was informed by analytical work undertaken on the public sector,
governance, and civil service reform in Pakistan and elsewhere, and sought to incorporate
lessons from an OED review of Bank assistance to civil service reforms over the previous two
decades. The project design was based on inputs from, and was reviewed extensively by GoP,
with an ownership commitment obtained both at the working- and highest-levels of GoP.
5.1.2 In spite of the analytical work undertaken in project preparation, the project design was not
based on a rigorous logical framework linking project inputs, outputs, and outcomes and
ultimately proved inappropriate to the nature and scale of the problems afflicting the civil service
in Pakistan and the uncertainty of GoP commitment. The project’s focus on narrow, but broadly-
spread, short-term training and professional development activities was not justified given the
very low probability of such inputs affecting the desired outcomes. In addition, the project design
was insufficiently linked to complementary GoP actions critical to the success of civil service




                                                                                                 16
reform and did not specify policies for post-training placement, coordination, or professional
development necessary to maximize impact of training activities funded.
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
5.1.3 Supervision teams met participating agencies during missions and made efforts to resolve
outstanding issues. Although not included in the original plan, an Impact Evaluation Study for
the project was commissioned in 2008. The study identified that GoP commitment to civil
service reform was no longer visible and was imperiling the achievement of PDOs.
Recommendations were discussed with GoP, but the core issues highlighted were given
inadequate attention.
5.1.4 During implementation, significant issues arose with project design and implementation of
the project significant enough to place the achievement of envisaged outcomes in jeopardy.
These included the failure to identify outcomes for the project development objectives, large
number of participating agencies, slow progress in disbursement of project funds, and concerns
as to GoP commitment to the civil service reform agenda (manifested by the infrequency, and
eventual suspension, of steering committee meetings). Despite these issues, no restructuring of
the project occurred and a further 14 participating agencies were allowed to be added to the
project in spite of concerns about the existing size of the project. In addition, ISRs appeared to
over-rate the performance of the project. Given these serious problems and the eventual outcome
of the project, the team should have been more pro-active in developing solutions to rectify
identified deficiencies.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory
The design of the project did not appropriately specify intended outcomes and develop activities
that could realistically be expected to achieve the broad goals of the project. Activities funded by
the project were not planned or coordinated in a manner to maximize impact in civil service
capacity and the project was not satisfactorily mindful of uncertainty surrounding the GoP’s
commitment to civil service reform. At appraisal, project activities were already dispersed over a
large number of participating agencies, which complicated implementation and lessened program
impacts. In spite of this, the Bank agreed to an increase in the size of the project to an eventual
24 participating agencies with 9 designated accounts, creating significant challenges in tracking
project activities. Despite the identification of critical failings in project design, such as the
structuring of PDOs around outputs, no restructuring of the project occurred.
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory



                                                                                                 17
5.2.1 The high-level of GoP commitment and leadership for the project objectives at appraisal
weakened as project implementation progressed, particularly from 2007 onwards. The vision and
actions for implementation of civil service reforms, which were to proceed in parallel in support
of the project implementation, were not followed through. The Cabinet Committee for Civil
Service Reforms did not provide envisaged guidance for continuation of the reforms as it never
met. Furthermore, the National Steering and Coordination Committee (NSCC) did not meet
from June 2008 until the close of the project.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
5.2.2 The PCU under the Finance Division was set up for the project’s overall coordination,
progress reporting, and financial support as participating agencies did not have designated
accounts and procurement advisory support to participating agencies did not have the required
expertise. The position of Project Director of the PCU remained vacant at times and the unit was
not perceived as pro-active by the participating agencies. Approval of PC-1 of participating
agencies, despite their Entity Improvement Plans approved for participation by NSCC, was
extensively delayed, resulting in many of them not being able to utilize their allocations.
5.2.3 The Civil Service Reform Unit (CSRU) effectively implemented professional development
and executive training programs and exceeded their targets. Civil service reforms have, however,
been stalled due to lack of guidance and support from the Cabinet Committee. Most of the
original participating agencies and the three regulators performed well and mostly achieved their
targets under their Entity Improvement Plans, although did not fully utilize their allocations.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
Project implementation was mixed. While institutional capacity-building was marginal, the
project succeeded in providing education and training according to the project targets. However,
the failure to develop an appropriate career development and placement policy for trained
officers will potentially limit the impact of these activities. The lack of high-level commitment to
civil service reforms was underscored by the failure of the Cabinet Committee to meet and the
infrequency of NSCC meetings.
6. Lessons Learned
6.1 The experience with the PSCBP underscores the need for project designs to be formulated
based on a robust conceptual framework linking project inputs, outputs, and outcomes. The
project successfully completed a series of human capital development activities, but as intended
outcomes were conditional on external actions that were not forthcoming, the project was unable
to meet its overall objective. A project design developed from a rigorous identification of the
necessary and sufficient conditions for increasing civil service capacity, with activities structured
around each of these conditions, could have potentially avoided these pitfalls.


                                                                                                  18
6.2 A related shortcoming in the project design was to develop a set of PDOs based on outputs,
rather than outcomes. This adversely impacted the design of an appropriate M&E framework to
track the progress of the project in meeting intermediate objectives and identify whether project
activities impacted outcomes of interest. More fundamentally, the misalignment of the PDOs
delivered perverse signals to stake-holders and participating agencies concerning the goals of the
project and complementary actions that were to be expected during the lifecycle of the project. A
key lesson is thus to ensure that PDOs are appropriately focused on outcomes which can be
reasonably expected to result from outputs delivered by the project.
6.3 The inability of the project to meet the development objective can, in large part, be attributed
to the decline in GoP commitment to civil service reform and its attendant failure to undertake
envisaged complementary actions. Despite the identification of this risk at appraisal, the project
design did not incorporate measures to mitigate the risk to the achievement of project objectives
or to improve the probability of continued GoP commitment. The general lesson is that, when
projects outcomes are dependent on the continuing commitment of the government to inherently
unpopular reforms, designs need to make a realistic accounting of these risks and propose
components that effectively mitigate the attendant risk and/or directly support the continuation of
commitment.
6.4 A further lesson provided by the project is of the importance of developing coordinated
selection, placement policies, and professional development services to support intensive,
targeted human capital development activities. The PSCBP devoted significant resources to
short- and long-term professional development of mid-range officials, but did not mandate pre-
or post-training measures to ensure the effective utilization of officials trained by the project.
Accordingly, while beneficiaries believed that training activities were successful in enhancing
their individual capacity, they also reported that their ability to utilize skills and experience
obtained during the training was limited to inappropriate placements upon re-entry, a lack of
receptiveness with their agencies to reform, and the fact that trainees were dispersed across a
large number of departments and thus had no opportunity to form coalitions for change. A more
developed delineation of the manner in which officers trained by the project were to be expected
to serve as reform champions should have been used to develop policies and services necessary
to ensure the effective utilization of project beneficiaries.

6.5 EDP provided six-week training to 186 senior government officials at the Harvard Kennedy
School. Although training beneficiaries reported the quality of instruction to be high, the
relevance of the course-work to the Pakistani context was considered limited. In addition, the
lack of opportunities for interaction between participants and colleagues from other countries
limited the quality of the general educational experience. On the basis of these reports, the utility
of such programs for senior officials appears to be relatively limited and so perhaps should not
be considered for funding in future.




                                                                                                  19
6.6 Project implementation was excessively complicated by the large number of participating
agencies, which also served to dilute the impact of project activities. Although the number of
participating agencies was considered high at appraisal, the number was further increased based
on a government request and in order to compensate for a failure of the original participating
agencies to disburse allocated funds. The decision to accede to this request does not appear to
have been justified and a key lesson is for future projects to avoid a similar dilution of
implementation and supervision resources, as well as project impacts, across an excessively large
number of participating agencies.
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The Borrower, through the PCU, has prepared its own ICR summary, attached as Annex 7. It
views the project as a much needed and successful intervention and notes that many of the
participating agencies have suggested a follow-up operation. Comments on some issues raised by
Borrower / Implementing Agencies follow:
   Issue 1: The Bank’s initiative to slash the participating agencies original allocation by 50%
   for those that could not spend more than 25% of allocated amount adversely affected their
   performance, as they had taken approval of procedures and suddenly by this decision they
   had to restructure their whole program. Therefore they were unable to achieve timely
   procurement.
   Comment: This was done due to slow progress and the need to maximize utilization of the
   funds available by other more active participants.
   Issue 2: Umbrella projects with a very large number of executing agencies are difficult to
   manage and should be avoided.
   Comment: Agreed. In fact, the project was not designed for such a large number of executing
   agencies and it only happened in an effort to utilize maximum possible funds available under
   the IDA Credit
   Issue 3: The Bank’s procurement procedures are too cumbersome and require training of the
   implementing agencies.
   Comment: Arrangements were made by requiring the PCU to employ a procurement
   specialist to help the entities not having the expertise.
(b) Co financiers
       Not Applicable.
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
       Not Applicable




                                                                                              20
                              Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                        Actual/Latest
                                 Appraisal Estimate                            Percentage of
           Components                                      Estimate
                                    (US$ million)                               Appraisal
                                                         (US$ million)
 Professional development
                                         23.00               23.38                 101.7
(PDEV; EDP; NSPP; FPSC)
 Capacity building of key
                                         21.40               21.87                 102
economic ministries
 Capacity building of key
                                          5.60                 1.60                28.6
regulatory agencies
 Un allocated                            11.00                 0.00                  -

Total Baseline Cost                      61.00                 46.85               76.9
Physical Contingencies                    0.00                  0.00               0.00
Price Contingencies                       0.00                  0.00               0.00
Total Project Costs                      61.00                 46.85                77
Front-end fee PPF                         0.00                  0.00                .00
Front-end fee IBRD                        0.00                  0.00                .00
Total Financing Required                 61.00                 46.85               76.0



(b) Financing
                                                     Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                      Type of Co                               Percentage of
          Source of Funds                            Estimate      Estimate
                                       financing                                Appraisal
                                                   (US$ million) (US$ million)
Borrower                                               6.00          3.06          51.0
International Development
                                                       55.00           43.79             79.6
Association (IDA)




                                                                                                21
                               Annex 2: Outputs by Component

                                                                                                      Utilization
       Component/Sub component and Output                                                                US$
                          Targets                                      Achievement                     million
          Component 1. Broad Based Professional Development of Public Sector Officers
1   PDP and EDP                                        363 acquire post graduate degrees             21.16
     250 -300 civil servants (Grade 17-19 or          186 senior executives trained
      equivalent.)Acquire masters degrees
     200 senior civil servants undertake executive
      short term training
2   NSPP                                               NSPP established                              1.76
     Establish NSPP                                   Highly qualified Dean/adviser not
     Building up high quality faculty                  appointed, faculty capacity built up by
     Improving/revising curricula                      local recruitment
     Enhancing infrastructure and IT connectivity     Curricula revised
     Twinning with international institutions         Infrastructure improved
     Achieve degree awarding status                   MOU signed with China National School
                                                        of Administration for twinning
                                                       Degree awarding permission received,
                                                        specific requirements being finalized.
3   FPSC                                               18 senior officers trained                    0.46
    Improving recruitment process through:             3 studies completed
     Improved syllabi                                 Syllabi improved
     Improved competitive examination System          Examination system improved
     Automated computerized environment               Entire system automated
                        Component 2- Capacity Enhancement in Key Ministries/Agencies
4   Finance Division                                   Professional training scheme Not utilized     4.50
    Strengthening through:                             193 officers received short term training
     Professional training of staff (degree and non-  24 consultants hired
      degree)                                          IT system upgraded
     Debt management: set up DPCO, monitor            DPCO set up & linked with EAD data
      debt situation and develop debt strategy to       bank
      sustain fiscal and financial discipline          General financial rules, civil service
     Corporate finance: monitoring and evaluation      regulations, treasury rules, provident fund
      of PSEs, banks, capital markets and               rules, travel allowance rules up dated ,
      privatization                                     compiled and made transparent.
     External wing: external debt management,         Power cell established
      BOP, trade and monitory policy
     Policy wing: fiscal analysis, HRD strategy,
      PRSP and macro-economic model
     IT facilities upgrade
     Short and long- term consultants for
      specialized analytical work and policy reform
      programs
5   FBR(formerly CBR): Reform initiatives:             HRIS launched                                 5.16
     HRIS                                             411 officers receive local training
     Capacity Building and Training of employees      30 Change Management Workshops held
     Change Management Workshops                       throughout the country
     Large Taxpayers Unit (LTU), Lahore;              L TU functioning in Lahore;
     Medium Taxpayer Units (MTUs);                    5 MTUs set up in Karachi, Quetta,
     Dispute Resolution Complex, Karachi;              Peshawar, Faisalabad and Rawalpindi
     STARR (Sales Tax Automated Refund                 (now merged into Regional Tax Offices)


                                                                                                              22
                                                                                                      Utilization
       Component/Sub component and Output                                                                US$
                       Targets                                          Achievement                    million
      Repository)                                        Dispute Resolution Complex, established
     Taxpayer Education and Facilitation Centers;        in Karachi
     Customs Pilot Project;                             STARR operational
     Universal Self-Assessment Scheme.                  Help line centre established for taxpayer
                                                          education and facilitation at FBR HQ.
                                                          Income tax assistance software
                                                          distributed
                                                          among tax payers
                                                         Customs Pilot Project operational
                                                         Universal Self-Assessment Scheme
                                                          operational
6   MO C                                                 123 officers received short term training   0.58
    Strengthen capacity to modernize and improve         WTO consultant hired
    Pakistan’s trading regime and practices with         Legal advisory cell could not be
    consultants support where required:                   established
     International trade policy formulation, trade      Data Cell/Digital Library established
      negotiations (FTA), Trade Promotion                IT infrastructure improved
     WTO related matters
     Trade Promotion (new markets and
      diversification)
     IT and Research.
     Training of Officers in Human Resource
      Development ;
     Data Cell/Digital Library
     Legal Advisory Cell
7   Establishment Division-CSRU                                                                       1.36
    Oversee GOP’s comprehensive CSR reform               Professional development program
    program, specifically:                                completed successfully.
     Devolution: complete devolution with               Broad based CSR reform program not
      responsibilities and staff assignments moved        implemented due to lack of priority by
      from federal to provincial and from provincial      GOP (not financed under PSCBP)
      to district levels, including restructuring and    Cabinet Committee on CSR not
      compensation issues.                                operational
     Recruitment and promotion reforms:
      modernizing the cadre system, reforming
      occupational grouping to increase mobility
      within the public sector and strengthening
      merit system
     Pay and pension ; reforms including
      monetization of benefits and transparent total
      compensation packages
     Professional development programs under
      PSCBP
     Monitoring and evaluation of governance and
      policy reforms, data bases of civil servants,
      HRD information system, and evaluation of
      reforms
     Coordination: serving as Secretariat for
      Cabinet Committee on CSR.
8   PDD                                                  One officer obtained PhD in macro           2.63
    Strengthening through:                                modeling
     Economic planning formulation through              Three macro-economic models prepared


                                                                                                              23
                                                                                                         Utilization
          Component/Sub component and Output                                                                US$
                           Targets                                          Achievement                   million
         improved macro modeling                             Digital library set up
        Monitoring development projects                     IT infrastructure improved
        PPMI through twinning arrangement                   64 officers received short term training
        HRM systems                                         Oracle HRM system installed
        Induction of professional staff and                 PSDP database computerized
         consultants                                         6 training courses organized by PPMI in
        Training                                             collaboration with foreign universities
        Digital library                                      and 150 senior officers trained
        PSDP                                                41Research Assistants (RAs) hired to
        Improved infrastructure-IT                           improve staff quality
                                                             3 consultants hired
9    EAD                                                     62 officers trained                        0.74
     Strengthen capacity:                                    Database of donor funded projects
      Coordination and monitoring of donor funded            prepared
       projects                                              5 RAs hired for policy analysis
      Establish research and policy analysis cell           Computerized infrastructure implemented
      Training for skill development
      Development of standard operating
       procedures
      Computerized environment and MIS
10   PPRA                                                  Framework for public Procurement             0.34
     Strengthen capacity:                                   installed
      Professional development and training               101 training programs for 3,500 public
      Prepare transparent and cost effective public        procurement officers held
       procurement system                                  2 officers received short- term training
      Monitor and regulate public procurement
      Train other government agencies
11   MOWP                                                  One officer received post graduate degree    1.16
     Strengthen capacity to improve performance            28 officers received short- term training
     through:                                              Research study on Kotri Barrage Water
      Professional qualifications in regulatory            Escapage conducted
       economics
      Foreign training
      Mobilize private sector resources for power
       sector
      Corporatize and commercialize its
       organizations
      Create regulatory framework and set tariffs
       based on level playing field
12   Statistics Division                                   3 officers obtained post graduate degrees    0.15
     Strengthen attached Departments capacity:             2 consultants hired for research studies
      Professional qualifications in regulatory
       economics
      Training
      Consultancy services for improving energy,
       mining and manufacturing, trade and financial
       statistics and improving analysis of statistical
       data
13   Ministry of Industries and Production                 56 officers received specialized foreign     0.81
     Strengthen capacity through:                           training on policy formulation for
      Professional qualifications                          various sectors


                                                                                                                 24
                                                                                                         Utilization
        Component/Sub component and Output                                                                  US$
                          Targets                                        Achievement                      million
      Foreign training                                   4 consultants recruited. They left before
      Consultancy services for policy formulation         completing their work due to low
       and implementation                                  compensation
14   BOI                                                  50 officers received specialized foreign      0.19
     Strengthen Capacity through:                          training on policy formulation
      Professional qualifications                        No studies carried out
      Training in economic and investment
       promotion strategies
      Consultancy services for facilitating investors
       for over view of 11 sectors
15   MPNR                                                 79 officers trained                           0.88
     Strengthen Capacity through:                         No studies carried out
      Professional qualifications
      Training in economic and investment
       promotion strategies
      Consultancy services for gas supply and
       demand projects
16   Ministry of Privatization: Strengthen                16 officers trained                           0.30
     Capacity for privatization through:                  Due to late entry other targets could not
      Training                                            be met
      Establishing data base for privatized and to be
       privatized PSEs
      Restructuring to include relevant privatization
       issues.
      IT portal
      Develop a team of 30-40 specialized
       professionals
17   Women Development Division                           12 officers received short term training      0.16
     Strengthen capacity to improve performance
     through:
      Professional qualifications in regulatory
       economics
      Foreign training
18   KANA Division                                        17 officers trained short term                0.29
     Strengthen capacity to improve performance           25 officers trained locally
     through specialized training in finance, IT and
     planning
19   Government of Punjab                                 52 officers received post graduate degrees    2.39
     Strengthen Capacity through:                         162 officers received short- term training
      Professional qualifications
      Training in economic policy
20   Government of Balochistan                            456 officers received short term local        0.13
     Strengthen Capacity through training in               training
     economic policy
21   CCP                                                  24 officers trained on short- term training   0.16
     Strengthening and capacity building through:         Other plans not implemented due to delay
      Establishing infrastructure to make the law         in PC-1 approval
       operational
      Establishing IT and research capacity
      Fostering competition culture
      Access to legal, financial and economic


                                                                                                                 25
                                                                                                   Utilization
        Component/Sub component and Output                                                            US$
                          Targets                                    Achievement                    million
       professionals
                                    Component 3- Regulatory Agencies
22   NEPRA                                            3 officers obtained post graduate degrees   0.51
     Strengthen capacity to regulate monopoly         38 officers trained
     aspects of power sector:                         Financial programming, general
      Professional qualifications in regulatory       equilibrium model and micro Simulation
       economics                                       models prepared
      Foreign training                               Capacity to ensure reliability and supply
      Develop a competitive regime for electric       of electric power needs strengthening
       power generation and supply
      Ensure reliability and supply of electric
       power
      Framework for direct sale by generators to
       bulk power consumers
      Performance and environmental standards
       notified
23   OGRA                                             50 officers trained for short term          0.41
     Strengthen capacity to regulate the oil and gas  Unaccounted For Gas and HR cost
     sector:                                           benchmarks put in place
      Professional qualifications in regulatory      Legal framework strengthened
       economics                                      Technical regulations imposed
      Foreign training                               Performance and service standards
      Foster competition                              enforced
      Encourage private investment
      Restructure oil and gas sector
      Formulation of performance standards for gas
       and oil sector
      Framework for open access and common
       carrier regime
24   PTA                                              Deregulation policy successfully            0.67
     Strengthen capacity to regulate the telecom       implemented and private sector invested
     sector:                                           extensively
      Professional qualifications in regulatory      Foreign training not utilized due to
       economics                                       Cabinet Division not approving, Instead
      Foreign training                                qualified staff recruited
      Implement deregulation policy                  Cost-based interconnection charges
      Foster competition and encourage private        implemented
       investment                                     Framework for USO completed
      Framework formulation for USO                  QOS standards issued
      Formulation of QOS standards
      Framework for determination of
       interconnection charges on cost-based
       convention
     Total                                                                                         46.9




                                                                                                           26
                             Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

This was primarily an education/training and capacity building project. It was recognized at the
appraisal stage that there is no evaluation methodology for measuring economic and financial
impact of such TA projects.
The project financed much needed post graduate level of education, training in relevant fields
identified in PA’s EIPs, consultancy/advisory support and up grading of the information
technology infrastructure. The resulting capacity building and strengthening of the government’s
important ministries/institutions was expected to improve accountability, governance, regulatory
functions and general business environment.




                                                                                             27
              Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                       Responsibility/
           Names                          Title                Unit
                                                                         Specialty

Lending
Supervision/ICR
Anjum Ahmad                Sr. Energy Specialist.             SASDE
Muhammad Zulfiqar Ahmed    Sr. Transport. Engineer            AFTTR
Asif Ali                   Sr. Procurement Specialist         SARPS
Martyn Gordon Ambury       Consultant, Governance Advisor     SASEP
Rashid Aziz                Sr. Energy Specialist              SASDE
Anwar Ali Bhatti           Financial Analyst                  SACPK
Thomas Buckley             Sr. Country Officer                SACPA
Syed Waqar Haider          Sr. Energy Specialist              AFTEG
Zahid Hasnain              Sr. Public Sector Spec.            EASPR
Mudassir H. Khan           Sr. Financial Sector Specialist.   SASFP
Isfandyar Zaman Khan       Financial Sector Specialist        ECSF1
Shabana Khawar             Sr. Private Sector Development     SASFP
Kiran Afzal                Research Analyst                   SASFP
Riaz Mahmood               Financial Management Analyst       SARFM
Eric David Manes           Sr. Economist                      SASFP
Hanid Mukhtar              Sr. Economist                      SASEP
Naveed Hassan Naqvi        Sr. Education Economist.           SASED
Saeeda Sabah Rashid        Financial Management Specialist    SARFM
                           Sr. Financial Management
Furqan Ahmad Saleem                                           SARFM
                           Specialist
                           Sr. Financial Management
Hasan Saqib                                                   SARFM
                           Specialist

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       US$ 000 (including travel
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                               and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY03                                      10                         10.73
  FY04                                      55                        124.97
Total:                                      65                        135.70
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                                                  0.91
  FY05                                      75                        123.37
  FY06                                      51                         84.19


                                                                                     28
FY07             34    58.16
FY08             50   162.85
FY09             42     0.00
       Total:   252   429.48




                               29
                             Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

No beneficiary survey has been carried out for project outcome. However, an Impact Evaluation
Study was carried out in 2008 while the project was still under implementation. Its results have
been summarized under para 3.6 above.




                                                                                              30
                 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not Applicable




                                                                    31
              Annex 7: Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
Summary of Borrower’s ICR on PSCBP9
The Implementation Completion Results Report (ICR) of Public Sector Capacity Building
Project assesses project context, its appraisal at the designing stage, recaptures the development
objectives, key indicators and achievement of stated objectives in respect of following three
strategic areas of the project:
     I.       Broad spectrum professional skill development of public servants;
    II.       Strengthening management capacity of the economy, agencies of GoP and provincial
              governments; and
III.          Enhancing capacity to undertake regulatory functions in GOP.
The report highlights beneficiaries of the project; significant changes during implementation,
factors affecting the implementation process and achievement of key indicators. The ICR also
discusses in detail the lessons learned throughout the life cycle of the project.
Before discussing achievement of development objectives in three strategic areas, it may be
useful to summarize the context in which the project was initiated. In Pakistan the capacity and
quality of public institutions was declining overtime. An improvement in efficiency of the
government was needed if Pakistan is to accelerate and sustain growth, reduce poverty,
encourage its private sector to realize its full potential and compete in a competitive global
market as it depends on the capacity of government institutions and quality of civil service, It
was in this context that capacity building project was conceived and initiated.
Focus of the project was on key Federal Ministries/Divisions, two of the provincial governments
i.e. government of the Punjab and govt. of Balochistan and four (4) regulatory authorities
working in areas of gas, power, telecommunication and procurement.
Achievement of development objectives in three strategic areas is summarized as follows:
     I.       Broad Spectrum Professional Skill Development of the Public Servants
Broad spectrum professional development was planned to be achieved through the following
strategies:
             Direct investment on professionals which includes the professional training programs
              (Executive Leadership Development Program (ELDP) and Professional Development
              Programme (PDP);




9
    For Full Borrower’s ICR, please see Annex 10.



                                                                                               32
      Development of the domestic public sector Pre-service and in-service training institutions
       i.e. Civil Services Academy (CSA), National Institutes of Public Administration (NIPAs),
       Pakistan Administrative Staff College (PASC) and National School of Public Policy
       (NSPP); and
      Improvement of civil service recruitment process through strengthening Federal Public
       Service Commission (FPSC).
Under the project, a total of 186 officers have availed the training facility under Executive
Leadership Development Programme (ELDP) at Kennedy School of Government, Harvard
University, USA, against the target of 200 training. Similarly, a total of 363 officers have been
trained under the Professional Development Programme (PDP) against the target of 300 trainings.
The professional development was also to be achieved through strengthening in-country training
capacity. This involved upgradation of civil service training institutions (CSA, NIPAs and
PASC) through improving/revising curricula, operationalization of NSPP and capacity
enhancement of faculty as well as twinning with international institutions.
Curricula of all training courses have been revised/up-graded. New curricula are more relevant to
service delivery and good governance for all the three levels of trainings: Mid-Career-
Management Course (MCMC) for BPS-18 officers (tactical), Senior Management Course (SMC)
for BPS-19 officers (formulation and implementation of public policy) and National
Management Course (NMC) for BPS-20 (Policy formulation). The new curricula are incremental
in essence and address the particular requirements of each level of training.
 NSPP was notified on March 16, 2005 and its complete structure was approved by the Board of
Governors on January 26, 2007. It is now fully functional and regularly running the Common
Training Program (CTP), MCMC, SMC and NMC. The faculty at NSPP is well qualified (more
than 16 members are foreign degree holders). Establishment of NSPP with degree awarding
status has provided the foundation for replacing foreign based Professional Development
Programme (PDP) and Executive Leadership Development Programme (ELDP) with the in-
country training programs.
Under the twinning arrangements, a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) has been signed
with the China National School of Administration (CNSA) and discussions are being held with a
few other foreign institutions.
The Higher Education Commission has granted Degree Awarding Status to NSPP (July 2009).
This status projects NSPP from a mere training outfit to an educational and research center as
well.
Another aspect of professional development was that of improving civil service recruitment
process through the Federal Public Service Commission (FPSC). FPSC has conducted three
major studies as below;
   a. Revamping of CSS Examination System


                                                                                              33
    b. Revamping of general Recruitment System
    c. Revamping of Psychological Assessment Process


Two Members of the FPSC participated in a Training Course, organized in United Kingdom.
Study tours to France, U.K., Australia, New Zealand, Malaysia, Singapore, Egypt, Turkey and
South Africa were undertaken by five teams of the Commission comprising of 18 Senior Officers
during 2006-2008. A total of 119 employees of the Commission availed opportunities of various
training courses offered by inland training institutions.
During 2006-2009, career counseling seminars in 44 Universities and 205 colleges were
conducted to create awareness among students about the Civil Service of Pakistan, CSS
Examination System, General Recruitment System by providing information on procedures of
recruitment through FPSC for Federal Government jobs.
 II.   Strengthening Management Capacity of the Economy, Agencies of GoP and
       Provincial Governments
The Public Sector Capacity Building Project had focused on five major components
including civil works, trainings, consultancies /research studies, procurement of goods and
incremental, operating & administrative cost.
Achievement under this strategic area has been analyzed by reviewing the PC-I targets, and
physical achievement of the approved components of all the Federal Ministries/Divisions and
two of the Provincial Governments i.e. Punjab and Balochistan.
Finance Division
A total number of 193 officers of Finance Division have been trained under short term foreign
trainings, 75 officers were trained in localized trainings and 60 officers got local trainings. No
significant facilities were available to build the capacity of staff working in the Finance Division.
It merits mentioning here that staff in BS-16 and below makes about 90% of the total workforce
of the Finance Division. A total of 444 support staff members were also trained under PSCBP.
A total of 24 Consultants including 3 Consultants for Project Coordination Unit were hired for
various Wings of the Finance Division. 2 technical studies on Updation and Modernization of
Books of Rules and Regulations of Finance Division were also carried out.
Economic Affairs Division
A total of 62 officers of EAD have been trained of which 52 officers got short term foreign
trainings, 2 officers were trained in long term local degree programmes and 8 officers were
trained in short term courses online. EAD recruited 5 Research Associates (RAs) out of proposed
8 RAs, as no suitable candidates were found.
Planning and Development Division



                                                                                                  34
64 regular officers of the P&D Division were deputed for 3-6 weeks of foreign training in fields
related to their work at various reputed foreign institutions. Planning and Development Division
had recruited a total of 42 Research Associates throughout the life cycle of the project. Two
technical studies were carried out titled: Sensitivity Analysis, Karachi Mango Metro Train
Project; and Lakpass Tunnel Project – An Appraisal.
Federal Board of Revenue
Under PSCBP the target was set to establish 5 Medium Tax Payer Units (MTUs). These MTUs
have been established each at Karachi, Quetta, Peshawar, Faisalabad and Rawalpindi, which are
fully functional. One Large Tax Payer Unit (LTU) in Lahore, a Dispute Resolution Complex and
a MCC has been established in Karachi. One consultant, M/s NESPAK was appointed by the
Federal Board of Revenue for preparation of design layout, procurement support and supervision
of refurbishment activities at the model offices of FBR i.e. LTU/MTU/MCCs/DRC.
A total of 411 officers of Federal Board of Revenue were trained in local trainings and 30
workshops were conducted on change management throughout the country.
Ministry of Commerce
A total of 123 officers of Ministry of Commerce and its attached departments have availed
foreign short term trainings. A total of 3 consultants were hired including a Legal consultant and
2 IT Consultancy firms for establishment of Digital Library in commerce Division. Three
research studies on the establishment of Cool Chain System in Pakistan were conducted by the
Commerce Division and a PC-I was prepared which is presently under submission to CDWP for
approval.
Statistics Division
A total of 3 officers of Statistics Division have availed long term foreign trainings. The Division
has conducted two research studies on Economic & Financial Statistics and Social Statistics &
Demography by hiring two foreign consultants.
Ministry of Industries & Production
A total of 57 officers of Ministry of Industries & Production and its attached departments have
benefited from the Program and got trained in relevant disciplines from reputed International
universities and institutions. A total of three consultants were hired by the Ministry of Industries
and Production under the PSCBP.
Investment Division
A total number of 50 officers of Investment Division have been trained in different training
programmes of which 5 officers have attended short term foreign trainings, 15 officers are
trained in local short term trainings, 10 officers have availed foreign language courses and 20
officers have participated in joint study groups in foreign countries.
Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources


                                                                                                 35
A total number of 79 officers have availed multidisciplinary training courses of which 26 have
attended short term foreign trainings, 32 officers have attended international in land (localized)
trainings and 21 senior and junior officers have attended the workshops at different international
venues.
Ministry of Water and Power
One officer has availed long term training and 15 officers availed short term foreign trainings. A
total of 13 officers went to the study tours and 13 officers have availed local trainings. Ministry
of Water and Power has conducted a Research study on Kotri Barrage Water Escapage.
Competition Commission of Pakistan
A total number of 24 officers have been trained in three short term foreign training programmes.
Ministry of Privatization
A total of 16 officers have been trained under short term foreign trainings.
Women Development Division
A total of 12 officers of Women Division have been trained under short term foreign trainings.
Kana Division
A total of 42 officers have been trained of which 17 officers are trained under short term foreign
trainings and 25 officers have availed short term local trainings.
Government of the Punjab
52 officers have attended one year Master Degree programme, 166 officers trained under short
term foreign trainings and 8 officers availed distance learning courses.
Government of Balochistan
A total of 456 officers of different departments are trained in short term local trainings.
III.   Enhancing Capacity To Undertake Regulatory Functions In Government of
       Pakistan
Four Regulatory Authorities were among the Implementing Agencies under this strategic area.
Achievements of development objectives are summarized as below:
Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (PPRA)
101 training programmes have been completed successfully wherein 3127 public sector
procurement officers representing more than 200 procuring agencies of Federal Government
(various ministries/departments and statutory bodies) have availed training facility in new
Procurement Regulatory Regime while 2 officers were trained under short term foreign trainings.
Oil and Gas Regulatory Authority (OGRA)




                                                                                                 36
A total number of 175 officers of OGRA have been trained under the PSCBP of which 50
officers were trained in short term foreign trainings while 74 officers were trained under local
trainings and 51 got online trainings. In PC-I it was planned to carry out 2 technical studies
which could not be completed due to unsatisfactory performance of the consultants.
Pakistan Telecommunication Authority (PTA)
Two consultancies were undertaken to improve working of the Authority, of which one is
completed and the other one is under process
   a) Telecommunication Deregulation Consultancy (McCarthy consultancy completed)
   b) PTA engaged the services of international consultants M/s Ovum plc (UK) for
      determination of cost based inter connection charges for fixed and mobile networks and
      to finalize the cost and regulatory accounting framework. 60% of the consultancy is
      completed whereas remaining work could not be done beyond Nov 30, 2009 due to law
      and order situation.
National Electric & Power Regulatory Authority (NEPRA)
A total of 47 officers have been trained under PSCBP through short term foreign
trainings/workshops while one Consultant was recruited.
At present Ministry of Finance has prepared a PC-I for a project titled Institutional
Strengthening of Finance Division (continuation of PSCBP-Finance Division’s Component-
Phase II) with a total cost of Rs. 189.00 million to sustain the capacity built under PSCBP.


                           Borrower’s Comments on Draft ICR
                                    Government of Pakistan
                                        Finance Division
                                 (External Finance Policy Wing)
*****

Subject:       IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR) OF THE PUBLIC
               SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT (PSCBP) – COMMENTS

At the outset, it may be acknowledged that through the PSCBP, the World Bank and GoP
collectively made a significant effort to strengthen the institutional capacity of key institutions of
the GoP. This has abundantly been reflected in the Annex-7 appended with the GoP’s ICR
(shared earlier with the World Bank) that Project Development Objectives (PDOs) have
significantly been achieved by the 24 Executing Agencies despite some hindrances, which the
project came across during its implementation. Public Sector Capacity Building Project (PSCBP)
was an important intervention to build capacity of public sector organizations at the federal and
provincial levels, not only to consolidate and sustain the economic gains but also to promote
good governance in the country. PSCBP allowed, in the short and medium term, to impart high
quality training/education to the senior and mid-level civil servants, working at the policy


                                                                                                   37
making and policy implementation positions. Concurrently, resident capacity of public sector
organizations was improved through their dedicated components by implementing Entity
Improvement Plans (duly approved by the World Bank) and training of officials.

However, in the ICR, some facts have not been taken into account by the Bank, which makes the
ICR unable to portray the exact picture. It needs mention that the PSCBP was approved at the
cost of US$ 61 million (US$ 55 million IDA lending by the World Bank and US$ 6 million
contributed directly by GoP). It is contrary to the fact (as depicted in the ICR) that NSCC
meetings were not convened with the frequency as was required. It needs highlighting that these
meetings were held as needed. To ensure smooth and prompt functioning, certain powers were
also delegated to the Finance Secretary by the NSCC since it was a high-powered forum and its
meetings were not easy to convene given a less than easy availability of its members. Hence, last
NSCC meeting was arranged in November 02, 2009 (and not in 2008) under the chairmanship of
the then Finance Minister wherein continuation of generic as well as specialized trainings was
emphasized. It is worth mentioning here that PDOs were restructured/redesigned, as advised, to
restrict the canvas of the project only to six executing agencies (in the possible/indicated
extension period) for optimal utilization of remaining IDA amount but its non-extension
adversely affected the same.

It is understood that PSCBP has significantly impacted the technical skills of civil servants at all
levels of the government. Appreciating this, the NSCC during its last meeting held on November
2, 2009 decided, inter alia, that Human Resource Management is a continuous process, which
eventually would ensure sustainability in nourishing technical skills of civil servants. The pre-
service and in-service trainings being a continuous process, will help build a new edifice of
development, management and strategic leadership culture contributing towards a changed role
of the government as a facilitator and a regulator. Keeping in view the strategic significance of
the capacity building programme, it was agreed that the initiatives need to be sustained.

Thus in order to retain and continue the ongoing capacity building efforts, after the closure of
PSCBP, a new initiative for Institutional Strengthening of Finance Division was conceived for
the next three years through GoP funding. The project has been approved by the CDWP and its
activities have since been initiated.

The CSRU (Establishment Division) being the largest component in the Project, the main
achievements under it are also discussed separately in the following paras.

The training components of Establishment Division; Executive Leadership Development (ELDP)
and Professional Development Programs (PDP), were highly successful. In the case of PDP, the
programme surpassed its targets. CSRU not only devised a placement policy and got it approved
it from the Prime Minister but also prepared a digital resume book for internal marketability of
the trained officers. It has been rightly pointed out in the ICR that the officers trained under PDP
were very enthusiastic and willing to play their role in promoting economic growth and good
governance in the country. The placement policy could not work, inter alia, due to the prevailing
civil service structure in the country. However, evidence suggests that almost 95% officers are
working in the public sector and contributing their role effectively. PSCBP, therefore, helped to
train a pool of civil servants, which is available to the public sector.



                                                                                                 38
PSCBP envisaged that in the long run, National School of Public Policy (NSPP) would emerge
as a centre of excellence for training and research in the public sector, therefore, the foreign
training programme would be phased out. Though NSPP has made a lot of progress to revamp
various training courses, hiring of faculty and improvement of facilities, etc. it has, however, to
cover a long way to reach the desired level. The new management of NSPP is determined to take
necessary steps to achieve this target.

It may be noted that in Annex-1. Project Cost and Financing (table at Page 21 of ICR), the
expenditure against IDA share of US$ 55 million, is shown as US$ 43.79 million. This reflects
an unspent balance as US$ 11.21 million instead of US$ 14 million as indicated at certain other
places in the ICR. Overall, the time overrun is not an uncommon phenomenon in development
projects even in the most developed countries. Since the PSCBP was a unique project, an
unspent amount should not have been treated as a glaring aspect of the project to be highlighted
while commenting on the project performance.

In view of the above, it seems very unfair to rate the performance of the Government as unsatisfactory.




                                                                                     Amjad Mahmood
                                                                                       Joint Secretary




                                                                                                     39
      Annex 8. Comments of Co financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not Applicable




                                                                           40
                             Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
Aide Memoires for PSCBP
Civil Service Reform, A Review of World Bank Assistance, OED, World Bank, August 1999.
Government of Pakistan request for extension of PSCBP
Impact Evaluation Study for PSCBP (2008)
Implementation Status Reports for PSCBP (02/09/2010)
Implementation Status Reports for PSCBP (03/31/2005)
Implementation Status Reports for PSCBP (05/03/2006)
Implementation Status Reports for PSCBP (06/15/2007)
Implementation Status Reports for PSCBP (06/27/2008)
Implementation Status Reports for PSCBP (06/29/2009)
Implementation Status Reports for PSCBP (08/25/2004)
Implementation Status Reports for PSCBP (09/27/2005)
Implementation Status Reports for PSCBP (12/15/2006)
Implementation Status Reports for PSCBP (12/20/2007)
Implementation Status Reports for PSCBP (12/30/2008)
Mid Term Review for PSCBP (11/30/2006)
Project Appraisal Document for PSCBP
Tracer Study of Placement of Officers Receiving Post Graduate Qualification under PDEV. sub
component




                                                                                          41
Annex 10: Government of Pakistan: ICR on Public Sector Capacity Building Project
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
The Public Sector Capacity Building Project was initiated under an immense need of capacity
building of the civil service in general and in key Federal Ministries/Divisions of GOP and
provincial departments in particular which are in the forefront in designing, implementation and
monitoring economic and human resource management policy reforms and strengthening of
regulatory facilities. The project was also designed to strengthen in-country training facilities and
improve the recruitment process, entry level examinations, management of promotions and
carrying out of need analysis.

1.1 Context at Appraisal
In Pakistan the capacity and quality of public institutions was declining over time. An
improvement in efficiency of the government was needed if Pakistan is to accelerate and sustain
growth, reduce poverty, encourage its private sector to realize its full potential and compete in a
competitive global market, successful implementation of GOP’s reform programme, as it
depends on the capacity of government institutions and quality of civil service, the capacity
building project was conceived and initiated.

The inadequacies of the existing system of training lie at the root of the performance of civil
service therefore the government of Pakistan planned to expand investment rate in human
resource development, the Public Sector Capacity Building Project was conforming this planning.

The government has to improve specific aspects of governance in its civil service reform agenda.
In this respect the PSCBP was mandated to provide assistance for building the capacity of key
policy making and implementing Ministries and Agencies for strengthening regulation in areas
of gas, power and telecommunications.

Focus of project was on three strategic areas, these are depicting the overall government agenda
to implement under the capacity building ambit. Achievement of strategic goals is through the
concrete interventions proposed under the Entity Improvement Plan as guided by the donor
agency (World Bank).

In a nutshell, focus of the project was on three strategic areas.

IV.       Broad spectrum professional skill development of the public servants;
 V.       Strengthening management capacity of the economy, agencies of GOP and provincial
          governments; and
VI.       Enhancing capacity to undertake regulatory functions in government of Pakistan

Strategic Area I
As far as Broad Spectrum Professional Development is concerned, this was planned to be
achieved through following strategies:

         Direct investment on professionals which includes the professional Training Programme
          (degree and non degree for middle to senior level officers).




                                                                                                  42
      Development of the domestic public sector Pre-service and in-service training institutions
       i.e. Civil services Academy (SCA), National Institutes of Public Administration (NIPAs),
       Pakistan Administrative Staff College (PASC) and National School of Public Policy
       (NSPP).
      Improvevement of civil service recruitment process through strengthening Federal Public
       Service Commission (FPSC)

Direct investment on professionals/ Broad spectrum professional skill development of the
public servants
Government of Pakistan had strong urge to improve the skills and change the mindset of senior
civil servants to ensure that its Economic Revival Programme is successfully implemented and
sustained over a longer time frame.It can be done through a multipronged approach centered on
the training of civil servants and upgrading the capacity of Civil Service Training Institutes,
where they are trained.

The inadequacies of existing system of training lie at the root of much of the indicated problems
of diminished quality and reduced impact. Human resource development in the public sector had
not been given adequate resources leading to steady erosion in capacity and technical skills of
civil servants. As compared to early sixties, the statistics, point to a sharp decline in the pursuit
of advance degree programmes. There was also under investment in human capital. According to
one estimate, government expenditure on staff training is 0.5% of the establishment cost.

Keeping in view this background the component was addressing the capacity and technical skills
gap in civil service and was largely focusing on professional development of federal and
provincial civil service cadre and ex-cadre including officers posted in districts.

These two training programmes were as under
   a. Executive Leadership Development Programme (ELDP), the non degree
       programme for senior officers (BPS20-21)
   b. Professional Development Programme (PDP) for junior officers (BPS17-19)


Strengthening in-country training Institutes’ capacity
In addition to the provision of training facilities, as mentioned above, professional development
was targeted to be achieved through strengthening in-country training capacity. The
Establishment Division is responsible for providing training to civil servants at different levels,
primarily through seven training institutes, Pakistan Administartive Staff College PASC, Lahore;
National Institute of Public Administarion, NIPA, Lahore, Karachi, Peshawar, Quetta, Cicil
Services Acadamy, CSA and secretariat Training Institute. This strategy involved up gradation of
these institutes, operationalization of NSPP and capacity enhancement of faculty as well as
twinning with international institutes.

A civil service officer is expected to get rotated across different ministries. The pre-service and
in-service training had become inappropriate for development of a new management culture and
a changed role of government as a facilitator and regulator. The training institutes were not




                                                                                                  43
addressing the inadequacies and continue to focus on routine training rather than developing new
managerial and leadership skills.

Improvevement of civil service recruitment process through FPSC
Professional development was to be achieved through another aspect i.e. improving the civil
service recruitment process through the FPSC. The key areas of support include strengthening of
entry level examination process, management of promotion examinations and curriculum
development.

Civil Service Reform Unit (CSRU) was established as the secretariat to the Cabinet Committee
on Civil Service Reforms within Establishment Division, National School of Public Policy
(NSPP) and Federal Public Service Commission (FPSC) under the umbrella of Establishment
Division were targeted to achieve following objectives under the strategic Area I.

      Create a critical mass of professionally trained officers from BS-17 to BS-21, in Public
       Sector Management, Social Sector, Public Policy& Public Finance and Regulatory Sector,
       who can translate policy designs to real world behaviours in a management environment
       and be able to work with diverse groups of experts and staff;
    Improve the relevance, quality and content of training at domestic civil service training
       institutions;
    Review FPSC’s entry level examination process;
    Coduct need analysis for curriculum development undertaken by FPSC; and
    To revise the curriculum and training methodologies of Civil Service Training
       Institutions.
Strategic Area II
Under the second strategic area i.e. strengthening management capacity of the economy, focus
was towards the 16 key and strategic Federal Ministries, 2 provincial governments and
government organizations to implement the capacity building interventions.

Strategic Area III
Under the 3rd strategic area of PSCBP-capacity strengthening of Regulatory Agencies, four
regulatory authorities were the participants i.e. National Electric and Power Regulatory
Authority (NEPRA), Oil and Gas Regulatory Authority (OGRA), Public Procurement
Regulatory Authority (PPRA) and Pakistan Telecommunication Authority (PTA). In Pakistan
with no history of infrastructure and service regulation, there was a severe dearth of trained
professionals with the capability to address the complex issues of electricity, gas generation,
Procurement laws and telecommunications.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The objectives of umbrella Public Sector Capacity Building Project were as under:
     Enhancing the capacity (skills, knowledge, and attitude) of public sector officials to meet
       the challenges of 21st century and needs of a vibrant economy to accomplish the goals as
       set out in Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP);
     Strengthening the capacity of in-country training institutions for improving the quality of
       entry level civil servants;
     Strengthening capacity of the FPSC;


                                                                                                  44
      Strengthening the capacity of key ministries/agencies which are in the forefront of
       designing, implementing and monitoring of economic reforms and human resource
       management;
      Strengthening capacity of regulators for regulating their respective sectors effectively;
       and
      Enhancing government capacity to facilitate broad based civil service reforms (CSR) as
       well as pay and pension reforms.

1.3 Revised PDO
Nill. However the project activities were continued out of GoP funds even after the closure of
IDA support w.e.f November 30, 2009.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
As it have been described above that the thrust of the project was on three strategic areas linked
to this the whole of government machinery comprising the civil servants of a total number of
sixteen (16) key Federal Ministries/divisions in GOP, two of the provincial governments i.e.
government of the Punjab and govt. of Balochistan and four (4) regulatory authorities were the
primary target group of the project. Public sector pre-service and in-service training institutes are
also the primary target of the PSCBP. In addition to these the related departments/organizations
of above mentioned ministries were also expected to be benefitted from the interventions of
PSCBP.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
The Public Sector Capacity Building Project had focused on the following five major
components in order to achieve the coherent agenda of civil service reforms.

      Civil Works
      Trainings
      Consultancies/Research studies
      Procurement of Goods
      Incremental, operating and administrative cost

1.6 Revised Components
Nil
1.7 Other significant changes
The Public Sector Capacity Building Project had been implemented as per approved design,
scope and scale. No significant changes have been made; the implementation schedule and
funding allocation by and large were the same as agreed upon in the respective Entity
Improvement Plans of the Executing Agencies, The revision had been made in funding allocation
and implementation schedule of some of the Executing Agencies by the approval of National
Steering and Coordination Committee (NSCC) in its meetings. However the main thrust of the
Project remained on same areas as envisaged in the umbrella project design.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
Keeping in view the umbrella Project activities, some common factors ensuring the effective
implementation of the project can be summarized as follows:


                                                                                                  45
      Timely releases of funds;
      A detailed training need assessment by all the implementing Agencies (IAs) including Key
       federal ministries, Regulatory Authorities and Provincial governments (Punjab and
       Balochistan) to ensure the optimum benefits to the organization; and
      Placement of officers at relevant positions after having trained in different areas, so as
       the maximum benefits could be derived for the institutional development and
       strengthening.

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
The Public Sector Capacity Building Project being unique in nature was implemented as a novel
intervention. At the time of design and initiation, the government was pursuing several initiatives
to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the civil service. These include plan to establish a
National Executive Service (NES), FPSC reforms, pay and pension reforms, merit based
recruitment and promotion initiatives, establishment of National School of Public Policy and
National Commission of Government reforms, (NCGR). As there was no overarching civil
service reform (CSR) agenda, these initiatives did offer the committment of improving the
effectiveness of service delivery and strengthening of policy formulation & implementation. The
project was justified on the ground as it has been elaborated earlier that there was an acute
paucity of trained and equipped manpower with the modern managerial techniques and skills in
GoP. Parallel to this, in-country training institutes were treading the track of old training
methodologies.

2.2 Implementation
During the currency of the PSCBP, the donor agency (World Bank) had maintained a close
liaison not only with the borrower (Ministry of Finance) as the key implementing and Financing
agency but also encompassed all other participatory and implementing partners. Implementation
Support mission visited the project regularly for resolving the emerging issues and their quick
compliance and solution. The main agenda of the mission remainedon reviewing the progress of
key elements of the project which includes implementation of the GOP’s overall capacity
building programme, the Professional Development Programme (PDP)& Executive
Development Programme (EDP), operationalization of NSPP, strengthening of civil service
recruitment , future implementation strategy, implementation progress of all the participatory
elements in line with the Entity Improvement Plan (EIP), financial and procurement related
issues and the fiduciary compliance by the world bank thereof. The missions used to focus on the
monitoring and evaluation of key performance indicators and overall programme coordination.

World Bank had always stressed on an effective and time tested method for enhancing faculty
capability of NSPP and its twinning with a world class university as well as the main intent
under the PSCB project. The twining arrangement was intended to permit faculty exchange,
development curriculum design and delivery for a world class programme in public Policy.
Under this arrangement it was also planned to give immediate reputation to NSPP making it
easier to recruit the foreign faculty.
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and
    Utilization




                                                                                                46
In order to achieve desired objectives of umbrella Public Sector Capacity Building Project, it was
ensured to incorporate an in built monitoring and evaluation system in its design. A high
powered National Steering & CoordinationCommittee (NSCC) was constituted for broad based
ownership, to provide strategic guidance and policy directions to the project.

For proper implementation/execution, coordination, monitoring and evaluation of the project a
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was established in the Finance Division.The PCU was assissted
with a Procurement specialist, a Financial Management Consultant and a Public Sector
Consultant along with Accounts Personnel and other support staff.

   i.      Accounting Convention
The financial statements of PSCBP were prepared under the historic cost convention using Cash
Basis of accounting as required in the project’s Financial Management Manual which has been
approved both by the World Bank and Controller General of Accounts Islamabad. The
accounting policies have been applied consistently throughout the period.

   ii.    Reporting Framework
The Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with Cash Basis. Financial
Management Reports (FMRs) of each Participatory Agency linked with the Finance Division and
each Executing Agency have also been sent to World Bank on quarterly basis.

    iii.   Procurement Monitoring
On procurement side it was manadatory for procuring agencies under the Development Credit
Agreement to seek prior approval of the first procurement in respect of Goods and Consultancies.
Accordingly.the Project Coordination Unit established under the PSCBP ensured the
transparency in terms of procurement made by various EAs through strict compliance of the
clauses given in DCA.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Under the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), PCU was required to submit Financial
Management Reports (FMRs) on quarterly basis and Procurement Plans (annual basis) updated
on half yearly basis.

There were 26 EAs having 9 Special Assignmaent Accounts. In order to furnish the said
information to the World Bank, the PCU after collecting and compiling the requisite information
was continuously forwarding the same to the World Bank. In this connection meetings with the
EAs were held frequently. However the PC-Is of some of the EAs were pending for approval
with the CDWP which affected processing of procurements and implementation.

On the World Bank initiative as reported in the Aid Memoire that the EAs who could not be able
to spend more than 25% of allocated amount, their allocations were slashed by 50% of the
original allocation. This proposal affected the pace of the EAs performance adversely as they
have taken approval of procedures and suddenly by this decision they again restructured their
whole programme. These EAs could not be able to achieve sustainability in procurements and
other heads of accounts.




                                                                                               47
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
During the discussions held with the World Bank’s Review Mission in July 2009, the Finance
Division made the mission realize significance of the project and requested to extend the project
till 2011to exhaust the unutilized funds of an amount of US$ 14.00 million as at that apex stage it
was not favorable to close the project. However the mission was not convinced and eventually
the National Steering and Coordination Committee (NSCC) of PSCBP headed by the then
Minister for Finance,Revenue, Economic Affairs & Statistics in its 8th meeting held on
November 02, 2009 decided to continue the PSCBP out of GoP funding. However foreign
training programme and procurements were discontinued beyond November 30, 2009. The
Minister of Finance also desired Secretary, Economic Affairs Division to explore the
possibilities of funds from DFID or any other donor to sustain the capacity building efforts.

At present Ministry of finance has prepared a PC-I for a project titled Institutional Strengthening
of Finance Division (continuation of PSCBP-Finance Division’s Component).

3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Achievements of project development objectives as stated under the three strategic areas of
PSCBP are summarized at Annex-A whereas the detailed description is as follows:

As described earlier the focus of the project was on three strategic areas which depict the overall
government agenda to implement under the capacity building ambit. Achievement of strategic
goals is through concrete interventions proposed under the Entity Improvement Plan as guided
by the donor agency (World Bank).

The achievements of the project in three strategic areas can be analyzed as under:
Strategic Area I
Broad spectrum professional skill development of the public servants
Civil Service Reform Unit was established within the Establishment Division in 2004 to
administer the foreign training programme and coordinate with other sub components i.e. NSPP
and FPSC. The work related to civil service reforms has remained stalled due to several reasons
which include, inter alia, lack of human resource, establishment of NCGR and political
commitment. CSRU has prepared a number of working papers on various aspects of civil service
reforms. The papers developed by CSRU are as under:
     National Executive Survey
     District Service
     Reorganization of the Establishment Division
     Placement Policy framework and conceptual roadmaps on CSR

Up till the completion of PSCBP, a total of 186 officers have availed the training facility under
Executive Leadership Development Programme (ELDP) at Harvard Kennedy School of
Government USA, against the training target of 200 which is 93% of the target. On the other
hand a total of 363 officers have been trained under the Professional Development Programme
(PDP) against the target of 300 trainings.


                                                                                                    48
Capacity building is not a stock, rather a flow process which requires a longer period of time to
assess the performance of the trained officers and strengthen the public sector organizations. It
also involves a number of internal as well as external factors which impact performance of the
officers. A general assessment shows that a majority of officers trained under ELDP and PDP is
highly motivated and individually performing efficiently. However the results in terms of holistic
impact on the organization performance have not attained satisfactorily so far. This may be
attributed to a limited number of officers trained under PDP & ELDP through their wide spread
placement.

CSRU has devised a placement policy for efficient utilization of the officers trained under ELDP
and PDP programmmes. After having sought approval of the Prime Minister, the policy has been
circulated to all the Federal Ministries/Divisions and Provincial departments for implementation.

Strengthening in-country training capacity
In addition to the provision of foreign and localized training facilities, the professional
development was to be achieved through strengthening in-country training capacity. This
involved upgradation of civil service training institutions (CSA, NIPAs and PASC) through
improving/revising curricula, operationalization of NSPP and capacity enhancement of faculty as
well as twinning with international institutions.
Curricula of all training courses have been revised/up-graded. The task was completed
indigenously by internal committees of experts. The new curricula are more relevant to the
service delivery and good governance. Three levels of training are Mid-Carrier-Management
Course (MCMC)for BPS-18 officers (tactical), Senior Management Course (SMC) for BPS-19
officers (formulation and implementation of public policy) and National Management Course
(NMC ) for BPS-20 (Policy formulation). The new curricula are incremental in essence and
address the particular requirements of each level of training.

NSPP was notified on March 16, 2005 and its complete structure was approved by the Board of
Governors on January 26, 2007. It is now fully functional and regularly running its all training
programmes, i.e. Commmon Training Pregramme (CTP), MCMC, SMC and NMC. After
approval of an attractive pay package and incentives from the Board of Governors, the task of
recruiting high caliber faculty became much easier. The faculty at NSPP is well qualified (more
than 16 members are foreign degree holders). Establishment of NSPP, with degree awarding
status, has provided the foundation for replacing the foreign based Professional Development
Programme (PDP) and Executive Leadership Development Programme (ELDP) with the in-
house training programmes.

Under the twinning arrangements a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) has been signed with
the China National School of Administration (CNSA) and discussions are being held with a few
others such as Australia, New Zealand School of Government Melbourne Australia, National
School of London, UK, and Ecole National D’ Administration Paris, France, etc.

The Higher Education Commission has granted the Degree Awarding Status to NSPP             (July
2009) and further details are being finalized such as mandatory duration of training programmes,




                                                                                               49
facilities at libraries, credit hours, etc. Degree awarding status catapults NSPP from a mere
training outfit to an educational and research center as well.

Improving the civil service recruitment process through FPSC
Professional development was to be achieved through another aspect i.e. improving the civil
service recruitment process through the Federal Public Service Commission (FPSC).

FPSC has conducted three major studies on Revamping of Cenral Superior Services (CSS)
Competitive Examination System, General Recruitment System and Psychological Assessment
Process of FPSC. These studies have been completed during the implementation of the Project
(2004-09). These studies are titled as under:

   a) Revamping of CSS Examination System
   b) Revamping of general Recruitment System
   c) Revamping of Psychological Assessment Process

Two Members of the Commission participated in a Training Course, organized in United
Kingdom.

Study tours to France, U.K., Australia, New Zealand, Malaysia, Singapore, Egypt, Turkey and
South Africa were undertaken by Five Teams of the Commission comprising 18 Senior
Officers during 2006-2008.

For capacity building of other officers and staff, 119 employees of the Commission availed
opportunities of participation in various training courses offered by inland training institutions
for up-gradation of their knowledge and skill, under PSCBP.

During 2006-2009, Career Counseling Seminars for students in 44 Universities and 205 colleges
were conducted to create awareness about the Civil Service of Pakistan, CSS Examination
System & General Recruitment System and provided information on procedures of recruitment
through FPSC for Federal Government jobs.

In order to provide a conducive and safe environment to candidates as well as staff of FPSC and
improve vigilance in the examinations, miscellaneous equipment have been purchased and
installed in FPSC.

Strategic Area II

STRENGTHENING MANAGEMENT CAPACITY OF THE ECONOMY, AGENCIES
OF GOP AND PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENTS

Achievement under this strategic area can be analyzed by reviewing the PC-I targets, also
translated in Entity Improvement Plans (EIPs) and physical achievement of the approved
components of all the Federal Ministries/divisions and two of the Provincial Governments i.e.
Punjab and Balochistan.




                                                                                                     50
In preceding paragraphs achievement of all the participating Federal Ministries, government
agencies and provincial governments is described in detail.

   1. FINANCE DIVISION
Ministry of Finance has played a crucial role in Public Sector Capacity Building Project as the
Key financing, coordinating and implementing agency of umbrella PSCBP.

Objectives
The specific objectives as elaborated in approved PC-I of Finance Division are as follows:

  To Improve efficiency of the public finance system, enhanced access to external resources
   and efficient debt management;
 To improve capacity to formulate better economic and fiscal policies;
 To improve capacity to develop Macroeconomic Framework, Medium Term Budgetary
   Framework (MTBF), Public Expenditure Review, design Poverty Reduction Support Credits
   (PRSC), and to track and evaluate PRSP expenditures;
 To put in place an effective monitoring system with regard to the financial requirements,
   profitability, operational performance and other matters of Public Sector Enterprises (PSEs),
   Banks and Financial Institutions with a view to ensuring financial discipline and efficient
   utilization of public resources; and
 To assist the GOP to accelerate the process of Public Private Partnership (PPP) and Private
   Sector induction into the activities of PSEs, Banks, and Development Financial Institution
   (DFIs).
Achievements
The Major achievements of Finance Division’s component are as under:

Trainings/Human Resource Development
There has been dearth of trained professionals in the Ministry of Finance with the capability to
address the complex issues of present day economic management. More specifically, the Finance
Division lacks the capacity to effectively monitor the performance of PSEs; the banking sector;
public expenditure management; MTBF; debt management; pay & pension; revenue forecasting;
outcomes and impact analysis of PRSP expenditures. Existing institutional arrangement to train
manpower in specialized fields for one week was not fulfilling the requirement. Consequently,
heavy reliance was made on hiring of consultants at exorbitant cost that does not develop
institutional capacity. Therefore, keeping in consideration an urgent need to continue upgrading
the skills, training was given a high priority. Under this intervention, all possible avenues were
explored to impart the high quality trainings to the officers of Finance Division in all disciplines
related to the activities they perform in the high ranking Universities/ Institutes of the world as
well as officers of finance Division have also been trained in Local and localized trainings.

Short term Foreign Trainings
Finance Division intends capacity building of the officers working in different Wings through
training in reputable institutions on modern techniques of managing finances/resources, overall
financial management and policy analysis. Special focus was on strengthening capacity in the
key areas of public finance, expenditure management and monetary policy. Building expertise in
the key areas of external finance, external debt management, balance of payment, WTO related


                                                                                                  51
issue, management of multilateral debt, matters relating to bond issues, international capital
markets, and monetary policy are also included. Short Term training comprising specialized
courses in Economics and Finance with duration of 2-6 weeks is meant to implement
professional development of officers for all Wings of the Division.

In order to ably oversee and implement training component of the project, a Sub-Committee on
Training under the Public Sector Capacity Building Project was constituted under the
Chairmanship of Additional Finance Secretary (EF-P/A), comprising: (i) Joint Secretary (EF-P);
(ii) Joint Secretary (Administration); (iii) Joint Secretary (Human Resource Development); (iv)
Joint Secretary (Provincial Finance); (v) Joint Secretary (Budget); and (vi) Deputy Secretary
(External Finance Policy-I)/PD as Member/Secretary.

A total number of 193 officers of Finance Division have been trained under this head of human
resource development (detail at Annex-1.1).

Localized Trainings
There are certain skill gaps, which involve a group of officers working in particular section of
the Division. These relate to emerging techniques of handling public sector business for which
no local resources are available. Sending all such persons on foreign training would result in a
substantial financial impact. To economize the task, localized trainings have been envisaged.
Under this component, foreign resource persons of international repute are brought into the
country to impart training to clusters in respect of newly developed knowledge areas. Under
these arrangements, the following courses were conducted:
                i).     Financial Statements and Budgeting
                ii)     Capital Markets
                iii)    Challenges in Debt Management in Pakistan
                iv)     Public Private Partnership
                v)      RSMX Model
The officers from line Ministries, Provinces, FATA, AJK and Attached Departments
/Autonomous Bodies were also given representation in these courses besides officers from the
Finance Division. In each of the above course, approximately 23 – 25 officers participated
whereas 75 officers of FD were trained.

Local Trainings
Knowledge areas for which resources are indigenously available, local trainings were planned
under the framework of the project. This covered courses relating to policy implementation and
operational issues concerning Finance Division. The main objective of this component was to
provide necessary skills and to build capacity by achieving economies of scale
Under the local training programme a total of 120 officers were benefitted of which 60 officers
were from Finance Division (detail at Annex 1.2)

Support Staff Trainings
At present, no significant facilities were available to build the capacity of staff working in the
Finance Division. Lack of capacity hampers the implementation of change management
necessary to improve the working environment of the Division. It merits mentioning here that
staff in BS-16 and below makes about 90% of the total workforce of the Finance Division. To



                                                                                                     52
bridge the capacity gap prevalent, local training courses pertaining to technical and skill-oriented
areas were arranged for these employees wherein 444 support staff members were trained (detail
at Annex 1.3)

Goods Procurement
Logistics, computing and other hardware items required for efficient working of consultants, and
Wings etc. have been procured (detail at Annex 1.4)

Consultancy /Research Studies
This intervention had two major components, i) Hiring of individual consultants and (ii)
Consultancies for undertaking the technical studies

Individual Consultants
The project provides for bridging the skill gap wherever hampering the performance of official
business, through hiring of professionals to supplement the existing skill pool available with the
Finance Division. A total of 24 Consultants including 3 Consultants for Project Coordination
Unit were hired for various Wings of the Finance Division. Detail is as under:


 Sr.No.     Name of the Wing                                 Number of Consultants hired
 1          External Finance Policy Wing (PRSP &             7
            PCU)
 2          External Finance B&C Wing                        1
 3          Corporate Finance Wing                           5
 4          Internal Finance Wing                            2
 5          Advisor’s Office                                 2
 6          DPCO                                             6
 7          Investment Wing                                  1
            Total                                            24

Research Studies
Similarly, there is a provision for conducting research studies in areas of critical national
importance. Ever since inception of Pakistan, the Books of Rules and Regulations of the Finance
Division were not updated /modernized. A primitive system was being followed which was not
only laborious but involved high risk lacking transparency. Under this project, it was felt
imperative to update and modernize the Books of Rules and Regulations of Finance Division to
bring more transparency in the system by updating & modernizing the obsolete and outdated
rules and regulations for the facility of all stakeholders.
This study was split into two parts, Updation and Modernization. For the said purpose following
books were selected

          No.   Name of the book
          1     General Financial Rules, Vol. I & II
          2     Fundamental Rules & Supplementary Rules
          3     The Pension Compendium



                                                                                                 53
         4      The Civil Service Regulations
         5      Treasury Rules Vol. I & II
         6      General Provident Fund Rules
         7      Leave Rules
         8      Scheme of National Scale of Pay & Allowances Other than Fringe
                Benefits
         9      Traveling Allowance/Daily Allowance Rules
         10     Compilation of General Orders Relating to Allowances Other Than
                Traveling Allowance


    2. ECONOMIC AFFAIRS DIVISION
EAD Component was launched in April 2006 for a period of 3 years with the total budget outlay
of Rs.58.00 million.

Objectives
Following were the specific objectives of EAD component of the project as outlined in approved
PC-I:
     Creation of a Research and Policy Analysis Cell in EAD staffed by Research Analysts
       who will provide expert advice to the different Policy Wings and the Debt Management
       Wing of the Division and undertake research in the field of Aid Effectiveness, Macro
       Economic Management, Debt Management, Financial Risk Management and Donor
       specific projects / programs and priorities etc. The Cell will also oversee aid utilization
       and disbursements of various donor funded projects;
     Capacity Building of officers of EAD through short term foreign and local long term
       trainings to develop a critical mass of trained officers who are better equipped to deal
       with the challenges posed by International Aid scenario;
     Transition to a computerized environment. In this regard, a computer lab is proposed to
       be established in EAD;
     Renovations/Office maintenance of existing EAD offices for Research and Policy
       Analysis Cell and the computer lab; and
     Development of Standard Operating Procedures for each Wing in a manner to
       synchronize with the vision and with the mission statement of the Division.

Achievements
The Major achievements of Economic Affairs Division’s component as per set development
objectives and targets in PC-I are elaborated as under

Trainings/ Human Resource Development
EAD is responsible for assessment of requirements, programming and negotiation for securing
technical assistance to Pakistan from foreign countries and donors/organizations, external debt
management including authorization of remittances for all external debt service, review and
appraisal of international and regional economic trends and their impact on the national economy
and development effectiveness. All these tasks required in-house expertise and skills and
competencies in EAD which are at par with the international standards. A total number of 62



                                                                                                54
officers of EAD have been trained of which 52 officers got short term foreign trainings, 2
officers are trained in long term local degree programmes and 8 officers were trained in short
term online courses (detail at Annex -2).

Consultancy/Research Studies
Individual Consultants
One of the prime development objective of PSCBP-EAD component was the creation of a
Research and Policy Analysis Cell in EAD staffed by Research Analysts (RAs) who would
provide expert advice to the different Policy Wings and the Debt Management Wing of the
Division and would undertake research in the field of Aid Effectiveness, Macro Economic
Management, Debt Management, Financial Risk Management and Donor specific projects /
programs and priorities etc. For this purpose, EAD recruited 5 RAs out proposed 8 RAs, as no
suitable candidates were found.

The project team including Research Analysts (RAs) accomplished a quality report on impact
evaluation of trainings under the PSCBP-EAD component the project (Annex 2.2). Portfolio-
scenarios of different donors including World Bank, IFAD, IDB and OPEC Fund is also
prepared. The project team has also prepared a project for creating the web-based and interactive
one-page briefs of all foreign funded projects.

    3. PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DIVISION
The Planning & Development Division’s Component under PSCBP aims at supporting capacity
building of the Division with the following seven immediate objectives
     Strengthening economic policy formulation and analysis through improved macro
       modeling and building up of research/library facilities;
     Strengthening evaluation & monitoring of development projects through capacity
       building of Projects Wing;
     Strengthening of Pakistan Planning and Management Institute (PPMI) through twinning
       with the reputed international training institutions to impart modern and relevant training
       in economic management;
     Development of human resources in the Planning Commission through skill development
       and induction of young professionals/consultants and senior level managers;
     Improving work-environment through provision of administrative facilities and
       introduction of human resources management systems;
     Strengthening economic appraisal and evaluation of development projects through
       provision of infrastructure facilities; and
     Strengthening capabilities of development budget preparation through development of
       dynamic computerized program on public sector development program.

Physical Targets and achievements:
In order to achieve the above mentioned objectives as outlined in the approved PC-I certain
specific strategies have been devised against each objective. A detailed description of these
strategies, the targets identified and the physical achievements are given as below

Objective 1.Strengthening Economic Policy Formulation and Analysis
In order to achieve this objective following strategies were devised:


                                                                                                 55
(a) By improving macro modeling
The target was Recruitment of a Macro Modeling Expert (MME)

 (b) Physical Achievement
ToRs of the position were prepared. However, the then Secretary, P&DD (Mr. Javeed Sadiq
Malik) decided that this position may be filled through a P&DD’s project titled, “Macro
Modeling” being financed through PSDP, to avoid duplication.
Effects were made twice to recruit MME, but on both occasions the selected persons didn’t join
the Planning Commission. Keeping in view, the scarcity of human resource in this field, a
Research Officer of the Division was deputed to pursue PhD degree in Macro Modeling in
Ireland. The officer has successfully completed his training, and is now imparting this
knowledge to other officers working on the Macro Modeling.
These officers have developed the following three (03) Macro-Economic Models:

        i) Financial Programming Model
       ii) General Equilibrium Model
       iii) Micro Simulation Model

 (c) By building up of research / library facilities
The targets in this regard were
     • Procurement of books & subscription of foreign journals
     • Purchase of Equipment
     • Recruitment of a Library Specialist and a Research Associate
     • Digitization of Library
 (d) Physical Achievement
      Procurement of books & subscription of foreign journals
The P&DD library was established in January, 1954 having 18,763 books on various economic
subjects. However, not a single book had been added from 1982 to 2004.
 A total of 1620 books have been procured under CBP from 2004 to May, 2009 on various
sectors of the economy. Nineteen (19) prominent foreign journals on various titles have been
subscribed for each year since 2004. Now the library has an excellent collection of books and
foreign journals, and researchers of various ministries and organizations frequently visit the
library.

     Purchase of Equipment
Various IT items (i.e. 5 computers, 1 CD-writer, 1 high capacity scanner, 1 heavy duty
photocopier, 3 ACs and 1 printer) were procured and installed in the Library. In addition two
(02) water Dispensers have been installed.
 d
     Recruitment of a Library Specialist and a Research Associate
Previously, the Library was being run only by a Librarian and a Clerk. Under the CBP, a Library
Specialist was hired for two (02) years to digitize the Library. A Research Associate (Library)
was also recruited for duration of the Capacity Building Project. This additional manpower has
done excellent job, as evident from the digitization exercise explained below.

        Digitization of Library


                                                                                             56
All historical documents like five year plans, PSDP’s , MTDF, Manual for development projects,
etc have been digitalized and are accessible through P&DD’s website (http://www.
planningcommission.gov.pk). The Planning Commission’s users can access the Library on its
intranet through URL http://library. The Library catalogue is accessible through Library of
Congress Gateway http://www.loc.gov/z3950. A link has also been established with Higher
Education Commission (HEC)’s Digital Library to access thousands of e-journals, e-books and
e-articles.

Thus strengthening of the Library has enhanced policy formulation and analysis in the Planning
Commission.

Objective 2 .Strengthening Evaluation & Monitoring of Development Projects
In order to achieve this objective following strategies were devised:

(a) By strengthening capacity building of Projects Wing
The target were
    Short-term Assignments
    Provision of Computer Facilities
    Provision of Two Vehicles

(b) Physical Achievement
    Short-term Assignments
Some studies like revision of development manual, review of civil work standards of PWD, etc
were envisaged in the PC-I. However, these studies were undertaken by another project of the
P&DD and they were dropped from CBP.

    Provision of Computer Facilities
Various IT items (i.e. 15 computers, 15 printers, 10 digital cameras, 1 color photocopier, 1 heavy
duty photocopier, 1 multimedia projector and 1 Laptop) were procured and installed in the
Projects Wing.


     Provision of Two Vehicles
Two 2500 cc Defender Jeeps were procured and handed over to the Projects Wing for logistic
support in their monitoring exercises. These Jeeps are being used for monitoring exercises in the
northern Pakistan especially in the hilly areas.

Objective 3.Strengthening of Pakistan Planning and Management Institute

In order to achieve this objective following strategies were devised:
(a) By twining arrangements with International Institutions of repute
The targets in this regard were:
    Twinning with international institutions: Short term trainings (one week to ten days)
       two per years, will be conducted in collaboration with reputed international training
       institutions, in the areas relating to project management and economic management.



                                                                                               57
         Case Studies: It is a compelling need at PPMI to have a good inventory of the case
          studies relating to the areas of training being imparted at PPMI. It is therefore targeted
          that 40 case studies would be prepared by engaging consultants. 20 will be in house case
          studies and 20 will be out housed studies by the senior officers of the Planning
          Commission. The case studies were targeted to be undertaken in the following four major
          areas:

i.        Project management
ii.       Economic management
          iii.    Application of IT in the project and economic management

Major emphasis of the case studies would be in the project management and administration (i.e.
project planning/preparations, appraisal, implementation and monitoring & evaluation),
governance and micro/macro planning.

         Purchase of durable goods: The target was to strengthen the institute through provision
          of a bare minimum of durable goods (i.e. one digital video camera and 10 computers) as
          per following details:

          a)    Ten computers would be purchased for strengthening the Computer Lab to offer
                hand on facilities to the participants of various training courses. Moreover, the
                Research Associates and the Consultants would also benefit from this facility.
          b)    A digital video camera would be used to record the lectures of the visiting faculty
                members and to build up a digital library of the lectures.

         Research Associates: Services of two (2) Research Associates will be required for 54
          months to strengthen the capacity of the institute. The target was that they will help in
          undertaking training need assessments (TNAs), preparing course modules, strengthening
          knowledge-base (i.e. reference material, guidebooks, reports, etc). One Research
          Associates will be deputed on assignments/tasks relating to project management, and the
          other one on macroeconomic management and information technology.

 (b) Physical Achievement
Six (06) training courses on Project Management have been successfully organized at PPMI in
collaboration with:

   i)     Manchester University, UK (two courses);
  ii)     University of Bradford, UK (two courses); and
 iii)     Lille School of Management, France (two courses).

These courses were attended by 150 senior officers of Federal, Provincial and Local
Governments.

ToRs of the case study were prepared and proposals were invited from various training
institutions and universities. However, due to low cost, no response was received. This short-fall
is being compensated through borrowing such studies from the Staff College, Lahore and NIPAs.


                                                                                                 58
Two case studies on the following titles have been finalized by the officers of P&DD and
presented in various courses at PPMI by the authors:

 i) Sensitivity Analysis: Karachi Mango Metro Train Project;
 ii) The Lakpass Tunnel Project-An Appraisal.

Various IT items (i.e. 10 computers, 1 network printers, 1 digital camera, 1 video camera, and 1
Laptop) were procured and installed in the Lab of PPMI. Furniture items (i.e. 30 Computer
Chairs) were also procured for the computer lab.

Two (02) Research Associate specialized in human recourse development were recruited and
stationed in the PPMI.

The strengthening of the PPMI has thus directly improved our training capabilities and indirectly
project implementation.

Objective 4-Development of Human Resources

 Strategies
In order to achieve this objective following strategies were devised:

    a By Establishment of Project Management Unit (PMU) and the targets was
    • Recruitment of administrative and accounts staff for PMU
    b By Skill Development and the target was
     foreign training of 118 officers of P n D division by June 2008
    c By Induction of Young Professionals , the target was
    • Recruitment of thirty (30) young professionals
    d By undertaking short-term consultancy, target was
    • Hiring of 208 man-months consultants by June 2008
    e By strengthening policy formulation and analysis
    • Recruitment of four (04) Policy Advisors / Sr. Consultants
 Physical Achievements
A full time Project Director and ten (10) persons administrative and accounts staff were recruited
to implement the project.

64 regular officers of the P&DD were deputed for 3-6 weeks foreign training in the fields of their
interest at various reputed foreign institutions, like Duke University, USA, Harvard Graduate
School of Education, USA, Carnegie Mellon University, USA, University of Oxford, UK,
University of East Anglia, UK, London School of Economics, UK , University of Cranfield, UK,
University of Oslo, Norway, Boston University, USA, Royal Institute of Public Administration
(RIPA), UK, John Hopkins University, USA etc. These trainings have tendentiously enhanced
professional capabilities of the officers concerned. (Details of courses and participants are at
Annex -3). Some officers are acting as resource person at PPMI.




                                                                                               59
To bridge the manpower gap in the P&DD caused by the ban on recruitment imposed by the
previous regimes, thirty (30) Research Associates (RAs) with specialized qualifications were
recruited through transparent recruitment process on merit basis and stationed in the sections
where there was shortage of manpower.

Simultaneously, process for recruitment of regular employees was initiated with Federal Public
Service Commission (FPSC). Since then forty-one (41) Research Officers (BPS-17) have joined
P&DD. Four (04) RAs of CBP have also succeeded in getting regular appointment through
FPSC.

During last four years, more than twenty (20) RAs have left the project for joining various
government jobs on higher salaries, thus contributing to the capacity building of the government.

Objective 5 Improving Work- Environment in the Division

Strategies
In order to achieve this objective following strategies were devised
 a) By provision of administrative facilities with following targets
    • Provision of Photocopying facilities
    • Establishing 02 Committee Rooms
b) By provision of pure and hygienic water with the target
    • Procurement of 01 Water Purification Plant (WPP)
c) By introduction of Human Resource Management Systems (HRMS) with the target
    • Procurement of HRMS
d) By provision of better transport facilities for senior officers with the target
    • Procurement of six (06) vehicles
    •
Physical Achievements
Two (02) heavy duty photocopiers were procured and installed one each in “P” Block and
Chughtai Plaza. This facility has improved the working of the P&DD.

Before the project, only one committee room and one auditorium was available in the P&DD.
Through CBP one (01) additional Committee Room and a Conference Room, with all necessary
accessories have been established. The Conference Room is equipped with state of the art video
conference system. This facility has enhanced working of the P&DD.

The water supplied in the Pak Secretariat, specifically in the “P” Block was not pure and
hygienic. A WPP having 1000 gallon per hour capacity with six taps was procured and installed
in CDA constructed room outside the “P” Block, Pak Secretariat.The filters of the Plant are
regularly replaced after each two (02) months. This facility has improved the water quality. The
facility is being used not only by the P&DD but also by the Finance and other divisions.
and other Divisionse Finance and
An Oracle Human Resource Management System (HRMS) was procured and installed in the
Jawed Azfar Computer Centre (JACC), P&DD to computerize the human resource stock of the
Division. Design of various modules have been completed, system analysis done, 80% data base




                                                                                                 60
completed. Training to the concerned Officers/Officials is underway. After completion, the
Division will be in a position to make better human resource related decisions.

Before the project, senior officers of the Planning Commission were using 1992 model vehicles
for their transportation and monitoring trips. Under the CBP six (06) vehicles were procured and
delivered to the senior officers. this facility has improved the working of the senior officers.

Objective 6 Strengthening of Economic Appraisal and Evaluation of development projects

Strategy
In order to achieve this objective following strategies were devised:
Provision of infrastructure facilities to Economic Appraisal Section
The targets set were:
    • Provision of computer facilities
    • Procurement of one (01) vehicle

Physical Achievements
Various IT items (i.e. 05 computers, 05 printers, 1 photocopier, 1 scanner, 2 ACs, 1 fax
machine and 1 Laptop) were procured and installed in the Economic Appraisal Section.
Improvement in infrastructure has enhanced the working capability of the section.

One (01) Alto car was procured for official use of the section. This facility improved the section
participation in various meetings of the ministries / Divisions in Islamabad.

Objective 7 Strengthening capabilities of development budget preparation

Strategy
In order to achieve this objective following strategies were devised:
By development of dynamic computerized program on Public Sector Development Program
With the following targets:

   •   Recruitment of IT Specialist and KPO;
   •   Provision of computer facilities; and
   •   Computerization of PSDP.

Physical Achievements
An IT Programmer and a KPO was recruited and stationed in the Public Investment
Programming Section to computerize the Public Sector Development Program (PSDP).
Presently, position of IT Programmer is vacant due to resignation for better career prospects.
These positions will be filled if the project is extended for another year.
Various IT items (i.e. 05 computers, 05 printers, 1 Laptop, 1 server, 1 UPS, 1 Fax machine, 1
photocopier and 1 AC) were procured and installed in the Public Investment Programming
Section, to develop a dynamic computerized program on PSDP.

The required dynamic computerized program on PSDP has been completed. Database for last 18
years PSDP established. This facility has improved decision making process in the P&DD.



                                                                                                 61
    4. FEDERAL BOARD OF REVENUE
Federal Board of Revenue component of PSCBP was implemented in 2004 for the period of 2
years. The planned outlay of the project was Rs 348 million whereas the actual capital cost
incurred is Rs 351.113 million. FBR’s Reforms Bridge Financing”- a component of PSCBP was
the collaboration of certain sub components. A brief description of these components is as
follows:
    1. Development of Human Resource Information System;
    2. Capacity Building and Training of CBR Employees;
    3. Change Management Workshops and Communication;
    4. Large Taxpayer Unit at Lahore;
    5. Five Medium Taxpayer Units, one each at Karachi, Quetta, Peshawar, Rawalpindi and
        Faisalabad;
    6. Dispute Resolution Complex at Karachi;
    7. Sales Tax Automated Refund Repository (STARR);
    8. Taxpayer Education and Facilitation Centers;
    9. Customs Pilot Project (CARE); and
    10. Universal Self Assessment Scheme

Achievements
The Major achievements of Federal Board of Revenue’s component as per set development
objectives and targets in PC-I are elaborated as under

Trainings/Human Resource Development
A total of 411 officers have been trained under local trainings and 30 workshops were conducted
on change management throughout the country which was attended by -------number of officers.

Consultants/ Research studies
One consultant, M/s NESPAK was appointed for preparation of design layout, procurement
support and supervision of refurbishment activities at the model offices of FBR i.e.
LTU/MTU/MCCs/DRC. The work is completed.

Civil Works
Under this category achievement is elaborated as under:

Large Taxpayers Unit (LTU), Lahore
Many tax administrations around the world have realized the need and importance of handling
large taxpayers through focused institutional arrangements viz. Large Taxpayers Units (LTUs).
While such an arrangement provides quality served for the taxpayer at a single access point, the
tax administration is able to improve the surveillance of the relatively small of taxpayers
contributing a bulk of the revenue. Under this objective one Large Tax Payer Unit LTU in
Lahore is established and fully functional.

Medium Taxpayer Units (MTUs)




                                                                                               62
The existing system of collection of Income Tax is circle based. In this system all functions of
collection, assessment, appeal, recovery, enforcement, survey etc are performed by the circle
staff headed by taxation officer. There is a close contact between taxpayers and tax collectors.
To overcome the deficiencies of the existing system it was decided to substitute the territorial
jurisdiction by functional organization and Medium Taxpayers Units were targeted to be
established to test the new system, A Model Medium Taxpayers Unit was already working in
Lahore w.e.f. October 01, 2002. Under PSCBP target was set to establish 5 MTUs. These MTUs
have been established each at Karachi, Quetta, Peshawar, and Faisalabad and in Rawalpindi and
are fully functional.

Dispute Resolution Complex, Karachi
A Dispute Resolution Complex, Karachi has been established.

Establishment of MCC
A MCC has been established in Karachi.

Raising Revenues through tax payer education and facilitation
In order to raise revenue through tax payer education and facilitation, electronic and print media
campaigns have been launched wherein education material was distributed among taxpayers. A
help line centre is established at FBR head Quarter. Income Tax Assistance Software for
Taxpayers Education is developed and distributed amongst the Taxpayers.
    5. MINISTRY OF COMMERCE
Ministry of commerce component of the project was allocated an amount of Rs.116.00 million.
However in view of slow utilization of funds, the National Steering and Coordination Committee
(NSCC) of Public Sector Capacity Building Project reduced the overall allocation of Ministry of
Commerce component to Rs. 58.00 million. Ministry of Commerce launched its project on
December, 2004 for the period of 5 years.

Objectives
As per approved PC-I the objectives of Ministry of commerce component of PSCBP are stated as
below:
      To enhance the capacity to deal with trade issues and WTO related matters;
      To enhance the capacity of Government of Pakistan and the private sector to meet the
         challenges of multilateral trading system.

Achievements
The Major achievements of Ministry of Commerce’s component as per set development
objectives and targets in PC-I are elaborated as under:

Trainings/ Human Resource Development
To address new challenges and issues in the field of international Trade training of officers of
Ministry of Commerce and its attached departments and carrying out research in the related
fields. A total of 123 officers of MOC and its attached departments have availed foreign short
term trainings mainly at World Trade Institute, Bern and Pakistan Mission to WTO, Geneva
(detail at Annex-5).




                                                                                                   63
Consultancies/research Studies
Consultants
A Legal Consultant was hired for providing advice /input on WTO related Legal issues to the
Ministry. After working for 9 months, he resigned due to personal reasons.

An IT Consultancy firm, M/S Softsys was hired in January, 2007 for a period of one year for
establishment of Digital Library of Ministry of Commerce. This firm provided consultancy in
respect of hardware, software and, manpower requirements of Digital Library. After the expiry
of agreement with M/S Softsys another IT firm M/S Buraq Integrated Solutions was hired in
March, 2008 for development of software for digital library.



Research Studies
Three research studies on the establishment of Cool Chain System in Pakistan were conducted
and a PC-I was prepared which is presently under submission to CDWP for approval.

    6. STATISTICS DIVISION
Statistics Division as one of the important Executing agency of the Public Sector Capacity
Building implemented its capacity building project in 2006 for the period of three years with the
total budget outlay of Rs 13.00 million.

Objectives
As Per approved PC-I of the Statistics Division the specific objectives of the project were as
under:
    Capacity Building of attached departments of Statistics Division namely Federal Board of
       Statistics (FBS), Agriculture Census Organization (ACO) and Population Census
       Organization (PCO) through advanced statistical training in different disciplines of
       technical nature;
    Availing the services of experts/ consultants (local & foreign) to conduct training locally
       in Statistical Literacy for Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) for coordination/
       Monitoring & Analysis of Social Sector Data;
    Availing the services of experts/ consultants in Energy, Manufacturing and Mining
       Statistics and in services and construction, Trade and financial statistics sector; and
    Improvement in the analysis of data generated by Statistics Division/ its attached
       departments mainly the FBS.

Achievements
The Major achievements of Statistics Division’s component as per set development objectives
and targets in PC-I are elaborated as under

Trainings/Human Resource Development
It was targeted to build capacity of attached departments of Statistics Division namely Federal
Board of Statistics (FBS), Agriculture Census Organization (ACO) and Population Census
Organization (PCO) through advanced statistical training in different disciplines of technical
nature.A total of 3 officers have availed long term foreign trainings (detail at Annex-6).


                                                                                                  64
Consultancies/research Studies
Statistics Division has conducted two research studies by hiring two foreign consultants.


    7. MINISTRY OF INDUSTRIES AND PRODUCTION
The total allocation for the Capacity Building Project of MOI&P was Rs. 58.00 million spread
over a period of four years. Considering the training programs to be the core objective of the
project and in order to accommodate maximum number of officers to avail the benefit of
international/local training, the PC-I of MOI&P was rehashed diverting funds from other
components to the Training Programs.
Objectives
The specific objectives of the project conceived by the Ministry of Industries, Production and
Special Initiatives as per approved PC-I were as under
     The ministry aims at professional development with a strong emphasis on specialized
        short term courses with a focus on the ministry related roles and functions
     Strengthening the capacity of the ministry through developing a portfolio of more
        specialized training courses and sending officers on trainings which will enhance their
        capacity to undertake their work more professionally
     To give interim relief to the ministry by recruitment of professionals
The above mentioned objectives will result into the achievement of following goals

Achievements
Trainings/Human Resource Development
57 officers of the Ministry and its attached departments have benefited from the Program and got
training in the relevant disciplines from reputed International Universities and Institutions. The
training courses attended by the officers largely focused on developing a policy formulation and
implementation. The broad spectrum of courses includes the following areas:
a.      Industrial Governance
b.      Industrial Competitiveness and Trade
            c. Investment and Industrial Development
            d. Agro-Industries
            e. Research & Development
(The courses and participants detail is at Annex-7)

Consultancies/Research Studies
As per PC-I four positions of consultants namely; (i) Team Leader, (ii) Public Policy & Planning
Advisor/Financial Analyst, (iii) Economist, and (iv) Director Technical were approved.
Recruitments against the positions ii, iii, and iv were made, but finding the better opportunity the
incumbents resigned from the services during the currency of the project. No suitable team
leader was found. Further, since from the start of the project, Joint Secretary (SI) was looking
after the project as Project Director, therefore, it was deemed appropriate that he may also look
after the project as Team Leader.

   8. BOARD OF INVESTMENT




                                                                                                  65
Board of Investment’s component of PSCBP was launched in 2007 for the period of 2 years,
with total budget outlay of Rs. 29.00 million.

Objectives
As per approved PC-I the objectives of the project were as under
    To increase the efficiency of the Investment Division and Board of Investment;
    To impart local, foreign and in house trainings to equip the employees with the relevant
       knowledge and enhance their skills in promoting/ facilitating investment in the country;
    To improve the working environment by procuring modern equipment and some other
       facilities; and
    To operate at the same frequency at which our peer countries

Achievements
A description of achievement of development objectives under the Board of Investment
component of PSCBP is as under

Trainings/Human Resource Development
It was envisaged that the officers will be provided the opportunity to go abroad especially to
countries that have made tremendous achievements in attracting and facilitating the foreign
direct investment (FDI) and to study the economic and investment strategies. The officers will be
able to study the working procedure, strategies of investment promotion Agencies of developed
and developing countries which have attracted the huge foreign investment during recent years.
These trainings would help replicate investment models of successful economies in our country
by adopting these to our socio economic milieu

A total number of 50 officers have been trained in different training programmes. 5 officers have
attended short term foreign trainings, 15 officers are trained in local short term trainings, 10
officers have availed foreign language courses and 20 officers of Investment Division have
participated in joint study groups in foreign countries (detail at Annex-8).

Consultancies/Research Studies
In PC-I the target fixed was to carry out the sectoral Studies on 11 sectors to facilitate the
investors to have an overview of the potential sectors. These sectoral studies were planned to be
conducted by outsourcing to renowned local consultancies. Following were the planned sectors
     Health Sector
     Petrochemical Complex/Naphtha Cracker
     Sports and Surgical goods
     Housing and construction
     Infrastructure Development
     Live Stock and Dairy farming
     Value added Textiles
     Cool Chains
     Green house farming, floriculture, hybrid seeds
     Financial Sector
     Tourism
As per actual no study have been carried.


                                                                                                66
   9. MINISTRY OF PETROLEUM AND NATURAL RESOURCES
Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources launched its activities in 2006 for the period of 3
years with total budget outlay of Rs.58.00 million.
Objectives
Objectives as outlined in approved PC-I are as under:
    The project envisage overall professional development of Public Servants.
    Strengthening Economic Policy.
    Foreign & Local Training courses for officers of Ministry of Petroleum and Natural
       Resources in some of the most reputable institutions inland and abroad in areas relating to
       their job and.

Achievements
Achievements of development objectives are elaborated as under

Trainings/Human Resource Development
A total number of 79 officers have availed multidisciplinary training courses of which 26 have
attended short term foreign trainings, 32 officers have attended international in land (localized)
trainings on Transborder Gas pipeline and LNG import projects and 21 senior and junior officers
have attended the workshops related to Oil and Gas sector at different international venues
(detail at Annex-9)

Consultancies/Research studies
The target was to undertake research study by hiring local consultancy service for The Gas
Supply and Demand Projects of Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources. The study could
not be carried out due to the procedural delays.

    10. MINISTRY OF WATER AND POWER
M/o Water and Power launched its activities with the total budget outlay of Rs. 87.00 million.
Objectives
As per approved PC-I the objectives also outlined in strategic plan for restructuring and
privatization of Pakistan power sector, 1992 were as under

      Mobilization of private sector resources for power sector, thus reducing the crowding out
       effect on financial resource caused by the large power sector investment;
      Improvement of the financial and technical efficiency of the public sector organization
       through corporatization, Commercialization, good governance and by creating
       competitive market structure; and
      Creation of regulatory framework to provide level playing field to competitors and set
       tariff in accordance with the demand of the future restructured market.

Achievements
Trainings/Human Resource Development
Target was the provision of appropriate trainings Local and Foreign to the public sector
employees on area of policy formulation and Implementation; Key elements of such trainings
were to include tariff and subsidy policies Access and rural electrification policy. Training was


                                                                                                    67
to be provided to the employees of water and power, autonomous and associated institutions like
PPIB, Office of Engineering Advisor (power), and Energy Wing Planning Commission, Power
Companies as well as other relevant officers dealing with power in public sector.

One officer has availed a long term training and 15 officers availed short term foreign Trainings.
A total of 13 officers went to the study tours and 13 officers have availed Local Trainings (detail
of all trainings is at Annex-10).

Consultancy/Research Studies
Ministry of Water and Power has conducted a Research study on Kotri Barrage Water Escapage.

   11. COMPETITION COMMISSION OF PAKISTAN

The project was part of new Competition Policy Framework that was included in 2nd Generation
Reform Agenda of Pakistan. A comprehensive multi-year, multi phased capacity building
programme of CCP was designed and presentedin a policy paper entitled , A new Competition
Policy and Law Framework for Pakistan. The total project outlay was Rs. 87 million (US $ 1.5
million) was supposed to be started from January, 2008 but the project was administratively
approved in June 2009 because of delayed procedures.

Objectives
As per approved PC-I the broader goal of the project were “Institutional Strengthening and
Capacity building of new Competition Commission to replace Monopoly Control Authority”
with following specific objectives
    Establish the legal and operational infrastructure, including rules, regulations and
       procedures to make the law operational and to guide the inner working of the commission
    Establish adequate and appropriate information technology and electronic research
       capacity to carry out close to real time analysis access national and international
       databases and provide a portal for outreach and access to corporate sector, consumers
       and academia
    Develop a strategy for advocacy and outreach in order to help foster a competition culture
       in Pakistan
    Have access to legal, financial and economic professionals in order to assist the CCP in
       carrying out its law enforcement work
    Obtain an intimate knowledge of key sectors of the Pakistan and global economy in order
       to provide a basis or organizing law enforcement work and to provide the analytical
       underpinning for public policy advocacy work
    Develop a team of 30-40 professionals and build up its capacity in terms of technical,
       analytical, management and enforcement skills in fields of accounting, economics, law
       and information technology
    Training of research, investigation, legal and information technology team regarding
   a) Economic concept of free and fair competition, monopoly power, acquisition merger,
       dominant undertaking , cartel restrictive business practice and unfair trade practice
   b) Economic concept o product market and geographic market
   c) Legal concepts of competition issues
   d) Research and investigation techniques to unearth anti competitive practices


                                                                                                 68
   e)   Competition law enforcement issues
   f)   Measures to ensure and restore competitive environment in the market
   g)   Role of national competition authority in a larger regional and global market
   h)   Networks and ERP to enhance IT skills in all relevant fields

Achievements
Achievements of development objectives as elaborated in approved PC-I are elaborated as under:

Trainings/Human Resource Development
Target was local and foreign trainings of all the staff of CCP in the areas of Basic skills in
accounting, Economics, Law and information Technology by trained and tested Resident
Advisors and local Universities or external training at international universities/institutions and
other competition authorities. A total number of 24 officers have been trained in three short term
foreign training programmes.

Consultancy
It was targeted to hire consultants for the advocacy. Operations and Corporate consultants for
establishing corporate policies using ISO 9001-2000 processes. As the PSCBP component of
CCP administratively started in June 2009 and the procedural lapses for hiring the consultants for
outsourcing of activities was the major impediment in the achievement of this task.

   12. MINISTRY OF PRIVATIZATION

Privatization Commission’s component of Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building was
implemented in July 2009 with total capital cost of Rs. 58.00 million.
Objectives
Objectives outlined in approved PC-I are as under
     To develop skills of existing human resource of PC for more effective implementation of
        privatization policy of the Government of Pakistan.
     To train the individuals with a view to better equip them to perform various jobs assigned
        by virtue of Privatization Commission Ordinance 2000 including restructuring,
        deregulation and post privatization matters.
     To establish data base /IS having details / record of Government Owned Entities (GOEs)
        already privatized and those listed for privatization.
     To have online linkages and subscription to some of the professional and specialized
        websites for first hand information to be used while processing the cases for privatization
        and dealing with post privatization matter.
     To uplift the organizational culture of the Commission with structural changes where
        necessary, for optimum use of built up capacity especially in areas like chalking out of
        regulatory framework, labor rehabilitation, severance schemes and allied matters like
        licensing and tariff rules.
     To establish adequate and appropriate information technology and electronic research
        capacity to carry out close to real time analysis, access national and international
        databases and to provide a portal for outreach and access to corporate sector, consumers
        and academia.



                                                                                                 69
       To develop a term of 30 – 40 professionals and build up its capacity in terms of technical,
        analytical, management and enforcement skills in the fields of accountancy, economics,
        law, information technology and computers
Achievement
Trainings/Human Resource Development
A total of 16 officers have been trained under short term foreign trainings (detail at Annex 12).
Consultancy
It was targeted to hire Strategic Planning Consultancy (SPC) to develop a programme for the
evaluation of the privatization process as well as the performance of the privatized entities.
Planning commission started its activities in July 2009. The consultancy services could not be
hired due to lack of time for the fulfillment of procedure.

    13. WOMEN DEVELOPMENT DIVISION
Ministry of women Development implemented its project with total capital cost of Rs.29.00
million.
Objectives
Objectives of the project as per approved PC-I were as under
     To enhance the professional capability of the officials of the Ministry of Women
        Development on gender issues for appropriate service delivery to women of Pakistan
        particularly with reference to institutional mechanism for gender mainstreaming,
        women’s development and empowerment by providing short, medium and long term
        local and international training opportunities
     To enhance the capacity of MoWD’s functionaries to make them fully equipped for
        meeting the challenges and changes to fill in the gender gaps at all levels
Achievements
Achievements of development objectives is as under

Trainings/Human Resource Development
A total of 12 officers of Women Division have been trained under short term foreign trainings
(detail at Annex-13).

   14. KANA DIVISION
KANA Division’s project of Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building project with total
capital cost of Rs. 58.00 million was implemented in july 2009.
Objectives
Objectives outlined in approved PC-I were as under
    To build the capacity of employees to keep pace with changes taking place in IT field;
        and
    To achieve capacity building of all level officers/officials of Finance, Planning &
        Development and other departments in Northern areas in financial administration as well
        as in other specialized disciplines.
Achievement
Achievement of development objectives of this component can be elaborated as under

Trainings/Human Resource Development



                                                                                                70
A total of 42 officers have been trained of which 17 officers are trained under short term foreign
trainings and 25 officers are trained under short term local trainings (detail at Annex-14).

    15. GOVERNMENT OF THE PUNJAB
Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building Project for Government of Punjab as a
component of Public Sector Capacity Building Project was launched in the year 2006 for the
period of 3 years with total budget outlay of Rs. 116.00 million which was revised to Rs.174.00
million by the National Steering and Coordination Committee (NSCC) held on January 2008.

Objectives
The project was initiated to achieve following objectives as per approved PC-I
     To increase knowledge and skills of officers especially in the areas relevant with their
        field of work.
In original PC-I 40 odfficers were proposed to be trained through one year Master degree
programme from the best international universities of the World. However 28 officers were
proposed to be trained through short term local and foreign trainings.

In view of the encouraged response received from officers of Government of the Punjab, upon
request of Government of the Punjab, Finance Division, Government of Pakistan, allocated
additional funds of US$1(Rs.58 million) at the disposal f Government of the Punjab. With this
additional allocation of US$1 million, the scope of the plan changed and the same was duly
reflected in the Revised PC-1. According to which, 51 officers were proposed to be sent abroad
on one year master degree program. Similarly, 40 officers were proposed to be sent abroad on
short executive courses till completion of the project, i.e. June 30, 2009. The plan was approved
by the Provincial Development Working Party (PDWP) as well as Central Development
Working Party (CDWP).

Achievements
Achievement of development objectives are elaborated as under

Trainings/Human Resource Development

52 officers have attended one year Masters Degree programme, 166 officers trained under short
term foreign trainings and 8 officers availed distant learning courses (detail at Annex- 15).
    16. GOVERNMENT OF BALOCHISTAN
Government of Baluchistan-component of Public Sector Capacity Building Project was launched
in July 2007 for the period of 2 years with total budget outlay of Rs. 23.200 million.

Objectives
The overall project objective as outlined in approved PC-I was to develop technical and
managerial capacity of P&DD, S&GAD, FD and I&P Departments of Government of
Balochistan for overall strengthening of these departments and facilitate implementation of the
economic reforms agenda of Government. The specific objectives were as under:

      To improve the capacity of Provincial Government for Public sector development
       Planning;


                                                                                                  71
     To improve the capacity of Bureau of Statistics Balochistan for publishing the reliable
      and accurate statistical reports regarding development activities in the province;
    TO improve the capacity of GoB in formulation and implementation of economic and
      fiscal policies;
    To improve the equality and effectiveness of public expenditure;
    To assist focused departments in acquiring and utilizing the modern tools and techniques
      including IT enabled environment for the various functions;
    To improve the capacity of focused departments for the implementation of Civil Service
      Reforms;
    To assist the GoB in establishing mechanisms for improving HR management;
    To assist focused departments in achieving the goal of establishing the good governance
      in the province; and
    To improve the quality and effectiveness of various functions of I&P department
      including surveying, modeling, water resources, development planning and
      implementation and power generation
Achievement
Achievement of development objectives are as under:

Trainings/Human Resource Development
A total of 456 officers of different departments are trained in short term local trainings (detail at
Annex-16).

Strategic Area III
ENHANCING CAPACITY TO UNDERTAKE REGULATORY FUNCTIONS IN
GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN

Achievement under this strategic area is elaborated as under

   1. PUBLIC PROCUREMENT REGULATORY AUTHORITY (PPRA)
Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (PPRA) as the Executing Agency (EA) of Public
Sector Capacity Building Project (PSCBP) launched its activities in 2004 for the period of 5
years with total budget outlay of Rs. 29.00 million.

Objectives
As per approved PC-I the objectives of the Public Sector Capacity Building Project were as
under:
    The project envisage overall professional development of Public Servants;
    Strengthening Economic Policy;
    Supporting regulatory functions of various regulatory authorities in their performance and
       regulatory duties;
    Human Resource Development of PPRA officers and support staff;
    Foreign & Local Training courses for officers of PPRA in some of the most reputable
       institutions inland and abroad in areas relating to their job and procurement to curb
       malpractices in public procurements;




                                                                                                    72
       Capacity Building of the procurement professionals of various public sector procuring
        agencies of Federal Government Ministries / Divisions / Statutory Bodies and attach
        departments etc; and
       To develop an appropriate regulatory framework for transparent and economical public
        procurement for improvement in efficiency, transparency and good governance

Achievements
A description of achievements of development objectives is as under

Trainings/Human Resource Development
PPRA component of Public Sector Capacity Building Project was launched in November 2006.
Since then uptill the completion of project on November 30, 2009, 101 training programmes
have been completed successfully and 3127 pblic sector procurement officers representing more
than 200 procuring agencies of Federal Government (various ministries/departments and
statutory bodies) have availed the training facility in new Procurement Regulatory Regime.PPRA
has also imparted trainings on Public Procurement Rules & Procedures on the premises of
procuring agencies. Some of the procuring agencies include HEC, CCA, National Bank, TESCO,
PESCO, WAPDA, COMSATS, etc and got a phenomenol reasponse.

A total of 2 officers are trained under short term foreign trainings. (detail of officers trained in all
trainings is at Annex 1A).

    2. OIL AND GAS REGULATORY AUTHORITY (OGRA)
OGRA, one of the important Executing Agency launched its capacity building project in 2004
for the period of three years, the project get revised and the closing g date extended up to 30-06-
2009. The capital cost also got revised from RS.116.00 million to Rs. 58.00million.
Objective
The specific objectives as per approved PC-I were as under:
     Broad based professional development
     Strengthening economic policy and management
     Strengthening the regulatory functions
     Develop/ strengthen staff capacity of the government agencies and the regulatory
        authorities
     Induct and retain qualified/ professional staff in key positions

Achievement
A description of achievement of development objectives is as under

Trainings/Human Resource Development
A total number of 175 officers of OGRA have trained under the PSCBP of which 50 officers
have been trained under short term foreign trainings, 74 officers are trained under local trainings
and 51 got online trainings (detail at Annex-2A).

Consultants/Research Studies
In PC-I it was planned to carry out 2 technical studies, both of the studies could not be completed
due to unsatisfactory performance of the consultants.


                                                                                                     73
    3. PAKISTAN TELECOMMUNICATION AUTHORITY (PTA)
Pakistan Telecommunication Authority launched its capacity building project in 2004 for a
period of 4 years with the total budget outlay of Rs. 94.250 million (US $ 1.625 million) which
was later on revised to Rs. 62.800 million (US $ 1.082 million).
Objectives
 Objectives as per approved PC-I were as under:
     Enhancing the skills of hired manpower through broad based professionals development;
     Strengthening capacity to improve functioning to interact with stakeholders in a manner;
       and
     Improve the regulatory environment as part of the design, implementation and monitoring
       of the process of reforms

Achievements
PTA succeeded in the accomplishment of targets/goals set by the GoP for deregulation of
Telecom sector of Pakistan by attracting investment from national and international investors.
Achievements of project specific development objectives of PTA component-PSCBP are
elaborated as follows:

Trainings/Human Resource Development
In PTA’s component of PSCBP an amount of US$ 0.525 was fixed for the capacity
building/training of the officers of PTA. This component was cancelled as the procedural lapses
were involved and no officer could avail the training opportunity.
Consultants/Research Studies
Liberalization and deregulation of the Telecom sector has been underway and the Govt. of
Pakistan has annoumced the Telecom deregulation policies for opening all segments of the
telecom market.

Two consultancies were undertaken to improve the working of the Authority, of which one is
completed and the other one is under process
   c) Telecommunication Deregulation Consultancy (McCarthy consultancy completed)
   d) PTA engaged the services of internationational consultants M/s Ovum plc (UK) for
      determination of cost based interconnenction charges for fixed and mobile networks and
      to finalise the cost and regulatory accounting framework. 60% of the consultancy is
      completed whereas remaining 40% could not be done byond Nov 30, 2009 due to law
      and order situation.

   4. NATIONAL ELECTRIC & POWER REGULATORY AUTHORITY (NEPRA)
NEPRA implemented its component of capacity building project in 2004 for a period of 4 years
with total budget outlay of Rs. 58.00 million.
Objectives
As Per approved PC-I the specific objectives of the project were as under
    To equip the technical professional staff with the tools and knowledge to continue
        implementation of regulatory mechanism; and
    To train the professionals to better supervise international consultants
Achievements


                                                                                                 74
Achievements of development objectives is as below

Trainings/Human Resource Development
NEPRA’s core staff of professionals is composed of engineers, economist, lawyers and financial
analysts. It was targeted to augment the present staff with more qualification in the field of
Regulatory economics through graduate programmes at international universities.

A total of 47 officers have been trained under PSCBP through short term foreign
trainings/workshops (detail at Annex-4A).

3.3 Efficiency
Net present value/Economic Rate of Return, Cost effectiveness cannot be estimated for the
Public Sector Capacity Building project as it was not involved in producing the outputs for
which financial benefit stream can be associated. Therefore the project does not have any direct
financial benefits.
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating:
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Efforts have been made to encourage the female officers to avail the Professional development
progamme (PDP) & ELDP. Almost 20% scholarships were reserved for the female. However,
this could not be availed due to limited number of female officers in the civil service. In addition
efforts were made to encourage the officers belonging to provincial services and backward areas
like AJK, Balochistan, FTA and Norteren Areas.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The capacity building and training initiatives undertaken in PSCBP has helped to create a critical
mass of human resource in key federal ministries/divisions, provincial departments and in
regulatory authorities. It is expected that this kind of improved human resource will help enhance
the functioning of the government agencies and jack up the impact of policies which will be
more realistic and result-based, further more the trained officers would introduce new
management techniques in their respective organizations. This will also help in peer learning and
spreadbest practices across the public sector organizations.

The research studies carried out have highlighted the issues and problems hindering the
institutional mechanism. It is expected that this kind of trained, technically equipped and
proficient manpower will help augmenting the institutional efficiency and strengthening process
which is part and parcel of civil service reforms as well.




                                                                                                  75
PPRA is one of the important Executing Agency (EA) under PSCBP. PPRA used to conduct its
trainings in a rented building previously, whereas under PSCBP a National Institute of
Procurement has been established in PPRA which would continue to impart training on
procurement rules to public sector officials. The NIP is well equipped with all essentials and is
highly cost effective as it would save an amount of Rs. 0.2 million per month which would
otherwise used in paying off rent for the hired buildings.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating:
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating:

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating:
 The project was implemented in the most open, transparent and competitive manner, without
any external interference.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating:
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating:

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating:

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating:

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific as under and of wide general application)
     Identification of the Project
For successful completion of any project and achievement of the desired results, project
identification plays an important role and contribute a lot and extra effort is always required the
same so as the funds could be diverted towards the most promising avenues. At the identification
stage of any project, especially capacity building projects require proper need analysis.

The overall scope of the PSCBP was relevant to the governance problems in Pakistan and the
target areas were rightly identified. These include: Administrative and Civil Service Reforms,



                                                                                                 76
Regulation and Competition policy, Debt Management and Fiscal Sustainability, Tax policy and
Administration, Public Expenditure, Financial Management and Procurement. The need for
improvement in these areas cannot be overlooked. PSCBP was envisaging overall professional
development of public servants as well as strengthening economic policy, management and
regulatory functions of various Regulatory Authorities and their performance and delivering of
their regulatory duties.

Economic Affairs Division is of the view that sponsoring of capacity building projects from loan
proceeds is not viable. Likewise, the umbrella projects are also difficult to administer and must
be avoided.

      Preparation of the project

At the preparation stage of any project , especially capacity enhancement projects, where an
umbrella entity is organizing to finance and implement the core activities and also playing a
crucial role in financing and implementation of the activities of participatory agencies, and
coordinating with all stakeholders. It is needed to ensure that an organization wide strategy is
evolved for undertaking the planned activities; the document should incorporate a proper
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) framework and appropriate staffing to reap the maximum
benefits from the project and timely utilization of the fund and achievement of planned
objectives. Rather it would be more appropriate at the end of donor agency to initiate individual
projects instead of preparing an umbrella document which is difficult to coordinate and
streamline.

Preparation of the project has been top-down, rather than bottom-up. There seems no systematic
analysis of the prevalent training structure. The training should be tailored to enhance the
capacity of the trainees to deliver effectively in the office. For this purpose importance should
have been given to having input from training institutions before finalization of the project. This
procedure seems missing.

     Approval of the project
The umbrella Public Sector Capacity Building Project was being implemented by 26 Executing
Agencies (EAs). Each participatory entity has to get clearance of the project Proposal from the
NSCC, the highest decision making body of umbrella PSCBP in Finance Division at first then
each entity has to get approved the project proposal from the competent forum i.e. CDWP and at
the third place each entity has to approve the Entity Improvement Plan (EIP) from the World
Bank. This whole process took a long time; many of the entities could not manage to undertake
the proposed activities and were not able to use its allocated funds due to the procedural lapses.
These procedural hurdles are needed to be minimized for timely execution of the activities and to
reap the desired benefits from the project.

Most of the Implementing Agencies are of the view that approval process of PC-Is/revised cash
plans was cumbersome tresultantly the activities could not be initiated in time; this delayed
execution hindered the timely achievement of targets.

      Financing of the project


                                                                                                 77
Based on the experience of the project, it is felt that Capacity Building programmes should not
be funded from loan proceeds whereas on disbursement side the financing remained smooth
throughout the project, and the established arrangements have been good enough to ensure
timely flow of funds.

     Implementation of the project
There were some problems related to implementation during the early period of the project.
Firstly, there was no component PC-1 for the NSPP part of the Public Sector Capacity Building
Project (PSCBP). Only five to six broad areas of activity were given, which were not translated
into measurable activities. For instance revision/up-gradation of curricula was an objective, but it
was not clear how it will be done and what amount was to be expended on this activity. This led
to bridge financing and very little spending in the early part of the project.

Secondly, there remained a divergence of views between the NSPP management and donors on
how to move forward. While the NSPP management emphasized on the need to first build and
enhance the existing training structures, the donors were of the view that early initiatives were
required on foreign training of faculty and interwining with the foreign training institutions.
These differences in emphasis may have been avoided had there been consultations at the entry
level of the project.

The implementing Agencies have faced some issues in implementing the capacity building
intervention; a few of common ones are as follows:
     Delay in opening of foreign currency Accounts due to the delayed Govt. approval and
       delayed disbursement of loan proceeds owing to which many of the EAs had only been
       able to avail a very small portion of the total amount that was supposed to be disbursed
       within the first year of the project.
     Due to the delayed and cumbersome procedures of the Government many of the officers
       of some of the EAs could not proceed for the professional Development Programme in
       time resulting into the non accomplishment of desired targets.
     Various research studies envisaged in Entity Improvement Plans/PC-Is of some of the
       EAs could not be carried out owing to the change in priorities of federal government or
       the respective EA.
     Political changes also effected project implementation, for instance ban on recruitment
       imposed by the new political government affected the procurement of consultant services.
     Coordination among the Executing Agencies EAs, was weak

Some of the Executing Agencies have also highlited some other issues at the implementation
stage
     Frequent posting of senior level management and project officials created delays in
      implementation
     Cumbersome procurement procedures of the World Bank were another reason for delay.
      Officers must be trained in World Banks procurement rules.
     Annoyed with uncouth behabviour of Accounts Officer of the project
     Coordination of umbrella projects is difficult to administer and must be avoided. Plethora
      of implementing agencies also made implementation difficult.



                                                                                                  78
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

(b) Co financiers
PSCBP was mainly fuded by the World Bank (IDA Credit 3094), US$ 55.00 miilion. The
counterpart funding by the Government of Pakistan was US$ 6.00 million out of the total cost of
US$ 61.00 mililion.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
There were several participating agencies within the government, however there were no outside
partners/stakeholder like NGOs/private sector/civil society
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

    (a) Project Cost by Component (in Rs. Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest*
                                 Approved Estimate                        Percentage of
Components                                           Estimate
                                 (Rs. millions)                           Approved Estimate
                                                     (Rs. millions)
 Human Resource Development
                                                     2157.350
(Training)
Procurement of Goods                                 289.485
Consultants and Research studies                     240.236
Civil Works                                          221.518
Incremental, Operating and
                                                     183.132
administrative cost
Total cost                                           3091.721


(b)Financing
                                            Approved       Actual/Latest* Percentage of
Source of Funds                             Estimate       Estimate       Approved
                                            (USD millions) (USD millions) Estimate
GOP                                         6.00
 International Development Association
                                            55.00
(IDA)


(c)Project cost of Executing Agencies (in Rs. Million equivalent)
Executing          Approved Estimate            Actual Estimate*                      Percentag
Agency                                                                                e of Total
                   Total      IDA       GoP     Total         IDA        GoP          Approved
                                                                                      Estimate
Finance
                  362.3                          314.663
Division
Ministry of
                  58.0                           40.444
Commerce


                                                                                             79
Water and
                   87.0                       81.432
Power Division
Ministry of
Petroleum and
                   58.0     46.926   12.862   61.373
Natural
Resources
M/o P&NR
                   58.0
additional
Railway
                   19.5
Division
Economic
                   58.0
Affairs Division
Statistics
                   13.0     12.213   0.787
Division
Industries and
Production         58.0                       56.443
Division
KANA Division      13.0
Cabinet
                   5.8
Division
Board of
                   29.85    28.59    3.26     13.213
Investment
Government of
                   23.2                       8.939
Balochistan
Women
Development        29.0                       11.257
Division
Privatization
                   58.0                       21.86
Division
Competition
Commission of      87.0                       11.031
Pakistan
Public
Procurement
Regulatory         29.0     21.78    7.22     21.225     14.417     6.809
Authority
(PPRA)
Federal Board
                   348.0                      321.007    282.144    38.863
of Revenue
Planning and
Development        313.2    284.2    29.0     171.337    148.247    23.090
Division
Establishment
                   1058.0   1392.0   116.0    1575.289   1482.801   92.487
Division
Civil Service
Reform Unit


                                                                             80
(CSRU)
National School
of Public Policy 145.0
(NSPP)
Federal Public
Service
                    29.0       29.0      00
Commission
(FPSC)
Oil and Gas
Regulatory
                    58.0                           25.222     25.222     -
Authority
(OGRA)
National
Electric and
Power
                    58.0                           30.584     30.584     -
Regulatory
Authority
(NEPRA)
Pakistan
Telecommunica
                    62.8                           44.500     44.500     -
tion Authority
(PTA)
Government of
                    174.0                          197.612    197.612    -
the Punjab
Total               3,538.0    3190.0 348.0        3105.302   2854.454   250.848
*All actual/latest estimates are upto 31-03-2010


Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Components                                                    Unit            Physical Output
Human Resource Development (Training)                         No.
                                                                              5549
i-Professional Development Programme (PDP)                    -Do-
                                                                              363
ii-Executive Leadership Development Programme (ELDP)          -Do-
                                                                              186
iii-Short term Foreign Trainings                              -Do-
                                                                              841
iv-Localized Trainings                                        -Do-
                                                                              519
v- Local Trainings                                            -Do-
                                                                              3196
vi- Support Staff Trainings                                   -Do-
                                                                              444



                                                                                          81
Procurement of Goods                                  No.
Consultants and Research studies                      No.
Individual consultants                                No.            84*
Research Studies                                      No.            18**
Civil Works                                           works
Incremental, Operating and administrative cost        Man-month
Total cost
*detail at annex-a
**detail at annex-b
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(Including assumptions in the analysis)




Annex-a


Consultants Hired under the PSCBP
No.       Executing Agency                       Number of Consultants
I         Finance Division                       24

II        Federal Board of Revenue               02

III       P & D Division                         42

IV        Economic Affairs Division              02

V         Industries & Production Division       03

VI        Commerce Division                      03

VII       Water & Power Division                 01

VIII      OGRA                                   02

IX        NEPRA                                  01

          Total                                  84



Annex-b




                                                                            82
    Studies Conducted under the PSCBP

                               Topic                                            Quantity
    No     Executing Agency
                                  i)   Books Updation
    I      Finance Division                                                     2
                                 ii)   Books Modernization
                                  i)   Revamping of CSS Exam System
           Establishment         ii)   Revamping of General Recruitment
    II                                                                          3
           Division                    System
                               iii) Revamping of Psychological Process
                                Case Studies on:
                               iii) Sensitivity Analysis, Karachi
    III    P & D Division             Mango Metro Train Project                 2
                               iv) Lakpass Tunnel Project – An
                                      Appraisal
                                 i) Establishment of Controlled atmosphere
                                       Cold Storage
                                ii) Establishment of Export/Pack Houses,
    IV     Commerce Division           production areas for fresh produce       4
                               iii) Establishment of Credit Pool for
                                       refrigerator container
                               iv) Establishment of Digital Lab
           Water & Power         i) Kotri Barrage Water escapades
    V                                                                           1
           Division
                                 i) Telecom deregulation
    VI     PTA                  ii) Cost based charges for various              2
                                       Interconnection Services
                                 i) Development of Technical and
                                       performance standards relating to LPG
    VII    OGRA                 ii) Development of Rules & Regulation           2
                                       pertaining to various Powers and
                                       functions of OGRA
                                   i)       Economic and Financial Statistics
    VIII   Statistics Division     ii)      Social statistics and Demography    2

           Total                                                                18
    Annex 4. List of Supporting Documents

    Annex-A
    Public Sector Capacity Building Project
    The Strategic Areas, Indicators and Achievements Matrix


The strategic Areas of PSCBP           Indicators                        Achievement
Three Strategic Areas


                                                                                           83
1. BROAD SPECTRUM PROFESSIONAL SKILL DEVELOPMENT

  i.   Direct Investment on           Output Indicators
       trainings
                                            Number of PDP Trainees         A total number of 363
                                                                            officers of BPS17-19 have
                                                                            been trained
                                            Number of ELDP Trainees
                                                                            A total number of 186 senior
                                                                            officers of BPS 20-22 have
                                                                            been trained

 ii.   Strengthening of public
       sector training institutions
                                            In-service training            Curricula of all training
                                             programmes                     courses have been revised/up-
                                             improved/revised               graded

                                            Grant of degree awarding       The Higher Education
                                             status to NSPP                 Commission has granted the
                                                                            Degree Awarding Status to
                                                                            the NSPP (July 2009)

                                            Twinning of NSPP with          A Memorandum of
                                             international Institutions     Understanding (MOU) has
                                                                            been signed with the China
                                                                            National School of
                                                                            Administration (CNSA)

  i.   Improvement in civil           Process Indicator
       Service recruitment                Number of officers gone for
       process                              study tours for assessing the   18 senior officers of FPSC
                                            recruitment system

                                            Number of countries visited
                                                                            9 countries
                                      Output Indicators

                                            Revamping of General
                                             recruitment system including
                                             Syllabus/curriculum revision
                                                                            Achieved
                                            Revamping of CSS
                                             Competitive Examination
                                             system including


                                                                                                 84
                                           Syllabus/curriculum revision

                                                                          Achieved



2. STRENGTHENING MANAGEMENT CAPACITY OF THE ECONOMY, AGENCIES OF GOP
& PROVINCIAL GOVT.

Finance Division

Strengthening of Debt Wing          Process Indicator

                                          Establishment of Debt          The DPCO has been
                                           Policy and Coordination        established under the Fiscal
                                           Office (DPCO)                  Responsibility and Debt
                                                                          Limitation Act (FRDL), 2005
                                                                          to monitor the country’s debt
                                                                          situation. There are two units
                                                                          of DPCO to perform
                                                                          envisaged functions Policy
                                                                          and Strategy Group (PSG) &
                                                                          Portfolio Analysis Group
                                                                          (PAG).

                                    Operationalization of DPCO
                                    through                               Two Economists and three
                                        Number of Consultants            Junior Economists were
                                          appointed                       appointed in Policy and
                                                                          strategy Group and two
                                                                          Financial Analyst were
                                                                          appointed in Portfolio
                                                                          Analysis Group

                                                                          Electronic hardware, soft
                                                                          ware and office equipment
                                          Provision of infrastructure    provided

                                                                          DPCO is linked with main
                                                                          Debt Data Bank EAD through
                                          Linkages established           DAMFAST


Strengthening of Internal Finance   Process Indicator
Wing                                    Number of Consultant             A Financial Sector Specialist
                                          appointed in IF wing            was hired


                                                                                                85
Strengthening of Corporate          Process Indicators
finance Wing                            Creation of Power cell          Power cell is established
                                                                         under PSCBP in 2006.


                                          Operationalization of Power   One Senior Financial Analyst
                                           Cell                          with four Financial Analysts
                                                                         was hired for the Power Cell.


                                                                         Corporate cell is established
                                                                         under PSCBP in 2006
                                          Creation of Corporate cell
                                                                         Three consultants were hired
                                                                         in corporate cell
                                         Operationalization of
                                          corporate Cell
Strengthening of External Finance   Process Indicator
(Budget & Credit) Wing                  Consultant hired                One consultant is appointed

Strengthening of External Finance   Process Indicator
Policy Wing                             Strengthening of PRSP           Four consultants were
                                          secretariat                    appointed in PRSP secretariat
                                                                         two Social Sector Analysts
                                                                         and two Poverty Economists
                                                                         who contributed in
                                                                         preparation and finalization of
                                                                         PRSP Strategy Paper-II.


Strengthening of Budget,            Process Indicator
Provincial Finance, &                   Consultant appointed            One Macroeconomist was
Expenditure Wings                                                        hired in Budget Wing to
                                                                         facilitate the Macro Economic
                                                                         Review Committee (MERC).
                                                                         One consultant was appointed
                                                                         in Expenditure Wing to
                                                                         maintain the data bank

                                    Process Indicator
Strengthening of Investment wing        Consultant appointed            One consultant is appointed

                                    Output Indicator

                                          Policy Paper developed        A Blue Book for investment


                                                                                               86
                                                                   window in Pakistan is
                                                                   developed
Strengthening of Economic      Process Indicator
Reform Unit (ERU)                  Infrastructural support        Expenditure on establishment
                                                                   of ERU till June, 30, 2007,
                                                                   borne by the PSCBP.
Human Resource Development     Output Indicators

                                     Number of Officers trained   193 officers
                                      under Short term Foreign
                                      Trainings

                                     Number of officers trained   60 officers
                                      under Localized Trainings

                                     Number of officers trained   75 officers
                                      under Local Trainings

                                     Number of Support staff      444 support staff including
                                      trained                      steno typist/graphers, Drivers,
                                                                   Qasids and Naib Qasids
Consultants/Research Studies   Output Indicators
                                  Total Number of Consultants A total number of 24
                                     hired in all the wings of FD consultants were appointed in
                                     to bridge the skill gap      different wings of FD as
                                                                  elaborated on above
                                  Number of Research Studies
                                     carried out                  Two studies were carried out
                                                                  regarding updation and
                                                                  modernization of a total
                                                                  number of 10 Books of Rules
                                                                  and Regulations of the
                                                                  Finance Division.
Procurement of Goods           Output Indicators

                                     Expenditure incurred on
                                      Procurement of Goods
Economic Affairs Division

Strengthening of EAD’s wings   Process Indicator
                                   Creation of a Research and     A Research and Policy
                                     Policy Analysis Cell          analysis (R&PA)Cell is
                                                                   established

                                     Number of consultants        Two Research Analysts
                                      appointed                    (RAs) were hired in R&PA


                                                                                           87
                                                                         cell.
                                    Output Indicator
                                       Papers or projects developed     A quality report on impact
                                                                         evaluation of trainings under
                                                                         the PSCBP-EAD component
                                                                         is done by the RAs. These
                                                                         RAs has also started work on
                                                                         preparing an Aid Policy for
                                                                         Pakistan and a project for
                                                                         creating the web-based and
                                                                         interactive one-page briefs of
                                                                         all foreign funded projects
Human resource Development          Output Indicators
                                       Number of officers trained       2 officers
                                          under long term local degree
                                          programme

                                          Number of officers trained    52 officers
                                           under short term foreign
                                           trainings

                                          Number of officers attended   8 officers
                                           short term online courses

Consultants/Research Studies        Output Indicators
                                       Number of consultants            5 Research Analysts hired
                                          hired                          over the project period

Infrastructural Support             Output Indicators
                                       Establishment of Computer        Achieved
                                          Lab

                                          Expenditure incurred on
                                           Procurement of goods

Planning and Development Division

Strengthening Economic Policy       Process Indicators
Formulation and Analysis                Macro Modeling expert           Research Officer of the
                                          appointed                      Division was deputed to
                                                                         pursue PhD degree in Macro
                                                                         Modeling in Ireland, he has
                                                                         successfully completed and
                                                                         three Macroeconomic models
                                                                         have been prepared.



                                                                                               88
                                   Provision of research library   Instead of establishing a new
                                    facilities                      computer Lab, the existing
                                                                    lab is updated with the Latest
                                                                    equipment .A total of 1620
                                                                    books have been procured
                                                                    under PSCBP from 2004 to
                                                                    May, 2009 on various sectors
                                                                    of the economy. Nineteen
                                                                    (19) prominent foreign
                                                                    journals on various titles have
                                                                    been subscribed for each year
                                                                    since 2004

                                                                    Various IT items (i.e. 5
                                   Equipment purchased             computers, 1 CD-writer, 1
                                                                    high capacity scanner, 1
                                                                    heavy duty photocopier, 3
                                                                    Acs and 1 printer) In addition
                                                                    two (02) water Dispensers
                                                                    have been installed in library


Strengthening Monitoring &   Process Indicator
Evaluation of Development        Consultant appointed              One Library specialist and
Projects                                                            one Research Associate was
                                                                    recruited

                                   Digitization of Library         Achieved
                                
                                   Provision of infrastructure     Various IT items (i.e. 15
                                                                    computers, 15 printers, 10
                                                                    digital cameras, 1 color
                                                                    photocopier, 1 heavy duty
                                                                    photocopier, 1 multimedia
                                                                    projector and 1 Laptop) were
                                                                    procured and installed in the
                                                                    Projects Wing.
                                   Provision of logistic Support   Two 2500 cc Defender Jeeps
                                                                    were procured for Projects
                                                                    Wing for logistic support in
                                                                    their monitoring exercises
Strengthening of Pakistan    Process Indicator
Planning and Management          Enhanced infrastructure           Various IT and furnishing
Institute                                                           items are procured for PPMI

                                   Consultants appointed           Two Research Associates


                                                                                          89
                                                                        specialized in HRD were
                                                                        appointed in PPMI.

                                 Output Indicators                      Six training courses on
                                    Twinning of PPMI with              project management have
                                       international institutions       been successfully organized
                                                                        at PPMI in collaboration with
                                                                        3 foreign institutions. These
                                                                        courses were attended by 150
                                                                        senior officers of the Federal,
                                                                        Provincial and local
                                                                        governments.

                                       Case studies carried out        Two case studies carried out
                                                                        and presented in various
                                                                        courses at PPMI
Improvement in Work-             Output Indicators
Environment of the Division         Establishment of committee         One Committee Room and a
                                       room                             Conference Room, with all
                                                                        necessary accessories have
                                                                        been established

                                       Infrastructural facilities      Two heavy duty photocopier
                                        provided                        machines installed one each
                                                                        in P’ Block and Chughtai
                                                                        plaza.

                                       Provision of Management         An Oracle Human Resource
                                        system                          Management System (HRMS)
                                                                        is installed in the Jawed Azfar
                                                                        Computer Centre (JACC),
                                                                        P&DD to computerize the
                                                                        human resource stock of the
                                                                        Division.

                                       Provision of logistic support   Six (06) vehicles provided to
                                                                        the senior officers.
                                       Installation of water
                                        purification plant              A WPP having 1000 gallon
                                                                        per hour capacity with six
                                                                        taps is installed in “P” Block,
                                                                        Pak Secretariat.
Development of Human Resources   Output Indicators

                                       Number of officers trained
                                        under short term foreign


                                                                                               90
                                          trainings

                                         Number of officers trained
                                          under localized trainings

                                         Number of officers trained
                                          under local trainings


Consultants/Research Studies       Output indicators
                                      Number of consultants             A total number of 43
                                         appointed                       Research Associates were
                                                                         appointed over the life span
                                                                         of the project
                                         Number of studies carried
                                          out                            2 case studies

Procurement of Goods               Output Indicator

                                         Expenditure incurred on
                                          procurement of goods


Federal Board of Revenue

Raising Revenues through tax       Process Indicators
payer education and facilitation
                                         Campaigns launched             Electronic and Print media
                                                                         campaigns launched,
                                                                         education material distributed
                                                                         among tax payers

                                         Establishment of help centre   Help line center established at
                                                                         FBR- HQ
                                         Soft ware developed            Income Tax Assistance
                                                                         Software for Taxpayers
                                                                         Education developed and
                                                                         distributed amongst the
                                                                         Taxpayers.
Human Resource Development         Output Indicator

                                         Number of officers attended    411officers
                                          local trainings

                                         Number of workshops            Over 30 workshops were
                                          conducted                      conducted on change


                                                                                               91
                                                                    management throughout the
                                                                    country

                                     Development of Human          Developed
                                      Resource Information
                                      System (HRIS).
Consultants/ Research studies   Output Indicator

                                      Number of consultants        M/s NESPAK was appointed
                                       appointed                    as Consultant for preparation
                                                                    of design layout, procurement
                                                                    support and supervision of
                                                                    refurbishment activities at the
                                                                    model offices of FBR i.e.
                                                                    LTU/MTU/MCCs/DRC. The
                                                                    work is completed
Civil Works                     Output Indicators

                                      Establishment of Large tax   One LTU at Lahore is
                                       payer units LTU              established and fully
                                                                    functional

                                      Establishment of Medium      5 MTUs each at Karachi,
                                       Tax Payer Unit MTUs          Quetta, Peshawar, Faisalabad
                                                                    and in Rawalpindi established
                                                                    and fully functional

                                                                    DRC is established and
                                      Establishment of Dispute     functional
                                       Resolution Complex
                                                                    Established and fully
                                     Establishment of MCC          functional
                                      Karachi
Procurement of goods            Output Indicators

                                      Expenditure incurred on
                                       procurement of goods

                                      Adherence to PPRA Rules
                                       2004

                                      Adherence to world Bank
                                       Procurement Rules

Ministry of Commerce



                                                                                            92
Human Resource Development         Output Indicators

                                           Number of officers trained   123 officers
                                            under short term foreign
                                            trainings


Consultants/Research studies       Output Indicators

                                           Number of consultants        One Legal consultant and
                                            appointed                    three IT consultancy firms
                                                                         hired for providing
                                                                         consultancy for the
                                                                         establishment of digital
                                                                         library

                                           Number of research studies   Three research studies on the
                                            carried out                  establishment of Cool Chain
                                                                         System were conducted

Statistics Division

Human Resource Development         Output Indicators

                                           Number of officers trained   3 officers
                                            under Long term foreign
                                            trainings


Consultants/Research Studies       Output Indicator

                                           Number of research           2 technical studies
                                            studies carried out

Ministry of Industries and Production

Human Resource Development         Output Indicators

                                           Number of officers trained   57 officers
                                            under Long term foreign
                                            trainings

                                           Number of officers trained
                                            under short term foreign
                                            trainings



                                                                                               93
                                         Number of officers attended
                                          the workshops



Consultants/Research Studies       Output Indicator
                                      Number of Consultants             3 consultants were hired but
                                         appointed                       they left during currency of
                                                                         the project
Procurement of goods               Output Indicator

                                         Expenditure incurred on
                                          procurement of goods

Board of Investment

Human Resource Development         Output Indicators

                                         Number of officers attended    5 officers
                                          short term foreign trainings

                                         Number of officers attended
                                          local trainings                15 officers

                                         Number of officers attended
                                          foreign languages courses
                                                                         10 officers
                                         Number of officers attended
                                          the joint study program in
                                          foreign countries
                                                                         20 officers
Consultants/Research Studies       Output Indicator

                                        Number of research              Nil
                                         studies carried out
Procurement of goods               Output Indicator

                                        Expenditure incurred on
                                         procurement of goods
Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources

Human Resource Development         Output Indicators

                                         Number of officers attended    26 officers
                                          short term foreign trainings



                                                                                              94
                                        Number of officers attended
                                         localized trainings           32 officers

                                      Number of officers attended
                                       the joint study program in      21 officers
                                       foreign countries
Procurement of Goods             Output Indicator

                                        Expenditure incurred on
                                         procurement of goods
Ministry of Water and Power

Human Resource Development       Output Indicators

                                        Number of officers trained    1 officers
                                         under long term foreign
                                         trainings

                                        Number of officers trained    15 officers
                                         under short term foreign
                                         trainings

                                        Number of officers trained    13 officers
                                         under local trainings

                                        Number of officers attended
                                         the joint study program in    13 officers
                                         foreign countries

Consultants/Research Studies     Output Indicator

                                        Number of research            One research study on Kotri
                                         studies carried out           Barrage Water Escapage
Competition Commission of Pakistan

Human Resource Development       Output Indicators
                                    Number of officers trained        24 officers
                                       under short term foreign
                                       trainings

                                        Number of officers trained    nil
                                         under local trainings

Consultants/Research Studies     Output Indicators

                                                                       nil


                                                                                            95
                                     Number of Consultants
                                      appointed

Procurement of Goods           Output Indicator

                                     Expenditure incurred on
                                      procurement of goods


Privatization commission

Human Resource Development     Output Indicator

                                     Number of officers trained   16 officers
                                      under short term foreign
                                      trainings


Consultants/Research Studies   Output Indicator

                                     Number of Consultants        nil
                                      appointed


Women Development Division

Human Resource Development     Output Indicator
                                  Number of officers trained      12 officers
                                     under short term foreign
                                     trainings
KANA Division

Human Resource Development     Output Indicators

                                     Number of officers trained   17 officers
                                      under short term foreign
                                      trainings

                                     Number of officers trained   25 officers
                                      under short term local
                                      trainings

Procurement of Goods           Output Indicator

                                     Expenditure incurred on
                                      procurement of goods


                                                                                 96
Government of the Punjab

Human Resource Development      Output Indicators

                                       Number of officers trained    52 officers attended One Year
                                        under long term foreign       Masters degree programmes
                                        trainings

                                       Number of officers trained    166 officers attended 2-3
                                        under short term foreign      week short term courses
                                        trainings

                                       Number of officers trained    8 officers
                                        under distant learning
                                        trainings

Government of Baluchistan

Human Resource Development      Output Indicators

                                       Number of officers trained    456 officers of different
                                        local trainings               departments trained in short
                                                                      term local trainings



3. ENHANCING CAPACITY TO UNDERTAKE REGULATORY FUNCTIONS

Oil & Gas Regulatory Authority (OGRA)

Human Resource Development      Output Indicators

                                       Number of officers trained   50 officers
                                        under short term foreign
                                        trainings
                                                                     74 officers
                                       Number of officers
                                        attended local trainings

                                       Number of officers got       51 officers
                                        online trainings

Consultants/Research Studies    Output Indicators

                                       Number of research studies   In PC-I it was planned to carry


                                                                                            97
                                          carried out                   out 2 technical studies, both of
                                                                        the studies could not be
                                                                        completed due to
                                                                        unsatisfactory performance of
                                                                        the consultants
Procurement of Goods              Output Indicators
                                      Expenditure incurred on
                                         procurement of goods
Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (PPRA)

Human Resource Development        Output Indicators

                                         Number of officers            2 officers
                                          attended short term foreign
                                          trainings

                                         Number of officers            101 training programmes were
                                          attended local trainings      conducted wherein 3127
                                                                        officers of various
                                                                        ministries/departments were
                                                                        trained
Procurement of Goods               Output Indicators
                                       Expenditure incurred on
                                         procurement of goods
National Electric & Power Regulatory Authority (NEPRA)
Human Resource Development         Output Indicators

                                         Number of officers trained    3 officers
                                          under long term foreign
                                          trainings

                                         Number of officers trained    38 officers
                                          under short term foreign
                                          trainings

                                         Number of officers
                                          attended                      6 officers
                                          seminars/workshops

Consultancy/research Study        Output Indicator

                                         Number of consultants         One consultant in the field of
                                          hired                         Financial Modeling of
                                                                        Regulatory Policies
Procurement of Goods              Output Indicator



                                                                                                98
                                                Expenditure incurred on
                                                 procurement of goods

  Pakistan Telecommunication Authority PTA)

  Human Resource Development             Output Indicators
                                                                              Initially an amount of
                                                Number of officers trained   US$ 0.525 was fixed this
                                                 under short term foreign     component but later on this
                                                 trainings                    component was cancelled,
                                                                              resultantly no officer could
                                                Number of officers trained   avail training opportunity.
                                                 under local trainings

  Consultancies/Research Studies         Output Indicator

                                                Number of consultants        2 consultants
                                                 appointed



        Appendix-I

        REVAMPING OF CSS COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION SYSTEM

        Gist of Recommendations of Consultant and Comments/Views of FPSC


Item                   Existing System         Recommendation of the        Comments/Views of FPSC
                                               Consultant
Eligibility Criteria   2nd class or grade “C” Four years Bachelor’s Degree     Supported.
                       Bachelor Degree (14 or Two years Bachelors plus         HEC has directed all
i) Education           years of education) in a Master’s Degree (16 years       the universities to
                       any faculty of          of education) in any faculty     shift their Bachelor’s
                       Pakistani University or of Pakistani University or       Programmes to 4
                       comparable              comparable educational           years degree which
                       educational             qualification of a Foreign       are under
                       qualification of a      University recognized by         implementation
                       Foreign University      HEC.                             gradually.
                       recognized by HEC.                                      As per last 5 years
                                                                                Annual Reports of
                                                                                FPSC, approximately
                                                                                75% candidates
                                                                                qualified CSS
                                                                                Examination having
                                                                                16 years of


                                                                                                      99
Item                   Existing System        Recommendation of the          Comments/Views of FPSC
                                              Consultant
                                                                                   Education.




Eligibility Criteria   21-28 years with 2     21-35 years with no age             21-30 years with 2
                       years relaxation for   relaxation to any category.          years relaxation to
ii) Age                certain categories of                                       the categories already
                       candidates as given in                                      given in the C.E.
                       the C.E. Rules.                                             Rules.
                                                                                  Two years
                                                                                   enhancement in age
                                                                                   is supported due to
                                                                                   enhancement of
                                                                                   required educational
                                                                                   qualification from 14
                                                                                   years to 16 years.
Application Form       Both printed and       Applications may be received        Online applications
                       online application     through online system only.          are submitted
i) Receipt             forms are being                                             through Internet
                       received.                                                   facility which is not
                                                                                   equally available
                                                                                   throughout the
                                                                                   country.
                                                                                  Functioning of
                                                                                   Online application
                                                                                   system of FPSC is
                                                                                   not so efficient.
                                                                                  The existing system
                                                                                   be continued during
                                                                                   transition phase to
                                                                                   shift to Automation.




                                                                                                     100
Item               Existing System        Recommendation of the        Comments/Views of FPSC
                                          Consultant
Application Form         Documents are       Documents may be             FPSC do not support
                          obtained to           obtained only from           Consultant’s
ii)Documentation          verify date of        selected candidates.         recommendation
                          birth, CNIC,                                       because:
                          qualifications,                                   Documents are
                          and domicile                                       required to confirm
                          for eligibility                                    the eligibility of the
                          purposes.                                          candidate.
                         All candidates                                    Option to dispense
                          are allowed to                                     with the
                          take written                                       documentation may
                          examination                                        delay the process of
                          provisionally.                                     recruitment.
                                                                            Past experience
                                                                             suggests that entries
                                                                             in sizeable number of
                                                                             applications are
                                                                             illegible and
                                                                             incomplete and staff
                                                                             of FPSC fill the data
                                                                             from the enclosed
                                                                             documentations.
                                                                            If only written
                                                                             qualified candidates
                                                                             are asked to complete
                                                                             the documents still
                                                                             the delays will occur
                                                                             in conduct of
                                                                             Psychological
                                                                             Assessment and Viva
                                                                             Voce




                                                                                               101
Item                    Existing System          Recommendation of the        Comments/Views of FPSC
                                                 Consultant
Scheme of                     Knowledge             Two models are              In Model-I
Examination and                based papers of         proposed by the             Psychometric Tests
syllabi                        1200 marks.             Consultants.                requires further study
                              Compulsory            Model-I                      as proposed by the
i) Written                     Papers                  Psychometric Testing        Consultant.
                               600/1200                Model which                Model-II is
                               marks                   involves only               practicable with
                               (Weightage              Compulsory Subjects         some alterations and
                               50%)                    alongwith                   weightage in optional
                              Optional Papers         Psychometric Test           subjects
                               600/1200                (Annex-I)                  Committee proposes
                               marks.                Model-II involves a          Model-III for
                               (Weightage              combination of              consideration
                               50%)                    Compulsory and              (Annex-III).
                              Some Optional           Optional Subjects +
                               Subjects carry          Psychometric Test.
                               200 marks and           (Annex-II)
                               some carry 100
                               marks each.
Scheme of                     No test for           Initial screening test      Presently around
Examination and                initial screening       may be introduced as        65 % of the
syllabi                        is yet in               per practice in other       applicants appeared
                               practice.               countries.                  in the examination as
ii) Initial Screening         The                   No outline and               detailed below:.
                               Commission in           qualifying standard is     Year Appearance
                               its 134th               proposed.                        Percentage
                               meeting has                                        2007 72.87%
                               decided to
                               conduct initial                                    2008 64.10%
                               screening tests                                    2009 63.00%
                               if the number
                               of applicants
                                                                                  There is no need to
                               exceeds 10000.
                                                                                   conduct initial
                                                                                   screening test at this
                                                                                   stage.
Qualifying Standard 40%                          40%                          40%
(%age) Compulsory
Subjects
Qualifying Standard 33%                       Atleast 40%                   40%
(%age) Optional                               if not 45%
Subjects
Qualifying Standard 50%                       50%                           50%
(%age) Aggregate


                                                                                                     102
Item                Existing System           Recommendation of the     Comments/Views of FPSC
                                              Consultant
Qualifying Standard --                        Not given                  40%
(%age)
Psychological
Assessment
Qualifying Standard 33.33%                 33.33%                        50%
(%age) Viva Voce
Psychological           No weightage is        The consultant has            Agreed to the
Assessment                given to               proposed some                  proposal by giving
                          Psychological          weightage to                   weightage of 100
                          Assessment             Psychological                  marks.
                                                 Assessment, say 200
                                                 marks.
Viva Voce               Note for               Viva Voce should be           A structured and
                          guidance               structured type to             objective form of
                          developed over         assess the candidates          Viva Voce, based on
                          a period of time       against a range of             the Competency
                          are used by            competencies required          Framework, should
                          Members                for the civil services.        be adopted.
                          during conduct        They have proposed            Consultant has
                          of Viva Voce.          competency                     recommended to
                                                 framework for Viva             develop structured
                                                 Voce (Annex-IV).               framework for Viva
                                                                                Voce.
Allocation to             Allocation to        Allocation to
                                                                              Existing system of
Services                   services/ groups     services/groups should          allocation may
                           is based on the      be after the CSA                continue to give due
                           merit position,      Training, as in practice        representation to
                           domicile and         in UK, Singapore and            different Provinces/
                           candidate’s          France.                         Regions.
                           preference.       Candidate’s
                                                educational
                                                background may also
                                                be given due
                                                importance in
                                                allocation.
Quota System       Allocation is made in Quota proposed by the           Quota policy is the
                   accordance with the   consultant is as under:         prerogative of the
                   Government Policy as                                  Government.
                   under:
                   Merit        7.5%     Merit          7.5%
                   Punjab       50.0%    Punjab,     69.10%
                   Sindh (U) 7.6%        Sindh (U)
                   NWFP         11.5%    and NWFP
                   Sindh(R) 11.4%        Sindh (R) 11.4%


                                                                                                103
Item                 Existing System        Recommendation of the        Comments/Views of FPSC
                                            Consultant
                     Balochistan   6%       Balochistan 6%
                     NAFATA        4%       NAFATA      4%
                     A.J.K.        2%       A.J.K.      2%




       OVERALL RECOMMENDATIONS FOR APPROVAL
          i. Entry qualification to CSS Competitive Examination be enhanced from 14 years to 16
             years education in any discipline (4 years bachelor’s degree or 2 years bachelors plus a
             Master’s degree.
         ii. Maximum age limit be enhanced from 28 to 30 years due to enhanced level of
             qualification alongwith relaxation already available in CE Rules.
        iii. Receipt & Processing of applications alongwith documents through post or and online be
             made more efficient through automation in the FPSC offices.
        iv.  Scheme of Examination, weight age of subjects and qualifying standard as proposed by
             FPSC be approved, effective from CE 2011 and onward.
         v. A structured and objective from of viva voce be developed based on the competency
             framework through a Consultant.
        vi.  Subject to approval of the Commission, CE Rules 2011 will be amended accordingly


       Annex-I
       Proposed Examination System by Consultant
       (Model-I)
                Test/Interview                                                      Marks
                  Language Test (English + Urdu) 75 marks each (English Test of     150
                  TOEFL standard and URDU Test of Matriculation standard)

                  General Knowledge Test (Everyday Science, Pakistan & Current      300
                  Affairs, Islamiat)
                  Psychometric Test (Based on Ability and Competency Tests)         550
                  Psychological Test (Based on Personality Test, Group Discussion   200
                  and other Tests)
                  Interview/Viva Voce                                               300
                  Total                                                             1500


       Annex-II




                                                                                                  104
Proposed Examination System by Consultant
(Model-II)
         Test/Interview                                                    Marks
         Language Test (English + Urdu) 75 marks each                      150
         (English Test of TOEFL standard and URDU Test of
         Matriculation standard)
         General Knowledge Test (Everyday Science, Pakistan & Current      300
         Affairs, Islamiat)
         Optional Subjects                                                 400
         Psychometric Test                                                 200
         Psychological Test                                                200
         Interview/Viva Voce                                               300
         Total                                                             1550




Annex-III
Proposed Examination System by FPSC
(Model-III)
Test/Interview                                                                        Marks
Language Test-I (English Essay and Composition)                                       150
Language Test-II (Urdu Essay and Composition)                                         150
Pakistan Affairs                                                                      100
Current Affairs                                                                       100
General Science including Everyday Science                                            100
Islamiat or Comparative study of Religions                                            100
Optional Subjects (Out of Four Groups)                                                400
Psychological Tests and Assessment                                                    100
Viva Voce                                                                             300
Total                                                                                 1500
Optional Subjects
 (Select only one subject from each group)
Sr. No. Group-I                                   Group-II
        Subjects                        Marks     Subjects                            Marks
1.      Accounting & Auditing           200       Physics                             200
2.      Business Administration         200       Botany                              200
3.      Public Administration           200       Chemistry                           200
4.      Economics                       200       Zoology                             200
5.      Computer Science                200       Geology                             200
6.      Indo-Pak and Islamic History 200          Political Science & International   200
                                                  Relations


                                                                                              105
       7.        Mathematics                  200         Law                             200
       8.        Statistics                   200         Mass Communication              200

       Sr.       Group-III                                Group-IV
       No.       Subjects                      Marks      Subjects                         Marks
       1.        International Law             100        Agriculture                      100
       2.        Mercantile Law                100        Forestry                         100
       3.        Muslim Law & Jurisprudence    100        English Literature               100
       4.        British History               100        Urdu Literature                  100
       5.        European History              100        Arabic                           100
       6.        History of the USA            100        Persian                          100
       7.        Geography                     100        Punjabi                          100
       8.        Psychology                    100        Pushto                           100
       9.        Sociology                     100        Sindhi                           100
       10.       Philosophy                    100        Balochi                          100
       Annex-IV
       Competency Framework for Viva Voce

                Intelligence                           Result Orientation

                Leadership                             Team Work

                Organizational Ability                 Change Management

                Social Responsibility                  Information Technology

                Interpersonal Skills                   Oral Communication Skills
                Emotional stability                    Motivation


       Appendix-II
       REVAMPING OF GENERAL RECRUITMENT SYSTEM
       Gist of Recommendations of Consultant and Comments/Views of FPSC


Item                Existing System           Recommendation of the            Comments/Views of
                                              Consultant                       FPSC




                                                                                                   106
Item            Existing System              Recommendation of the          Comments/Views of
                                             Consultant                     FPSC
Process Mapping From Requisition to              Recruitment cycle takes       Consultant’s view
                nomination, following wings        274 days for Pre-             is based against
                are involved:                      Selection and 173 days        one post
                     Test & Scrutiny,             for Post pre-Selection,      Commission
                     Final Selection,             total 447 days or over        processes large
                     Logistics,                   14 months.                    number of cases
                     Information            Main Weaknesses                     simultaneously.
                        Technology               Unnecessary number of         Recruitment
                     Curriculum &                 people involved,              process depends
                        Research,                Lack of automation,            upon number of
                     Secrecy,                   Delays caused by               posts and number
                     Programme                    external sources              of applicants in a
                        Management,                                              case
                     Human Resource.                                           Automation may
                                                                                 reduce time
                                                                                 consumption
Approvals            All activities of          Various 'approvals'           Legal requirement
                        recruitment process        consumes 64 days              to get approvals of
                        require approval of        (15% of the total time).      the Commission.
                        the Commission           Revisit stages in             Feasibility of
                                                   recruitment process to        delegation by
                                                   reduce time period.           Commission may
                                                                                 be considered.
Application          Single page Form           Currently, three types        Existing system of
Form                    and its photocopy is       of application forms are      submission of
                        acceptable.                in use:                       Application Form
                     Online application                Detailed Form           has been
                        Form is also                    Single Page             developed over a
                        accepted.                          Form                  period of time.
                     In case of fax/online             Online Form            Automated system
                        application, 10          Existing online system         will be more
                        working days are           is not efficient.             effective.
                        allowed to submit
                        the hard copy of the
                        Form with
                        supporting
                        documents




                                                                                                107
Item            Existing System               Recommendation of the           Comments/Views of
                                              Consultant                      FPSC
Documentation         All documents are          Only finally selected          Documents are
Requirement            required to be               candidates may be              required to
                       submitted with               asked to submit                determine the
                       Application Form to          required documents             eligibility after the
                       determine eligibility      This on average 1800            written result .
                                                    documents per year, to        Additional 15 to
                                                    be examined.                   30 days would be
                                                  It will save processing         required for
                                                    of 97% documentation           completion of
                                                    and saving of time,            documents
                                                    money and manpower.            through postal
                                                                                   services.
Linkage with          Currently, the date of     FPSC may link to               NADRA
NADRA for              birth is verified from       NADRA for data                 intimated that date
Data                   Matriculation                verification of                of birth given in
Verification           Certificate.                 candidates.                    ID Card can not
                      Domicile issued by                                          be considered as
                       District                                                    authentic proof.
                       Administration under                                       Domicile status of
                       Citizenship Act is                                          the candidate
                       taken as authentic.                                         differ from the
                                                                                   place/ address
                                                                                   given in the ID
                                                                                   Card
Relational            IT Wing of FPSC            An online (RDBMS)              RDBMS need to
Database               manages the                  has been designed.             be demonstrated
Management             Database                   Newly designed                  by the Consultant
System                 Management                   software of application        to IT Wing to
(RDBMS)                System.                      form will facilitate the       authenticate its
                                                    applicants to send their       efficiency.
                                                    applications                  Complete efficient
                                                    electronically, with           internet and
                                                    acknowledgement.               intranet facilities
                                                  System will                     are pre-requisite
                                                    automatically                  for the success of
                                                    determine the eligibility      RDBMS.
                                                  Software will deny
                                                    such application which
                                                    does not meet the
                                                    criteria.




                                                                                                    108
Item              Existing System             Recommendation of the         Comments/Views of
                                              Consultant                    FPSC
Instructions to         General Instructions     FPSC has two sets of          Instructions are
the Candidates           to Candidate are an        Instructions.                  based on Policies/
                         integral part of                General                  Laws/ Rules/
                         Application Form                   Instructions           Regulations, to
                         and also given on               Important                determine the
                         FPSC website.                      Instructions           eligibility.
                                                  Instructions to               A Committee of
                                                    Candidates have been           Commission is
                                                    revised for online             reviewing the
                                                    submission and                 existing and
                                                    processing of                  proposed
                                                    application forms.             instructions.
Advertisement           Consolidated             FPSC’s Ads is not             Current
Style                    advertisements are         appropriate, mingled           advertisements are
                         issued which are           up, does not catch the         clear, economical
                         economical and             reader’s eye. It is too        and contain all
                         released once a            large, involves heavy          information.
                         month through PID          expenditures for             No complaint
                         and also placed on         publicity.                     from any corner
                         FPSC website.            AIDA format                     has ever been
                                                    recommended; (attract          received
                                                    Attention, create            May continue.
                                                    Interest and Desire for
                                                    the next Action or
                                                    Response.
Advertisement           Controlled by            Existing 'coverage' may Existing coverage
Coverage                 Ministry of                include                 include:
                         Information (PID)               Chambers of            Electronic Media
                                                            Commerce and           and Print Media,
                                                            Industry,            leading
                                                         all websites of          Newspapers
                                                            M/D/D/Pro            All DCO’s
                                                            Govt. / Distt.         offices,
                                                            Govt/                All FPSC’s
                                                         Professional/Tra         Information
                                                            de Journals,           Centres,
                                                         Rectt.                 FPSC’s Regional
                                                            Websites/job           Offices
                                                            portals              FPSC’s Website/
                                                            (rozee.pk etc,         internet.
                                                         Through email          FPSC faces
                                                            to all previous        financial
                                                            candidates.,           constraints
                                                         National/interna       However a copy


                                                                                                 109
Item             Existing System              Recommendation of the        Comments/Views of
                                              Consultant                   FPSC
                                                         tional libraries,      may be mailed to
                                                        (toll free)            all important
                                                         telephonic             websites and
                                                         service                universities.




Advertisement          On first Sunday of          All advertisements may       FPSC’s
Timings                 every month                  appear on the First and       advertisements are
                                                     Fifteen of each month.        available to all
                                                                                   interested
                                                                                   candidates
                                                                                  The number of
                                                                                   applications
                                                                                   received in FPSC
                                                                                   proves this fact.
                                                                                  No change is
                                                                                   required due to
                                                                                   financial
                                                                                   constraints.
Enumeration of         Whenever, any post          Total number of posts        FPSC may advise
posts under             is referred by               in BS-16 and above            the Government
purview of the          Ministry/ Division/          under purview of the          that a data bank of
Commission              Department, the              Commission are as             all posts (BS-16 &
                        FPSC comes to                under:                        above) may be
                        know about its          Level/ Job Post %                  created
                        availability.           BPS Titles                         simultaneously in
                                                Entry 276 7690 81.98               the FPSC.
                                                Level
                                                (Bs:
                                                16-17)
                                                Mid 223 1603 17.08
                                                Career
                                                Level



                                                                                                  110
Item          Existing System              Recommendation of the             Comments/Views of
                                           Consultant                        FPSC
                                            (BS:
                                            18-19)
                                            Senior 28      88    0.94
                                            Level
                                            (BS:
                                            20-22)
                                            Total 527      9381 100




Recruitment         FPSC accords final          Rules vary from                 There is a serious
Rules                concurrence to the           position to position and         problem of
                     Recruitment Rules,           from Ministry to                 coordination with
                     duly vetted by               Ministry.                        the Government
                     Establishment               No specific benchmark.          Ministries/
                     Division as and             Some mismatching                 Divisions are not
                     when referred by             examples have been               responsive to
                     concerned Ministry.          given                            FPSC advice.
                                                 Recommendations to
                                                  rationalize the rules to
                                                  bring uniformity
Standard            No Standard                 There are several               Standard
Recruitment          Recruitment Codes            instances where the job          Recruitment
Code                 exist                        title is misnomer and            Codes already
                                                  does not express its job         developed by
                                                  description and has no           Consultant needs
                                                  correlation with                 review by the
                                                  educational                      Commission.
                                                  qualifications and/or
                                                  key responsibilities.
                                                 With this back draw,
                                                  Standard Recruitment
                                                  Codes are developed,
                                                  which basically involve
                                                  job classifications and
                                                  job descriptions based
                                                  on functional intake
                                                  requirements.




                                                                                                  111
Item         Existing System             Recommendation of the         Comments/Views of
                                         Consultant                    FPSC
Functional         There are no             On the basis of similar      Administrative
Groups              functional groups          educational and              control of all the
                    and all the cases of       experience                   post referred to
                    General Recruitment        requirements, following      FPSC rest with the
                    are advertised             12 functional groups         Ministries/Divisio
                    individually as and        have been proposed for       ns/ Departments.
                    when referred to           examination purposes        To bring all
                    FPSC.                      only:-                       similar posts in
                                             Accounts and Finance          one Functional
                                               (AFG)                        Group is out of
                                             Admin & Admin                 purview of the
                                               Support Services Group       Commission.
                                               (AASG)                      It is not even
                                             Agricultural Group            possible to
                                               (AG)                         advertise the post
                                             Educational Group             of different
                                               (EG)                         Ministries/
                                             Engineering Group             Divisions/
                                               (ENG)                        Departments
                                             Health and Health             under umbrella of
                                               Services (HHSG)              one functional
                                             IT Group (ITG).               group until
                                             Law Enforce Services          Recruitment Rules
                                               (LESG).                      of such posts are
                                             Legal Group (LG).             revised
                                             Res, Stat. & Planning         accordingly.
                                               (RSPG).
                                             Scientific Group (SG)
                                             Technical Group (TG)




                                                                                          112
Item               Existing System             Recommendation of the         Comments/Views of
                                               Consultant                    FPSC
Proposed Syllabi         Currently syllabus       Thirty-seven (37)            The Consultants
for Functional            for each case is           syllabi have been            have designed
Groups/ Tests             developed by C&R           developed for the            syllabi without
                          Wing on case to case       Twelve Functional            considering pre-
                          basis.                     Groups.                      requisites of each
                                                   Single syllabi have           post.
                                                     been proposed for 8         Syllabi designed
                                                     Functional Groups.           for 12 proposed
                                                   Multiple syllbi has been      functional groups
                                                     proposed for 4               has been given
                                                     Functional Groups.           only 15%
                                                   This has been                 weightage to the
                                                     necessitated by the          subject.
                                                     nature of diversity of      There seems no
                                                     "disciplines" and            relation in the
                                                     "specialization" within      proposed syllabi
                                                     a functional group           for senior level
                                                                                  posts where
                                                                                  knowledge of
                                                                                  Policies, Projects,
                                                                                  Programs, Rules
                                                                                  & Regulations,
                                                                                  etc. of
                                                                                  Division/Departm
                                                                                  ent concerned are
                                                                                  involved to be
                                                                                  tested.

                                                                                   For the posts of
                                                                                    Lecture/ Assistant
                                                                                    Professor require
                                                                                    Master’s Degree
                                                                                    in relevant
                                                                                    subject, but syllabi
                                                                                    proposed for its
                                                                                    written tests are of
                                                                                    B.Ed / M.Ed level,
                                                                                    whereas these
                                                                                    degrees are not
                                                                                    included in the
                                                                                    required
                                                                                    qualifications.
                                                                                   Common syllabi
                                                                                    have been


                                                                                                   113
Item   Existing System   Recommendation of the   Comments/Views of
                         Consultant              FPSC
                                                      proposed for posts
                                                      with different
                                                      intake
                                                      qualification and
                                                      experience, which
                                                      do not seem
                                                      implement-able.
                                                     No methodology
                                                      for job oriented
                                                      and general ability
                                                      tests has been
                                                      proposed in
                                                      syllabi as required
                                                      in the TORs.
                                                     Which post shall
                                                      fall in which
                                                      functional group
                                                      and which part of
                                                      the proposed
                                                      syllabi is
                                                      applicable for a
                                                      particular post,
                                                      will be too
                                                      difficult to
                                                      determine for the
                                                      Commission’s
                                                      Secretariat.
                                                     Therefore,
                                                      existing practice
                                                      of developing
                                                      syllabi be
                                                      continued by C &
                                                      R Wing, for which
                                                      it needs to be
                                                      strengthened at
                                                      the earliest.




                                                                     114
Item             Existing System           Recommendation of the           Comments/Views of
                                           Consultant                      FPSC
Scheme of Test         Test = 100 marks   Written Test                        Equal weightage
and Interview          Interview = 200        Language Test (English          to written test and
                        marks                      + Urdu) = 10%                interview i.e. 50%
                                               General Knowledge               each.
                                                   Test=10%                    Being mandatory
                                               Functional Group                test for all
                                                   Test=15%                     posts/levels,
                                               Skill/Competency                minimum
                                                   Test=10%                     qualifying
                                            Total              = 45%            standard be
                                               Interview            =          decided which is
                                                   55%                          proposed as 40%
                                               Subject based        =45%       marks.
                                               Skill/Competency               On qualifying first
                                                   Based             =10%       phase, all the
                                                                                candidates,
                                                                                subject to their
                                                                                eligibility, be
                                                                                interviewed as in
                                                                                CSS Examination.
                                                                               Selection based on
                                                                                merit in written
                                                                                plus interview
                                                                                marks and the
                                                                                domicile
                                                                                requirements.
Interview              Already printed        The style of FPSC’s            Structured and
Guidelines              guidelines are             interview is                 Objective form of
                        provided to the            unstructured and in          Interview be
                        Members                    15-20 minutes do not         adopted
                                                   assess skills,              Interview
                                                   competencies as well as      questions may
                                                   knowledge.                   cover
                                               Structured interview on         competencies,
                                                   a 5 point scale              skills, abilities and
                                                   comprising 15                knowledge
                                                   skills/competencies          required for the
                                                   with a weight as under:      post.
                                            Subject based         =45%
                                            Skill/Competency =10%
                                           Total         = 55% of overall
                                           merit/ selection




                                                                                                 115
       OVERALL RECOMMENDATIONS FOR APPROVAL
           i.  Automation System be improved for accurate and speedy processing of all recruitment
              cases.
          ii. Internet & Intranet facilities be improved and made efficient.
        iii. Delegation of powers to the Secretariat on certain decisions be considered for speedy
              disposal of the recruitment cases.
         iv.  Instructions to the candidates are being revised by a Committee which will be submitted
              for approval in due course of time
          v. The Establishment Division may create data on all posts (BS-16 & above) in various
              Ministries/Divisions/Departments, which be shared with FPSC for timely recruitment of
              vacant posts.
         vi.  The Establishment Division may direct all Ministries/Divisions Departments to review
              and update their Recruitment Rules for concurrence of the Commission.
        vii.  12 Functional Groups proposed by the Consultant, for similar posts in various
              Ministries/Departments, for the examination purpose, may be approved
       viii. Consultant’s proposal of 45% weightage to written tests and 55% to interview is
              supported as 50%, each.
         ix. As written tests are mandatory for all posts/levels, therefore minimum 40% qualifying
              marks in written tests be decided for competition in the interview.
          x. On qualifying mandatory test with minimum standard, all qualified and eligible
              candidates be interviewed for final selection.
         xi. A structured and objective from of viva voce be developed based on the competency
              framework, through a Consultant.
       Appendix-III

       REVAMPING OF PSYCHOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT PROCESS
       Gist of Recommendations of Consultant and Comments/Views of FPSC


Item          Existing System                  Recommendation of the             Comments/Views of
                                               Consultant                        FPSC




                                                                                                   116
Item          Existing System                 Recommendation of the             Comments/Views of
                                              Consultant                        FPSC
FPSC          Day One                         1st Stage
Procedure         Psychological testing           Computer based                  Only list of
                    which include ability and        Intelligence testing to         test is given.
                    personality tests                attract and screen out.         Test module
                                              2nd Stage                              needs to be
              Day two                              Administration of 16             developed.
                  Group Activities include:         Factors test to prepare
                         Group                      personality profiles of        Parameters
                           Discussions               candidates and their            for
                         Problem solving            choices of 12 occupational      personality
                           exercises                 groups.                         profile for
                  Interview with                  All group based                  various
                    Psychologists                    assessment activities and       Occupational
                                                     psychological interview         Groups need
                                                   Change recommended in            to be
                                                     panel of Group discussion       developed.
                                                     for Occupational Group
                                                     Expert.                        Supported



                                                                                      Not feasible
Comparison          FPSC assessment process         Compared with Fauji             Not relevant
of relevant          is among the best in the         Fertilizer Company
Assessment           public sector.                   Recruitment Process
procedures
Redefine            All required qualities are      Weightage may be given          Some
the role of          assessed.                        to performance predictors        weightage
Psycho-                                               which include intellectual       may be given.
logical                                               ability 30%, personality        Experience
Assessment                                            40%, knowledge 20% and           may not be
Process                                               experience 10%.                  included as
(PAP)                                                Emotional Maturity               this is a
                                                      Assessment                       examination
                                                     Situational Judgment test        for fresh
                                                      (SJTs)                           graduates.
                                                     For assessing Integrity,
                                                      conscientiousness and           Already done.
                                                      Trustworthiness, proposed
                                                      test are                        Already done.
                                                           The NEO-PIR
                                                           Goldberg AB5C             Integrity,
                                                           The Hogan                  Conscientious
                                                               Personality             ness and


                                                                                                 117
Item        Existing System                 Recommendation of the             Comments/Views of
                                            Consultant                        FPSC
                                                          Inventory.               Trustworthine
                                                       The Jackson                ss are
                                                          Personality              included in
                                                          Inventory.               the existing
                                                       The                        system.
                                                          Multidimensional        Tests
                                                          Personality              proposed
                                                          Questionnaire.           need pre-
                                                                                   testing on
                                                                                   trail basis
Desirable Personality Testing is already        Matching personality             Personality
Traits      part of assessment.                   profile for Occupational         profiles for
                                                  Groups.                          various
                                                Score of 16 Factors should        occupational
                                                  match with the profile for       groups will
                                                  each Occupational Group.         have to be
                                                                                   developed.
Standardize      Assessment of leadership      Leadership assessment            Already in
d Selection         qualities.                  To assess Group                   practice.
Procedure                                         performance, Experts from
                 Panel of three                  the concerned field are         Not Feasible.
                    Psychologists headed by       recommended to be part of
                    Chief Psychologist to         Group Panel.
                    finalize Reports.           For Group activity, two
                                                  experts from Occupational
                                                  Groups and one
                                                  Psychologist.                   Not Feasible.
                                                For psychological
                                                  interview,            two
                                                  Psychologists and one OG
                                                  Expert.                         Not Feasible.
                                                The psychological
                                                  interviews be conducted
                                                  on structural format with a
                                                  “Group Expert” on board.        Agreed for
                                                                                   consideration.

Weightage         No weightage in terms of       Psychological Assessment        Some
of PAP             marks included at the           results be presented in          weightage
                   time of merit.                  numeric form with 10%            may be given
                                                   weightage.                       for
                                                                                    Psychological
                                                                                    Assessment.



                                                                                             118
Item            Existing System                  Recommendation of the            Comments/Views of
                                                 Consultant                       FPSC
Institutional         Limited staff and no          Strengthening and               Training is
capacity               relevant training               Training for Capacity           required for
                       opportunity                     Building                        effective and
                                                                                       efficient
                                                                                       performance
Manuals of            Existing Manuals of             No proposal                   Manuals
instructions           instruction are in use.                                         under
                                                                                       revision.
List of               No software under use.          List of locally and           Names not
Softwares                                               internationally available      provided
and                                                     software that can be used     Software
Software                                                in Psychological               development
developing                                              Assessment process with        required.
companies                                               cost under license and
                                                        vendors will be provided.



       OVERALL RECOMMENDATIONS FOR APPROVAL

          1. Role of Psychological Assessment be accepted and some weight age to Psychological
             Assessment be given in final merit/selection.
          2. Trainings related to latest tools and developments in Psychological Assessment are
             required.
          3. Some tests proposed by the Consultants will be tried out on experimental basis for their
             effectiveness.
          4. Software for Psychological Assessment Process is required to be developed.


       Appendix-IV


       TRAINING FOR CAPACITY BUILDING & SKILL DEVELOPMENT OF FPSC’S
       STAFF UNDER PUBLIC SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT

       TRAINING INTERNATIONAL UNDER PSCBP

       Details of Short Training Courses Organized by PAI, United Kingdom


     Sr. No. Name of Officer with Designation                 Name of Course
     1.      Mr. Aziz Khan, Member FPSC                        “Public Service Commissions:
                                                              professionalism, performance-
                                                              excellence”


                                                                                                   119
2.         Rear Admiral M. Nashat Raffi, Member        -do-

LOCAL TRAINING UNDER PSCBP


Details of Short Training Courses Organized by Pakistan Institute of Management,
Karachi/Lahore/Islamabad, NUML IBD, NICON IBD AND CORVIT IBD.


Sr. No     Name of Officer/Official with Designation          Name of Course
    1.     Mr. Amir Ahmad, Director                           Development Course for
                                                              Managers
     2.    Mr. Qureshi Muhammad Nawaz Shah, Director          Strategic Leadership Workshop
     3.    Mr. Muhammad Arjumand, Director                    -do-
     4.    Mr. Ramiz Ahmad, SRO/DPD                           How to Prepare an Effective
                                                              Project Feasibility
     5.    Ch. Saleem Khan, Dy. Director                      Transpiration Management
     6.    Mr. Muhammad Arshad Shafi, PS/AD                   Event Management Skills
     7.    Syed Iftikhar Hussain, Assistant                   -do-
     8.    Mr. Ali Aksar, Assistant Director                  -do-
     9.    Mr. Muhammad Iqbal Arian, AD                       Management Course for Junior
                                                              Executives
     10.   Mr. Mian Muhammad, DAD                             -do-
     11.   Mr. Muhammad Ismail, AD                            Advanced MS Office
     12.   Mr. Amjad Kamal, Assistant                         Advance MS-Office
     13.   Mr. Zia ud Din, AD                                 Effective Communication Skills
     14.   Mr. Aqeel Muhammad Khan, AD                        -do-
     15.   Mr. Amin ur Rehman, AD                             -do-
     16.   Mr. Mushtaq Ahmed Awan, Dy. Director               Improving Spoken English Skills
     17.   Mr. Mushtaq Ahmed, Dy. Director                    -do-
     18.   Mr. Muhammad Azam Qureshi, Dy. Director            -do-
     19.   Mr. Abdul Samad, Private Secretary                 -do-
     20.   Mr. Iftikhar Ahmed Khan, Assistant                 -do-
     21.   Mr. Mumtaz Ali, Assistant                          Essential of Managing your Front
                                                              Desk
     22.   Mr. Atiq Ahmad, Assistant                          -do-
     23.   Mr. Mehar Muhammad, Assistant Incharge             -do-
     24.   Mr. Zubair Khan, Assistant                         -do-
     25.   Mr. Abdul Razzaq, Assistant Director               Maintenance Management
     26.   Mr. Muhammad Asghar, Assistant Director            -do-
     27.   Mr. Saeed Ahmad, AD                                Planning & Conducting
                                                              Information Systems Audit
     28.   Mr. Muhammad Ismail, AD                            Computer & Internet: Threats &
                                                              Communication
     29.   Mr. Habib-ur-Rehman, System Analyst                -do-


                                                                                            120
Sr. No    Name of Officer/Official with Designation   Name of Course
    30.   Mr. Ch. Saleem Khan, Deputy Director        Skills in Administration
    31.   Mr. Gulistan Ali Sabir, AD                  Improving Personal Effectiveness
    32.   Mr. Azmat Hayat Malik, Dy. Director         -do-
    33.   Mr. Muhammad Arif Kayani, AD                -do-
    34.   Mr. Mahmmood Alam Rana, PS                  Executive Secretaries Course
    35.   Mr. Muhammad Rafique, PS                    -do-
    36.   Mr. Muhammad Sharif, PS                     -do-
    37.   Mr. Amraiz Khan, PS                         -do-
    38.   Mr. Rasool Khan, PA to Member               -do-
    39.   Ms. Musarrat Javid, Private Secretary       -do-
    40.   Mr. Shamraiz Awan, PS                       -do-
    41.   Mr. Amir Ahmad, PS                          -do-
    42.   Mr. Mian Muhammad Sarwar, EC                Stress Management
    43.   Mr. Itrat Abbas Anwar, Sr. Psychologist     -do-
    44.   Mrs. Sarwat Habib, Director                 How to Improve Morale,
                                                      Motivation & Commitment
   45.    Mr. Tanwir Ahmad Khan, R/O/AD (T)           -do-
   46.    Mr. Muhammad Ashraf, Dy. Director           Financial and Accounting for
                                                      Non-Financial Executives
   47.    Mr. Muhammad Tahir Iqbal Ch., AD            -do-
   48.    Mr. Khalid Hussain Mugheri, DAD             Accounting Concepts & Practices
   49.    Mr. Kamran Rafat Frishori, AD               -do-
   50.    Mr. Muhammad Aslam Ch. AD                   Developing Managerial
                                                      Competencies
   51.    Mr. Nadir Hussain Shah, AD                  -do-
   52.    Mr. Saleem Akbar, AD                        -do-
   53.    Mr. Amir Ahmad Chaudhry, DG(R)              Basics of Business English
   54.    Mr. Azad Khan, DCO                          -do-
   55.    Mr. Saeed Ahmad, Research Officer           -do-
   56.    Mr. Sher Zaman, Assistant Director          Skills in Supervision
   57.    Mr. Haroon Rashid, AD                       “Effective Letters, Reports &
                                                      Presentations”
   58.    Mr. Abkar Azam Rajar, AD                    -do-
   59.    Mr. Mumtaz Hussain Shaukat, AD              -do-
   60.    Syed Nabi Bangash, Psychologist             “Conflict Management”
   61.    Mr. Tahir Mahmood Sheikh, AD/DDO            “Problem Solving & Decision
                                                      Making Skills”
   62.    Mr. Mohammad Muazzam Mirza, AD              -do-
   63.    Mr. Shujjat Hussain, AD                     “Team Work; Getting People to
                                                      Work Together”
   64.    Mr. Modood Ahmed Rehan, AD                  “Principles of Good
                                                      Management”
   65.    Mr. Sain Faqir, Dy. Director                -do-
   66.    Mr. Iftikhar Hussain AD                     “How do Effective managers


                                                                                    121
Sr. No    Name of Officer/Official with Designation         Name of Course
                                                            Organized Themselves”
   67.    Mr. Naeem Rahat, Dy. Astt. Director               “Introduction to Human Resource
                                                            Management”
   68.    Mr. Nasir Pervaiz, RO                             Research Techniques for Decision
                                                            Making
   69.    Mr. Naseer Akhtar, RO                             -do-
   70.    Mr. Kashif Ahmad, Asstt. Incharge                 Effective Purchase Management
   71.    Mr. Sagheer, Asstt.                               -do-
   72.    Miss Shaista Perveen, Assistant Director          Advanced Diploma in English
                                                            Language (Evening Programme)
   73.    Hafiz Ghulam Mustufa Javeed, Assistant Director   -do-
   74.    Mr. Abrar ul Haq Shami, Deputy Chief (IT)         Oracle 10g Administration
   75.    Mr. Habib ur Rehman, System Analyst               -do-
   76.    Mr. Farooq Ahmad, Junior Programmer               -do-
   77.    Mr. Azad Khan, Data Control Officer               -do-
   78.    Mr. Asim Mehmood, Junior Programmer               -do-
   79.    Mr. Farooq Ahmad Hassan, Website Manager          -do-
   80.    Mr. Muhammad Asif, Computer Operator              -do-
   81.    Mr. Muhammad Imran shahid , Asstt. D.B.A.         -do-
   82.    Mr. Muhammad Munir, D.P.A.                        -do-
   83.    Mr. Muhammad Farooq, D.P.A.                       -do-
   84.    Mr. Muhammad Asghar, D.P.A.                       -do-
   85.    Raja Waheed Nawaz, D.P.A.                         -do-
   86.    Mr. Abrar ul Haq Shami, Deputy Chief (IT)          PHP Programming
   87.    Mr. Habib ur Rehman, System Analyst               -do-
   88.    Mr. Farooq Ahmad, Junior Programmer               -do-
   89.    Mr. Azad Khan, Data Control Officer               -do-
   90.    Mr. Asim Mehmood, Junior Programmer               -do-
   91.    Mr. Farooq Ahmad Hassan, Website Manager          -do-
   92.    Mr. Muhammad Asif, Computer Operator              -do-
   93.    Mr. Muhammad Imran shahid , Asstt. D.B.A.         -do-
   94.    Mr. Muhammad Munir, D.P.A.                        -do-
   95.    Mr. Muhammad Asghar, D.P.A.                       -do-
   96.    Raja Waheed Nawaz, D.P.A.                         -do-
   97.    Mr. Abdul Rehman, KPO                             -do-
   98.    Mr. Sajid Ullah, KPO                              -do-
   99.    Mr. Abrar ul Haq Shami, Deputy Chief (IT)         REDHAT Linux Administration
   100.   Mr. Farooq Ahmad, Junior Programmer               -do-
   101.   Mr. Asim Mehmood, Junior Programmer               -do-
   102.   Mr. Farooq Ahmad Hassan, Website Manager          -do-
   103.   Mr. Muhammad Munir, D.P.A.                        -do-
   104.   Mr. Muhammad Asghar, D.P.A.                       -do-
   105.   Raja Waheed Nawaz, D.P.A.                         -do-
   106.   Mr. Imran Shahid, Asstt. D.B.A.                   -do-


                                                                                          122
Sr. No       Name of Officer/Official with Designation        Name of Course
    107.     Mr. Sajid Ullah, K.P.O.                          -do-
    108.     Mr. Abdul Rehman, KPO                            -do-
    109.     Mr. Asim Mehmood, Junior Programmer               MCSE
    110.     Mr. Farooq Ahmad Hassan, Website Manager         -do-
    111.     Mr. Salman Zafar, Net Work Administrator         -do-
    112.     Mr. Ghulam Muhammad, DPA                         -do-
    113.     Mr. Muhammad Asghar, D.P.A.                      -do-
    114.     Raja Waheed Nawaz, D.P.A.                        -do-
    115.     Mr. Muhammad Asif, Computer Operator             -do-
    116.     Mr. Naveed Ahmed, System Operator                -do-
    117.     Mr. Muhammad Abrar, KPO                          -do-
    118.     Mr. Sajid Ullah, K.P.O.                          -do-
    119.     Mr. Abdul Rehman, KPO                            -do-


Appendix-V

STUDY TOURS ABROAD
UNDER PUBLIC SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT

Details of Study Tour Abroad

Sr.         Name of Officer with Designation             Purpose of Visit
No.
      1. Lt. General Shahid Hamid (Retd), Chairman       Assessment of Recruitment System of
                                                         Australia & New Zealand
      2.    Saiyed Mohib Asad, Member.                   -do-
      3.    Mr. Sadiq Ali Anjum, Director                -do-
      4.    Mr. Abdul Matin Afridi, Director             -do-
      5.    Lt. Gen. Syed Abdul Ahad Najmi (Retd),       Assessment of Recruitment System of
            Member                                       United Kingdom & France
      6.    Mr. Muhammad Aziz Khan, Member.              -do-
      7.    Mr. Mohammad Hanif, Secretary                -do-
      8.    Mr. Pervaiz Akhtar, Director                 -do-
      9.    Rear Admiral Muhammad Nashat Raffi           Assessment of Recruitment System of
            (Retd), Member                               Malaysia & Singapore
      10.   Mr. Sarwar Hasan Khan, Director General      -do-
      11.   Miss Rehana Shujaat, Senior psychologist.    -do-
      12.   Mian Muhammad Sarwar, EC                     -do-
      13.   Mrs. Fazila Aliani, Member                   Assessment of Recruitment System of
                                                         Turkey & Egypt
      14. Mr. Bashir Ahmad Chauhan, Secretary            -do-
      15. Miss Fatima Zehra, Chief Psychologist          -do-
      16. Lt Gen Shahid Hamid (R), Chairman              Assessment of Recruitment System of


                                                                                           123
                                                           South Africa
       17. Mr. Shaukat Umer, Member                        -do-
       18. Mr. Abdul Matin Afridi, Director                -do-

     Annex

     LIST OF EAD’S OFFICERS FOR TRAINING UNDER PUBLIC SECTOR CAPACITY
     DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM

S. No. NAME/WING            COURSE                                        COURSE TITLE
                            DURATION/INSTITUTION
1       Mr. Saif Ullah      27-11-2006 to 15.12.2006 at Crown             Human Resource Management
        Butt, Section       Agents International Management               Intensive
        Officer (Admin)     Centre, Worthing, UK
2       Mr. Tassaduq        19th March 5th April, 2007 by RIPA            Change Management
        Hussain             International, London, UK
        Assistant
        Chief(FS/PTAP)
        [EC Wing]
3       Mr Zuhfran          May 21- June 8, 2007 by RIPA                  Effective Communication
        Qasim,              International, London, UK                     Techniques
        A.C (ECO)
4       Mrs Shazia          June 9- June 29, 2007, Harvard Graduate       Improving Quality in Education
        Amjad, Section      School of Education                           Systems
        Officer (IDA-II)
5       Syed Sibte Abbas    11-22 June, 2007 at Crown Agents              Financial Management and
        Zaidi               Training Institute, London UK                 Strategic Planning
        Section Officer
        (Eur-I) [PC
        Wing]
6       Mr Muhammad         9-27 July 2007, at RIPA International         Planning and Developing
        Afzal               UK                                            Human Resource Capabilities
        Deputy Secretary
        (Admin)
7.      Mr Samir Ali        July 2-August 10, 2007                        Development Economics and
        Sheikh,             at London School of Economics, UK             The Political Economy of
        Section Officer                                                   Public Policy
        (UN-II),
        (UN/China Wing)
8.      Mr. Waqar Uddin     9-27 July 2007 at RIPA International UK       Planning and Developing
        Siddiqui                                                          Human Resource Capabilities
        Section Officer
        (Eur-III) [PC
        Wing]
9.      Mr. Zafar Iqbal     25th June to 6th July, 2007 at Crown          New challenges in Debt



                                                                                                   124
      Malik              Agents Training Institute, Worthing UK       Management
      Deputy Chief
      (R&S Wing)
10.   Malik              First session 2-20 July, 2007 & Second       Accounting and Finance
      Muhammad Afaq      session 23rd July to 10th August, 2007 in
      Assistant Chief    London School of Economics and
      (R&S Wing)         Political Science, London UK
11.   Mr. Muhammad       9-20 July, 2007 at Crown Agents              Debt Restructuring Techniques
      Ali                Training Institute at Worthing, UK
      Accounts Officer
      (R&S Wing)
12.   Mr Asim            9 July- 17 September, 2007 at London         Microsoft Certified Systems
      Mahmood            College of Computing, UK                     Engineer
      System
      Administrator
      (DM Wing-
      Computer Centre)
13    Mr Kamran          2 July-10 August 2007 at LSE, UK             Introductory Economics and
      Farooq Ansari                                                   Development in the
      Section Officer                                                 International Political Economy
      (ME)
14    Mr. Mohammad       26 June-20 July 2007 at LSE, UK              Judgment and Decision Making
      Ahmed                                                           for Management
      Section Officer
      (SEA)
15    Mrs Shaheen        9-27 July 2007 at RIPA International,        Planning and Developing
      Viqar              UK                                           Human Resource Capabilities.
      A.C (ADB-III)
16    Mr Naseer          9-27 July 2007 at RIPA International UK      Planning and Developing
      Ahmed,                                                          Human Resource Capabilities
      Section Officer
      (ACS)
17    Syed Naseer Ali    February 2007 to January 2009 Virtual        MCS
      Assistant          University, Islamabad
      Programmer
      (Computer
      Centre)
18    Mr. Amir Tariq     6-17 August, 2007 at Institute for Public-   Public Private Partnership
      Zaman,             Private Partnership, Washington DC,          strategies, Methods and Project
      Joint Secretary    USA                                          Structure Techniques
      (UN/China)
19    Mr. Muhammad       September 4 to October 26, 2007 at           1. Strategic Management for
      Shamim             University of Connecticut, USA               Development
      Deputy Chief                                                    2. Project appraisal and
      (R&S Wing)                                                      monitoring



                                                                                               125
20   Mr Ghulam           3-14 September,2007 at RIPA                 Financial Management of
     Muhammad            International London                        Development Project
     Mahar
     Assistant Chief
     (ADB-III)
21   Mr. S.M. Hasan      17-29 September,2007 at University of       Monitoring and Evaluating
     Akhtar,             Bologna, Italy                              Poverty Reduction & Social
     Section Officer                                                 Inclusion Program
     (UN-IV)
22   Mr. Sabz Amin,      Al-Khair University, Rawalpindi Campus MBA (Finance) Evening
     Director                                                   Program
     Accounts
     (Budget)
23   Mrs Baseerat        October 02- November 02, 2007 at            Human Resource Management
     Memraiz             Washington, USA
     Section Officer
     (Eur-II)
24   Mr. Sultan Khan     12 to 23 Nov 2007                           Project & Programme
     DS (EC-II)          at RIPA International London, UK.           Management
25   Mr. Sajjad Haider   12 November- 7 December, 2007 at            Project and Programme
     Yaldram,            RIPA International, London, U.K.            Management, the Complete
     Section Officer                                                 Project Management Cycle
     (UN-III)
26   Mr. Shahid          5 to 16 Nov 2007 at                         Independent Project Monitoring
     Ahmed Vakil,        Technology Institution for Public Private   & Evaluation
     Section Officer     Partnerships Washington DC.
     (ADB-I)
27   Samreen Zahara,     26 Nov to 07 Dec, 2007 at RIPA              Monitoring & Evaluation
     Section Officer     International, London, U.K.
     (IDB)
28   Mr. Abdul Rauf      28 July-15 August, 2008 at London           Strategic Management and
     Gandpaur,           School of Economics, UK                     Incentives in Modern
     Deputy Secretary                                                Organizations
     (PC)
29   Mr. Muhammad        6 to 25 July 2008 at                        Public Financial Management
     Anwer,              Harvard University (USA)
     Section Officer
     (China)
30   Mr. Tariq           7 July-1 August, 2008 at SETYM              Project Implementation:
     Mahmood,            International, Montreal, Quebec, Canada     Planning, Scheduling and
     Section Officer                                                 Control
     (WB-I)
31   Shahzada Taimur     6-25 July, 2008at Harvard University        Public Financial Management
     Khusrow,            USA
     Deputy Secretary


                                                                                            126
     (EC/CF&AO)
32   Mr. Muhammad       7-25 July, 2008 at London School of      Development Economics
     Khalid Khan,       Economics, UK
     Deputy Secretary
     (EC-I)
33   Mr. Mazhar         8-19 September, 2008 at GTC, London,     Modernizing Human Resource
     Iqbal,             U.K                                      Management
     SO(ODA)
34   S. Raees Haider    29 September to 10 October, 2008 at      Effective Budgeting and
     Zaidi,             GTC, London, UK                          Operational Cost Control
     Director of
     Accounts (P)
35   Mr. Abdul Latif,   29 September to 10 October, 2008 at      Effective Budgeting and
     Assistant Chief    GTC, London, UK                          Operational Cost Control
     (Budget)
36   Mr. Najaf Khan,    29 September to 10 October, 2008 at      Effective Budgeting and
     Assistant Chief    GTC, London, UK                          Operational Cost Control
     (Disbursement)
37   Mr Asif Hussain    29 September -10 October, 2008 at GTC,   Finance for Project Managers
     Shah               London, U.K
     Section Officer
     (A&P)
38   Mr. Zafar Iqbal,   20-31 Oct., 2008 at GTC, London, UK      Project Management; Planning
     Section Officer                                             & Implementation
     (JBIC)
39   Mr. Muhammad       20-31 Oct., 2008 at GTC, London, U.K     Project Management: Planning
     Ayaz Khan,                                                  & Implementation
     Section Officer
     (IDB)
40   Mrs. Yasmeen       20-31 Oct., 2008 at GTC, London, U.K     Project Management: Planning
     Sadiq,                                                      & Implementation
     Section Officer
     (P&C)
41   Mr. Muhammad       13-31 October, 2008 at GTC, London,      Modern Internal Audit
     Khalil Bhatti,     U.K                                      Procedures
     Accounts Officer
42   Mr. Azhar Iqbal    3-21 November, 2008 at RIPA, London,     Practical Communication Tools
     Hashmi,            UK                                       and Techniques
     Section Officer
     (Admin)
43   Mr. Muhammad       17-28 November, 2008 at GTC, London,     Enhanced Financial Planning
     Aslam,             U.K                                      for Executive Managers
     Accounts Officer
     (DMS-I)
44   Mr. Sabz Ali       03-28 Nov., 2008 at                      Project and Programme
     Khan,              RIPA, London, U.K.                       Management: The Complete


                                                                                         127
         Section Officer                                            Project Management Cycle
         (General)
45       Dr. Imran Ullah    03-28 Nov., 2008 at                     Project and Programme
         Khan,              RIPA, London, U.K.                      Management: The Complete
         Section Officer                                            Project Management Cycle
         (WB-II)
46       Syed Iftikhar      17-28 Aug, 2009 at RIPA, London, UK     Public Financial Management
         Hussain Naqvi,
         Section Officer
         (IDB)
47       Mr. Mohammad       24 Aug-04 Sept 2009 at GTC, London,     Leading a Project Team
         Tahir, Section     UK
         Officer (SEA)
48       Raja Mohammad      24 Aug-04 Sept 2009 at GTC, London,     Leading a Project Team
         Yousaf, Section    UK
         Officer (China)
49       Mr. Zafar Hassan   5-16 October, 2009 at GTC, London, UK   Driving Performance through
         Raza, Joint                                                Enhanced Strategic and
         Secretary                                                  Financial Planning
         (ADB/Japan)
50       Mr. Sohail         5-10 October, 2009 at GTC, London, UK   Making Effective Policy
         Rehan, Joint
         Secretary (EC)
51       Mirza Khalid       23rd November-4th December, 2009 at     Monitoring and Evaluation
         Mahmood,           RIPA, London UK
         Section Officer
         (FC)
52       Mrs. Anjum         30 Nov – 11 Dec., 2009 at RIPA,         Enhancing Financial
         Assad Amin,        London, UK                              Performance
         Deputy Secretary
         (EC-II)

     Annex-9A
     LIST OF OFFICERS OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DIVISION ATTENDED
     FOREIGN TRAININGS
     Sr.   Name of Officer/ Designation /   Course Titled              Institute/Country
     No. Section
     FY 2004-05
     01    Mr. Shahnawaz Hussain Chief,     Project appraisal and Risk Duke University, USA
           PIA Section                      Management (PARM)
     02    Mr. Salah-ud-Din Qureshi, chief,
           Economic Appraisal Section
     03    Dr. Muhammad Ashraf Moten,       Improving Quality in       Harvard Graduate school
           Chief, S&T Section               Education System           of Education USA
     04    Mr. Abdul Hamid, Deputy Chief,   Transition of Sustainable  International Agriculture
           NFDC                             Agriculture                Centre (IAC),


                                                                                              128
                                                                  Wageningen, The
                                                                  Netherlands
05   Mr. Atta Muhammad Rana, Joint       Project Management       Carnegie Mellon
     Secretary (Admn)                    Curriculum.              University, USA
06   Mr Jaweed Akhtar, Director
     General (JACC)
07   Mr. Mueen-ud-Din Dar, Chief,        Management               Graduate School of
     Industries & Commerce Section       Development Program      Business Admn, University
                                                                  of Virginia, USA
08   Mr. Farkhand Iqbal, Chief, Energy   Renewable Energy         Centre of Alternative
     Wing                                System-DIY Potential     Technology, UK
09   Mr. Muhammad Almas Khan             Improving Quality in     Harvard Graduate School
     Khattak, Assistant Chief,           Education System         of Education, USA
     Education Section
10   Mr. Muhammad Ihtesham Khan,         The Oxford Program on    University of Oxford, UK
     Additional Secretary (Projects)     Negotiation
11   Mr. Ghulam Akbar Malik,             Monitoring and           University of East Anglia,
     Director (Coord) project wing       Evaluation for           UK
12   Mr. Khurshid Ali Chauhan,           Development Activities
     director (SS) Project Wing
13   Mr. Rafiq Ahmad Hakro,Deputy
     Director, Project Wing
14   Syed Waheed Rizvi, Deputy
     Director, Project Wing




                                                                                     129
FY 2005-06
15    Syed Tanwir Hussain Bukhari,           Infrastructure in a      John F. Kennedy School of
      Deputy Chief, T&C Section              Market Economy:          Government, Harvard
                                             Public-Private           university, USA
                                             Partnership in a
                                             Changing World
16    Mr. Iftikhar Ahmad, Assistant Chief,   EC312: Advance           London School Economics,
      Macroeconomics Section                 Econometrics             UK
17    Dr. Pervaiz Tahir, Chief Economist,    Senior Managers in       John F. Kennedy School of
      Planning Commission                    Government               Government, Harvard
                                                                      university, USA
18    Mr. Raiz Hussain, Deputy Chief,        Financial Skills for     The Crown Agents
      Public Investment Programming          Executives               International Management
      Section                                                         Training Centre, UK
19    Mr. Gul Badshah, Deputy Chief ,        Financial Skills for     The Crown Agents
      Public Investment Programming          Executives               International Management
      Section                                                         Training Centre, UK
20    Dr. Ghulam Mustafa, Assistant chief,   Andrology/Embryo         Institute of Reproductive
      A&F Section                            Transfer Technology      Medicine, Munster,
                                                                      Germany
21    Ms. Nigar Anjum Assistant Chief ,      Strategies for the       International Training
      Poverty Alleviation Section            Extension of Social      Centre (ILO), Turin, Italy
                                             Protection
22    Mr. Farrukh Hayat, Assistant Chief,    Management of Projects   University of Canfield,
      Economic Appraisal Section                                      Bedfordshire, UK
23    Syed Abdul Haq Shah, Assistant
      Chief, Economic Appraisal Section
24    Mr. Mujahid Khan, Deputy Director,
      Projects Wing
25    Mr. Muhammad Aleem Khan,
      Deputy Director, Projects wing
26    Mr. Saleem Pervaz Siddiqui, Joint      Project Appraisal and    Duke Centre of
      Secretary/Director General, Projects   Risk Management          International Development,
      Wing                                   Program (PARM)           Duke University, USA
27    Mr. Muhammad Saleem Khan
      Khattak, Deputy Chief, Economic
      Appraisal Section
28    Mr. Atiq-ur-Rehman, Program
      Officer, PPMI
29    Mr. Waheed Zaman, Research             Media Studies             The International Summer
      Associate, Mass Media Section                                   School, University of Oslo,
                                                                      Norway
30    Mr. M. Jalil Minhas, Member, Social Policy Planning and         Harvard Graduate School
      Sector                              Analysis for improving      of Education (HGSE),
                                          Quality in Education        Cambridge, Massachusetts,
                                          System                      USA


                                                                                         130
31    Mr. Muhammad Ayub, Chief,           Mainstreaming Gender         International Training
      Nutrition/Gender Development        Equality: Concepts and       Centre (ILO), Turin, Italy
      Section                             instruments
32    Dr. Ghulam Asghar Abbasi, Deputy    Foundations in               Boston University School
      Chief, Health Section               International Health and     of Public Health, Boston,
                                          Community Based              Massachusetts, USA
                                          Development
33    Engr. Aamir Hasan, Deputy           Organizational Culture       Maastricht School of
      Secretary, Admn Wing                and Management:              Management, Maastricht,
                                          Towards Effective            The Netherlands
                                          Organizations
FY 2006-07
34    Mr. Rab Nawaz Abbasi, Assistant     International Economics      London School of
      Chief, International Trade &        and Industrial               Economics, London, UK
      Finance (IT &F) Section             Organization &
                                          Competition Policy
35    Mr. Abdul Qayyum, Deputy Chief      Monitoring and               University of East Anglia,
      (Incharge), Physical Planning and   Evaluating for               Norwich, UK
      Housing Section                     Development Activities
36    Mr. Muhammad Younis Salik,          Financial Institutions for   John F. Kennedy School of
      Deputy Chief, Industries &          Private Enterprises          Government, Harvard
      Commerce Section                    Development (FIPED)          University, USA
37    Mr. Asif Bajwa, Additional          Study Visit                  Duke University, USA &
      Secretary                                                        Bradford University, UK
38    Mr. Fazal Hakim Mian, Assistant     Professional Training        Centre for Online Health
      Chief, Health Section               Program in E-Health          (COH), faculty of Health
                                          Care                         Services, University of
                                                                       Queensland, Australia
39    Dr. Nisar Ahmad, Director General   Study Visit                  Lille Graduate School of
      (PPMI)                                                           Management, France &
                                                                       Institute of Social Study
                                                                       (ISS), the Hague, The
                                                                       Netherlands
40    Mr. Atta Muhammad Raja, Sr. Joint   Change Management            Royal Institute of Public
      Secretary                                                        Administration (RIPA),
                                                                       London, UK
41    Mr. Muhammad Shahid, Joint          Design and                   Setym International, Kula
      Secretary/DG, Projects Wing         Implementation of            Lumpur, Malaysia
                                          Monitoring and
                                          Evaluation Systems
42    Mr. Arshad Maqsood Malik, Chief     International petroleum      International Human
      (Fuel), Energy Wing                 Business Program             Resources Development
                                                                       Corporation (IHRDC),
                                                                       Boston, USA
43    Mr. Muhammad Farooq, Assistant      Project Appraisal and        Duke Center for
      Chief, Economic Appraisal Section   Risk Management              International Development


                                                                                          131
                                           (PARM)                     (DCID), Duke University,
                                                                      NC, USA
44    Mr. Shahid Naeem, Assistant Chief,   Complete Project           UK
      Poverty Alleviation Section          Management Cycle
45    Dr. Sualeha Akhtar Sohag, Deputy     Management of Change       Maastricht School of
      Secretary (Admn)                     for Organizational         Management, Maastricht,
                                           Transition (CM),           The Netherlands
46    Mr. Aman Ullah Kha, Chief,           Reproductive Health        John Hopkins University,
      Population and Social Planning       and Development and        USA
                                           Statistical Reasoning in
                                           PHC
                                           (Part I&II)
47    Mr. Talib Hussain Talib, Deputy      Policy Planning and        Harvard Graduate School
      Chief, Education Section             Analysis for Improving     of Education (HGSE),
                                           Quality in Education       Cambridge, Massachusetts,
                                           Systems                    USA
48    Mrs. Sajida Nasir Malik, Deputy      Development Planning       IMA International
      Chief, Governance Section            and Management             Brighton, UK
49    Ms. Rabab Fatima, Assistant chief,
      E&R Section
50    Dr. Fazli Hakim Khattak, Deputy      Health District            Swiss Tropical Institute
      Chief, Health                        Management II Priority     (STI) Basel, Switzerland
                                           Setting and Resource
                                           Allocation
FY 2007-08
51    Mr. Tanveer Hussain, Section         Executive Secretaries      London Corporate Training
      Officer (Coord), P&D Division        and Director’s Personal    Ltd (LCS), London, UK
                                           Assistant
52    Mr. Muhammad Asif Sheikh, Joint      Budgeting and Financial    Duke Centre for
      Chief Economist (OP), P&D            Management in the          International Development
      Divisions, Islamabad                 Public Sector              (DCID), Durham, NC,
                                                                      USA
53    Mr. Mohammad Sarwar Zahid,           Project Appraisal and      Duke University, Durham,
      Director (SS), Projects Wing         Risk Management            USA
54    Mr. Abdul Rehman, Deputy Chief,      Policy Planning and        Harvard Graduate School
      S&T Section                          Analysis for Improving     of Education (HGSE),
                                           Quality in Education       Cambridge, Massachusetts,
                                           Systems                    USA
55    Dr. Abdul Waheed Rana, Assistant     Management and             University of East Anglia
      Chief, Mass Media, Culture & Agri    Financial Model of         Norwich, UK
      & Food Section                       Cultural and Media
                                           Institutions,
56    Dr. Aamer Irshad, Deputy Chief,      Project and Program        Royal Institute of Public
      Agri. &Food Section                  Management/The             Administration (RIPA)
57    Dr. Imtiaz Ahmad, Deputy Chief       Complete Project           London Uk
      Incharge, Economic Appraisal         Management Cycle


                                                                                         132
       Section
58     Mr. Mazahar Haneef Kha, Director
       (OS) Projects Wing
59     Mr. Javed Sikander, Deputy Chief,
       Governance Section
60     Mr. Tariq Faheem Sheikh, Director     Training and              Royal Institute of Public
       Studies, (PPMI)                       Development Strategies    Administration (RIPA),
                                             and Practices             London UK
FY 2008-09
61    Mr. Riaz Ahmed, Deputy Chief, PIA      Monitoring and            held in Kuala Lumpur,
      Section                                Evaluation: Design and    Malaysia organized by
62    Mr. Shahzad Ahmed Baloch, Deputy       Implementation            SETYM International Inc,
      Director (Evaluation), Projects Wing                             Canada
63    Mr. Ayaz Ali Sakhani, Assistant
      Chief, PIP Section
64    Mr. Asif Khan, Assistant Chief,
      Agri. &Food Section
65    Mr. Khalid Mohammad, Deputy            International Petroleum   International Human
      Chief, (Fuel), Energy                  Business Program          Resource Development
                                                                       Corporation (IHRDC),
                                                                       Boston, USA
66    Mr. Naseer Ahmad Gillani, chief,       The Complete Project      Royal Institute of Public
      Water Resources Section                Management Cycle          Administration (RIPA),
67    Mr. Abdul Aziz Qureshi, D.G. (E),                                London UK
      Projects Wing
FY 2009-10




                                                                                          133
Annex….

List of officers of FBR Trained under Public Sector Capacity Building Project-
Contract with M/s IBA Karachi


S.No. Name of Officer              Designation
Batch No.01
   1. Mr. Zafar Iqbal              Member Appellate Tribunal
   2. Mr. Shaheen Iqbal            Member Appellate Tribunal (Income Tax)
   3. Mr. Abrar Ahmed              Regional Commissioner
   4. Mr. Fazal Qadir Mahmood      Director of Customs Valuations
   5. Mr. Khalid Mahmood           Collector of model Sales Tax
   6. Mr. Javed Kazi               Director of inspection and Internal Audit
   7. Mr. Azhar Majeed Khalid      Collector of Customs
   8. Mr. Humayun Khan             Director of Intelligence & Investigation (Customs)
       Sikandri
   9. Mr. Munir Ahmed Qureshi      Collector Customs
   10. Mrs. Riffat A. Hassan       Collector of Customs
       Abidi
   11. Mr. Nisar Muhammad          Collector of Customs
       Khan
   12. Mr. Anwar-ul-Haq            Director of Inspection & Internal Audit (Customs
   13. Mr. Noor Muhammad           Commissioner of Large Taxpayer Unit
   14. Mr. Irfan Nadeem Saeed      Commissioner of Income Tax
   15. Mr. Zareen Saleem Ansari    Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals-II), Karachi
   16. Mr. Muhammad Ishaque        Commissioner Income Tax(Zone-A), Karachi
   17. Mr. Bashir Ahmed Malik      Commissioner of Large Taxpayers Unit, Karachi
   18. Mr. Humayun Aqil            Commissioner Income Tax (Zone-B), Karachi
   19. Mr. Iqbal Ahmed Jumani      Commissioner of Income Tax large Taxpayers Unit,
                                   Karachi
   20. Mr. Abdul Ghani Channa      Commissioner of Income Tax, LTU, Karachi
   21. Mrs. Yasmin Saud            Commissioner of Income Tax, MTU, Karachi
   22. Mr. Muhammad Anwar          Commissioner of Income Tax, MTU, Karachi
       Goraaya
   23. Mr. Azizuddin Ahmad         Director of Inspection and Internal Audit (Customs)
   24. Mr. Shaukat Ali             Collector of Customs, Sales Tax (Adj-I), Karachi
   25. Syed Jalaluddin Shah        Additional Collector of Customs Valuations, Karachi
   26. Mr. Khalid Mahmood          Project Collector ST-BPR Stream Project, Karachi
   27. Shaikh Makhdoom Ahmed       Additional Director of Inspection * Internal Audit
       Farooqi                     (Customs)
   28. Ms. Rubina Wasti            Additional Collector of LTU, Karachi
   29. Shahzada Tahir Zaman        Director of input/ouput Coefficient Organization, Karachi


                                                                                         134
  30. Mr. Pervez ismail Memon    Collector of Customs, Sales Tax & Federal Excise,
                                 Hyderabad
  31. Mr. Fateh Muhammad         Additional Director of Training & Research (Customs, FE
      Shaikh                     & ST), Karachi
  32. Mr. Ghulam Akbar Joyo      Additional Commissioner of Income Tax, Southern
                                 Region, Karachi
  33. Mr. imtiaz Ahmad           Additional Commissioner of Income Tax (Special Zone)
      Barakzai                   Karachi
  34. Ms. Farzana Jabeen         Departmental Representative, Income Tax (CR) Karachi.
  35. Mr. Muhammad Shaheen       Additional Director of Inspection & Audit (Income Tax)
      Aziz Niazi                 Karachi
  36. Mr. Bakhat Zaman           Additional Director of Inspection & Audit (Income Tax)
                                 Karachi
  37. Mr. Haseeb-ul-Haq          Additional Commissioner of income Tax (Special Zone)
  38. Mr. Mushtaq Ahmad Setho    Additional Commissioner of Income Tax, Hyderabad
  39. Mr. Nadeem Ahmed           Additional Commissioner of Income Tax (Special Zone)
      Farooqi                    Karachi
  40. Mr. Abdus Salam            Addi tional Director, Training & Research (Income Taxs),
                                 Karachi
Batch No.02
   41. Mr. Abdul Waheed Khan     Member Appellate Tribunal (Customs), Karachi
   42. Mr. Hafiz Muhammad        Member Appellate Tribunal (Income Tax) Karachi
         Anis
   43. S. A. Minam Jafri         Member Appellate Tribunal (Income Tax) Karachi
   44. Mr. Agha Kaffil Barik     Member Appellate Tribunal (Income Tax) Karachi
   45. Mr. Javed Iqbal Mirza     Collector of Customs, FE & ST, Karachi
   46. Mr. Rashid Ahmed          Collector of Customs, ST&FE, Hyderabad
   47. Mr. Ghulam Ahmad          Collector of Model Sales Tax House, Karachi
   48. Mrs. Zarina N. Zaidi      Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals-III), Karachi
   49. Mr. Amjad Jamshed         Commissioner of Income Tax (Company Zone-E),
                                 Karachi
  50.   Mr. Shahid Nasim         Commissioner of Income Tax (Company Zone-III),
                                 Karachi
  51.   Malik Abdus Samad        Commissioner of Income Tax (Company Zone-I), Karachi
  52.   Mr. Qamaruddin           Commissioner of Income Tax, Sukkur
  53.   Mr. Shaukat Ali Soomro   Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals), Hyderabad
  54.   Syed Humayun Zaidi       Commissioner of income Tax (Appeals-I), Karachi
  55.   Mr. Muhammad Iqbal       Commissioner of Income Tax (Zone-C), Karachi
        Khan
  56.   Mr. Manzoor Hussain      Commissioner of Income Tax (Special Zone), Karachi
        Qureshi
  57.   Mr. Sarfaraz Ahmad       Additional Collector of Customs (Appraisement), Karachi
        Warraich
  58.   Mr. Abdul Aziz Memon     Commissioner of Income Tax, Hyderabad
  59.   Mr. Behan Ali Sher       Additional Collector of Model Sales Tax, Karachi


                                                                                      135
   60.   Dr. Zulfiqar Ahmad        Additional Collector Collectorate of Customs (Exports),
         Malik                     Karachi
   61.   Syed Shahanshah           Additional Collector, Model Sales Tax House, Karachi
   62.   Mr. Zahid Hussain         Additional Collector, Model Sales Tax House, Karachi
         Bhayo
   63.   S. Tanveer Ahmad       Additional Collector Model Sales Tax House, Karachi
   64.   Ms. Surriya Ahmed Butt Additional Director, Directorate of Customs Valuation,
                                Karachi
   65. Mr. Manzoor Hussain      Departmental Representative, Collectorate of Customs
        Memon                   (Appraisement), Karachi
   66. Mr. Abdul Rashid Sheikh Additional Collector, LTU, Karachi
   67. Mr. Abdul Nasir Butt     Additional Collector, Collectorate of Customs
                                (Preventive), Karachi
   68. Mr. Muhammad             Additional Collector LTU, Karachi
        Siddique
   69. Mr. Muhammad Tahir       Additional Collector (Appraisement), Karachi
   70. Mr. Pervez Esbhani       Additional Collector (Export), Karachi
   71. Syed Barket Ali Bukhari Additional Director, DOT, (Customs), Karachi
   72. Mr. Mahfooz-ur-Rehman Additional Commissioner, LTU, Karachi
   73. Mr. Shahid Hussain Jatoi Additional Commissioner of Income Tax (Special Zone),
                                Karachi
   74. Syed Muhammad Tariq      Secretary ST-BPOR Stream Project, Karachi
        Huda
   75. Mr. Wasif Ali Memon      Additional Collector, (Preventive), Karachi
   76. Mr. Muhjammad Iqbal      Additional Collector, (CARE), Karachi
        Muneeb
   77. Mr. Zaki Ahmed           Additional Commissioner, (Company Zone-I), Karachi
   78. Mr. Abdul Hameed Sangi Additional Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income
                                Tax, Hyderabad.
   79. Mr. Rafique Ahmad        Additional Director, Directorate of Inspection & Audit
        Soomro                  (Income Tax), Hyderabad
   80. Mr. Rehmatullah Khan     Additional Commissioner of LTU, Karachi
        Wazir
Batch No3
   81. Mr. Islahuddin Siddiqui  Additional Collector, Model Sales Tax House, Karachi
   82. Syed hassan Raza Jafri   DR, Collectorate of Customs (Preventive) Karachi
   83. Mr. Samiullah Khan       Additional Dirctor, Directorate of I & Audit (Customs,
                                FE&ST), Karachi
   84. Mr. Hassan Sardar        Deputy Collector (Preventive), Karachi
   85. Mr. Javed Iqbal Butt     Deputy Collector (Preventive), Karachi
   86. Mr. Abdul Rasheed        Assistant Director, Dirctorate of I & I Audit (Customs,
                                FE&ST), Karachi
   87. Mr. Baleeghur Rehman     Assistant Director, Dirctorate of I & I Audit (Customs,
                                FE&ST), Karachi
   88. S. A. Sajjad Rizvi       Deputy Collector of Model Sales Tax House, Karachi



                                                                                        136
   89.   Mr. Rais Ahmed           Assistant Director, Directorate of I & I Audit (Customs,
                                  FE&ST), Karachi
   90.   Mr. Zahid Ahmed          Assistant Director, Direct orate of Custom Valuations &
         Soomro                   Post Clearance Audit, Karachi.
   91.   Mr. Tasleem Akhtar       Assistant Collector of Model Sales Tax house, Karachi
   92.   Mr. Rasheed Jameel       Assistant Director, Directorate of I & I Audit (Customs,
                                  FE&ST), Karachi
   93.   S. Hassan Askari         Assistant Director, Directorate of I & I Audit (Customs,
                                  FE&ST), Karachi
   94.   S. Tajdar Hussain        Assistant Director, Directorate of I & I Audit (Customs,
                                  FE&ST), Karachi
   95.   Mr. Kaleemullah          Assistant Collector, Collectorate of Customs (Preventive),
                                  Karachi
   96.   Mr. Abdul Hanif Khan     Assistant Director, Directorate of I & I Audit (Customs,
                                  FE&ST), Karachi
   97.   Mr. Minhajuddin          Assistant Director, Directorate of Training & Research
                                  (Customs, FE&ST), Karachi
   98.   S. M. Ilyas              Assistant Director, Directorate of Training & Research
                                  (Customs, FE&ST), Karachi
   99.   Mr. Muhammad Abbas       Assistant Collector, Collectorate of Customs (Preventive),
                                  Karachi
   100. Mr. A. Saeed Khan         Assistant Collector of Model Sales Tax House, Karachi
        Kashani
   101. Mr. Riaz Ali Shah         Assistant Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income Tax
                                  (Zone-A), Karachi
   102. Mirza Nasir Ali           Assistant Commissioner of MTU, Karachi
   103. Mr. Tasawwar Iqbal        Assistant Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income Tax
                                  (Special Zone), Karachi
   104. Mr. Iqbal Ahmad Shaikh    Assistant Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income
                                  Tax, Hyderabad
   105. Mr. Rehmatullah Khan      Assistant Commissioner of MTU, Karachi
         Durani
   106. Sardar Temur Khan         Assistant Commissioner, MTU, Karachi
         Durrani
   107. Mr. Ashok Kumar           Assistant Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income
         Chalchalani              Tax, Hyderabad
   108. Mr. Sanaullah Nawazani    Assistant Commissioner of MTU, Karachi
   109. Mr. Muhammad Akbar        Assistant Commissioner of MTU, Karachi
         Mahar
   110. Mr. Basit Saleem Shah     Assistant Commissioner of (Zone-E), Karachi
   111. Mrs. Maryam Habib         Assistant Commissioner of MTU , Karachi
   112. Syed Salahuddin Gillani   Assistant Commissioner, (Special Zone), Karachi
Batch No.4
   113. Mr. Muhammad Umar          Additional Director, Directorate of Inspection & Audit
         Farooq                    (Income Tax), Karachi



                                                                                        137
   114. Mr. Misri Khan Ladhani      Additional Commissioner of Income tax Companies
                                    Zone-III, Karachi
   115. Ms. Sshah Bano              Additional Dirctor, Directorate of Training & Research
                                    (Custom, FE&ST), Karachi
   116. Aghah Shahid Majeed         Additional Collector, Collector, Collectorate of Customs
        Khan                        (Muhammad Bin Qasim), Karachi
   117. Mr. Ashir Azeem Gil         Additional Collector, Model Collectorate House,
                                    Karachi
   118. Mr. Muhammad Iqbal          Additional Collector, (Appraisement), Karachi
        Bhawania
   119. Mr. Muhammad Nabi           Additional Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income
        Sether                      Tax, Sukkur, Karachi
   120. Mr. Chaman Lal Oad          Additional Commissioner, MTU, Karachi
   121. Mr. Mushtaq Hussain Qazi    Additional Commissioner, Commissionerate of income
                                    Tax Companies Zone-IV, Karachi
   122. Dr. Muhammad Zubair         Additional Collector of Customs, FE&ST, Hyderabad
        yousafani
   123. Mr. Abdul Qadir Memon       Deputy Director of Customs Valuation & Post
                                    Clearance Audit, Karachi
   124.   Mr. Gul Rehman            Additional Director, DOT, Karachi
   125.   Mr. Junaid Ahmed Memon    Assistant Collector of Model Sales Tax House, Karachi
   126.   Syed Nusrat Nasir         Assistant Collector of Model Sales Tax, Karachi
   127.   Mr. Zafar Akhtar          Departmental Representative of Model Sales Tax
                                    House, Karachi
   128. Mr. Imtiaz Ahmad Dev.       Additional Collector of Model Sales Tax House,
                                    Karachi
   129. Dr. Saiffuddin Junejo       Deputy Director, Directorate of I &I (Cus. FE&ST),
                                    Karachi
   130. Syed Muhammad Soaib         Deputy Collector, Collectorate of Customs (Export),
                                    Karachi
   131. Mr. Asif Saeed Khan         Deputy Collector of Model Customs (CARE), Karachi
        Lughmani
   132. Ms. Lubna Jaffar Ali        Deputy Collector of Model Customs Collectorate
                                    (CARE), Karachi
   133. Mr. Abdul Majid Yousfani    Second Secretary ST-BPR Stream Project, Karachi
   134. Syed Akhlaq Hussain         Deputy Commission of Income Tax (Zone-C), Karachi
   135. Mr. Anwar Hussain           Deputy Commissioner of Income tax (Company Zone-
                                    V), Karachi
   136. Mr. Sajidullah Siddiqui     Deputy Commissioner of LTU, Karachi
   137. Dr. Shafqat Hussain Kehar   Deputy Commissioner of Income Tax (Company Zone-
                                    I), Karachi
   138. Dr. Nauman Ikram            Deputy Commissioner of Income Tax (Company Zone-
                                    IV), Karachi.
139       Dr. Shamsul Hadi          Deputy Commissioner
140       Mr. Azhar Hussain         Deputy Director of I&I (Cus.FE&ST), Karachi



                                                                                        138
      Merchant
141   Mr. Muhammad Masood         Assistant Collector of Customs (Export), Karachi
      Sabir
142   Mr. Abid Hussain Hakro      Assistant Collector of Customs (Port Qasim), Karachi
143   Ms. Sayeeda Anjum           Assistant Collector of Customs (Export), Karachi
      Mushtaq
144   Eng. Riyaz Ahmed            Assistant Collector of Customs Hyderabad
      Memong
145   Khawaja Asad Ali            Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax, (Zone-B)
                                  Karachi
146   Mr. Maula Bux Pirzada       Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax, (Zone-D)
                                  Karachi
147   Mr. M. Asghar Khan Niazi    Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax, ( Comp. Zone-
                                  I) Karachi
148   Mr. Imtiaz Ahmed            Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax, (Zone-A)
                                  Karachi
149   Mr. Naz Hassan Tahirani     Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax, Hyderabad
150   Mr. Obaidullah Malik        Assistant Director of Data Processing Centre (IT),
                                  Karachi
151   Nr. Badar-ud-Din Samo       Assistant Director I&A (IT), Karachi
152   S. Tahir Raza Zaidi         Additional Collector, Model Sales Tax, Karachi
153   Ms. Lubna Farrukh Miraz     Additional Commissioner ((IT) Zone-V, Karachi
154   Mr. Manzoor Hussain         Additional Commissioner of I.T, MTU, Karachi
      Panwar
155   Mr. Banda Ali Memon         Additional Commissioner of IT, Zone-E, Karachi
156   Mr. Faheemul Haq Khan       Additional Commissioner of I.T, RTO, Karachi
157   Mr. Ghulam Shabbir          Deptt. Representative, RCIT, Corporate Region,
      Memon                       Karachi
158   Mr. Shahdid Fawad           Additional Commissioner of IT (Zone-V), Karachi
159   Mr. Usman Bajwa             Deputy Collector, Model Sales Tax House, Karachi
160   Mr. Ejaz Ahmed              Deputy Collector Model Sales Tax House, Karachi
161   Mr. Ashad Jawwad            Deputy Collector of Custom (CARE), Karachi
162   Mr. Zahid Ali Baig          Deputy Collector of Model Sales Tax House, Karachi
163   Mr. Khalid Hussain Jamali   Deputy Collector of Customs Karachi
164   Dr. Muhammad Nadeem         Deputy Collector
      Memon
165   Mr. Feroze Alam Junego      Deputy Director DOT (Cus.FE&ST), Karrachi
166   Mr. Ihsan Ali Shah          Deputy Collector, Model Sales Tax House, Karachi
167   Mr. Irfan Javed             Deputy Collector of Customs (Appraisement), Karachi
168   Mr. M. Irfan Sarfraz        Deputy Collector of Customs (CARE), Karachi
169   Mr. Shahid Iqbal Baloch     Deputy Commissioner of IT, LTU, Karachi
170   Dr. Aftab Imam              Deputy Commissioner of Income Tax Company Zone-
                                  III, Karachi
171   Mr. Shahbudding Usto        Deputy Collector, Model Sales Tax House, Karachi
172   Dr. Ayaz Ellahi Gajani      Deputy Director, DOT, (IT, Karachi)


                                                                                     139
173   Dr. Tauqeer Ahmad           Deputy Director, RTO, Karachi
      Memon
174   Mr. Yousaf Hyder Shaikh     Deputy Collector
175   Mr. Hyder Ali Dharejo       Deputy Collector, LTU, Karachi
176   Mr. Badruddin Ahmed         Deputy Collector, LTU, Karachi
      Qureshi
177   Mr. Tauqeer Irtiza          Deputy Commissioner of Income Tax (Company Zon-
                                  I), Karachi
178   Mr. Basit Maqsood Abbasi    Deputy Director, Directorate of Customs Valuation &
                                  Post Clearance Audit, Karachi
179   Mr. Samiul-ul-Haq           Deputy Collector, Model Customs Collectorate
                                  (CARE), Karachi
180   Syed Imran Sajjad Bukhari   Assistant Collector, Model Customs Collectorate
                                  (CARE), Karachi
181   Mr. Ghulam Sarwar Shah      Assistant Collector, Collectorate of Customs
                                  (Appraisement), Karachi
182   Mr. Muhammad Ahsan          Assistant Collector, Collectorate of Customs (Exports),
      Khan                        Karachi
183   Mr. Faisal Bashir Memon     Assistant Director, Directorate of I & I (Cus. FE&ST),
                                  Karachi
184   Mr. Mr. Azood-ul-Mehdi      Assistant Collector, Collectorate of Customs (Port
                                  Qasim), Karachi
185   S.M. Ali Zaman Gardezi      Assistant Collector, LTU, Karachi
186   Mr. Kamran Elahi            Assistant Collector, LTU, Karachi
187   Mr. Ijaz Ahmed Khattak      Assistant Commissioner, MTU, Karachi
188   Mr. Khalid Hassan Khan      Assistant Commissioner, MTU, Karachi
189   Mr. Abdul Hafeez            Assistant Commissioner, IT, Hyderabad
      Nizamani
190   Ms. Taneela Zafar           Assistant Commissioner, RCIT, Southern Region,
                                  Karachi
191   Ms. Lubna Khan              Deputy Collector, LTU, Karachi
192   Mr. Gul Rehman              Additional Director, Directorate of I&I (Cus.FE&ST),
                                  Karachi
193   Ms. Nausheen Javed          Additional Commissioner, LTU, Karachi
      Amjad
194   Hafiz Muhammad Ali          Additional Commissioner, RCIT, Corporate Region,
      Kndhar                      Karachi
195   Ms. Rukhsana Saeed          Additional Commissioner of IT (Zone-A), Karachi
196   Mr. Basharat Ahmad          Additional Commissioner of IT (Zone-A), Karachi
      Qureshi
197   Mr. Ali Hasnain             Additional Commissioner of IT, LTU, Karachi
198   Mr. Muhammad Hanif          Additional Commissioner of IT (Company Zone-I),
      Shaikh                      Karachi
199   Mr. Sultan Wazir Khan       Additional Commissioner of IT, Sukkur
200   Mr. Ali Akbar Depar         Additional Commissioner, IT, Special Zone, Karachi



                                                                                       140
201   Syed Naeem Akhtar         Deputy Collector, Model Sales Tax House, Karachi
202   Mr. Sanaullah Akhtar      Deputy Collector of Customs (Appraisement), Karachi
203   Ms. Saira Agha            Deputy Collector of Customs (Exports), Karachi
204   Mr. Jamshed Ali Talpur    Deputy Collector of Customs(Exports), Karachi
205   Mr. Fayyaz Rasool         Deputy Collector, Collectrate of Custom (Exports),
                                Karachi
206   Dr. Abdul Rehman Rind     Deputy Collector of Customs FE&ST Karachi
207   Mr. Khalil Ibrahim        Deputy Director of Customs Valuation & Post
      Yousfani                  Clearance Audit, Karachi
208   Mr. Shafqat Ali Khan      Deputy Collector Model Customs Collectorate (CARE),
      Niazi                     Karachi
209   Mr. Shafiq Ahmed Latki    Deputy Collector, LTU, Karachi
210   Mr. Asif Abbas            Deputy Collector of Customs (Appraisement), Karachi
211   Dr. Tahir Qureshi         Deputy Director, Directorate of Training & Research
                                (Cus.FE&ST), Karachi
212   Mr. Rashid Habib Khan     Deputy Collector of Customs Sale Tax & Federal
                                Excise, (Appeals), Hyderabad
213   Syed Aslam Ali            Deputy Commissioner, LTU, Karachi
214   Ms. Syeda Naureen Zohra   Taxation Officer, Commissionerate of Income Tax
                                (Company Zone-II), Karachi
215   Mr. Abdul Wahid           Deputy Collector, Model Sales Tax House, Karachi
216   Mr. Afaque Ahmed          Deputy Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income Tax
      Qureshi                   (Company Zone-IV), Karachi
217   Mr. Muneeb Arsalan        Deputy Collector, Model Sales Tax House, Karachi
218   Mr. Jahangir Ahmad        Deputy Collector, Model Sales Tax House, Karachi
219   Mr. Tsneem Yousaf         Deputy Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income Tax
                                (Zone-B), Karachi
220   Mr. Javeed Mohiuddin      Deputy Commissioner of Income Tax (Zone-B),
                                Karachi
221   Dr. Shahab Imam           Assistant Collector of Customs (Appraisement), Karachi
222   Ms. Shalra Khan           Assistant Collector, Model Sales Tax House, Karachi
223   Mr. Yasin Murtaza         Assistant Collector of Customs (Preventative), Karachi
224   Ms. Nawabzadi Aliya       Assistant Collector, Collectorate of Customs
      Dilawar Khanji            (Preventive), Karachi
225   Dr. Wasi Anwar            Second Secretary, ST-BPR Stream Project, Karachi
226   Mr. Aamer Nawaz Hamid     Assistant Collector, Model Sales Tax House, Karachi
227   Mr. Muhammad Haris        Assistant Collector, Collectorate of Customs
      Ansari                    (Preventive), Karachi
228   Syed Muhammad Ali         Assistant Commissioner, Commissionrate of Income
      Jafferi                   Tax, (Zone-A) Karachi
229   Mr. Shahid Hussain        Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax, (Zone-E)
                                Karachi
230   Mr. Sikandar Ali Shaikh   Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax, (Zone-A)
                                Karachi
231   Mr. Asad Ullah Larik      Assistant Commissioner LTU, Karachi


                                                                                  141
232   Dr. Sajid Hussain Arain     Assistant Commissioner MTU, Karachi
233   Agha Hadayat ullah          Additional Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income
                                  Tax, (Comp. Zone-V) Karachi
234   Mr. Muhammad Ali Sand       Additional Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income
                                  Tax, (Comp. Zone-B) Karachi
235   Dr. Fazal M. Abrejo         Additional Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income
                                  Tax, (Comp. Zone-iv) Karachi
236   Ms. Seema Jabeen            Additional Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income
                                  Tax, (Comp. Zone-C) Karachi
237   Mr. Muhammad Muzaffar       Additional Commissioner, LTU, Karachi
      Khan
238   Mr. Gohar Ali               Additional Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income
                                  Tax, Southern Region, Karachi
239   Mr. Nazir Ahmed Shoro       Additional Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income
                                  Tax, (Comp. Zone-A) Karachi
240   Dr. Manzoor Ahmed           Additional Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income
      Memon                       Tax, (Comp. Zone-iii) Karachi
241   Mr. Muhammad Amir           Deputy Collector, Collectorate of Custom (Port Qasim),
      Thahim                      Karachi
242   Mr. Sajjad Haider Jhin Jhin Deputy Collector, Collectorate of Custom (Port Qasim),
                                  Karachi
243   Mr. Muhammad Saleem         Deputy Collector, Model Sales Tax House, Karachi
      Memon
244   Mr. Muhammad Ashfaq         Deputy Collector, Collectorate of Custom (Port Qasim),
                                  Karachi
245   Mr. Shoukat Ali             Deputy Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income
                                  Tax, Hyderabad
246   Mr. Manzoor Ahmed           Deputy Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income
      jokhio                      Tax, (Comp. Zone-A) Karachi
247   Mr. Muhammad Nabeel         Deputy Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income
      Rana                        Tax, (Comp. Zone-B) Karachi
248   Mr. Asim Ansar Siddiqui     Deputy Commissioner MTU, Karachi
249   Mr. Muhammad Ejaz Khan Deputy Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income
                                  Tax, (Special Zone) Karachi
250   Mr. Ghulam Murtaza          Deputy Commissioner, LTU, Karachi
      Khuhro
251   Mr. Jamil Ahmed Baloch      Deputy Collector, Collectorate of Custom (Export),
                                  Karachi
252   Mr. Saeed Ahmed Pathan      Deputy Collector, Collectorate of Custom (Export),
                                  Karachi
253   Mr. Shahid Mehmood          Deputy Collector, Model Tax House, Karachi
      Shiekh
254   Mr. Najeeb Ahmed            Deputy Commissioner, LTU, Karachi
      Memon
255   Mr. Muzaffar Ali Soomro     Deputy Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income
                                  Tax, (Comp. Zone-A) Karachi


                                                                                     142
256    Mr. Asem Iftikhar          Deputy Commissioner, LTU, Karachi
257    Mr. M. Yasir Khan Ghouri   Deputy Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income
                                  Tax, (Special Zone) Karachi
258    Qazi Afzal                 Deputy Commissioner, Directorate of Inspection &
                                  Audit, IT, Karachi
259    Ms. Shazia Memon           Deputy Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income
                                  Tax, (Zone-E) Karachi
260    Ms. Shazia Abid            Second Secretary, HR, Field Formations, Karachi
261    Tipu Saeed Khan            Deputy Commissioner, Commissinerate of Income Tax
                                  (Company Zone-III), Karachi
262    Mr. M. Azhar Ansari        Deputy Commissioner, Regional Tax Office, Sukkur
263    Mr. M. Faisal Khan         Assistant Controller, Collectorate of Customs
                                  (Appraisement), Karachi
264    Mr. Abdul Hayee Sheikh     Assistant Controller, Collectorate of Customs ( Port
                                  Qasim), Karachi
265    Mr. Salamat Ali            Assistant Controller, Collectorate of Customs
                                  (Appraisement), Karachi
266    Dr. Omar Mukhtar Khan      Assistant Director, Directorate of Customs Valuations &
                                  Post Clearance Audit, Karachi
267    Mr. Omar Shafique          Assistant Collector, Model Sales Tax
268    Mr. Haroon Waqar Malik     Assistant Collector, Model Sales Tax House, Karachi
269    Mr. Muhammad Shoaib        Assistant Collector, Collectorate of Customs
       Qazi                       (Preventive), Karachi
270    Ms. Farah Farooq           Assistant Collector of Customs Collectorate (CARE),
                                  Karachi
271    Mr. Naveed Dost Chandio    Assistant Director, Directorate of Customs Valuations &
                                  Post Clearance Audit, Karachi
272    Ms. Mona Iffat Baloch      Assistant Collector, Collectorate of Customs, Sales Tax
                                  and Federal Excise Hyderabad
273    Mr. Javed Sarwar Sheikh    Assistant Controller, Collectorate of Customs
                                  (Appraisement), Karachi
274    Mr. Nawsherwan Khan        Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax, (Zone-A)
                                  Karachi
275    Mr. Fazal-e-Subhan         Assistant Commissioner MTU, Karachi
276    Eng. Riyaz A. Memon        Assistant Collector of Customs (ST&FE), Hyderabad
277    Dr. Farrukh Ansari         Additional Commissioner, LTU, Karachi
278    Mr. Rajauddin              Additional Commissioner, Commissioinerate of Income
                                  Tax (Zone-E), Karachi
279    Mr. Shoaib Ahmad Sethi     Additional Commissioner, Regional Commissionerate
                                  of
280.   Ms. Seema Jabeen           Income Tax, Corporate Region, Karachi
                                  Additional Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income
                                  Tax (Zone-C), Karachi
281.   Syed Ayaz Mahmood          Additional Commissioner, Regional
                                  Commissionerate of Income Tax, Southern Region,



                                                                                     143
                                   Karachi

282.   Ms. Attiya Ashraf         Additional Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income
                                 Tax (Zone-C), Karachi
283.   Syed Maroof Gilani        Additional Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income
                                 Tax (Zone-A), Karachi
284.   Rai Talat Maqbool Ahmad Additional Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income
                                 Tax (Zone-E), Karachi
285.   Mr. Saif Ullah Khan       Additional Director, Directorate of Training & Research
                                 (Income Tax), Karachi.
286.   Mr. Asim Ahmad            Additional Commissioner, Large Taxpayers Unit
                                 (LTU). Karachi
287.   Dr. Faiz Illahi Memon     Additional Commissioner, Medium Taxpayers Unit
                                 (MTU). Karachi
288.   Mr. Amir Ali Khan Talpur Additional Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income
                                 Tax Hyderabad
289.   Dr. Abul Sattar Abbasi    Additional Commissioner, Medium Taxpayers Unit
                                 (MTU). Karachi
290.   Dr. Muhammad Ali Khan     Additional Commissioner, Large Taxpayers Unit
                                 (LTU). Karachi
291.   Ms. Lubna Ayab Asif       Additional Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income
                                 Tax (Zone-B), Karachi
292.   Mr. Muhammad Mustafa      Additional Director, Medium Taxpayers Unit (MTU).
       Kamal                     Karachi
293.   Mr. Zulfiqar Ali Syed     Deputy Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income Tax
                                 (Company Zone-V), Karachi
294.   Mr. Rashid HUssain Jamali Deputy Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income Tax
                                 (Company Zone-V), Karachi
295.   Mr. Zulfiqar Ali Memon    Deputy Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income Tax
                                 ( Zone-E), Karachi
296.   Mr. Dost Muhammad         Deputy Director, Data Processing Unit (Income Tax),
       Nazamani                  Hyderabad
297.   Mr. Hussain Barohi        Deputy Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income Tax
                                 (Zone-A), Karachi
298.   Mr. Fawad Khan            Additional Commissioner, Large Taxpayers Unit
       Yousafzai                 (LTU). Karachi
299.   Mr. S.M. Moosa            Additional Commissioner, Regional
                                 Commissionerate of Income Tax, Southern Region,
                                 Karachi
300.   Mr. Shakeel Ahmad         Deputy Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income Tax
       Kasana                    (Company Zone-V), Karachi
301.   Dr. Muhammad Aslam        Deputy Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income Tax
       Mari                      (Company Zone-III), Karachi
302.   Mr. Abdul Hafeez          Deputy Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income Tax
                                 (Special Zone), Karachi
303.   Mr. Zia Agro              Deputy Commissioner, Medium Taxpayers Unit


                                                                                    144
                                     (MTU). Karachi
304.     Pir Khalid Hasain Qureshi   Deputy Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income Tax
                                     Hyderabad
305.     Mr. Girdhari Mal            Deputy Commissioner, Medium Taxpayers Unit
         Maghawar                    (MTU). Karachi
306.     Mr. Hamat Iqbal             Deputy Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income Tax
                                     (Special Zone), Karachi
307.     Ms. Erfa Iqbal              Deputy Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income Tax
                                     (Special Zone), Karachi
308.     Rao Muhammad Adil           Deputy Commissioner, Large Taxpayers Unit (LTU).
         Khan                        Karachi
309.     Mr. Zulfiqar Ahmad          Deputy Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income Tax
                                     (Zone-A), Karachi
310.     Mr. Javed Mushir            Deputy Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income Tax
                                     (Zone-B), Karachi
311.     Mr. Mumtaz Ali Sheikh       Deputy Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income Tax
                                     (Zone-C), Karachi
312.     Mr. Rizwan Ullah Khan       Deputy Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income Tax
                                     (Zone-A), Karachi
313.     Mr. Aftab Hssan Rizvi       Deputy Commissioner, Large Taxpayers Unit (LTU).
                                     Karachi
314.     Mirza Saleem Perviaz        Deputy Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income Tax
                                     (Company Zone-I), Karachi
315.     Mr. Muhammad Akram          Deputy Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income Tax
         Mian                        (Company Zone-III), Karachi
316.     Mr. Saghir Abbas Bhojani    Deputy Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income Tax
                                     (Special Zone), Karachi
317.     Mr. Mehtab Ali Bangash      Deputy Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income Tax
                                     (Company Zone-III), Karachi
318.     Mr. Muhammad Hanif          Deputy Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income Tax
         Sheikh                      (Special Zone), Karachi
319.     Mr. Sajjad Akbar Khan       Deputy Director, Directorate of Inspect ion & Audit
                                     (Income Tax), Karachi
320.     Mr. Tahir Tanveer           Deputy Commissioner, Medium Taxpayers Unit
                                     (MTU). Karachi
321.     Mr. Bashir Ahmed Kalwar     Deputy Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income Tax
                                     (Special Zone), Karachi
Batch No. 9
322.     Mr. Sajjad Ahmad Malik      Additional Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income
                                     Tax (Company Zone-I), Karachi
323.     Mr. Haseeb-ul-Haq           Additional Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income
                                     Tax (Special Zone), Karachi
324.     Mr. Perveez Esbhani         Additional Collector, Collectorate of Custom (Exports),
                                     Karachi
325.     Mr. Faheem-ul-Haq           Additional Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income
                                     Tax (HQs), Corporate Region, Karachi


                                                                                         145
326.   Mr. Muhammd Naseer        Deputy Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income Tax
       Janjua                    (Company Zone-IV), Karachi
327.   Ms. Hina Akram            Deputy Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income Tax
                                 (Company Zone-IV), Karachi
328.   Mr. Maqsood Jahangir      Deputy Commissioner, Large Taxpayers Unit (LTU).
                                 Karachi
329.   Dr. Tariq Ghani           Deputy Commissioner, Large Taxpayers Unit (LTU).
                                 Karachi
330.   Mr. Abdul Hameed Abro     Deputy Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income Tax
                                 Hyderabad
331.   Mr. Mazoor Bux Laghari    Deputy Commissioner, Medium Taxpayers Unit
                                 (MTU). Karachi
332.   Mr. Shoukat Ahmed         Deputy Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income Tax
       Memon                     Hyderabad
333.   Mr. Vakil Ahmad Abbasi    Deputy Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income Tax
                                 (Zone-B) Karachi
334.   Syed Shakeel Ahmad        Deputy Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income Tax
                                 (Company Zone-III), Karachi
335.   Mr. Muhammad Abbas        Deputy Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income Tax
                                 (Company Zone-III), Karachi
336.   Mr. Hafeeq-ur-Rehman      Deputy Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income Tax
       Khan                      (Company Zone-IV), Karachi
337.   Mr. G.R. Mansoori         Deputy Commissioner, Regional Tax Office, Karachi
338.   Mr. Muhammad Saleem       Deputy Commissioner, Large Taxpayers Unit (LTU).
                                 Karachi
339.   Mr. Ayaz Hussain Mughal   Deputy Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income Tax
                                 (Zone--I) Karachi
340.   Syeda Adeela Bohkari      Deputy Commissioner, Medium Taxpayers Unit
                                 (MTU). Karachi
341.   Mr. Riaz Hussain Lilla    Assistant Director of Inspection & Audit (Income Tax),
                                 Karachi
342.   Mr. Yousuf Ali Khan       Assistant Collector, Collectorate of Customs
       Magsi                     (Appraisement), Karachi
343.   Mr. Mr Rizwan Mahmood     Assistant Collector, Collectorate of Customs
                                 (Appraisement), Karachi
344.   Mr. Yasser Wahab Kalwar   Assistant Collector, Collectorate of Customs
                                 (Preventive), Karachi
345.   Mr. Kamran Ali Raza       Assistant Collector, Collectorate of Customs
                                 (Preventive), Karachi
346.   Mr. Hasan Zaheer Nomani   Assistant Director, Directorate of Inspection & Aduit
                                 (Income Tax), Karachi
347.   Mr.                       Assistant Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income
       Azhar Erum Memon          Tax (Zone-E) Karachi
348.   Mr. Nawab Uddin Khan      Assistant Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income
                                 Tax (Zone-A) Karachi
349.   Mr. Naib Ali Phtan        Assistant Director, National Accountability Bureau,


                                                                                   146
                                  Karachi
350.    Mr. Usman Ghani SIddiqu   Assistant Commissioner, Medium Taxpayers Unit
                                  (MTU). Karachi
351.    Mr. Abdul Shakoor Abro    Assistant Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income
                                  Tax (Zone-A) Karachi
352.    Mr. Najeeb Ullah Dr.      Assistant Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income
                                  Tax (Zone-B) Karachi
353.    Mr. Abdul Hammed          Assistant Commissioner, Medium Taxpayers Unit
        Shaikh                    (MTU). Karachi
354.    Mr. Hakim Ali Soomro      Assistant Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income
                                  Tax Sukkur
355.    Mr. Wahid Bakhsh Sheikh   Assistant Collector, Model Sales Tax House, Karachi
356.    Mr. Amjad Hussain         Assistant Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income
        Memon                     Tax Hyderabad
357.    Mr. Pervez Ahmad Sher     Assistant Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income
                                  Tax Sukkur
358.    Ms. Saniya Farukh         Assistant Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income
                                  Tax (Zone-B), Karachi
359.    Mr. Ajaz Hussain          Assistant Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income
                                  Tax (Zone-E), Karachi
360.    Mr. Muhammad Aslam        Assistant Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income
                                  Tax (Zone-A), Karachi
361.    Mr. Makhno Khan Mahar     Assistant Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income
                                  Tax Sukkur
362.    Mr. Abid Aziz Memon       Assistant Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income
                                  Tax (Zone-B), Karachi
363.    Mr. Wali Muhammad         Assistant Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income
        Shakih                    Tax (Zone-B), Karachi
364.    Mr. Rehmatullah           Assistant Collector, (Port Muhammad Bin Qasim),
                                  Karachi
365.    Ms. Ambreen Shah          Deputy Commissioner, Medium Taxpayers Unit
                                  (MTU). Karachi
Batch No. 10
366.     Mr. Asim Ahmad           Additional Commissioner, Large Taxpayers Unit
                                  (LTU). Karachi
367.    Mr. Muhammad Anwar        Deputy Collector, Collectorate of Customs (Port
        Thahim                    Muhammad Bing Qasim), Karachi
368.    Mr. Ghulam Nabi Sethar    Additional Commissioner, of Income Tax, Southern
                                  Region Karachi
369.    Mr. B.A. Memon            Additional Commissioner, of Income Tax,
                                  (Enforcement Division-II), Zone-E, Karachi
370.    Mr. Muhammad Hanif        Deputy Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income Tax
        Sheikh                    (Special Zone), Karachi
371.    Mr. Jameel Ahmed Baloch   Deputy Collector, Collectorate of Customs (Exports),
                                  Karachi
372.    Mr. Abdul Wahid           Deputy Collector, Model Sales Tax House, Karachi


                                                                                    147
373.   Mr. Muneeb Arsalan          Deputy Collector, Model Sales Tax House, Karachi
374.   Mr. Aftab H. Rizvi          Taxation Officer-VI Audit Division, LTU, Karachi
375.   Mr. Rafiq-ur-Rehman         Deputy Commissioner, of Income Tax 9Enforcement-
       Memon                       IV), Karachi
376.   Mr. Afaq Ahmed Qureshi      Special Assistant to the Commissioner of Income Tax
                                   Company Zone-IV, Karachi
377.   Ms. Shalra Khan             Assistant Collector, Collectorate of Sales Tax & Federal
                                   Excise, Sales Tax House, Karachi
378.   Mr. Abdul Rehman Khiliji    Assistant Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income
                                   Tax (Zone-A), Karachi
379.   Mr. Asad Ali Khan Luni      Assistant Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income
                                   Tax (Zone-E), Karachi
380.   Mr. Rizwan Qazi             Assistant Commissioner, Commissionerate of Income
                                   Tax (Zone-B), Karachi
381.   S. Mohsin Ali Shah          Assistant Collector, Collectorate of Sales Tax, Sales Tax
                                   House, Karachi
382.   Ms. Aliya Khanji            Assistant Collector, Collectorate of Customs, Jinnah
                                   International Airport, Karachi
383.   Ms. Maryam Habib            Assistant Commissioner, Medium Taxpayers Unit
                                   (MTU). Karachi
384.   Mr. Salamat ALi             Assistant Collector, Collectorate of Customs
                                   (Appraisement), Karachi
385.   Mr. Ashok Kumar             Taxation Officer Audit-IV Hyderabad
       Chanalani
386.   Mr. Abdul Haye Sheikh       Assistant Collector, of Customs (Port Muhammad Bin
                                   Qasim), Karachi
387.   Mr. Yasin Murtaza           Assistant Collector, of Customs (Preventive), Karachi
388.   Saeed Ahmed Pathan          Deputy Collector, Collectorate of Customs, Quetta
389.   Mr. Faisal Rauf Memon       Deputy Commissioner of Income Tax, Special Zone,
                                   Karachi
390.   Syed Shakeel Ahmed          Deputy Commissioner of Income Tax, Company Zone-
                                   III, Karachi
391.   Mr. Bahart A. Qureshi       Additional Commissioner of Income Tax, Audit
                                   Division, Companies-I, Karachi
392.   Dr. Abdul Rehman Rind       Deputy Collector, Office of the Deputy Collector,
                                   Customs Dry Port/Bond Hyderabad
393.   Mr. Tariq Shamsher Junejo   Deputy Commissioner of Income Tax, Regional Tax
                                   Office, Karachi
394.   Mr. Sultan Wazir Khan       Additional Commissioner, of Income Tax, Southern
                                   Region Karachi
395.   Mr. Azhar Ansari            Deputy Commissioner of Income Tax, Regional Tax
                                   Office, Karachi
396.   Mr. Zafar Rqfique           Deputy Commissioenr /Taxation Officer, LTU, Karachi
       Siddique
397.   Mr. Sahibzada Abul          Deputy Commissioner/Taxation Officer, Company
       Mateen                      Zone-V, Karachi


                                                                                        148
  398.       Ms. Shaista Abbas            Additional Commissioner, of Income Tax, Companies
                                          Zone-V, Karachi
  399.       Mr. Muhammad Ali             Deputy Commissioner, Medium Taxpayers Unit
                                          (MTU). Karachi
  400.       Dr. Abdul Latif Main         Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax, MTU, Karachi
  401.       Ms. Adeela Bukhari           Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax, MTU, Karachi
  402.       Ms. Uzma Munir               Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax, MTU, Karachi
  403.       Mr. Amjad Mateen             Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax, Hyderabad
                                          Zone
  405.       Dr. Tariq Masood             Additional Commissioner, Income Tax LTU. Karachi
  406.       Mr. Barkat Ali Bukhari       Director, Directorate of Training & Research, customs
                                          & Excise, Karachi
  407.       Mr. Vishnoo Raja Qavi        Additional Commissioner Audit Division, Companies
                                          Zone-III, Karachi
  408.       Mr. Mustaq Qavi              Additional Commissioner Enforcement Division,
                                          Companies Zone-III, Karachi
  409.       Mr. Abdul Khaliq Sheikh      Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax Companies
                                          Zone-I, Karachi
  410.       Mr. Ahmed Ameer Khan         Cost Accountant, Large Taxpayers Unit, (LTU),
                                          Karachi.
  411.       Mr. Hanif Sheikh             Additional Commissioner of Income Tax Corporate
                                          Region, Karachi.


  Annex

  LIST OF OFFICERS OF MINISTRY OF COMMERCE-ATTENDED THE SHORT
  TERM FOREIGH TRAINING COURSES UNDER PSCBP


    (Updated on 26-01-2010)
S.No. Name & Designation of the        Field / Title of the Training Availed   Dates of the
       Trainee                                                                 training


(I) Training courses at the World Trade Institute (WTI), Berne, Switzerland (Duration: 4 days
each)

   1.    Mr. Samiullah                 Non-discrimination in International     January 9-12, 2006
         (Deputy Chief-Imports)        Economic Law

   2.    Mr. Irfan Khan                -do-                                    January 9-12, 2006
         (Research Officer-FT-II)

   3.    Mr. Omar Hameed               Tariffs, Quotas, Voluntary Export       January 16-19, 2006
         (SO-Export)                   Restraints


                                                                                              149
4.   Mr. Ovais Abbasi             -do-                                  January 16-19, 2006
     (Research Officer-Imports)

5.   Mr. Muhammad Shahbaz.        Trade Policy Formation                January 23-26, 2006
     (Deputy Chief-ITO)

6.   Mr. Irfan Ahmed Khan.        -do-                                  January 23-26, 2006
     (Assistant Chief-Imports)

7.   Mr. Nasim Qureshi.           Trade Remedies, Antidumping,          Jan. 30-Feb. 2, 2006
     (Additional Secretary)       Safeguards

8.   Mr. Mansoor Ahmed Bajwa.     Competition: Basic Concepts           February 6-9, 2006
     (Deputy Secretary-FT-II)

9.   Ms. Seema Shafique.          -do-                                  February 6-9, 2006
     (SO-FT-III wing)

10. Ms. Saira Ahmed.              Public Procurement                    May 15-18, 2006
    (Director CM Office)

11. Mr. Malik Muhammad            Public Procurement                    May 15-18, 2006
    Afzal.
    (SO-Import wing)
12. Mr. Shaukat Ali Khan.         Trade and Investment                  May 22-25, 2006
    (Deputy Secretary-FT-III)
13. Ms. Khalida Bashir.           -do-                                  May 22-25, 2006
    (SO-import wing)
14. Mr. Majid Qureshi.            Trade and Development                 December 18-21,
    (Deputy Secretary-Import)                                           2006
15. Mr. Naeem Azid.               Non discrimination in International   January 8-11, 2007
    (SO-Imports)                  Economic Law
16. Mr. Khalid Pervez.            -do-                                  January 8-11, 2007
    (Assistant Chief-Export)

17. Mr. Naeem Anwar.              Tariff and Non-Tariff Barriers        January 15-18, 2007
    (Deputy Secretary-FT-I)
18. Mr. Muhammad Liaquat Ch.      -do-                                  January 15-18, 2007
    (SO-Admn)
19. Mr. Asif Khan.                Competition Policy                    February 12-15,
    (SO-Admn)                                                           2007
20. Mr. Rao Atif Raza.            Competition Policy                    February 12-15,
    (Research Associate, FTIP,                                          2007
    Islamabad)



                                                                                      150
21. Mr. Tariq Zubair.               Trade Remedies                        February 19-23,
    (SO-Insurance)                                                        2007


22. Mr. Muhammad Farooque.          Health, TBT, SPS & PPMS               Feb. 26-March 1,
    (Assistant Director, TDAP)                                            2007


23. Mr. Muhammad Akram              Dispute Settlement                    March 5-9, 2007
    Qureshi.
    (Assistant Chief-ITO)
24. Ms. Raheela Tajwar.             -do-                                  March 5-9, 2007
    (SO-Admn-III)
25. Mr. Manzoor Ahmed Kyani.        -do-                                  March 5-9, 2007
    (Deputy Secretary-WTO)
26. Mr. Taj Muhammad Khan.          Trade and Finance                     March 26-29, 2007
    (SO-Admn)
27. Qazi Zaheer Ahmed,              “Political Economy of International   16-18 Nov, 2009
    Deputy Secretary (Admn).        Trade”

28. Mr. Muhammad Tariq,             -do-                                  -do-
     Assistant Chief (Statistics)
29. Syed Tauqeer Hussain Shah,      -do-                                  -do-
    Section Officer (Admn-I)
30. Mr. Altaf Hussain,              -do-                                  -do-
    Research Officer (ITO)
31. Mr. Azher Iqbal,                -do-                                  -do-
    Director (TDAP)
32. Mr. Farrukh Mukhtar,            -do-                                  -do-
    Assistant Director, NTC.
33. Syed Wajid Ali Shah,            -do-                                  -do-
    Section Officer (Export-III)
34. Mr. Azher Ali Choudhry,         “Political Economy of International   16-18 Nov, 09 &
    Joint Secretary (Export)        Trade”                                23-25 Nov, 2009
                                    & “Economics of Competition”
35. Mr. Masood ul Hasan             “Political Economy of International   16-18 Nov, 09 &
    Qureshi, Economic               Trade”                                23-25 Nov, 2009
    Consultant (ITO)                & “Economics of Competition”
36. Mr. Khalid Mehmood,             “Economics of Competition”            23-25 November,
    Section Officer (Admn-V)                                              2009
37. Mr. Ghulam Rasool Anjum,        -do-                                  -do-
    Section Officer (Admn-IV)
38. Mr. Jamil Akhtar Khan,          -do-                                  -do-
    Section Officer (Americas)



                                                                                       151
    39. Mr. Qazi Imran-ud-Din,       -do-                                 -do-
        Section Officer, (Africa &
        ME)
    40. Mr. Muhammad Aasim           -do-                                 -do-
        Nawaz Tiwana, Deputy
        Director, TDAP


(II) Attachments / Practical Training with Pakistan Mission to WTO, Geneva (Duration: 14
days each)


   41. Mr. Arshad Lodhi.              Rules/DSU/ASCM                     February 12-24,
       (Assistant Chief-WTO)                                             2006


   42. Mr. Muhammad Salahuddin.       Agriculture/SPS/TBT                Feb. 27-March 10,
       (SO-WTO)                                                          2006


   43. 2Mr. Arslan                    Services Cluster                   April 22 - May 6,
       8(SO-WTO)                                                         2007
       .
   44. 2Mrs. Yasmin Masood            NAMA, DSB, TPR                     May 13-27, 2007
       9(Joint Secretary-WTO)
       .
   45. 3Mr. Muhammad Arifullah        Agriculture, DSB, SPS, TPR         May 20 – June 3,
       0(Research Associate-FTIP)                                        2007
       .
   46. 3Mr. Zahid Hussain Abbasi      NAMA, DSB, TPR                     June 17 – July 1,
       1(Research Associate-FTIP)                                        2007
       .
   47. 3Mr. Omer Moin Chaudhary       Rules, Cluster                     April 22 – May 6,
       2(Director-NTC)                                                   2007
       .
   48. 3Mr. Muhammad Arshad           -do-                               April 22 – May 6,
       3(Asst. Director-NTC)                                             2007
       .
   49. 3Mr. Muhammad Ikram Arif       -do-                               Oct. 21 – Nov. 4,
       4(Member-NTC)                                                     2007
       .
   50. 3Mr. Ghulam Sarwar Brohi       Agriculture, TPR                   July 8 – 22, 2007
       5(DG-TDAP)
       .
   51. 3Mr. Shahid Latif Khan         NAMA, TPR                          July 8 – 22, 2007
       6(Director-TDAP)


                                                                                           152
       .

   52. 3Mr. Khalid Hidayat Khan           -do-                                      July 8 – 22, 2007
       7(Director-TDAP)
       .
   53. 3Mr. Tajmmul Hussain               NAMA, Agriculture                         Sep. 23 – Oct. 7,
       8(Deputy Director-TDAP)                                                      2007
       .
   54. 3Mr. Muhammad Naseer               -do-                                      Sep. 23 – Oct. 7,
       9(Deputy Director-TDAP)                                                      2007
       .
   55. 4Mr. Athar Hussain Khokar          -do-                                      Nov. 11 – 25, 2007
       0(Asst. Director-TDAP)
       .
   56. 4Mr. Sajjad Nazar Butt             -do-                                      Nov. 11 – 25, 2007
       1(Asst. Director-TDAP)
       .

iii) Participation in other training courses

   57. 5Mrs. Zeb Bilal, Faculty Member,        International Symposium /            Nov. 6-12, 2006
       6Pakistan School of Fashion             Workshop on Natural dyes, held in
       . Design (PSFD), Lahore.                India
   58. 5Mrs. Pakeeza Khan, Faculty             -do-                                 -do-
       7Member, Pakistan School of
       . Fashion Design (PSFD), Lahore.
   59. Mr. Qazafi Rind, Section Officer        MBA Degree at Korean                 Jan-December,
                                               Development Institute, Seoul,        2009
                                               Korea
   60. Mr. Attuallah, Section Officer          Export Development and               18-22nd May, 2009
                                               Diversification, held at the World
                                               Bank Institute, Washington D.C
   61. Mr. Adnan Younis Lodhi,                 Asia-Pacific Regional Public         9-27 November,
       Section Officer                         International Trade Law Course       2009
                                               (PITCL) held at Sydney, Australia
   62. Dr. Safdar A. Sohail,                   Leading & Strategic change,          3-14th August,
       Director General (PITAD)                held at RIPA, London                 2009
   63. Mr. Abdul Haleem Khan,                  Recruitment, Selection and           16-27th November,
       Assistant Director, PITAD               Retention of Staff , held at RIPA,   2009
                                               London
   64. Mr. Zahid Junaid,                       -do-                                 -do-
       Assistant Director, PITAD
   65. Mrs. Roubina Taufiq Shah,               Customized training at Malaysian     4-14th May, 2009
       Director (Training), FTIP/PITAD         External Trade Development
                                               Corporation, Kualalumpur
                                               Malaysia


                                                                                                    153
       66. Mr.Muhammad Adnan Khan,             -do-                                -do-
           Assistant Director-
           Probationer, FTIP/PITAD
       67. Mr. Muhammad Awais Butt,            - do -                              -do-
           Assistant Director-Probationer,
           FTIP/PITAD
       68. Mr. Jabbar Tooqir, Assistant        - do -                              -do-
           Director-Probationer,
           FTIP/PITAD
       69. Mr. Rizwan-ul-Haq, Assistant        - do -                              -do-
           Director-Probationer,
           FTIP/PITAD
       70. Mr. Mohammad Ali Bandial,           - do -                              -do-
           Assistant Director-Probationer,
           FTIP/PITAD
       71. Ms. Adeela Younas, Assistant        - do -                              -do-
           Director-Probationer,
           FTIP/PITAD
       72. Mr. Muhammad Suleman Khan,          - do -                              -do-
           Assistant Director-Probationer,
           FTIP/PITAD
       73. Ms. Hina Hul, Assistant Director-   - do -                              -do-
           Probationer, FTIP/PITAD

        Annex

        List of officers of Ministry of Industries and Production trained in Short term Foreign
        Trainings


Sr.                                            Brief Description                    Institute/University/
    Name of Officer     Course Attended                            Duration
No.                                            of Course                            Organization

Ministry of Industries and Production
                        Training and
     Mr. Zafar Iqbal,                                              Nov 12th to      Royal Institute of
                        Development
1    JS(A&F)                                                       Dec. 7th,        Public
                        Strategies and
     MOIP&SI                                                       2007             Administration, UK
                        Practices
2    Syed Tahir         Managing Strategic                         03 to 16 Dec,    Crown Agents, UK
     Shahbaz, JS(SI)    Change                                     2007
     MOIP&SI
3    Ahsan Akhtar       Senior Executives                          Feb 25 to        John F. Kennedy
     Malik, JS(CS),     Fellow Programme                           March 21,        School of
     MOI&P                                                         2008             Government
                                                                                    Executives, USA



                                                                                                  154
4    Dr Iram Khan,      Managing public                             May 15 - Jun    ILO International
     DS(SI),            service reform: a                           2, 2006         Training Center,
     MOIP&SI            participatory                                               Turin, Italy
                        approach
5    Dr. Iftikhar       Project Planning &                          13 to 24 Nov,   Aus H/S Australian
     Babar, DS(SI)      Management                                  2006            Habitat Studies,
     MOIP&SI                                                                        Thailand, Malaysia &
                                                                                    Singapore
6    Mirza M.Sana-ul-   Governance                                  18 Apr - 25     Institute of Social
     Haque, DS(CS)      Democratization and                         June, 2007      Studies, Netherlands
     MOIP&SI            Public Policy (GOV)
7    Mushtaq Ahmed,     Project Planning &                          02 - 14 Apr,    Aus Hs
     DS(P/B)            Management                                  2007            Australia/Thailand,
     MOIP&SI                                                                        Australia & New
                                                                                    Zealand
8    Waqar Ahmed,       Asia Pacific Advance The course was         Nov 12th to     NUS Business
     Deputy Secretary   Management           aimed at Managing      23rd, 2007      School, Singapore
                        Program              business strategy,
                                             operation,
                                             accounting and
                                             finance, leadership
                                             and team work.
9    Dr. Iftikhar       Equipment            The course             Oct 15th to     International Labour
     Babar, DS(SI)      Procurement          pertained to all the   Nov 02, 2007    Organization, Italy
     MOIP&SI            Management           process and
                                             documentation
                                             involved in
                                             purchase and
                                             transportation of
                                             equipment.
10   Ms. Raana Umar     Training and                                30th July -     Royal Institute of
     DS (P&I-C)         Development                                 24th Aug,       Public
     MOIP&SI            Strategies and                              2007            Administration, UK
                        Practices
11   Dr. Iram Khan,     7th Global Forum on                         26th to 29th    Vienna Austria
     DS MOIP&SI         “Re-inventing                               June, 2007
                        Government:
                        Building Trust in
                        Government”
12   Muhammad           WTI Summer            Training in         16th July to      World Trade Institute
     Shahid, DS,        Programme             International Trade 17th August,      Berne, Switzerland
     MOIP&SI                                  Regulation under    2007
                                              Capacity Building
                                              Project at World




                                                                                                 155
13   Mushtaq Ahmed,    Regulation                                 19 - 23 Mar,     LSE, UK
     Deputy Chief(F)                                              2007
     MOIP&SI

14   Mrs. Qurat-ul-    Regulation                                 19 - 23 Mar,     LSE, UK
     Ain, SO(NPO)                                                 2007
     MOIP&SI
15   Nasim Akhtar      Human Resource        Current practices    04 - 22 June,    Crown Agents, UK
     Bhatti, SO(Adm-   Management            of human resource    2007
     I) MOI&SI         Intensive             management
                                             development. It
                                             focused upon
                                             procedural
                                             evaluation of
                                             employees.
                                             Programmatic
                                             approach towards
                                             team building.

16   Saleem Khalid,    International                              11th June to     Carlton University,
     Assistant Chief   Program for                                6th July, 2007   Canada
     MOIP&SI           Development
                       Evaluation Training

17   Sarfraz Ahmed     Project and           Program              09th to 20th     Royal Institute of
     Assistant Chief   Management            identification and   July, 2007       Public
     (F), MOIP&SI      Training Program      design including                      Administration, UK
                                             logical framework
                                             analysis, the
                                             principles of
                                             effective project
                                             management,
                                             project planning,
                                             project appraisal,
                                             risk management,
                                             project design and
                                             critical path
                                             analysis, team
                                             building and
                                             human resource
                                             management.




                                                                                                156
18   Ali Umar Rajoka    Strategic Public   The course was       13th to 24th   London Corporate
     PRO To Minister,   Relations          specially designed   August, 2007   Training Ltd, UK
     MOIP&SI            Management         for RP
                                           practitioners. The
                                           main contents of
                                           the course were:
                                           Strategic
                                           Management,
                                           Internal
                                           communication,
                                           Media Relations,
                                           Research and
                                           Crisis
                                           Management

19   Mazhar-ud-Din  Managing               The course was      17th to 28th    Crown Agents, UK
     SO(G), MOIP&SI Development And        designed for        Sep, 2007
                    Training               Managers and
                                           other
                                           functionaries,
                                           responsible for the
                                           implementation of
                                           HRD programs. It
                                           dealt with the
                                           issues of Capacity
                                           Building and
                                           Institutional
                                           Strengthening. The
                                           role of training in
                                           the formulation of
                                           an effective HR
                                           policy was also
                                           looked into from
                                           different angles.


20   Khalid Javid, SO   Leadership &                            Oct 29th to    Royal Institute of
     MOIP&SI            Teambuilding                            Nov 9, 2007    Public
                                                                               Administration, UK




                                                                                           157
21   Marvi Qadir        Planning &             the course was on    Oct 22nd to
     Dhakkan,           Developing Human       approaches and       Nov 9th ,
     SO(APO)            Resources              benefits of          2007
                                               succession
                                               planning in an
                                               organization, the
                                               importance of
                                               managing
                                               performance,
                                                                                    Royal Institute of
                                               recruitment and
                                                                                    Public
                                               retention issues,
                                                                                    Administration, UK
                                               development of
                                               job evaluation
                                               principles and
                                               concepts,
                                               workforce issues
                                               relating to HR
                                               strategy,
                                               interviewing and
                                               negotiating skills
22   Mushtaq A.         Legislative Drafting                        Sep 24 to Oct
     Tanvir                                                         19th, 2007      Royal Institute of
                                                                                    Public
                                                                                    Administration, UK
23   Muzaffar Khan,     Project & Program      Feedback not         12th Nov. to
     S.O, MOIP&SI       Management: The        received             07th Dec,       Royal Institute of
                        Complete Project                            2007            Public
                        Management Cycle                                            Administration, UK

24   Irfan Khan         Human Resource                              24th Sep to     John F. Kennedy,
     Jadoon, SO(org),   Management and                              7th Dec, 2007   Harvard School
     MOIP&SI            Development
25   Manzar Hussain     Change Management      strategic            Oct, 8th -      Royal Institute of
     Faryad Shah,                              approaches to        26th , 2007     Public
     SO(USC)                                   change,                              Administration, UK
     MOIP&SI                                   developing a case
                                               for change ,
                                               creating
                                               development
                                               plans, leadership
                                               thou times of
                                               change, analyzing
                                               the organization,
                                               change tools and
                                               techniques,
                                               strategic human


                                                                                                158
                                           resource functions
                                           and systems.




26   Ismail Iqbal,      Planning &         approaches and       Oct, 22nd to   Royal Institute of
     S.O(INV-II),       Developing Human   benefits of          Nov 9, 2007    Public
     MOIP&SI            Resource           succession                          Administration, UK
                        Capabilities       planning, the
                                           importance of
                                           managing
                                           performance,
                                           creating
                                           development
                                           plans, developing
                                           the plan for
                                           change, collecting
                                           base line data
                                           recruitment and
                                           retention issues,
                                           development of
                                           job evaluation
                                           principles and
                                           concepts,
                                           environmental
                                           scanning and
                                           scenario planning,
                                           assignments
                                           techniques,
                                           evaluating a job
                                           and applying
                                           assignment
                                           techniques.
27   Javed Iqbal,    Project & Program                          12th Nov. to   Royal Institute of
     Assistant Chief,Management: The                            07th Dec,      Public
     MOIP&SI         Complete Project                           2007           Administration, UK
                     Management Cycle
28   Syed Wajid Ali  Financial                                  Nov, 19th to   Royal Institute of
     Shah, SO(PACO), Management                                 14th Dec,      Public
     MOIP&SI         Practices                                  2007           Administration, UK



                                                                                           159
29   Mohammad        Financial                                  Nov, 19th to   Royal Institute of
     Waseem,         Management                                 14th Dec,      Public
     SO(Budget)      Practices                                  2007           Administration, UK
     MOIP&SI
30   Khana Jan,      Financial           enhancing              Nov, 19th to   Royal Institute of
     SO(Personnel)   Management          financial              14th Dec,      Public
     MOIP&SI         Practices           performance ,          2007           Administration, UK
                                         financial
                                         management
                                         strategy and
                                         process,
                                         centralization and
                                         decentralization
                                         issues in Financial
                                         management ,
                                         managing financial
                                         resources and
                                         action planning,
                                         the budget process
                                         and medium term
                                         expenditure frame
                                         work, current
                                         challenged in
                                         public debt
                                         management,
                                         financial control,
                                         regularity and
                                         propriety.
31   Yasir Farooq    CCNP(Cisco          Feedback not           Nov. 24th      Westminster College
     Baloch, NA,     Certified Network   received               2007 to end of of Computing
     MOIP&SI         Professional)                              Feb, 2008

32   Malik Amman,    Project & Program   The training           Nov 12th to    Royal Institute of
     SO(Steel)       Management: The     course was             Dec. 7th,      Public
     MOIP&SI         Complete Project    designed to            2007           Administration, UK
                     Management Cycle    enhance
                                         participant’s skill
                                         in providing
                                         effective strategies
                                         and practical tool
                                         and techniques for
                                         management and
                                         development of
                                         both public and
                                         private sector
                                         programs and


                                                                                           160
                                            projects.




33   Riaz Ahmed       Enhancing Financial   Preparation of        Nov 19th to   Royal Institute of
     Sahito, Cost     Performance           budget, budget        30th, 2007    Public
     Accountant,                            allocation cash                     Administration, UK
     MOIP&SI                                inflow statement,
                                            balance sheet,
                                            profit and lose
                                            account and
                                            revenue
                                            generation.
34   Nazar Abbas,     Project & Program     project and           Nov 12th to   Royal Institute of
     S.O(P&I-III)     Management Course     program               Dec. 7th,     Public
     MOIP&Si                                management            2007          Administration, UK
                                            complete cycle
                                            included scope of
                                            project, project
                                            approved, how to
                                            conduct feasibility
                                            study, risk
                                            management and
                                            also how to
                                            forecast
                                            requirements,
                                            source funds and
                                            manage finance.
                                            the complete
                                                                  Nov 12th to   Royal Institute of
     Hashim Hussain   Project & Program     project
35                                                                Dec. 7th,     Public
     F.A, MOIP&SI     Management Course     management cycle
                                                                  2007          Administration, UK
                                            course




                                                                                            161
36   Mohammad           Training and           the course was on      Nov 12th to     Royal Institute of
     Shabbir,           Development            Training and           Dec. 7th,       Public
     SO(Tech),          Strategies and         development            2007            Administration, UK
     MOIP&SI            Practices              strategies and
                                               practices. The
                                               main focus was on
                                               assessment of
                                               training needs,
                                               training need
                                               analysis and
                                               training strategies.
37   Rohela Osman,      Project & Program      program designed       Nov 12th to     Royal Institute of
     SO(CS)             Management: The        to enhance             Dec. 7th,       Public
     MOIP&SI            Complete Project       participants skills    2007            Administration, UK
                        Management Cycle       in providing
                                               effective strategies
                                               and practical tools
                                               and techniques for
                                               the management
                                               and development
                                               of both public and
                                               private sector
                                               programs and
                                               projects
38   Dr. Ehtasham       Public Sector                                 Dec, 3 - 14,    Institute of Public
     Anwar              Management &                                  2007            Private Partnership,
                        Governance                                                    Washington, DC
39   Mr.Muhammad        Public Sector                                 Dec 08-19       Public Private
     Niaz Butt (JS)     Management &                                  2009            Partnership,
     MOIP               Governance                                                    Washington, DC
40   Ms Humera          Privatization in                              27-04 to 08-    Global Training
     Azam Khan (DS)     Public Private                                05-09           Consulting (GTC)
     ES MOIP            Partnership                                                   UK
40   Mr. Pervaiz        Human Resources                               25-05 to 05-    Royal Institute of
     Haleem (SO)        Management                                    06-09           Public
     MOIP                                                                             Administration, UK
41   Jamil Afaqi        SME Export                                    June 26 - 30,   UNIDO & ILO-TC at
     GM, SMEDA          Consortia                                     2006            ILO Turin, Italy
42   Syed Iqbal Anwar   Leadership in                                 11th to 22nd    John F. Kennedy,
     Kidwai, G.M        Development                                   June, 2007      Harvard School
     SMEDA              Managing Political &
                        Economic Change




                                                                                                    162
43   Jamil Afaqi, GM,   Innovation in                                   28th October    John F. Kennedy,
     SMEDA              Governance                                      to 2nd          Harvard School
                                                                        November,
                                                                        2007

44   Sultan Mehmood     Financial Institution                           19th to 31st    John F. Kennedy,
     Tiwana, G.M        for Private Enterprise                          August, 2007    Harvard School
     SMEDA              Development(FIPED
                        )
45   Sajjad Moghal      Senior Manager in                               June 29th to    John F. Kennedy,
     DGM, SMEDA         Government                                      Aug 17th ,      Harvard School
                                                                        2007

46   Nadia Jahengir   The Practice of Trade                             16th to 28th    John F. Kennedy,
     Seth, Manager,   Policy: Economics,                                Sep, 2007       Harvard School
     SMEDA            Negotiations and
                      Rules
47   Sheharyar Tahir, The Practice of Trade      It was great           Sep, 16 - 28,   John F. Kennedy,
     Manager SMEDA Policy: Economics,            learning               2007            Harvard School
                      Negotiations and           experience in
                      Rules                      international trade,
                                                 especially in WTO
                                                 related area.
48   Irfan Latif, A.M   Internal Audit           A program to           Oct, 8 - 19,    Royal Institute of
     SMEDA                                       provide with the       2007            Public
                                                 essential                              Administration, UK
                                                 knowledge and a
                                                 sound
                                                 understanding of
                                                 key elements
                                                 representing
                                                 internal audit, and
                                                 develop audit
                                                 management, skills
                                                 for effective
                                                 management of
                                                 internal controls.
49   Mr. Iftikhar                                                       16-9 to 28-9-   John F. Kennedy,
     Hussain (GM)                                                       07              Harvard School
     SMEDA
50   Abdul Bari Khan,   Making Corporate                                                Harvard Businees
     C.E.O PIDC,        Boards more                                                     School, USA
     Karachi            Effective




                                                                                                    163
Pakistan Industrial Development Corporation - PIDC

51   Asad Rafi             Fundamentals of                           Columbia Business
     Chandna               Management                                School, New York,
     GM(A&P) PIDC,                                                   USA
     Karachi
52   Riaz Ahmed            Service Delivery   Ensuring efficient     Royal Institute of
     Memon, PD             Performance        services through       Public
     PPHCI, Sindh          Measurement &      careful budgeting      Administration, UK
                           Benchmarking       and driving down
                                              costs in only part
                                              of the salutation to
                                              improve value for
                                              money to obtain
                                              both value and
                                              quality from the
                                              resources
                                              available,
                                              alternative
                                              approaches must
                                              be applied. This
                                              program will
                                              examine some of
                                              the key and
                                              transferable
                                              techniques.
President Primary Health Care Initiative - PPHCI

53   Dr. Tahir Qureshi     Project and                               Royal Institute of
     Principal Officer /   Programme                                 Public
     PD, PPHCI,            Management                                Administration, UK
     Karachi
54   Syed Abrar            Project Planning &                        Aus Hs
     Hussain, PD,          Management                                Australia/Thailand,
     PPHCI, Gilgit                                                   Malaysia &
                                                                     Philippines




                                                                                  164
Engineering Development Board - EDB
55   Abdul Khaliq,    Public Sector            The course          $4,815        Australian Habitat
     G.M EDB          Reforms                  focused on                        Studies
                                               effectiveness,
                                               transparency of
                                               governmental
                                               operations,
                                               performance
                                               management,
                                               public sector
                                               reforms and
                                               financial and
                                               accounting
                                               systems.

Clean Drinking Water for All - CDWA
56   Fida Muhammad, Public Sector              The course                        ILO International
     National Project Reform: A                focused on how to                 Training Center,
     Manager, CDWA. participatory              reform public                     Turin, Italy
                      approach                 services, bring
                                               efficiency,
                                               customer,
                                               satisfaction,
                                               removal of lapses
                                               and economy.


       Annex

       LIST OF OFFICERS OF BOARD OF INVESTMENT (BOI)-ATTENDED THE SHORT
       TERM FOREIGH TRAINING COURSES UNDER PSCBP

       S.No Name and                  Course Title        Name of Institution    Duration
            Designation of
            Officer
       1    Mr. Arif Elahi,           Project and         RIPA London, UK        June 30-July
            Director General,         Programme                                  11, 2008
            BOI Karachi               Management
       2    Ms. Raana Ahsan,          Corporate           Institute of Public    July 07-18,
            Director BOI,             Governance          Private Partnership,   2008
            Islamabad                 Strategies          Washington, USA
       3    Mr. Muhammad              Project             Queen’s University     July 21-Aug 01,
            Ayube, Director           Management          Canada                 2008




                                                                                                165
LIST OF OFFICERS OF BOARD OF INVESTMENT -ATTENDED THE JOINT STUDY
PROGRAMMES IN FOREIGH COUNTRIESUNDER PSCBP

S.No Name and Designation         Joint Study                 Country          Duration
     of Officer
1    Mr. Falak Sher Kalas,        World Association of        Stockholm,       Sep 28-Oct 05,
     Director General BOI         Investment Promotion        Sweden           2008
     Islamabad                    Agencies (WAIPA), Study
                                  Tour
2       Mr. Amir Sultan           World Association of        Stockholm,       Sep 28-Oct 05,
        Director, BOI,            Investment Promotion        Sweden           2008
        Islamabad                 Agencies (WAIPA), Study
                                  Tour
3       Mr. Tariq Iqbal Puri                                  Thailand and     Nov 10-18,
        Secretary                                             Malaysia         2009
4       Major (R) Iqbal Ahmad                                 Thailand and     Nov 10-18,
        EDG                                                   Malaysia         2009
5       Mr. Muhammad Adnan                                    Thailand and     Nov 10-18,
        Project Coordinator                                   Malaysia         2009

Annex

LIST OF OFFICERS OF MP&NR -ATTENDED THE SHORT TERM FOREIGH
TRAINING COURSES

S.No.    Name of Officer             Name of          Course Title                 Training
                                     Institute                                     Dates
1        Mr. Bismillah Rai, Dir,     CWC School of    World Legal Systems &        27th Nov – 1st
         Law & Coord, DG (PC)        Energy, UK       Contracts of Oil & Gas       Dec, 2006
2        Qazi Muhammad Umair,        MDT              Petroleum Project            Dec 10-14,
         AD, DG (PC)                 International    Economics & Risk             2007
                                     UK               Management updated for
                                                      2007
3        Mr. Muhammad Azam,          World Wide       Project Management and       Oct 8-26,
         Dir (R),                    Solutions, USA   Leadership                   2007
         DG (Oil)
4        Mr. Shabbir Ahmed           World Wide       Project Management and       Oct 8-26,
         DS, MPNR                    Solutions, USA   Leadership                   2007
5        Mr. Muhammad Saeed          MDT              Exploration & Production     Dec 10-14,
         Anwar, Dir: (Accounts)      International    Accounting                   2007
                                     UK
6        Mr. Dilnawaz Khan,          MDT              Exploration & Production     Dec 10-14,
         Dy: Dir: (DG (PC)           International    Accounting                   2007
                                     UK
7        Mr. Abid Naseem             MDT              Exploration & Production     Dec 10-14,
         Accounts Officer            International    Accounting                   2007


                                                                                            166
     DG (Gas)                  UK
8    Mr. Imran Ahmed           MDT              Developing and               Nov 21-23,
     Asstt: Dr: (NG-II)        International    Negotiating Production       2007
     DG(Gas)                   UK               Sharing Contracts
9    Mr. Kashif Ali            MDT              Developing and               Nov 21-23,
     Asstt:Dir, DG (Oil)       International    Negotiating Production       2007
                               UK               Sharing Contracts
10   Mr. Azhar Farooq          World Wide       Petroleum Resource and
     AD (R-I)                  Solutions, USA   their Marketing
     DG(Oil)
11   Mr. Faisal Nadeem         World Wide       Management of Petroleum      Nov 26- Dec
     Janjua, AD(R-II),         Solutions, USA   Projects                     21, 2007
     DG(Oil)
12   Mr. M. Afzal Chaudhary,   IHRDC, USA       International Petroleum      Sep10 – Oct
     SO(TA)MPNR                                 Management Certificate       5, 2007
13   Dr. Shoukat Hayat         Oxford           10 days Mini MBA             Dec 3-14,
     Durrani, Add. Secretary   Management                                    2007
                               Institute, UK
14   Mr. Tariq Mahmood         Oxford           10 days Mini MBA             Dec 3-14,
     SO(Admn), MPNR            Management                                    2007
                               Institute, UK
15   Mr. Moosa Raza Effendi    CWC School of    10 days Oil & Gas Mini       April 7-18,
     JS (Admn), MPNR           Energy, UK       MBA                          2007
16   Mr. Zulifqar Ali Nasir,   CWC School of    10 days Oil & Gas Mini       April 7-18,
     SO(F&A)                   Energy, UK       MBA                          2007
17   Raja M. Akhtar Iqbal,     CWC School of    10 days Oil & Gas Mini       April 7-18,
     SO(D-IV), MPNR            Energy, UK       MBA                          2007
18   Mr. Shahid Mahmood,       CWC School of    10 days Oil & Gas Mini       April 7-18,
     DD(Admn)                  Energy, UK       MBA                          2007
19   Mr. Abdul Jabbar          Institute of     International Petroleum      April 6-25,
     Memon, DD(R) DG (Oil)     Petroleum        Management Program           2008
                               Development
                               Austin, Ts,
                               USA
20   Mr. Jam Umair Ahmed       Institute of     International Petroleum      April 6-25,
     DD(Legal), DG(Gas)        Petroleum        Management Program           2008
                               Development
                               Austin, Ts,
                               USA
21   Mr. Mansoor Muzaffar      IHRDC,           International Gas Business   May 12-23,
     Ali                       Boston, USA      Management                   2008
     Dir(Tech), DG(Gas)
22   Mr. Qamar Ali Khan, PS    CWC School of    10 days Oil & Gas Mini       April 7-18,
     to Secretary              Energy, UK       MBA                          2007
23   Mr. Shahid Yousaf, DD     IHRDC,           International Gas Business   Sep 8 – Oct
     (DG(Gas)                  Boston, USA      Management                   3, 2008


                                                                                     167
24   Mian Nasrim Javed          IHRDC,          Foundation of Law,           June 9-27,
     DD (Coord)                 Boston, USA     Accounting and Project       2008
     DG(PC)                                     Economics for the Oil &
                                                Gs Industry
25   Mr. Sabir Sultan           MDT             Negotiating Skills for the   June 30 –
     DG(SP/Admn)                International   Oil and Gas Industry         July 7, 2008
                                UK
26   Mr. Shafiq ur Rehman       MDT             Petroleum Project            May 12-16,
     Deputy Secretary (Pers),   International   Economics & Risk             2008
     MPNR                       UK              Management




                                                                                     168
LIST OF OFFICERS OF MP&NR -ATTENDED THE INTERNATIONAL
WORKSHOPS/SEMINARS


Sr.        Name of Officers            Title of                       Date           Country
#                                      Seminar/Workshop
      1.   Mr. Mahmood Salim           Trading Oil on International   27 April to    Cambridg
           Mahmood, Secretary          Markets                        1st May,09     e, UK
      2.   Mr. Mohammad Ejaz           The Future of Alternate        4-8 April,09   Utah,
           Chaudhry, Addl: Secretary   Fuels                                         USA
      3.   Mr. Irshad Ahmed Kaleemi     Workshop on Petroleum         14-18          Paris,
                                       Sector Multidisciplinary       April,2009     France
                                       Skills
      4.   Mr. Arif Ibrahim            Economics and Trading of       20-24          Cambridg
                                       the Oil Supply Chain           April,2009     e, UK
      5.   Mr. Sabir Hussain           Energy Efficiency Global       27-29          Paris,
                                       2009                           April,2009     France
      6.   Mr. Saeed Ullah Shah        Energy Efficiency Global       27-29          Paris,
                                       2009                           April,2009     France
      7.   Mr. Nadir Mumtaz            Economics and Trading of       20-24 April,   Cambridg
                                       the Oil supply Chain           2009           e, UK
      8.   Syed Tauqir Hussain         Host Government and oil        25-29 May,     Dundee,
                                       Companies                      2009           UK
      9.   Mr. Shafiq Ur Rehman        Energy Efficiency Global       27-29 April,   Paris,
                                       2009                           2009           France
      10. Mr. M. Afzaal Chaudhry       Workshop on Petroleum          14-18 April,   Paris,
                                       Sector Multidisciplinary       2009           France
                                       Skills
      11. Mr. Muhammad Rashid          Energy Efficiency Global       27-29 April,   Paris,
                                       2009                           2009           France
      12. Mr. Inamullah                Legal Issues in Oil and Gas    20-21 April,   London,
                                                                      2009           United
                                                                                     Kingdom
      13. Mr. Mohammad Qazi Salim      Energy Fuel Policy and         5-7 April,     Washingt
                                       Supply Summit                                 on, USA
      14. Mr. Nadeem Iqbal             International Fiscal           11-15 May,     Dundy,
                                       Systems: Analysis and          2009           UK
                                       Design
      15. Mr. Qamer Ali Khan           International Systems:         11-15 May,     Dundy,
                                       Analysis and Design            2009           UK
      16. Dr. Shahab Alam, Director    Managing Strategic             27-30 April,   Calgary,
                                       Petroleum Exploration &        09             Canada
                                       Production
      17. Mr. Sher Khan, Director      Petroleum Economic &           18-22nd        Aberdeen
                                       Risk Management                May, 09        , UK
      18. Mr. Muahmmad Azam,           Petroleum Project              18-22nd        Aberdeen


                                                                                          169
         Director                     Economic & Risk             May, 09       , UK
                                      Management
     19. Mr. Abdul Hayeed, Director   Petroleum Project           18-22nd       Aberdeen
                                      Economic & Risk             May, 09       , UK
                                      Management
     20. Mr. Shahid Yousaf, Deputy    Host Government and Oil     25-29 May,    Dundee,
         Director                     Companies                   09            UK
     21. Mr. Naseer Shahid, PS to     Managing Multiple Tasks,    17-21 May,    Dubai.
         Addl: Secretary              Priorities & Deadlines      09

Annex
LIST OF OFFICERS TRAINED UNDER PSCBP
MINISTRY OF WATER AND POWER

Sr. #      Name & Designation                            Course


Long Term Training

1          Mr. Muhammad Anwar Wattoo,                    MS Power
           Assistant Manager                             System Engg.

Short Term Training

1          Mr. Ilyas Ahmad,                              New ERA in Oil,
           Deputy Manager                                Gas & Power Value Creation
2          Mr. Allah Yar Khan,                           -Do-
           Assistant Manager
3          Mr. Fazli Rabbi,                              -Do-
           Dy. Manager
4          Mr. Nowshad Khan,                             -Do-
           RO Implementation
5          Ch. Akhtar Ali,                               -Do-
           Dy. Director
6          Mr. Tanvir-ur-Rehman,                         -Do-
           Dy. Director
7          Mr. Tansar Maqsood Aujla,                     -Do-
           Circle Manager
8          Mr. Muhammad Yousaf Awan,                     -Do-
           P.D (GSC)
9          Mr. Khalid Mahmood,                           -Do-
           Director
10         Mr. Akhlaq Butt,                              Utility Regulation & Strategy
           Dy. Manager
11         Mr. Mubashir Ahmad,                           -Do-
           Dy. Manager


                                                                                       170
12        Syed Ali Irtaza Naqvi,                      -Do-
          Deputy Chief
13        Mian Muhammad Anwar,                        -Do-
          Assistant Manager
14        Shahzada Muhammad Akbar,                    -Do-
          Dy. Director
15        Mr. Ijaz Ahmad Babar,                       -Do-
          Finance Director


Study Tour

16        Mr. Muhammad Saleem Arif,                   Electricity Markets
          GM Planning                                 for the 21st Century
17        Mr. Muhammad Zia-ur-Rehman,                 -Do-
          Director WPPO
18        N.A. Zuberi,                                -Do-
          Director PPIB
19        Shah Jehan Mirza,                           -Do-
          Director PPIB
20        Mr. Munawar Hussain Bhatti,                 “Utility Regulation and
          Deputy Manager, WPPO/NTDC                   Strategy”
21        Mr. Muhammad Iqbal Ghori,                   “Utility Regulation and
          Director (PM),PEPCO                         Strategy”
22        Mr. Adil Hameed,                            “Utility Regulation and
          Project Manager, PPIB                       Strategy”
23        Mr. Khalid Nazir,                           “Utility Regulation and
          Sr.Engg,Dy. Manager,IESCO                   Strategy”
24        Mr. Pervez Afzal.                           “Utility Regulation and
          Dy. Manager,, HESCO                         Strategy”
25        Mr. Zafar Mahmood Chisiti,                  “Utility Regulation and
          Dy. Manager M.I(Dist) P&D. LESCO            Strategy”
26        Mr. Zarar Aslam,                            “Utility Regulation and
          Additional Secretary (A&C)                  Strategy”
27        Mr. Prince Abbas Khan                       “Utility Regulation and
          Member (PIC)                                Strategy”
28        Mr. M.A. Behzad                             “Utility Regulation and
          General Manager(Finance) WAPDA              Strategy”

Localized Course

1        Mr. Sikandar Ali Hakro,                     Clear Energy
         Asst. Resident Engineer (M). PEPCO/ JPGCL
2        Mr. Pervaiz Ahmed Memon,                    Clear Energy
         Asst. Mechanical Engg. PEPCO/NPGC
3        Mr. Muhammad Kaleem.                        Clear Energy


                                                                                171
         XEN Talagang, IESCO
4        Mr. Rahmatullah Baloch.                         Clear Energy
         XEN, T&G(GSC), QESCO
5        Mr. Shafat Ali,                                 Clear Energy
         Dy Mgr (O&M), QESCO
6        Mr. Shaid Pervaiz,                              Clear Energy
         Asst. Director (Planning), GEPCO
7        Mr. Ghulam Qasim Shahani,                       Clear Energy
         Dy. Manager (P&I), HESCO
8        Mr.Syed Jawad Mansoor,                          Clear Energy
         Dy. Dir. Technical, MEPCO
9        Mr. Ali Akram Gujjar,                           Clear Energy
         Asst. Manager, MEPCO
10       Mr. QaziMuhammad Tahir,                         Clear Energy
         Dy Mgr (M&T), PESCO
11       Mr. Muhammad Latif,                             Clear Energy
         Dy, Manager, LESCO
12       Mr. Muhammad Anwar,                             Clear Energy
         Dy. Manager, (Opr), FESCO
13       Mr. Muhammad Akhtar Khan                        Clear Energy
         Dy. Manager, PEPCO/TPS Guddu

Annex

SHORT TERM FOREIGN TRAINING ATTENDED BY THE OFFICERS OF
PRIVATIZATION COMMISSION UNDER PUBLIC SECTOPR CAPACITY BUILDING
PROJECT


S.No    Name and Designation         Training Course   Name of            Duration
                                                       Institution
1       Mr. Shahzad Iqbal Director   Project Cycle     Cown Agents        Nov 09-13
        General                      Management        Training Centre,   2009
                                                       Worthing, UK
2       Mr. Ashiq Hussain            A Stretegic       GTC Training       Nov 16-27,
        Director General             Approach to       Consulting,        2009
                                     Public Sector     London, UK
                                     Moderanization
3       Mr. Akhlaq Malik Director    Commercialising   The Institute of   Nov 09-20,
        General                      Utilities:        Public Private     2009
                                     Strategies to     Partnership
                                     improve
                                     Operational and
                                     Financial
                                     Performance
4       Ch. Muhammad Amin            Driving           GTC Training       Oct 05-16,


                                                                                       172
        Director                 Performance          Consulting,        2009
                                 through Enhanced     London, UK
                                 Strrategic and
                                 Financial
                                 Planning
5       Dr. Asmat Nawaz Director Public Sector        GTC Training       Oct 12-23,
                                 Reform and           Consulting, New    209
                                 Capacity Building    York, USA
6       Mr. Khalil Ahmad Chaudry ILM Certificate in   Kuala Lumpur,      Oct 14-23,
        Deputy Director          Essential            Malysia            2009
                                 Management
                                 Skills,
7       Malik Muhammad Taj       Public Relations     GTC Training       Oct 12-23,
        Private Secretary        Theory and           Consulting,        209
                                 Practice             London, UK
8       Mr. Muhammad Tauqeer     Public Relations     GTC Training       Oct 12-23,
        Private Secretary        Theory and           Consulting,        209
                                 Practice             London, UK
9       Mr. Fazl-e-Elahi Private Public Relations     GTC Training       Oct 12-23,
        Secretary                Theory and           Consulting,        209
                                 Practice             London, UK
10      Mr. Muhammad Sultan                           Cown Agents        Oct 26, Nov
        Private Secretary        Effective            Training Centre,   06, 2009
                                 Management           Worthing, UK
                                 Skills
11      Barrister Assad          19th Summer          St Catherine’s     Aug 17-28,
        Skianderkhel Legal       School for           College, Oxford    2009
        Consultant               International        UK.
                                 Financial Law
12      Agha Waqar Javed         Advanced             London Business    Nov 09-13
        Consultant               Corporate            School, London     2009
                                 Finance              UK
13      Mr. Skindar Zulqarnain   Advanced             London Business    Nov 09-13
        Consultant               Corporate            School, London     2009
                                 Finance              UK
14      Mr. Malik Muhammad       Monitoring &         Cown Agents        Nov 16-20
        Afzal Consultant         Managing             Training Centre,   2009
                                 Programmes and       Worthing, UK
                                 Projects
15      Mr. Muhammad Asghar      Advanced             London Business    Nov 09-13
                                 Corporate            School, London     2009
                                 Finance              UK


Annex



                                                                                       173
 SHORT TERM FOREIGN TRAINING ATTENDED BY THE OFFICERS OF
 MINISTRY OF WOMEN DEVELOPMENT UNDER PUBLIC SECTOPR CAPACITY
 BUILDING PROJECT


 S.     Name and Designation          Course Title                  Name of       Duration
 No     of the officer                                              Institution
 1      Mr. Abdul Majid, Senior       Developing Good               GTC London,   Sept 07-18,
        Joint Secretary               Governance and Building       UK            2009
                                      Capacity
 2      Dr. Muhammad Ali,             Public Sector Reforms:        RIPA London, Sep 21-Oct
        Director General              Building Capacity and         UK           02, 2009
                                      Performance
 3      Mr. Muhammad Taimur           Leading a Project Team        GTC London,   Aug 24-Sep
        Khan Director                                               UK            04, 2009
 4      Mr. Muhammad Umer             Cyber Crime                   GTC London,   Aug 17-28,
        Aziz Director                                               UK            2009
 5      Ms. Azra Jamali, Deputy       Crisis Management             GTC London,   Aug 17-28,
        Secretary                                                   UK            2009
 6      Mr. Shahzad Ahmad             Policy Analysis and Policy    GTC London,   Nov 02-13,
        Khan, Deputy Director         Implementation                UK            2009
 7      Ms. Nishat Bashir Senior      Public Sector Reforms:        GTC London,   Sep 21-Oct
        Programme Officer             Building Capacity and         UK            02, 2009
                                      Performance
 8      Mr. Farooq Ahmad              Developing Good               GTC London,   Sept 07-18,
        Deputy Director               Governance and Building       UK            2009
                                      Capacity
 9      Ms. Asfia Sultana             Human Resource                GTC London,   Oct 12-23,
                                      Management and Career         UK            2009
                                      Development
 10     Mr. Muhammad Abbas            Public Relations Theory and   GTC London,   Oct 12-23,
        Publication Officer           Practice                      UK            2009
 11     Syed. Wajid Ali, Section      Crisis Management             GTC London,   Aug 17-28,
        Officer                                                     UK            2009
 12     Mr. Imtiaz Ahmad              Management Skills for         GTC London,   Sep 21-Oct
        Section Officer               Senior Managers               UK            02, 2009

 Annex


 SHORT TERM FOREIGN TRAINING ATTENDED BY THE OFFICERS OF KANA
 UNDER PUBLIC SECTOPR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT

S.    Name of officer    Designation        Course title                  Name of       Duration
No                                                                        institution
1     Mr. Ejaz Asad      Secretary,         Enhanced Performance &        GTC,          Nov 23-


                                                                                             174
     Rasul               Education,       strategic management     London, UK   Dec 04
                         Gilgit-                                                2009
                         Biltistan
2    Capt(R)             Secretary        Enhanced Performance &   GTC,         Nov 23-
     Muhammad            Home, Gilgit-    strategic management     London, UK   Dec 04
     Usman               Baltistan                                              2009
3    Mr. Asad Zamin      Deputy           Enhanced Performance &   GTC,         Nov 23-
                         Commissioner     strategic management     London, UK   Dec 04
                         Gilgit                                                 2009
4    Mr. Sibtain         Deputy           Enhanced Performance &   GTC,         Nov 23-
     Ahmad               Secretary        strategic management     London, UK   Dec 04
                         home                                                   2009
5    Mr. Sajjad Haider   Deputy           Enhanced Performance &   GTC,         Nov 23-
                         Secretay,        strategic management     London, UK   Dec 04
                         Services                                               2009
6    Mr. Shafa Ali       Director         Enhanced Performance &   GTC,         Nov 23-
                         Education        strategic management     London, UK   Dec 04
                                                                                2009
7    Mr. Shah Jehan   Deputy              Enhanced Performance &   GTC,         Nov 23-
                      Director,           strategic management     London, UK   Dec 04
                      Industries                                                2009
8    Mr. Suhail Ahmad Civil Judge,        Enhanced Performance &   GTC,         Nov 23-
     Khan             Gilgit              strategic management     London, UK   Dec 04
                                                                                2009
9    Syed. Mutahir       Secretary        Leading Public Finance   GTC,         Nov 23-
     Shah                Finance          &Administration          London, UK   Dec 04
                                                                                2009
10   Mr. Iqbal Shah      Deputy           Leading Public Finance   GTC,         Nov 23-
                         Accountant       &Administration          London, UK   Dec 04
                         General                                                2009
11   Mr. Muhammad        Assistan Chief   Leading Public Finance   GTC,         Nov 23-
     Nazir Khan          P&D              &Administration          London, UK   Dec 04
                                                                                2009
12   Syed. Akhtar        Deputy           Leading Public Finance   GTC,         Nov 23-
     Hussain             Secretary Law    &Administration          London, UK   Dec 04
                                                                                2009
13   Mr. Farid Ahmad     Deputy           Leading Public Finance   GTC,         Nov 23-
                         Secretary        &Administration          London, UK   Dec 04
                         Finance                                                2009
14   Mr. Muhammad        Deputy           Leading Public Finance   GTC,         Nov 23-
     Ayoube              Secretary        &Administration          London, UK   Dec 04
                         GAD                                                    2009
15   Mr. Liaqat Ali      Deputy           Leading Public Finance   GTC,         Nov 23-
                         Director         &Administration          London, UK   Dec 04
                         Tourism                                                2009
16   Mr. Sher Jehan      Director Water   Leading Public Finance   GTC,         Nov 23-


                                                                                  175
                          Management      &Administration          London, UK    Dec 04
                          Agriculture                                            2009
17    Mr. Tanweer ul      DSP             Leading Public Finance   GTC,          Nov 23-
      Hassan Nazir                        &Administration          London, UK    Dec 04
                                                                                 2009

     SHORT TERM LOCAL TRAINING COURSE UNDER PUBLIC SECTOR CAPACITY
     BUILDING PROJECY KA&GB(GILGIT-BILTISTAN) COMPONENT

S.    Name of officer     Designation     Course title             Name of       Duration
No                                                                 institution
1     Mr. Nusrutullah     Dy. Director    Project Management and   LUMS,         Non 02-
                          Education       Financial Management     Lahore        14, 2009
2     Syed Nabi Shah      DIS             -do-                     do            do
3     Ghulam-us-          AD Edu          -do-                     do            do
      Sayedain
4     Dr. Ijlal Hussain   VAS             -do-                     do            do
                          Livestock
5     M. Abdullah Jan     System          -do-                     do            do
                          Analyst
                          Finance
6     Mr. Ghayor Amad     AEE PWD         -do-                     do            do
7     Mr. M. Musa         Prog. Analust   -do-                     do            do
      Khan                Edu
8     Mr. Iqbal Hussain   Agri. Officer   -do-                     do            do
9     Mr. Yaqob Ali       SDFO Forest     -do-                     do            do
      Khan
10    Mr. Rehman Shah     ACIMP.          -do-                     do            do
                          Chilas
11    MR. Ehsan Ali       SO Home         -do-                     do            do
12    Mr. Abdul Hadi      AEE PHE         -do-                     do            do
13    Mr. Mansoor         SO Tourism      -do-                     do            do
      Alam
14    Mr. Abbas Ali       SO Services     -do-                     do            do
      Khan
15    Mr. Najeeb Alam     SO              -do-                     do            do
                          Minerals/Inds
16    Mr. Tajdar          AEE PWD         -do-                     do            do
      Hussain
17    Mr. Sadiq Hussain   AEE PWD         -do-                     do            do
18    Mr. Masood          RO P&D          -do-                     do            do
      Azam
19    Mr. Addeb           PM LG&RD        -do-                     do            Do
      Hussain
20    Mr. Ashiq           Programmer      -do-                     do            Do



                                                                                      176
       Hussain               Finance
21     Mr. Nasir Ali         SO Finance       -do-                            do             do
22     Mr. Ashaq             TO GBLA          -do-                            do             do
       Hussain
23     MR. Zahid Ali         AO Finance       do                              do             do
24     Mr. Sartag            AO Finance       do                              do             do
25     Mr. Farid Ahmad       DS Finance       do                              do             do



     List of officers of Govt. of Punjab Component(2007-08)

Sr.        Name/Designation/D Cadre/ BPS
                                                     Degree / University
No.        epartment
1.         Ahmad Afnan             PMS/17            MSc in Human Resource for International
                                                     Development.University of Manchester, UK.
2.         Farrukh Naveed          PMS/17            MSc in Management and Implementation of
                                                     Development Projects, University of Manchester,
                                                     UK
3.         Jahangie Anwar          PMS/18            M.A in Employment Studies & Human Resource
                                                     Management, London Metropolitan University, UK
4.         Muhammad Akhtar         PMS/18            MSc in Programme & Project Management
                                                     Warwick University, UK
5.         Muhammad Shafiq         PMS/18            MSc in Programme & Project Management
           Ahmad                                     Warwick University, UK
6.         Muhammad Suhail         PMS/18            MSc in Organizational Change & Development,
           Shahzad                                   University of Manchester, UK
7.         Muhammad Shabbir        PMS/17            MA in Developemnt Studies, University of
           Ahmad Khan                                Manchester, UK
8.         Naveed Shahzad          PMS/17            MSc in Human Resource for International
           Mirza                                     Development.University of Manchester, UK.
9.         Ms. Sadaf Zafar         PMS/17            MSc in Public Service Policy & Management.
                                                     Kings College London, UK
10.        Syeda Malika            PMS/17            M.A in Envuironment & Development, Kings
                                                     College London
11.        Ghulam Abbas            P&D               MSc in Economics Policy $ Developing &
                                   Deptt/17          Transitional Economies, University of Bradford
12.        Ms. Zahida Azhar        PMS/17            M.A in Governance and Development, Institute of
                                                     Development Studies, University of Sussex
13.        Muhammad Farooq         PMS/17            MPA Programme at Warwick University, UK.
           Rasheed


                                                                                                  177
Sr.        Name/Designation/D Cadre/ BPS
                                                    Degree / University
No.        epartment
14.        Muhammad Sajjad         Zakat &          MSc in Poverty Reduction & Development
           Baber                   Usher            Management, University of Birmingham, UK
                                   Deptt/18
15.        Muhammad Aslam          I&P Deptt/17     Msc in Taught Programme in River Environmental
                                                    Management, University of Birmingham, UK


     List of officers of Govt. of Punjab Component(2008-09)

Sr.                                               Cadre/ BPS
           Name/Designation/Department                         Degree / University
No.
1.         Mr. Abdul Razzaq,                      PMS/17       MSc in Programme & Project
           Principal Officer, PRSP,                            Management, University of Warwick,
           Lahore                                              UK
2.         Mr. Arif Mian Butt,                    PMS/18       MSc in Programme & Project
           District Officer (Coord.), Kasur                    Management, University of Warwick,
                                                               UK
3.         Mr. Azmat Amin,                        PMS/17       MSc in Public Services Policy and
           Deputy Secretary Chief Minister’s      DS(OPS)      Management, Kings College London
           Secretariat, Lahore
4.         Mr. Ghulam Saghir Shahid,              PMS/18       Masters of Arts in Development
           Deputy Secretary (Judicial),                        Studies, Institute of Social Studies
           Home Department                                     (ISS), Netherlands
5.         Mr. Imran Akram Chohan,                PMS/17       MSc in Public Policy, University of
           Assistant Director, (Ops) Head                      Bristol, UK
           Quarters, PMU, Lahore
6.         Mr. Khurram Shehzad,                   PMS/17       MSc in Health, Population and
           OSD, S&GAD                                          Society, London School of Economics,
                                                               UK
7.         Mirza Naseer Inyat                     PMS/18       MSc in Human Resource Management,
           Deputy Secretary, (Admin-1),                        University of Manchester, UK
           Agriculture Department.
8.         Mr. Muhammad Asif Iqbal Malik,         PMS/17       MSc in Public Services Policy and
           Deputy District Officer (Rev),                      Management,
           Sillanwali                                          Kings College London
9.         Mr. Muhammad Majid Iqbal,              PMS/17       MSc in Programme & Project
           Assistant Director, PSD, Punjab                     Management, University of Warwick,
           Resource Management Program                         UK
10.        Mr. Muhammad Shahid                    PMS/17       Masters of Arts in Development


                                                                                                  178
Sr.                                      Cadre/ BPS
      Name/Designation/Department                     Degree / University
No.
      DDO (Revenue) Malikwal                          Studies, Institute of Social Studies
                                                      (ISS), Netherlands
11.   Mr. Muhammad Tanvir Majid,         PMS/17       MSc in International Development
      Deputy Director Estate                          Human Resource Management,
      Management LDA, Lahore                          University of Manchester, UK
12.   Mr. Shahinshah Faisal Azim,        PMS/17       MSc in Development Economics and
      Deputy Secretary,                  DS(OPS)      Policy, University of Manchester, UK
      Food Department, Lahore
13.   Mr. Tahir Raza,                    PMS/18       MA in Development Studies, Institute
      Deputy Secretary, (Admin)                       of Social Studies (ISS), Netherlands.
      CM Secretariat, Lahore
14.   Mr. Tariq Mahmood,                 PMS/18       MSc in Programme & Project
      EDO (Finance & Planning),                       Management, University of Warwick,
      District Complex, Chakwal                       UK
15.   Mr. Kashif Shamim,                 I&P          MSc in International Construction
      SDO, Paca Dalla                    Deptt./17    Management & Engineering,
                                                      University of Leeds, UK
16.   Mr. Muhammad Asif Aslam,           I&P          MSc in Taught Program in Water
      Assistant Exe. Engineer/SDO,       Deptt./17    Resources Technology and
      Bhakkar Development Sub                         Management, University of
      Division, Mianwali                              Birmingham, UK
17.   Mr. Naveed Ahmad,                  I&P          MSc in International construction
      Asst. Director, PMO, P&R, Lahore   Deptt./17    Management & Engineering,
                                                      University of Leeds, UK
18.   Mr. Zeeshan Ali Hashmi,            I&P          MSc in Water Resource Tech. &
      SDO, IV, Development Div-II,       Deptt./17    Management, University of
      Lahore                                          Birmingham, UK
19.   Ch. Ahmed Nadeem,                  EPA/18       MSc in Environmental Engineering &
      Deputy Director (Research and                   Project Management, University of
      Investigation, EPA, Lahore                      Leeds, UK
20.   Mr. Shahid Ishaq Khan,             Forest       MSc in Environmental Monitoring
      District Officer (Forests),        Deptt./17    Modeling & Reconstruction –
      Lahore                                          GEOGRAPHY, University of
                                                      Manchester, UK
21.   Dr. Asif Rafiq,                    L&DD/ 17     MSc in Management of Training &
      Section Officer,                                Development, University of
      L&DD Department, Lahore.                        Edinburgh, UK
22.   Mr. Muhammad Afzal                 Zakat &      MSc in Poverty Reduction &
      District Zakat Officer,            Usher        Development Management, University



                                                                                         179
Sr.                                        Cadre/ BPS
       Name/Designation/Department                        Degree / University
No.
       Mandi Bahauddin                     Service/ 17    of Birmingham, UK


 List of officers of Govt. of Punjab Component(2009-10)

 Sr.    Name/Designation/D Cadre/ BPS
                                              Degree / University
 No.    epartment
 1.     Faisal Fareed         PMS/17          MSc in Development Management, London
                                              School of Economics
 2.     Kashif Manzoor        PMS/17          MSc in Human Resource Management
                                              (International Development ), University of
                                              Manchester, UK
 3.     Khalid Mahmood        PMS/19          M.A in Social Development, University of
                                              Sussex,UK
 4.     Muhamad Naeem         PMS/17          M.A in Social Development, University of
                                              Sussex,UK
 5.     Rashid Irshad         PMS/17          Msc in Taught Programme in River
        Hussain                               Environmental Management, University of
                                              Birmingham, UK
 6.     Waheed Arjumand       PMS/17          MSc in Human Resource Management
        Zia                                   (International Development ), University of
                                              Manchester, UK
 7.     Zubair Waheed         PMS/18          MSc in Human Resource Management
                                              (International Development ), University of
                                              Manchester, UK
 8.     Ali Haider Kahloon    Zakat &         M.A in Social Development, University of
                              Usher           Sussex,UK
                              Service/17
 9.     Niaz Ahmad            Zakat &         MSc in Poverty Reduction & Development
                              Usher Service   Management, University of Birmingham, UK
                              /17
 10.    Ghulam Safdar Shah    Treasury &      M.A in Management &Training Development,
                              Acctts/17       University of Edinburgh, UK
 11.    Rizwan Akram          E&T             MSc in Public Service Policy & Management,
        Sherwani              Service/17      Kings College, London


 List of Officers Govt. Of Punjab Trained in Short Term Foreign Courses At Asian Institute
 of Technology


                                                                                            180
S. No   Course Title                           Duration                       Number of
                                                                              Participants
1       Contract Aministartion, Arbitration    4th-5th May 2009               18
        and Alternative Dispute Resolution
2       Hospital Management for Tertiary       11th-22nd May 2009             12
        Health Care
3       Irrigation System Management           1st-12th June 2009             15
4       Construction Management                16th August 4th Sep 2009       23
5       Contract Aministartion, Arbitration    7th-18th September 2009        13
        and Alternative Dispute Resolution
6       Minitoring & Evaluation of             5th-16th October 2009          20
        Infrastructure Development Project
7       Hospital Management for Tertiary       12th-23rd October 2009         20
        Health Care
8       Zoo Management                         2nd-13th November 2009         20
9       Hospital Management for Tertiary       9th-20th November, 2009        19
        Health Care
10      Advance Competencies for Trainers      9th-27th November 2009         6
        Total                                                                 166



List of Officers Govt. Of Punjab at Lee Kaun Yew School of Public Policy, Singapore


S. No   Name of Officer                       Descipline
1       Mr. Zulfoqar Ali Kharal               Master in Public Administration 2008-09
2       Mr. Muhammad Zubair                   Master in Public Administration 2008-09
3       Mr. Zahid Manzoor                     Master in Public Administration 2008-09
4       Ms. Umtal QAdoos                      Master in Public Administration 2008-09




Annex

List of officers of Government of Balochistan trained under PSCBP




                                                                                        181
S#     Activity                    No of          Duration   Department   Station
                                   Participants   (Days)
Planning & Development Department
   1. Training on “Basic IT        30             10         P&DD         Quetta
       Skills” and Orientation
       on E-Governance related
       polices /strategies and
       action plans.
   2. Training on Project &        10             8          P&DD         Karachi
       Management and
       Orientation on “Public
       Sector Planning Cycle”
       (with hands on training
       on use of MS-
       Project/Primavera)
   3. Training on Research         30             10         P&DD         Islamabad
       Techniques & Tolls”
       (with hands on training
       on the use of SPSS)
   4. Training of “Enterprise      2              45         P&DD         Seminar
       Resource Planning (ERP)                                            Karachi
       using SAP”
   5. Training on database         6              8          P&DD         Lahore
       design and administration
       using Oracle 9)
   6. Advanced Training on         10             8          P&DD         PIMS
       Statistical Analysis, tools                                        Karachi
       & Techniques (with
       hands on training on
       SPSS)
   7. Secretariat Service,         60             8          S&GAD        Islamabad
       Office Management &
       Communication Skills
   8. Training on “Basic IT        40             10         S&GAD        Quetta
       Skills” on E-Governance
       related polices/strategies
       and action plans
   9. Training on “Project         20             7          S&GAD        LUMS &
       Planning & Management                                              Lahore
       and orientation on
       “public sector planning
       cycle” with hands on
       training on use of MS-
       Project/Primavera)
   10. Presentation Skills (with   10             7          S&GAD        Karachi ISB
       hands on training on use


                                                                                      182
       of MS-Power Point)
   11. Presentation Skills (with    40    6    S&GAD   NIPA /
       hands on training on use                        Quetta
       of MS-Power Point)
Sub Total (S&GD)                    170
I&P
   12. Training on “Basic IT        18    10   &P      Quetta
       Skills”
   13. Training on Project &        10    8    I&P     WRPD & M
       Management and                                  Directorate
       orientation o public
       sector planning cycle
       “ (with hands on training
       on use of MS. Project /
       Primavera)
   14. Training on Engineering      18    10   I&P     Quetta
       Design using Auto CAD
   15. Training use of GIS          10    10   I&P     WRPD & M
                                                       Directorate
   16. Training on Digital Land     18    6    I&P     WRPD & M
       Surveying (with hands on                        Directorate
       Practice on use of Total
       Station)
   17. Training on Quantity         10    6    I&P     Lahore
       Survey for Dam & other
       Irrigation Structures.
   18. Training on Design of        10    6    I&P     Lahore
       small dams USBR
       Method)
   19. Training on Design of        10    6    I&P     WRPD & M
       Weir                                            Directorate
   20. Training on discharge        8     6    I&P     Lahore
       Measurement (both folds
       &non folds seasons)
       Techniques
   21. Training on Disaster         18    5    I&P     WRPD & M
       Preparedness and Risk                           Directorate
       Reduction Planning
   22. Training on Ground           18    14   I&P     WRPD & M
       Water related themes                            Directorate
       water well designing
       recording of data during
       bore hole drilling
       interpretation techniques
       for GEO physical
       interpretation; monitoring


                                                                183
         techniques of hydrometer
         & ground water regimes
         Balochistan;
   23.   Training on “Skills        18            6          I&P           WRPD & M
         Development in                                                    Directorate
         hydraulics design and
         measurement”
   24.   Surface Water, date        10            6          I&P           WRPD & M
         collection analysis and                                           Directorate
         processing
   25.   Effective repair of        5             6          I&P           WRPD & M
         machinery and devising                                            Directorate
         criteria & analysis
         scheme to procure
         drilling rigs & earth
         machinery
   26.   Orientation on water       5             6          I&P           WRPD & M
         chemistry                                                         Directorate
Total                               186
   27. Lone Term Course on          2             3 Months   I&P           Quetta
       “Public Sector Financial
       Management & Control
       & Audit
   28. Enterprise Resource          2             45 days                  Karachi
       Planning (ERP) using
       SAP
Total                               12
Grand Total                         456

Annex

LOCAL TRAININGS ORGANIZED BY PPRA UNDER PUBLIC SECTOR CAPACITY
BUILDING PROJECT

 Sr. #        Date                        Venue                    Participants
 1.           6 – 7 November, 2006        NIBAF, Islamabad         35
 2.           13 – 14 November, 2006      NIBAF, Islamabad         37
 3.           27 – 28 November, 2006      PEC, Islamabad           38
 4.           4 – 5 December, 2006        NIBAF, Islamabad         39
 5.           11 – 12 December, 2006      NIBAF, Islamabad         42
 6.           27 – 28 December, 2006      NIBAF, Islamabad         37
 7.           8 – 9 January, 2007         NIBAF, Islamabad         40
 8.           23 – 24 January, 2007       PEC, Islamabad           38
 9.           5 – 6 February, 2007        NIBAF, Islamabad         36
 10.          12 – 13 February, 2007      PEC, Islamabad           39
 11.          19 – 20 February, 2007      NIBAF, Islamabad         36


                                                                                     184
12.   5 – 6 March, 2007            PEC, Islamabad               35
13.   28 – 29 March, 2007          NIBAF, Islamabad             33
14.   9 – 10 April, 2007           PEC, Islamabad               37
15.   16th April, 2007             NBP Staff College, Karachi   27
16.   24 – 25 April, 2007          NIBAF, Islamabad             42
17.   14 – 15 May, 2008            NIBAF, Islamabad             35
18.   21 – 22 May, 2007            NIBAF, Islamabad             30
19.   12 – 13 June, 2007           Pak Steel Mills, Karachi     38
20.   8 – 9 June, 2007             STI, Islamabad               38
21.   18 – 19 June, 2007           PEC, Islamabad               35
22.   23 – 24 June, 2007           STI, Islamabad               40
23.   2 – 3 July, 2007             NIBAF, Islamabad             37
24.   16 – 17 July, 2007           PEC, Islamabad               35
25.   6 – 7 August, 2007           STI, Islamabad               41
26.   8 – 9 August, 2007           NBP Staff College,           39
                                   Islamabad
27.   15 – 16 August, 2007         PEC, Islamabad               35
28.   24 – 25 August, 2007         NBP Staff College, Lahore    36
29.   5 – 6 September, 2007        STI, Islamabad               35
30.   11 – 12 September, 2007      HEC, Islamabad               32
31.   17 – 18 September, 2007      NBP Staff College, Karachi   40
32.   20 – 22 September, 2007      STI, Islamabad               53
33.   1 – 2 October, 2007          NIBAF, Islamabad             40
34.   7 – 8 November, 2007         PPRA Training Centre,        28
                                   Islamabad
35.   14 – 16 November, 2007       TAMA Peshawar                30
36.                                PPRA Training Centre,        27
      21-22 November, 2007
                                   Islamabad
37.   3 – 4 December, 2007         HEC, Peshawar                38
38.                                PPRA Training Centre,        28
      10 – 11 December, 2007
                                   Islamabad
39.                                PPRA Training Centre,        28
      26 – 27 December, 2007
                                   Islamabad
40.                                PPRA Training Centre,        27
      14 – 15 January, 2008
                                   Islamabad
41.                                PPRA Training Centre,        26
      21 – 22 January 2008
                                   Islamabad
42.                                PPRA Training Centre,        28
      06 – 07 February, 2008
                                   Islamabad
43.                                PPRA Training Centre,        24
      11th – 12th February, 2008
                                   Islamabad
44.                                PPRA Training Centre,        25
      25th – 26th February, 2008
                                   Islamabad
45.                                PPRA Training Centre,        24
      3rd – 4th March, 2008
                                   Islamabad


                                                                     185
46.   7th March, 2008              CAA, HQ, Karachi                59
47.                                PPRA Training Centre,           29
      10th – 11th March, 2008
                                   Islamabad
48.                                PPRA Training Centre,           27
      17th – 18th March, 2008
                                   Islamabad
49.   31st March – 1st April,      PPRA Training Centre,           26
      2008                         Islamabad
50.                                PPRA Training Centre,           26
      14th – 16th April, 2008
                                   Islamabad
51.                                PPRA Training Centre,           26
      28th – 30th April, 2008
                                   Islamabad
52.                                PPRA Training Centre,           27
      12th – 14th May, 2008
                                   Islamabad
53.                                PPRA Training Centre,           27
      26th – 28th May, 2008
                                   Islamabad
54.                                PPRA Training Centre,           28
      9th – 11 June, 2008
                                   Islamabad
55.                                CAA, Allama Iqbal
      20th June, 2008                                              60
                                   International Airport, Lahore
56.                                DG Special Education,           35
      23rd June, 2008
                                   Islamabad
57.                                PPRA Training Centre,           28
      7th – 9th July, 2008
                                   Islamabad
58.   14th July, 2008              DGDP Army, Rawalpindi           40
59.                                PPRA Training Centre,           26
      21st – 23rd July, 2008
                                   Islamabad
60.                                DG Special Education,           37
      28th July, 2008
                                   Islamabad
61.                                Audit & Accounts Training       26
      29th July, 2008
                                   Institute, Islamabad
62.                                PPRA Training Centre,           25
      4th – 6th August, 2008
                                   Islamabad
63.                                PPRA Training Centre,           27
      25th – 27th August, 2008
                                   Islamabad
64.                                PPRA Training Centre,           30
      8th – 10th September, 2008
                                   Islamabad
65.   15th – 17th September,       PPRA Training Centre,           26
      2008                         Islamabad
66.                                PPRA Training Centre,           27
      13th – 15th October, 2008
                                   Islamabad
67.                                PPRA Training Centre,           25
      20th – 22nd October, 2008
                                   Islamabad
68.   1st November, 2008           NBP Staff College, Lahore       45
69.                                PPRA Training Centre,           26
      3rd – 5th November, 2008
                                   Islamabad
70.   17th – 19th November,        PPRA Training Centre,           28


                                                                        186
      2008                         Islamabad
71.   21st November, 2008          NBP, HO, Karachi            46
72.                                PPRA Training Centre,       26
      1st – 3rd December, 2008
                                   Islamabad
73.                                PPRA Training Centre,       22
      16 – 18 December, 2008
                                   Islamabad
74.                                PPRA Training Centre,       27
      29 – 31 December, 2008
                                   Islamabad
75.                                PPRA Training Centre,       25
      12 – 14 January, 2009
                                   Islamabad
76.                                PPRA Training Centre,       28
      26 – 28 January, 2009
                                   Islamabad
77.                                COMSATS Institute of
      3rd February, 2009           Information Technology,     43
                                   Islamabad
78.                                PPRA Training Centre,       26
      2nd – 4th February, 2009
                                   Islamabad
79.                                PPRA Training Centre,       28
      16th – 18th February, 2009
                                   Islamabad
80.                                PPRA Training Centre,       25
      2nd – 4th March, 2009
                                   Islamabad
81.                                PPRA Training Centre,       29
      30th March – 1st April, 09
                                   Islamabad
82.                                PPRA Training Centre,       21
      14th – 16th April, 2009
                                   Islamabad
83.                                PPRA Training Centre,       18
      20th – 22nd April, 2009
                                   Islamabad
84.                                PPRA Training Centre,       15
      4th – 6th May, 2009
                                   Islamabad
85.                                Civil Services Academy,
      11th May, 2009                                           56
                                   DMG Campus, Lahore
86.                                PPRA Training Centre,       27
      18th – 20th May, 2009
                                   Islamabad
87.                                PPRA Training Centre,       16
      25th – 27th May, 2009
                                   Islamabad
88.                                Audit & Accounts Training   18
       th
      9 June, 2009                 Institute, Zero Point,
                                   Islamabad
89.                                Pakistan Railways HQ,       65
      13th July, 2009
                                   Lahore
90.                                National Institute of       15
      27th – 28th July, 2009
                                   Procurement, Islamabad
91.                                National Institute of       12
      3rd – 4th August. 2009
                                   Procurement, Islamabad
92.   28th – 29th September,       National Institute of
                                                               14
      2009                         Procurement (NIP),


                                                                    187
                                            Islamabad
     93.                                    National Institute of
                5th – 6th October, 2009     Procurement (NIP),          14
                                            Islamabad
     94.                                    National Institute of
                12th – 13th October, 2009   Procurement (NIP),          15
                                            Islamabad
     95.        15th October, 2009          Pakistan Navy, Rawalpindi   30
     96.                                    National Institute of
                19th – 20th October, 2009   Procurement (NIP),          15
                                            Islamabad
     97.                                    National Institute of
                26th – 27th October, 2009   Procurement (NIP),          22
                                            Islamabad
     98.                                    National Institute of
                3rd to 4th November, 2009   Procurement (NIP),          13
                                            Islamabad
     99.                                    National Institute of
                10th – 11th November,
                                            Procurement (NIP),          18
                2009
                                            Islamabad
     100.                                   National Institute of
                17th – 18th November,
                                            Procurement (NIP),          22
                2009
                                            Islamabad
     101.        23rd November, 2009        PPMI, Islamabad             27
     Total Participants                                                 3127



     FOREIGN TRAININGS


                                                                               Present Status
                                                                 Where
                                                                               / Returned or
S    Name &                    Name of Training     Period       posted
                       BPS                                                     not? Degree
r.   Designation               Course and Venue     (2 weeks)    after the
                                                                               Submitted
                                                                 Training?
                                                                               not?
1.   Mr. Khalid         19     Crown Agents                      Same place    Returned /
     Mahmood Lodhi,            Certificate in       09-06-2008                 Certificate
     Director / Project        Procurement for      to                         awarded
     Coordinator               Senior Executives.   20-06-2008
                               Crown Agents UK




                                                                                           188
2.   Syed Sajid           18   Monitoring &                     Same place   Returned /
     Hussain Shah,             Evaluation of      04-08-2008                 Certificate
     Deputy Director           Procurement        to                         awarded
     (PPRA)                    Performance.       15-08-2008
                               Crown Agents UK
     Annex

     SHORT TERM FOREIGN TRAININGs/WORSHOPS ATTENDED BY THE OFFICERS
     NEPRA UNDER PUBLIC SECTOPR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT


     S.No    Name of officer   Designation   Course /training title                    Duration
             Saeed uz Zafar    Chairman      46 Annual Regulatory Studies Program      15 days
                                             Camp MARUC, USA
                                             Study Tour on General Regulatory Issues   13 days
             Nasiruddin        Member        World Forum on Energy Regulation III,     12 days
             Ahmed                           (NARUC)
                                             17th International Training Program on    12 days
                                             Utility Regulation and Strategy, USA
             Abdul Rahim       Member        Regulatory Impact Analysis at             13 days
             Khan                            Washington, USA
             Zafar Ali Khan    Member        Euromony Training Workshop on             5 days
                                             Project Finance, UK
                                             22nd International Training Program on    12 days
                                             Utility Regulation and Strategy, USA
                                             Hydro vision                              7 days
             Munir A Sheikh    DG            6th Core Training Programmed on           10 days
                                             Infrastructure Regulation and Reform,
                                             Pak
                                             Finance for Non Financial Manager at      4 days
                                             LUMS
             Hussain Zaigham   DG            17th International Training Program on    12 days
                                             Utility Regulation and Strategy, USA
                                             6th Core Training Programmed on           10 days
                                             Infrastructure Regulation and Reform,
                                             Pak
                                             Study Tour on General Regulatory Issues   13 days
             Amir Zia          Director      17th International Training Program on    12 days
                                             Utility Regulation and Strategy, USA
                                             6th Core Training Programmed on           10 days
                                             Infrastructure Regulation and Reform,
                                             Pak
             Hussain A Babur   Director      MA Economics with Advance                 18
                                             Certificate in Law & Regulation,          months
                                             University of Buffalo, USA
             Insaf Ahmad       Director      18th International Training Program on    12 days


                                                                                           189
                               Utility Regulation and Strategy, USA
                               6th Core Training Programmed on             10 days
                               Infrastructure Regulation and Reform,
                               Pak
                               6th Core Training Programmed on             10 days
                               Infrastructure Regulation and Reform,
                               Pak
                               Study Tour on General Regulatory Issues     13 days
M. Sajjad        Director      Management Development Programmed           5 days
Qureshi                        on Addressing Key Challenges of
                               Network Utilities Reform & Regulation
Mahjoob A.       Director      Regulation and strategy at Public Utility   12 days
Mirza                          Research Centre, USA
                               Study Tour on General Regulatory Issues     13 days
Majeed Malik     Director      20th International Training Program on      12 days
                               Utility Regulation and Strategy, USA
Naseeb Zaman     Director      20th International Training Program on      12 days
                               Utility Regulation and Strategy, USA
                               7th Core Training Programmed on
                               Infrastructure Regulation and Reform,
                               India
                               Regulatory Impact Analysis at               13 days
                               Washington, USA
Anwar Malik      Director      Study Tour on General Regulation issues     13 days
Mamal Sarwar     Economist     17th International Training Program on      12 days
                               Utility Regulation and Strategy, USA
                               Master’s degree program in applied          14
                               Economics, Illinois State University,       months
                               USA
Ameena Sohail    Legal Advisor 6th Core Training Programmed on             10 days
                               Infrastructure Regulation and Reform,
                               Pak
                               LLM Degree Program                          1 year
                               Management Development Programmed           5 days
                               on Addressing Key Challenges of
                               Network Utilities Reform & Regulation,
                               UK
Imtiaz Hussain   Dy. Director  Study Tour on General Regulation issues     13 days
Kamran Riaz      Dy. Director  Regulation and Strategy at Public utility   12 days
                               Research Center, USA
                               6th Core Training Programmed on             10 days
                               Infrastructure Regulation and Reform,
                               Sri Lanka
Naweed ullah     Dy. Director  19th International Training Program on      12 days
Sheikh                         Utility Regulation and Strategy, USA
                               8th
Safeer Hussain   Dy. Director      Core Training Programmed on             10 days


                                                                               190
Shah                              Infrastructure Regulation and Reform,
                                  Sri Lanka
                                  8th
Muhammad           Asstt.             Core Training Programmed on         10 days
Yousaf             Director       Infrastructure Regulation and Reform,
                                  Sri Lanka
                                  Finance Management Course at LUMS
M. Qamar uz        Dy. Director                                           4 days
Zaman
Dr. Joseph         Guest          6th Core Training Programmed on         10 days
                   Speaker        Infrastructure Regulation and Reform,
                                  Pak
Prof. Rohan        Guest          6th Core Training Programmed on         10 days
Samarajiva         Speaker        Infrastructure Regulation and Reform,
                                  Pak
Charles E Rainey   Guest          Guest Speaker in the seminar on         2 days
                   Speaker        Development of Competitive Power
                                  Markets
Ashley C Brown     Guest          Guest Speaker in the seminar on         2 days
                   Speaker        Development of Competitive Power
                                  Markets
Economist          Guest          Guest Speaker in the seminar on         2 days
Consultancy        Speaker        Development of Competitive Power
                                  Markets
Ashok K basu       Guest          Guest Speaker in the seminar on         2 days
                   Speaker        Development of Competitive Power
                                  Markets
Y. Rangamathan     Guest          Guest Speaker in the seminar on         2 days
                   Speaker        Development of Competitive Power
                                  Markets
Fuad Rasul                        Organizer in the seminar on             2 days
                                  Development of Competitive Power
                                  Markets




                                                                              191
Annex 11: MAP




                192
