Report No. 1094-SE                                                                 FILE  COPY
Appraisal of a Second
Sedhiou Project Senegal
June 4, 1976
Regional Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
uS$ 1.00o= CFAF 225
CFAF 1.00 = US$ 0.0044
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 millimeter  (mm)    0.0394 inches
1 meter       (m)  = 39.37 inches
1 Kilometer   (km) =  0.62 miles
1 hectare     (ha) =  2.47 acres
1 square
kilometer  (km2)    0.386 square miles
1 Kilogram    (kg) =  2.205 pounds
1 ton         (t)  =  2>205 pounds
1 liter        (1)  =  0.26 galions
ABREVIATIONS
BNDS          = Banque Nationale de Développement du  Sénégal
CCCE          = Caisse Centrale de Coopération Economique (France)
CEE           = Centre d'Expansion Rurale
CGOT          = Companie Générale des Oléagineux Tropicaux (France)
FAC           = Fonds d'Aide et de Coopération (France)
FED           = Fonds Européen Ce Développement
IBRD          = International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA           = International Development Association
INSRA/ISRA    = Institut (National) Sénégalais de Recherches Agricoles
INSTRUPA      = Institut fuir Strukturforschung und Planung Gmbh (West Germany)
MDRH          = Ministère du Développement Rural et de l'Hydraulique
ONCAD         = Office National de Coopération et d'Assistance pour le
Développement
PA            = Programme Agricole
SATEC         = Société d'Aide Technique et de Coopération (France)
SICCA         = Société Industrielle et Commerciale de la Casamance
SISCOMA       = Société Industrielle Sénégalaise de Construction Mécanique
et de Matériels Agricoles
SODAICA       = Société de Développement Agricole et Industriel de la Casamance
SODEFITEX     = Société pour le Développement des Fibres Textiles
SODEVA        = Société de Développement et de Vulgarisation Agricole
USAID         = United States Agency for International Development (U.S.A.)
FISCAL YEAR
Government: July 1 - June 30



SENEGAL                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ............................  i-v
I.    INTRODUCTION  .......................................                 1
II.    BACKGROUND  .........................................                 2
A.    General .......................................                 2
B.    The Agricultural Sector .......................                 2
C.    Agricultural Development Strategy  ....             .........   6
III.    THE PROJECT         ................................ .                7
A.    Project Area ..................................                 7
B.    Casamance Rice Project (IDA Credit 252-SE)  ....               8
C.    Project Description ...........................    10
D.    Detailed Features  .............................   12
E.    Organization and Management ...................   19
IV.    COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS  ....             ......   21
A.    Project Costs .................................   21
B.    Proposed Financing  ............................    23
C.    Credit Arrangements  ...........................   24
D.    Recovery of Costs  .............................   25
E.    Procurement ...................................    25
F.    Disbursements  .................................   26
G.    Accounts and Auditing .........................   27
V.    YIELDS AND OUTPUT, MARKETS AND PRICES,  FARMERS'
BENEFITS AND GOVERNMENT REVENUES  ....              .............   27
A.    Yields and Output  .............................   27
B.    Markets and Prices ............................    28
C.    Farmers'  Benefits .............................   29
D.    Government Revenues  ...........................   30
VI.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  .........................    31
VII.   AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ......    31
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, composed of
Messrs. J. Tillier, J. Gamba, J. Gorse (IDA) and B. Faye (Consultant), which
visited Senegal in October 1975.
This document has a restricted distribution and may bc used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. lts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
1.   Progress of Agricultural Projects Financed by the Bank Group
2.   Cooperatives Organization and Development
3.   Evaluation of the Casamance Rice Report - IDA Credit 252-SE
Table 1 -   Casamance Rice Project -
Appraisal and Actual Results.
Table 2 -   Casamance Rice Project -
Comparison Between Appraised and Actual Farm Budgets.
Table 3 -   Casamance Rice Project -
Actual and Appraisal Project Cost.
Table 4 -   Casamance Rice Project -
Unaudited Balance Sheet Accounts, August 1975.
4.   Technical Aspects of Crop Production
Table 1 -   Project Areas -
Farms and Land Development.
Table 2 -   Recommendations on Fertilizer Usage -
First Project; ISRA 1975/76; Second Sedhiou Project.
5.   Technical Aspects of Livestock Production
6.   Water Control Scheme
Table 1 -   Water Control - Type A Cost Estimate
Table 2 -   Water Control - Type B Cost Estimate
Table 3 -   Water Control - Type C Cost Estimate
Table 4 -   Water Control - Type D Investment Cost Estimate
7.   Settlement Program - Sefa
8.   Training
Table 1 -   Training Program
Table 2 -   Training Costs
9.   Rice Mills
Table 1 -   Rice Mills Operating Costs
10.   Monitoring and Evaluation
11.   Requirements for Reporting Project Progress
12.   Draft Terms of Reference for a Regional Plan for Integrated
Agricultural Development in Casamance
13.   Terms of Reference for Expatriate Staff
14.   Outline Agreement Between ONCAD and the Project Management Unit



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
15.  Project Costs
Table 1 -   Project Cost Summary
Table 2 -   Project Cost - Water Control
Table 3 -   Project Cost - Buildings
Table 4 -   Project Cost - Equipment
Table 5 -   Project Cost - Vehicles
Table 6 -   Personnel Costs - General Management and Extension
Table 7 -   Personnel Costs - Cooperatives, Evaluation and
Civil Works
Table 8 -   Project Cost - Operating costs
Table 9 -   Project Cost - Regional Planning Unit
Table 10-   Project Cost - Incremental Farm Equipment and Oxen
Table 11-   Project Cost - Incremental Farm Inputs
16.  Disbursement Schedule
Table 1 -   Disbursement Schedule
Table 2 -   IDA Credit - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
17.  Audit Terms of Reference
18.  Farm Budgets
Table 1 -   Farm Models
Table 2 -   Farm Development Schedule
Table 3 -   Monthly Labor Requirements
Table 4 -   Rice - Net Value per ha after Seasonal Input Costs
Table 5 -   Millet and Maize - Net Value per ha after Seasonal
Input Costs
Table 6 -   Groundnuts and Cotton - Net Value per ha after
Seasonal Input Costs
Table 7 -   Area Cultivated and Production Estimates
Table 8 -   Farm Budget - Southern Area
Table 9 -   Farm Budget - Northern Area
Table 10-   Farm Budget - Sefa Area
19. Livestock Production
Table 1 -   Develompent of Livestock Production
Table 2 -   Requirements for Feed Supplement and for
Parasites Treatment
Table 3 -   Feed Supplement and Incremental On-farm Costs
Table 4 -   Benefits
20.  Markets and Prices
Table 1 -   Price and Marketing Structure for Millet
Table 2 -   Price and Marketing Structure for Maize



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Table 3 -   Price and Marketing Structure for Paddy
Table 4 -   Price and Marketing Structure for Groundnuts
Table 5 -   Price and Marketing Structure for Edible Groundnuts
Table 6 -   Price and Marketing Structure for Cotton
21. Financial Cash Flows
Table 1 -   Cooperatives and Unions of Cooperatives Cash Flow
Table 2 -   Government Cash Flow
22. Economic Rate of Return
Table 1 -   Economic Rate of Return
CHART (15611)  -  Organization Chart
MAP   (11923)  -  Project Area
MAP   (11924)  -  Water Control Scheme



SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
Background
i.        The Government of Senegal has requested the assistance of IDA and
the French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) in financing a
second phase of the Casamance Rice Project, Credit 252-SE, which was ini-
tiated in 1971 in the Sedhiou district and is now nearly completed. The
objectives of the Second Sedhiou Project would be to increase and diversify
agricultural and livestock production and raise the incomes of about 40% of
the district's rural population. The project would be based on improved
farm practices successfully introduced under the first project. It was
prepared by the management of the first project with the assistance of the
Bank's resident mission in Western Africa (RMWA) and consultants (INSTRUPA).
Project Description
ii.       The project's objective would be to encourage farmers to adopt
improved crop and livestock production techniques, by supplying them with
inputs, credit and technical assistance. The project would bring the 4,150
farm families (Category I) already participating in the first project to
higher levels of technology and induce 3,250 farm families (Category II)
now using traditional farming methods to adopt the improved cropping tech-
niques which have proved effective under the first project. In addition
the project would encourage 4,800 families from both groups to take up bet-
ter livestock practices. It would also help to strengthen cooperatives by
management training and by promoting the organization of cooperative unions.
The project would benefit about 7,400 farm families (80,000 people in all),
representing about 40% of the rural population of the district. It would be
implemented during the 1976-1980 period by the management unit (PMU) estab-
lished to carry out the first project.
iii.      The proposed project would consist of:
(a) strengthening the existing PMU to enable it to
carry out its additional responsibilities;
(b) promoting the use of improved farm practices, such
as destumping, plowing, use of improved seeds, pesti-
cides, fertilizers, different cropping patterns and
animal traction;
(c) promoting improved livestock husbandry through bet-
ter animal health care and use of supplementary
feedstuffs;
(d) constructing and operating a feed mill;



- ii -
(e) establishing water-control schemes for the improvement of
1,650 ha of paddy rice fields, and financing a soil and
hydrological survey of 15,000 ha of potentially irrigable
land;
(f) settling about 400 farm families on an abandoned Government
farm;
(g) providing training facilities for project staff and farmers;
(h) organizing the supply of farm implements, fertilizer, pesti-
cides, and seeds, and distributing these to project farmers
either for cash or under medium-term and seasonal credit
arrangements;
(i) installing 35 small cooperative-owned rice mills;
(j) strengthening cooperative institutions in the project area;
(k) monitoring and evaluating project activities; and
(1) financing a regional planning unit that would prepare a master
plan for the agricultural development of Casamance and which
would subsequently prepare one or more of the development
projects identified in such a plan.
iv.       The management organization established under the first project,
which has proved satisfactory, would remain essentially unchanged. The
project would fall ultimately under the authority of a Regional Develop-
ment Agency that Government proposes to establish for promoting and coor-
dinating rural development in Casamance. Key project staff would comprise
the Project Manager and five Division Chiefs whose responsibilities would
be as follows:
(a) Extension: promoting improved agricultural and animal husbandry
practices; training of field extension workers;
(b) Cooperatives: assisting and supervising cooperatives in credit,
procurement, input distribution and accounting; training of
cooperatives and union staff;
(c) Civil Works: preparing layouts and contracts for civil engineering
works, supervision of works, maintenance of project's infrastruc-
ture, roads and equipment, including rice mills;
(d) Plannning and Evaluation: programming and monitoring of project's
activities and evaluating results; and
(e) Finance and Administration: financing, accounting, personnel,
general services and procurement.



- iii-
Project Cost and Financing
v.        The total cost cf the project, based on mid-1976 prices, net of
taxes (US$ 2 million), but including contingencies, would be US$12.9 million.
Foreign exchange costs are estimated at US$ 4.2 million, or 33% of costs
net of taxes. IDA credit of US$ 6.3 million would be complemented by joint
financing from CCCE equivalent to US$ 3.2 million. BNDS would contribute
US$ 1.9 million to finance incremental farm equipment and inputs through
seasonal and medium term credit provided to farmers. Cooperatives would
contribute US$ 0.1 million to cover 10% of the costs of rice mill construc-
tion and equipment. The balance of project costs including all taxes and
duties, would be financed by the Government. The financing plan is this as
follows:
US$ Million         Percentage
IDA                              6.3                 49
CCCE                             3.2                 25
BNDS                             1.9                 15
Cooperatives                     0.1                  1
Government                       1.4                 10
12.9               100
vi.       Government and co-lenders contribution would be passed on as grants,
initially to PMU, and afterwards to the Regional Agency.
vii.      Co-lenders contribution would cover the equivalent of total foreign
exchange costs (US$ 4.2 million) and 61% of local costs (US$ 5.3 million).
Local costs would include allowances paid to civil servants (US$1.3 million),
comprising transportation and housing, and arising as a direct result of the
secondment of the staff concerned to the project.  The proposed financing,
including that of local costs, is justified, given the relatively low for-
eign exchange component of this high priority project and considering the
difficulties which Senegal is facing in raising further its domestic savings
in a period of deterioration of its terms of trade. Total consultant services
would amont to 49 man-months for a total cost of US$231,000 in 1976 terms.
Procurement
viii.     The cost of civil works, equipment, farm implements, and vehicles
would total about US$5.1 million. Individual contracts for buildings, water-
control works, equipment and vehicles costing more than US$50,000 (aggre-
gating about US$3.4 million) would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank Group's guidelines for pro-
curement. Locally manufactured goods would be allowed a preference of 15%
or thè level of applicable import duty, whichever is lower, when comparing
domestic with foreign bids. Contracts for less than US$50,000 (expected to
total US$1.4 million), including small buildings and wells, would be awarded



- iv -
on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance
with procedures which are satisfactory to IDA. Equipment purchases, such as
office furnishings and equipment for agricultural demonstrations, in amounts
of less than US$10,000 (totalling US$0.2 million) would be purchased directly
from local suppliers.  Consultant services, including expatriate management
staff (US$1.5 million) would be obtained according to IDA's normal proce-
dures.  Fertilizer and pesticides (US$1.8 million), produced locally at
competitive prices, would be procured by ONCAD according to local procedures
acceptable to IDA. Seeds (US$0.4 million) would be procured directly by the
PMU from participant farmers. The remainder corresponds to personnel costs
(US$5.0 million) and operating costs (US$1.1 million).
Disbursements
ix.       The IDA credit would be disbursed pari passu with the CCCE loan
in the ratio of 2:1. The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed to
cover:
(a) 50% of costs of water control works and buildings -- US$0.67
million;
(b)  44% of the costs of vehicles -- US$0.09 million;
(c)  53% of the costs of equipment -- US$ 0.30 million;
(d) 44% of the costs of rice and feed mill civil works and equip-
ment -- US$ 0.33 million;
(e) 67% of the costs of project personnel on contract, and of allowances
paid to civil servants -- US$2.9 million;
(f)  60% of operating costs -- US$ 0.53 million; and
(g) 67% of consultant services costs -- US$ 0.15 million.
US$1.33 million would be held unallocated. Disbursements would be against
contracts and invoices for items (a), (b), (c) and (d) costs of expatriate
personnel in (e), and (g). Disbursements against local contracted personnel
in (e), and operating costs in (f) would be against statements of expenditures
certified by the Project's Manager and the Finance and Administration Division
Chief, with the supporting documentation retained by PMU and made available
for inspection during supervision missions. It would be conditions of dis-
bursement against: (i) the cost of establishing the regional planning unit
that the consultants required to carry out the master plan for the agricul-
tural development of Casamance and prepare follow-up projects be employed
with qualifications, experience and terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA; (ii) the personnel and operating costs relating to finalizing the
above master plan and preparing follow-up projects that the Government and
IDA agree on the specific terms of reference of the consultants responsible
for such tasks; (iii) each annual investment program in rice mills that the
Government and IDA agree on each such program; and (iv) the construction
cost of the experimental polder that the results of the soil and hydro-
logical survey become available and that relating recommendations be
formulated in agreement between the Government and IDA.



Benefits and Justification
x.        The project's direct benefits would be increases in output of
groundnuts, cereals, cotton and livestock products. At the end of the four-
year development period the net economic value of project-induced incremen-
tal production in 1975 prices would be about US$4.1 million, representing a
contribution of about US$3.4 million to Senegal's net foreign exchange
earnings.
xi.       The global impact on incomes of both categories of participating
farm families would be as follows: for the 4,150 families in Category 1,
average income per capita, in 1975 prices, would increase from US$73 in the
year before the project to US$104 in the project's fourth year. For the
3,250 families in Category II, average income per capita would go up from
US$42 in the year before the project to US$66 in project year four. These
represent annual rates of increase of 9.2% and 12%, respectively. In addi-
tion, about 65% of project farmers (4,800 families) would be involved in
project supervised livestock production; average income per capita from
such activity, including cattle sales and on-farm consumption of meat and
milk, would increase from about US$5 to about US$10 during the project de-
velopment period.
xii.      The economic rate of return of the project would be 23% over 15
years. Benefit decreases or cost increases of 20% would lower the project's
economic rate of return to 14% and 15%, respectively. The project is ex-
pected, therefore, to bring a satisfactory return to the Senegalese economy.
xiii.     In addition to the directly quantifiable benefits derived from
increased production, the project would help organize cooperatives to deal
effectively with the procurement and distribution of farm inputs, marketing
of cereals and processing of paddy. It would also strengthen management and
organization of the new regional agency and identify rural development possi-
bilities in Casamance.
Recommendation
xiv.      With the assurances and conditions set out in Chapter VII, the pro-
posed project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$6.3 million.






SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Senegal has asked IDA and Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique (CCCE) of France to help finance a project, in the
Sedhiou district of Casamance, that would increase and diversify agricultural
production and raise the incomes of about 40% of the district's rural popula-
tion. The proposed project is based on the first Casamance Rice Project I/
financed by IDA since 1971; it was identified in December 1974 and prepared
by the management of the first project with the assistance of RMWA and consul-
tants from the Institut fur Strukturforschung und Planung Gmbh (INSTRUPA).
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, comprising
Messrs. J. Tillier, J. Gamba, J. Gorse (IDA) and B. Faye (Consultant), which
visited Senegal in October 1975.  Messrs. P. Deniau and P. Marset appraised
the project at the same time for CCCE.
1.02      The Bank Group has provided two loans and ten credits for agricul-
tural development in Senegal (Annex 1); an agricultural credit program
financed by Loan 584-SE (US$3.5 million) and Credit 140-SE (US$6.0 million) in
1969 and 404-SE (US$8.2 million) in 1973, rice development in Casamance
financed by Credit 252-SE (US$3.7 million), and a small resettlement program
financed by Credit 254-SE (US$1.4 million) both in 1971; rice development in
the Senegal River delta financed by Credit 350-SE (US$4.5 million) in 1973;
and a drought relief program financed by Credit 446-SE (US$3.0 million) in
1973. In the credit program, demand for credit developed more slowly than
expected because of droughts and unfavorable producers prices and, as a
consequence, Loan 584-SE was cancelled in 1971. However, after demand for
credit picked up, IDA provided an additional US$8.2 million for the program in
1973 (Credit 404-SE); disbursements are progressing satisfactorily. The two
credits supporting the agricultural credit program also provided for technical
assistance to Government's groundnut marketing and cooperative development
agency, Office National de Cooperation et d'Assistance pour le Developpement
(ONCAD); unfortunately, unlike the directly productive components, this has
proved of very limited value. The other projects referred to above are
progressing satisfactorily.
1.03      In addition to the above projects, three other projects are just
getting underway: the Sine Saloum Development Project (Loan 1113-SE, US$7.0
million, and Credit 549-SE, US$7 million) and the Debi Lampsar Irrigation
Engineering Project (Credit S-18-SE, US$1 million) which was signed in May
1975; and the Terres Neuves II Resettlement Scheme (Credit 578-SE, US$2
million) which was signed in August 1975. Finally, an IDA credit of US$4.2
million has been recently approved for the Eastern Senegal Livestock Project.
1/   Government entitled the first project the Sedhiou Rice Project.  The
project appraised in this report is therefore called the Second
Sedhiou Project.



II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Senegal, located mostly within the Sudano Sahelian zone on the
West African coast, has a land area of 197,000 km2. The population is esti-
mated at 5.0 million and growing annually at about 2.7%. Urban areas account
for about 25% of the total population, the largest being around the capital,
Dakar (pop. 0.8 million). Average per capita GDP, based on Bank's estimates,
was about US$320 in 1975.
2.02      In 1972 the economy came under severe strain as a result of the
worst drought in this century; 1973 was another severe drought year. By the
end of the year reserves had reached an all-time low of minus US$10 million
in the operations account of Senegal with the West African Monetary Union,
and standards of living in rural areas had declined to the levels of the
early 1960s. Government, whose financial position had become precarious,
resorted to Eurodollar borrowing to avoid a slowdown in its investment pro-
gram. During 1974, the economic situation showed a temporary improvement as
a result of sharp price increases for groundnuts and rock phosphate, Senegal's
two main exports; but it deteriorated again in 1975, following a fall in rock
phosphate exports and in groundnut prices. In addition, the annual rate of
inflation reached 20% in 1975. It appears that the Government has overesti-
mated the strength of the world market for its major exports and has followed
a too expansionary economic policy. Foreign reserves slipped heavily in the
r-ed -In 1973-75 and are predicted to fall further this year (to minus US$88
mill-ion). Government possibilities to adjust are limited, but enough to
redress the situation over two or three years.
B.   The Agricultural Sector
General
2.03      Despite poor soils and erratic rainfall, agriculture is central to
Senegal's economy. Over the period 1971-75 it accounted for about one third
of GDP and about half of Senegal's exports of goods. In 1975 the sector em-
ployed 70% of the country's labor force and will continue to be the largest
source of employment for the foreseeable future. The rural population has
an annual per capita income averaging US$150.
2.04      The sector has several important characteristics:  farms of less
than 10 ha account for 95% of all production; groundnuts account for almost
70% of agricultural exports; 60% of the rural population is concentrated
within about 100 miles of Dakar in the Groundnut Basin; and large areas in
the north and east of the country are suitable only for livestock production
under extensive grazing. There are significant variations in the distribu-
tion of rural population, while cropping patterns differ little between re-
gions.



- 3 -
2.05      The Ministry of Rural Development and Hydraulics (MDRH), has over-
all responsibility for agricultural development. Its most important instru-
ment has been the "Programme Agricole" (PA) (para 2.06) which is implemented
through: (a) local cooperatives (para 2.07); (b) two national agencies --
ONCAD (para 2.10) and BNDS (para 2.13); and (c) regional development agencies
(para 2.16).
Programme Agricole
2.06      PA was started in the early 1960's with the aim of improving pro-
duction and productivity of groundnuts and cereals by providing credit to
farmers through cooperatives and OCAD for acquisition of animal-drawn imple-
ments, fertilizers, and improved seeds. From 1960 to 1968, production in-
creased by 30%, and yields by 20%. Thereafter, yields and production of
groundnuts declined sharply in the drought years, and have since fluctuated
with rainfall. Even in good rainfall years, however, output has not exceeded
the record levels of 1968. This suggests that PA in its present form may
have reached the limits of its potential and that further improvements re-
quire stronger extension services promoting more advanced practices, partic-
ularly heavier application of fertilizers and improved cropping patterns.
Cooperatives
2.07      Cooperatives (Annex 2) have been Government's principal instrument
at the local level for improving marketing and involving rural people in eco-
nomic development. Substantial progress has been achieved.
2.08      Senegal now has about 2,200 cooperatives of which 1,700 are con-
cerned with groundnuts and millet. Groundnut cooperatives, with about
200,000 members, concern the entire rural population in the Groundnut Basin
and in Casamance. For a membership fee of CFAF 1,000, the participating
farmer is entitled to credit for fertilizers, pesticides and agricultural
implements provided under PA. Cooperatives distribute farm inputs, including
seeds to their members, and collect groundnuts and cereals produced by them
for eventual marketing by ONCAD, the state wholesaler.
2.09      The management of the cooperatives has not been strong enough to
make them self sufficient, however, and ONCAD's performance has been defi-
cient in many respects. In view of this, Government plans to strengthen
the cooperatives. First, they will be organized into unions that will each
market at least 1,500 tons of groundnuts a year; and second, the new regional
development agencies will train and supervise cooperative management to help
them gradually take over more responsibilities from ONCAD.
Office National de Cooperation et d'Assistance pour le Developpement (ONCAD)
2.10      ONCAD is a national agency created in 1966.  Its present object-
ives are to: (a) assist and supervise cooperatives; (b) procure and deliver



- 4 -
farm inputs to cooperatives on seasonal and medium-term credit provided by
BNDS, and to recover such credit; (c) administer input subsidies; and (d)
organize, on a national scale, the marketing of groundnuts and cereals,
including imported rice.
2.11      Although the marketing of groundnuts and credit recovery have
improved in many respects over the past five years, ONCAD's overall perform-
ance has been poor and its organizational and financial problems have lately
become critical. The agency operates at a high cost and substantial delays
have occurred in both the delivery of inputs and transportation of ground-
nuts. Furthermore, ONCAD has not kept proper accounts or issued financial
statements on time, and its recovery of debts from Government, the stabili-
zation fund and private debtors has been inadequate.
2.12      So far, ONCAD has only been able to continue its operations with
short-term credit provided by the Central Bank through BNDS. At the end of
last year ONCAD's current liabilities were tentatively estimated at about
US$200 million equivalent. These liabilities comprised debts due from
Government (about US$65 million equivalent) and inventories of cereals and
farm inputs (about US$135 million equivalent). So far, ONCAD's financial
situation has not affected the physical implementation of agricultural proj-
ects supported by the Bank.
Banque Nationale de Developpement du Senegal (BNDS)
2.13      BNDS was established in 1964 to provide financial and technical
assistance for development projects in the fields of agriculture, livestock,
fisheries, industry, commerce, handicrafts and housing. It is authorized
to provide financing through loans, guarantees or equity participation,
and also to conduct commercial banking activities and manage public funds.
2.14      BNDS participates on the regional committees which determine each
year the credit limits for individual cooperatives. It provides the funds
for the procurement of inputs which are delivered by ONCAD to the coopera-
tives and distributed by them to their members on credit. All credit to
cooperatives is guaranteed by the cooperative movement against deposits
made by cooperatives with BNDS, as well as by Government.
2.15      In 1969 and 1970, BNDS ran into serious financial and organiza-
tional difficulties. Government however took prompt action and, with tech-
nical assistance financed by Credit 140-SE, had the bank reorganized and its
financial and accounting procedures improved; BNDS benefited greatly from
this.
Regional Development Agencies
2.16      Semi-autonomous development agencies organized on either regional
or produet lines, and reporting to MDRH, have begun to take over from the
Ministry responsibility for provision of extension services to farmers.



- 5 -
Experience so far has shown that new techniques can be rapidly introduced
when PA is reinforced by projects providing close extension supervision.
Three such agencies have already been organized: (a) Societe de Developpe-
ment et de Vulgarisation Agricole (SODEVA), has been given full responsi-
bility for extension in the Groundnut Basin; (b) Societe d'Amenagement et
d'Explotation des Terres du Delta (SAED), is responsible for irrigation de-
velopment in the Senegal river valley; and (c) Societe pour le Developpement
des Fibres Textiles (SODEFITEX), formerly responsible for cotton develop-
ment only, is now concerned with all agricultural development in Eastern
Senegal. Two more such agencies are to be created, one for Casamance and the
other in the coastal region north of Dakar. In addition, these agencies
will gradually assume regional level responsibilities presently belonging
to ONCAD.
Price Policies
2.17      Until 1974, Government's price policies were ill-conceived.  To
protect the purchasing power of urban consumers, the retail prices of im-
ported cereals, sugar and vegetable oil were heavily subsidized. This ef-
fectively encouraged imports and discouraged local food production. At
the same time, the farmgate price of groundnuts was set well below the cor-
responding export level. This strained the balance of payments further by
reducing the production incentive for Senegal's principal export crop, and
imposed a heavy tax on farmers, which was transferred to a stabilization
fund.  The fund was used as a supplementary source of revenue for Government
and as a source of heavy subsidies for fertilizer. The latter somewhat
improved the farmer's position but may have encouraged the uneconomic use of
inputs.
2.18      Government became aware of the damaging effects of these policies.
In November 1974, it eliminated the subsidy on imported rice and reduced
those on sugar and vegetable oil. At the same time, it increased the farm-
gate prices of groundnuts, cotton and cereals. In 1975, Government raised
the farmgate prices of fertilizers and farm implements.  Unfortunately, in
1975, the world market price of groundnuts fell by 25% in comparison with
the previous year, while inflation meant that the subsidies on farm inputs
cost as much as before. The stabilization fund now shows a deficit and is
unable to support either prices (its earlier surpluses having been wiped
out) or the fertilizer subsidy. Indeed, since 1974 the latter has been
financed by advances - on the order of US$40 million - from the Central
Bank to ONCAD, whose financial problems are described in para 2.12.
2.19      Since 1969, the Bank has asked Government to reduce fertilizer
subsidies. The main Government argument is that they are necessary to pro-
mote advanced farm technology, to prevent soil deterioration and to sustain



production. A study financed under Credit 404-SE, now underway, should pro-
vide data on the production response to fertilizer; Government has agreed
to take the results of this study into account when establishing the future
price structure for fertilizers. In the meantime, Government agreed at the
negotiations of the Sine Saloum project (Credit 549-SE) in April 1975 that
it will progressively adopt prices that more closely reflect the full cost
of fertilizer, and that it will consult with the Bank in October/November of
each year on fertilizer subsidies for the following campaign. Following
discussions on the latter in December 1975, Government has decided to reduce
the subsidies for common fertilizer and urea from 73% and 80% respectively in
1974 to 56% and 30% in 1976. This is expected to result in a deficit of about
US$9 million for the stabilization fund in 1976, as compared with US$ 15
million in 1975.
2.20      Similarly, during negotiations of the Sine Saloum project, Govern-
ment agreed to adopt progressively more realistic producer prices for the
major agricultural products and to consult with the Bank in April of each
year on the level of these prices for the following campaign. The first such
discussions were held in May 1976 on the occasion of the negotiations for
the project described in this report. Government informed the Bank about the
new prices for the 1976-77 campaign: an increase of about 10% on average for
millet, maize and cotton, and no changes for groundnuts and paddy. These
prices provide adequate incentives to farmers and are consistent with current
world market prices.
C.   Agricultural Development Strategy
2.21      Government's objectives for agriculture are to increase the output
of export crops in order to improve foreign exchange earnings, and to raise
that of food crops in view of rising demand and imports. At the same time,
Government aims to diversify national ouput, in order to diminish the impact
of weather and price fluctuations, and to reduce income disparities through
regional development programs.
2.22      Accordingly, Government has undertaken projects to increase groundnut
and millet production and productivity, especially in the Groundnut Basin.
Given the concentration of people in that area, this is the only practical
short-term means for improving the livelihood of most of the rural population.
Since, however, the agricultural potential of the Groundnut Basin is severely
limited by unreliable rainfall, Government also has programs underway to: (a)
diversify production through rice and cotton in rotation with groundnut and
food crops in the higher rainfall areas of Casamance and Eastern Senegal; (b)
develop the irrigation potential of the Senegal River; and (c) encourage
migration of farmers from the heavily populated areas of the Groundnut Basin
towards Eastern Senegal.
2.23      To continue to implement the strategy outlined above, Government
recognizes the need to modify many of its policies. Some changes are already
being made; others are necessary, but remain to be decided. With regard to



prices and marketing: first, subsidies should be eliminated as quickly as
possible (para 2.19) to improve resource allocation and reduce the drain
on public finances; and second, ONCAD's input distribution and marketing
functions should be decentralized to the regional agencies and cooperatives in
order to improve efficiency and reduce costs (para 2.16).
2.24      The establishment of regional development agencies (para 2.16)
is sound, because PA is not designed to provide the intensive supervision
required to move farmers to higher levels of productivity, and because these
agencies have managerial and administrative advantages over Government depart-
ments.  However, they are not revenue earning, and Government has so
far relied heavily on external assistance to cover their costs, because a
larger Government contribution is not feasible under the present difficult
economic situation (para. 2.02). Government is aware that exclusive reliance
on external assistance to finance the operations of regional agencies would
be imprudent in the long run. Accordingly, and given the high priority
of the agricultural sector in the Senegalese development strategy, Government
has decided to study the necessary structural changes in the allocation of
public savings (including the review of subsidies) to ensure an adequate
financial support to these agencies.
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Project Area
3.01      The project area covers the 7,300 km  of the Sedhiou District
located in the middle of the Casamance Region (see map). The district has
six "arrondissements" with a commercial center at Sedhiou, (pop. 12,000).
The population of the district is estimated at 2bout 200,000, of whom 90%
are rural. Population density, averaging 27/km , ranges from 65/km in the
South to 16/km in the North. There are about 18,000 farms (800 villages)
with an average size of 4.5 ha. Family size in the project area averages
11 people with 7 active members.
3.02      Climate and Soils.  The climate is characterized by a rainy sea-
son, from June to October, followed by a long dry season, from November to
May. Average annual rainfall varies from 1,500 mm in the south of the proj-
ect area to 1,000 mm in the north; at Sedhiou, which receives 1,400 mm, there
is at least 1,200 mm in four years out of five.  Tributary valleys in the
Casamance River system generally have all-season flows, but regulation of
these flows would be necessary to cultivate high-yielding varieties of rice.
From June to October, rainfall is sufficient for one rainfed-cropping cycle
of groundnut and millet, maize and rainfed rice (Annex 4). Five soil types
prevail in the area: the feruginous leached tropical soils of the plateau or
"red soils"; the ferralitic leached tropical soils of the plateau or "beige
soils"; the mixed colluvial "ochre soils" on the slopes of the plateau; and
the "grey" and hydromorphic soils of the valleys (Annex 4).



- 8 -
3.03      Farm Production.  Most of the villages of Sedhiou District are
located on the edge of the plateau; thus almost every farm cultivates up-
land crops on the plateau as well as swamp and grey-soil rice, respectively,
in valley bottoms and lower slopes. As a result, production is quite diver-
sified. The major crops in the 90,000 ha cultivated are rice (20% of the
cultivated area) and sorghum and millet (30% of the cultivated area), with
groundnuts as the major cash crop (40% of the cultivated area); other sub-
sistence crops (10% of the cultivated area) are maize, cassava, cowpeas and
vegetables.  The livestock herd consists of about 113,000 cattle, 77,000
sheep and goats, and 12,000 pigs.
3.04      Land Tenure.  Traditionally, local family chiefs allocate land to
individual farmers; this system continues although the 1972 land-tenure law
placed all agricultural land in the National Domain. The traditional system
could raise some problems where land is to be improved, either through water
control or through de-stumping. However, experience with the first project
shows that these problems can generally be solved satisfactorily at the com-
munity level.
3.05      Communications.  In the North, the project area is linked to North-
ern Senegal and Ziguinchor, the capital of the Casamance province, by an
all-weather road which crosses the Gambia River by ferry; in the South, a
new paved road links Ziguinchor to the town of Kolda at the eastern limit
of the project area (see Map). The secondary roads which serve most of the
villages in the project area would be improved and maintained by the Ministry
of Public Works under the Bank's Feeder Roads Project, approved by the Board
in March 1976. Sedhiou is linked with Ziguinchor and Dakar by telephone.
Under the first project, radio equipment was purchased to link the "arron-
dissements" with project headquarters.
3.06      Education and Health.  Ten public and five private schools provide
primary education to about 9,800 children (30% of school age). Staff of the
Secretariat d'Etat a la Promotion Humaine promote functional literacy among
adults. ONCAD also trains cooperative officers. A center at Sedhiou trains
rural blacksmiths, masons and carpenters. There is one hospital, at Sedhiou,
which is not well equipped and does not have a physician; there are three
medical-aid posts in the project area.
3.07      Agricultural Research and Seed Production.  The Institut Senegalais
de Recherches Agricoles (ISRA) maintains two stations in Casamance: one at
Sefa for rainfed crops, the other at Djibelor near Ziguinchor which works on
irrigated rice. These stations have bred well-adapted varieties which are
multiplied under contract by selected farmers under the supervision of MDRH.
Seed production programs have suffered because MDRH has frequently failed to
pay the agreed premium to farmers; such programs would now be the responsi-
bility of the project management unit -- PMU -- (Annex 14).
B.   CASAMANCE RICE PROJECT (IDA Credit 252-SE)
3.08      The Casamance Rice Project (Annex 3) had the objective of expanding
swamp rice and rainfed production, mostly in rotation with groundnuts and food



- 9 -
crops.  The project's area, in Sedhiou District, has the best climatic condi-
tions in Senegal. Unlike the Groundnut Basin, little extension work had pre-
viously been carried out in the project area; it was therefore given high
priority in Government's development planning.
3.09      The project included:  the creation of an organization within
MDRH, reinforced by qualified specialists and provided with housing, equip-
ment, and vehicles; the clearing of 9,500 ha of land for cultivation of
rainfed rice; the implementation of irrigation and drainage works for 2,000 ha
of swamp rice fields; the construction of 24 small rice mills; the improvement
of 250 km of feeder roads; and the provision of seasonal and medium-term
credit to project farmers through a revolving fund operated by BNDS.
3.10      The project organization was established early in 1972, on sched-
ule, and extension staff began advising farmers and organizing the distribu-
tion of farm inputs. Project progress was satisfactory. In 1974/75, there
were 4,150 participating farm families, as compared with 3,000 anticipated at
appraisal, although technical packages were being employed on only 10,200 ha
instead of the 12,700 ha estimated at appraisal. However, yields were higher
than appraisal estimates; in particular, rice yields have been much higher
because the plan, at appraisal, to promote a substantial rice development on
tred" plateau soils was abandoned in favor of concentrating efforts on the
grey soils, thus benefiting from a steady water supply. This shift was
promoted by the project management which clearly perceived the greater po-
tential of the grey soils. Areas under cultivation with different crops by
project participants are assessed by project extension agents and yields are
estimated by sample checks on one out of every three fields. Project pro-
duction estimates are in line with those made by the regional agricultural
services. Results obtained during the last two campaigns, compared with
appraisal estimate, are as follows (Annex 3, Table 1):
Campaign/              Area                 Yields                Production
Crops        Appraisal  Actual    Appraisal   Actual    Appraisal    Actual
…       ha ------    ------ t/ha ------    ------- tons ------
1974/75
Rice           4,600     5,707         1.3        3.5         6,000      20,000
Groundnut      4,800     3,038         1.2        1.9         5,900       5,800
Millet/Maize  3,275      1,485         1.0        1.7         3,400       2,600
1975/76 /1
Rice           7,385     5,685         1.4        3.0        10,200      18,100
Groundnut      6,480     4,117         1.3        2.0         8,300       8,200
Millet/Maize  3,825      1,747         1.2        1.1         4,500       1,900
/1   Preliminary estimates.
Farm families not adopting ox-drawn cultivation (60% of total) are estimated to
have increased their per capita incomes, in 1975 terms,   from US$35 before
the project, to US$75 in 1974/75; those who use ox-drawn cultivation (40% of
total) are estimated to have reached per capita incomes of US$135 (Annex 3,
Table 2).



- 10 -
3.11      Cooperatives proved not to be a convenient channel to deliver farm
inputs and to allocate credit, because 55% of the rice growers were women who
cannot be cooperative members, and thus cannot receive cooperative credit for
rice production. These difficulties were satisfactorily solved through an
agreement between the PMU and ONCAD, by which ONCAD undertook responsibility
for supplying inputs to PMU, which undertook responsibility for their de-
livery to farmers and for credit recovery. Total inputs distributed was
above appraisal estimates, and credit recovery rate was 95% in 1974/75; the
average over four years was 85%, despite two years of drought, in which Gov-
ernment decided the cancellation of outstanding cooperative debts in the
affected areas.
3.12      In some respects the project did not achieve its objectives.
Irrigation and drainage works were not implemented because the project was
never staffed with suitably qualified and experienced personnel and because
construction costs proved much higher than estimated. Instead, the project
financed small pumping schemes on 35 ha.  Higher than expected costs also
resulted in only 65 km of roads being improved as compared with the 250 km
anticipated. Little paddy has been marketed through official channels;
farmers generally have preferred to do it themselves because official market-
ing arrangements were not attractive to them. Besides, on-farm consumption
appears to have been underestimated at appraisal and thus the marketed sup-
ply was lower than expected. As a result, IDA agreed to finance only two
rice mills, out of the 24 anticipated at appraisal; they were scheduled
to be in operation in early 1976.
3.13      Total project cost over the four-year development period would be
US$ 7 million, as compared with US$ 4.9 million anticipated at appraisal.
Cost overruns of US$ 2.2 million, due to exchange rate variations (US$ 0.8
million) and additional personnel and operating costs (US$ 1.4 million), have
been entirely met by Government.
3.14      Despite such difficulties, the project has successfully promoted
an expansion and intensification of rice production and elicited a good
response from farmers. Nonetheless there is room for further development
in the region since only 25% of the farms and 10% of the total area culti-
vated are being served under the first project.
C.   PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.15      The project's objective would be to encourage farmers to adopt
improved crop and livestock production techniques, by supplying them with
inputs, credit and technical assistance. The project would carry the 4,150
farm families (Category I) already participating in the first project to
higher levels of technology and induce 3,250 farm families (Category II)
now using traditional methods to adopt the improved cropping techniques
which have prove effective under the first project. In addition the proj-
ect would encourage 4,800 families from both groups to take up better live-
stock practices. It would also help to strengthen cooperatives by training
their management and promoting the organization of cooperatives unions.



- Il -
The project would benefit about 7,400 farm families (80,000 people in all),
representing about 40% of the rural population of the district. It would
be implemented during the 1976-1980 period by the same management unit (PMU)
as established under the first project.
3.16      The proposed project would comprise:
(a)  strengthening the existing PMU to enable it to carry
out its additional responsibilities;
(b)  promoting the use of improved farm practices, such as
destumping, plowing, use of improved seeds, pesticides,
and fertilizers, different cropping patterns and animal
traction;
(c)  promoting improved livestock husbandry through better animal
health care and use of supplementary feedstuffs;
(d)  constructing and operating a feed mill;
(e)  establishing water-control schemes for the improvement of
1,650 ha of paddy rice fields and financing a soil and
hydrological survey of 15,000 ha of potentially irrigable
land;
(f)  settling about 400 farm families on an abandoned Government
farm;
(g)  providing training facilities for project staff and farmers;
(h)  organizing the supply of farm implements, fertilizer, pesticides,
and seeds, and distributing these to project farmers either for
cash or under medium-term and seasonal credit arrangements;
(i)  installing 35 small cooperative-owned rice mills;
(j)  strengthening cooperative institutions in the project area;
(k)  monitoring and evaluating project activities; and
(1)  financing a regional planning unit that would prepare a
master plan for the agricultural development of Casamance
and which would subsequently prepare one or more of the
development projects identified in such plan.



- 12 -
D. Detailed Features
Strengthening PMU
3.17      The existing Project Management Unit (PMU) will be reorganized to
unable it to carry out its additional responsibilities (see Chart). Head-
quarters will be at the building constructed by the first project in Sedhiou;
offices rented at Ziguinchor will be kept for the Finance and Administration
Division (para 3.36). Project activities would require a ratio of one exten-
sion agent to about 50 participating farm families, and thus the existing
project staff of 150 would be sufficient. The project would finance vehicles,
office equipment and staff costs during the four-year development period.
Crop Development (Annex 4)
3.18      The project would aim at:  (a) strengthening and expanding grey
soil rice production; (b) increasing swamp rice production through water
control (para 3.24) and improving traditional swamp rice cultivation; and
(c) developing upland rainfed crops, such as millet, maize, rice, ground-
nuts and cotton.
3.19      In principle, project farmers would move through three steps of
new or improved practices (details at Annex 4):
(a) improved manual: timely seeding and weeding, row planting
and light fertilizer usage, use of pesticides and improved
seeds, de-stumping, use of new implements such as sprayers,
pedal rice threshers and sickles, and introducing rice and
cotton, at some expense to millet, in the rotation;
(b) semi-intensified: introduction of animal-drawn plowing and
seeding with one pair of oxen, expansion of the cultivated
farm area from 4.5 up to 6 ha through land clearing and
de-stumping, increased fertilizer usage, and introduction of
rice, maize, and cotton into the rotations; and
(c)  intensified:  expansion of the cultivated farm area up to
7 ha in the North and up to 9 ha in the South, using addi-
tional implements such as a hoe with lifter, heavier
fertilizer usage, introducing a second pair of oxen in
the South and Sefa, and generally intensifying production
techniques.
3.20      Phasing.  During the project development period, the number of
farmers, as percentage of total per category, in each stage of farm improve-
ment is expected to be as follows (details at Annex 18):



- 13 -
Farm Families at Each Stage
Percentage per Category
Year Before
Stage of Development                Project       PY 1    PY 2    PY 3    PY 4
Category I - 4,150 farm families
Improved Manual                      61          45      29       10       2
Semi-intensified                     38          53      66       80      80
Intensified                           1           2       5       10      18
Category II - 3,250 farm families
Traditional /l                      (100)       (77)    (55)    (27)       -
Improved Manual                       -          22      43       68      77
Semi-intensified                                  1       2        5      21
Intensified                                       -       -        -       2
LA   Percentages between brackets refer to potential participants.
Improved Livestock Husbandry (Annex 5)
3.21      Given the relatively low density of population on the plateau, its
good pastures, a herd with few health problems and the growing acceptance
of animal traction among farmers as proved under the first project, there is a
significant potential for increasing livestock productivity. Cattle are now
managed at low densities of 6.5 ha/head and productivity is low: a calving
rate of about 60%; calf mortality of 35%; and total cattle offtake of less than
10%, with a herd growth of 2% per year. Cattle are slaughtered for family con-
sumption and marketing through traditional channels in equal proportions.
3.22      The project would promote better management practices, with parti-
cular reference to draft oxen, calf rearing, feeding of breeding and lactating
cows, cattle fattening and sheep and poultry husbandry. The project's exten-
sion services would demonstrate the use of crop residues, feed concentrates
and minerals in livestock feeding. The ingredients required -- groundnut cake,
salt, bone and fish meal -- are produced locally. Details of requirements and
costs are at Annex 19, Table 3. Initially, 1,650 farms (Category I at the
semi-intensified and intensified stages) would be covered under the project,
reaching 4,800 (65% of project's total; 98% of Category I, and 23% of Category
II farmers) by PY 4. The project would coordinate actions with MRDH's veteri-
nary services in the area, to reduce calf mortality and improve animal health
care. The project would employ 13 extension agents specialized in animal
husbandry.



- 14 -
Feed Mill (Annex 5)
3.23      Until PY 3 the Societe de Developpement et de Vulgarisation Agri-
cole (SODEVA) has agreed in principle to provide feed supplements; afterwards
the project would build and operate a feed mill at Sedhiou, with an annual
capacity of 500 t of feed concentrate, at a cost of US$44,000. The project
management would transfer the ownership of the feed mill to a cooperative
union after PY 4, on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. During negotia-
tions,assurances were obtained from Government that it would cause SODEVA
to provide feed supplements to the project up to PY 3, and that terms and
conditions about the transfer of ownership of the feed mill to a coopera-
tive union after PY 4 would be agreed with IDA.
Water Control Scheme (Annex 6)
3.24      The first project had anticipated the improvement of about 2,000
ha of swamp rice production through simple drainage and irrigation works
in about 1,000 ha to secure partial control of the wet-season natural flow.
The program was not implemented because of several factors: (a) estimated
cost was too low to construct schemes ensuring permanent improvements; and
(b) the civil works unit was never staffed with well experienced specialists.
However, under the first project a detailed survey of irrigation possibilities
was made and small pumping schemes totalling 35 ha were implemented for rice
growing during the dry season. The results of these efforts have permitted
the formulation of the types of water control now proposed under this second
project.
3.25      Four types of works are planned for development under the proposed
project (see Map):
(a)  construction of an experimental polder to reclaim alluvial plains
along the Casamance river valley, and to conserve the surface run-
off for irrigation (Type A);
(b)  the construction of a gravitational diversion irrigation
(gravity-fed) system on the upstream land in the Casamance
tributary valleys (Type B);
(c)  the drainage of valleys where land is waterlogged during
the wet season, and diversion of the surface runoff for
irrigation (Type C); and
(d)  the extension of pumping schemes on plains bordering the
Casamance river upstream of the salt water front, where
fresh water is available throughout the year (Type D).
Type A - Polders. Pseudo grey saline soils cover about 15,000 ha
along the Casamance river. They are very close to sea level and affected
by tides. Parts of these areas had been cultivated in the past during the
wet season; they are now abandoned since the salt-water front has advanced
by 40 km over the last 10 years. Reclamation of these lands seems possible,
but several unknown factors need to be studied, in particular salinity and
alkalinity.



- 15 -
The project would finance a soil and hydrological survey to cover
these factors. The survey would be carried out by consultants during PY 1,
at a cost of CFAF 10 million (US$44,000) and would cover about 15,000 ha of
alluvial plains (scale 1:20,000). A 50 ha experimental polder would be
constructed only if the results of the survey demonstrate that soils are
suitable for the proposed development.
Type B - Gravity-Fed Irrigation. Gravity-fed irrigation schemes,
each serving at least 100 ha and totalling an estimated 300 ha, would be
developed in the upstream land of the tributary valleys where rainflow is
adequate in order to:
(a) control the water level, thereby allowing the cultivation of
the short-stem, high-yielding rice varieties instead of local
long-stem floating rice varieties during the rainy season; and
(b) to permit second crops other than rice from October to January
immediately after the rainy season.
This development would consist of construction of a weir across a natural
stream and regulate the main canal to divert the river-rim flow into the
irrigated area; and construction of on-farm distribution systems which include
lateral canals, bunds, drains and land leveling.
Type C - Drainage. This type would involve draining waterlogged
land upstream of the tidal zone. Surface runoff would be controlled to pre-
vent damage to rice cultivation by excess water and additionally to retain
water for irrigation. Sites have been selected to avoid successive down-
stream back-up water effects. Development of 1,200 ha is planned.
Type D - Pumping Schemes. Under the project the hectarage under
pumping and thus double cropping would be expanded from the existing 35 to
100 ha.
3.26      MSajor earth works, such as main dikes and drainage canals, would
be constructed likely by local enterprises selected under IDA guidelines for
procurement; the program is not large enough to justify the cost of having
specialized equipment and staff in the project. Concrete structures would
be done by the project unit with the equipment purchased under the first pro-
ject. The project Civil Works Division, which will be adequately staffed
(para 3.40), would provide topographic teams to the contractor for installa-
tion of drainage works. Under project supervision, farmers would construct
bunds and level their lands.
Settlement Program - Sefa (Annex 7)
3.27      The Sefa area is populated by about 2,500 migrants who worked pre-
viously as laborers on a series of unsuccessful mechanization schemes that
date back to the beginning of the 50's and that are now abandoned. They now
cultivate scattered plots around 10 small villages. In 1974 Government



- 16 -
decided to allow the settlement of farmers in part of the area, and as a con-
sequence, the first project began to provide extension services and credit
to 150 families concentrated in two villages, and also to promote animal
traction to grow groundnut and millet. Though initial yields from these
efforts were rather low, they were enough to induce these migrants to stay
in the area.
3.28      The ongoing actions would be consolidated and intensified by the
project. Out of 5,000 ha cleared in the Sefa area, 2,850 ha would be set-
tled under a project-sponsored scheme by PY 4 through establishing about 400
farms (including the 150 farms already settled) that would use animal-drawn
cultivation. The project would provide settlers with: (a) about 10 ha of
land; (b) a subsistence and housing grant of CFAF 50,000 in kind for the first
year; (c) domestic water supply by drilling five wells of about 25 meters
deep. New settlers would be selected by the project from families living in
the area villages, and from migrant seasonal laborers; they would have to
follow the project's technical package and join local cooperatives. The crop-
ping pattern and technical recommendations would be the same as those for the
Southern Area (Annex 4), with the exception of edible groundnuts which would
replace groundnuts for oil into the crop rotation. The present health center
and school near Sefa would be sufficient to accommodate the new settlers with-
out expansion. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government
that settlers would be selected by PMU under the criteria defined in Annex 7.
Training (Annex 8)
3.29      The project would provide funds to train project staff and farmers,
and to purchase farm equipment for demonstration purposes. Senior staff and
the best extension workers would attend courses for about four weeks probably
at the Centre d'Education Technique pour le Developpement Agricole (CETAD) at
Thies, which is adequately managed by SODEVA and supported by Credit 404-SE,
and at ISRA and agronomy schools at Bambey. Senior staff would in addition
visit similar projects in West Africa. Selected best extension workers would
be trained in animal husbandry and project evaluation (4 weeks). In addition
to normal supervision and training done by sector chiefs and training officers
from July to November, yearly training sessions would be organized for farm-
ers and extension workers between March and June (3 weeks), with equipment
provided by SODEVA and by the project. Three literacy agents would be pro-
vided by the Secretariat d'Etat a la Promotion Humaine to organize, together
with the project staff, training sessions for 4,900 farmers and cooperative
leaders, using visual aids financed under Credit 404-SE. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained from Government that the literacy agents would be
made available to the project.
Farm Inputs and Implements
3.30      Farm implements, fertilizers, pesticides and seeds would be procured
by ONCAD with funds provided by BNDS and distributed by PMU (para 3.42) to
project farriers through cooperatives, either for cash or under short and



- 17 -
medium-term credit arrangements (paras 4.08 and 4.09). At appraisal, it
was agreed with SODEFITEX that the latter would supply the project with
pesticides, seeds and special equipment needed for cotton production. This
agreement was confirmed during negotiations.
Rice Mills (Annex 9)
3.31      The first project envisaged the construction of 24 small rice
mills; however, although production targets were reached (para 3.10) farm-
ers marketed very little paddy (2,000 tons, 1% of total production) through
the project. This was because farmers first satisfied their domestic needs,
did the milling by hand and then sold the rice through traditional marketing
channels in the project area. The planned increase in milling capacity was
therefore not required and as a consequence, IDA financed only 2 mills in
1975; these mills, to be operated by cooperatives under project supervision,
will provide a test of farmers willingness to process their paddy under
the project. It is assumed that producer prices (para 5.04) would be more
attractive with milling done by local cooperatives and that they would in-
duce project farmers to sell their marketable surplus of rice to the proj-
ect. New facilities would therefore be necessary to process the expected
additional 15,000 tons of paddy per year by PY 4. Accordingly the project
would provide financing for 35 small rice mills -- including 22 leftover under
the first project --, each with an average milling capacity of 430 tons/year
and a storage capacity of 200 tons which would be set up near production
centers. Such mills would provide the most economic means of processing,
largely because of lower overheads. However, in view of the experience under
the first project, only 6 mills would be established under PY 1, and it would
be a condition of disbursement against mills in subsequent years that Government
and IDA agree annual programs based on the needs of the current situation.
Assistance to Cooperatives
3.32      There are 152 cooperatives in the project area, with 17,600 mem-
bers. In normal years they market about 35,000 tons of groundnut (Annex 2).
ONCAD maintains offices and staff in the project area to organize the pur-
chase and collection of groundnuts, manage the groundnut seed stockpile and
distribute farm inputs and equipment. Under the first project it was agreed
that ONCAD would help PMU to organize the credit scheme, whether or not the
farmers belonged to cooperatives; this arrangement has worked but it has
tended to reduce the role of cooperatives in the project area. Farmers
continue to complain about ONCAD and are reluctant to operate through coop-
eratives.
3.33      In line with Government plans to strenghten cooperatives (para
2.09), it is proposed that PMU should take over ONCAD's responsibilities
for servicing cooperatives in the project area. Under this arrangement
the project would: (a) train cooperative and union staff in organizing
the procurement and distribution of farm inputs, maintaining accounts and



- 18 -
marketing cereals and rice; (b) supervise cooperative management; (c) organize
five cooperative unions; (d) organize a Regional Federation of cooperatives.
The project would finance seven cooperative specialists for training, organi-
zation and supervision activities; it would select, hire, train and supervise
a management team for each cooperative union, composed of one manager-chief
accountant, one accountant and one storekeeper; these staff would be paid
by cooperatives. In addition, it would finance 13 cooperative intendants
during PY 1, and 6 during PY 2 to train cooperative staff on credit manage-
ment and accounting. It would also finance the construction and equipment
of cooperatives stores and of cooperative unions offices, shops and stores,
and the rehabilitation of an existing building as the office site for the
Regional Federation. PMU would take over, as required, the 8 ONCAD
cooperative assistants presently working in the project area; to cover the
cost of this staff ONCAD would transfer to the project resources derived
from the marketing of groundnuts (CFAF 400/t), which are now applied by
ONCAD to finance the supervision of cooperatives. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained from Government that within one year of the signa-
ture of the proposed credit agreement Government would have defined and IDA
agreed the respective responsibilities of PMU and ONCAD in the project area,
and that it would cause the transfer to PMU of adequate means to assist and
and supervise cooperatives.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation (Annex 10)
3.34      Activities at the farm level would be monitored by the project's
extension staff under guidelines set up by the Planning and Evaluation Divi-
sion, which would be staffed with one expatriate, three agriculture technical
assistants and six statistical assistants. PMU would also employ consultants
for a total of 28 man-months spread over four years to help design and implement
the evaluation system and methods, under terms of reference described at Annex
10; together with the project staff, they would prepare a detailed evaluation
report for each cropping campaign. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained from Government that consultants would be selected under terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA and that the evaluation report would be made avail-
able to the Association within six months of the end of each cropping cam-
paign.
Regional Planning Unit
3.35      From 1960 to 1975, several rural development projects in the Casa-
mance Region have been implemented in isolation with no attempt by Govern-
ment to coordinate them. The Government has now decided to set up a Regional
Development Agency (para 2.16) responsible for integrated rural development
in Casamance. To facilitate this the project would finance a Regional Plan-
ning Unit that would prepare, during PY 2 and 3, a master agricultural devel-
opment plan covering the Casamance Region.
3.36      The draft master plan would need about 37 man-months of consul-
tant services and an equivalent amount of contracted counterpart staff time.



- 19 -
A draft would be completed for review by the end -)f 1977. The draft master
plan would be reviewed bv Govern-aent and IDA who would agree mutually whether
additional project funds should be used to finance the preparatior. of one or
more of the development projects identified in the plan. Completion of the
plan including preparation of the investment proposals would require about 37
man-months of consultant services and equivalent counterpart time, and would
be completed by December 1979. Draft terms of reference for the master plan
are given in Annex 12; the planning unit costs totalling about US$550,000 are
detailed in Annex 15, Table 9. Assurances were obtained from Government
that the consultants and counterpart staff employed to prepare the master plan
would have experience, qualifications and terms of reference acceptable to
IDA. It would be a condition of disbursement against the cost of the Regional
Planning Unit that Government had appointed, with IDA agreement, such consul-
tants. It would also be a condition of disbursement against the cost of
preparing specific development projects that IDA and Government had reached
an agreement on the terms of reference for the preparation work.
E.   Organization and Management
Project Organization
3.37      The project management organization established under the first
project, which has proved satisfactory, would remain essentially unchanged and
be responsible for both first and second projects (Chart). Key project staff
would comprise the Project Manager and five Division Chiefs whose
responsibilities would be as follows:
(a) Extension: promoting improved agricultural and animal
husbandry practices; training of field extension workers;
(b) Cooperatives: assisting and supervising cooperatives in
credit, procurement, input distribution and accounting;
training of cooperatives and unions staff;
(c) Civil Works: preparing layouts and contracts for civil
engineering works, supervision of works, maintenance of
project infrastructure, roads and equipment, including
rice mills;
(d) Planning and Evaluation: programming and monitoring of
proiect's activities and evaluating results; and
(e) Finance and Administration: financing, accounting, per-
sonnel, general services and procurement.
Details of personnel and costs per Division are at Annex 15, Tables 6 and 7.



- 20 -
3.38      Project headquarters would continue to be at Sedhiou, but for
administrative convenience the Finance and Administration Division would
remain at Zinguinchor, where the Regional Agency probably will be located.
3.39      The project would fall ultimately under the authority of the
Regional Development Agency to be set up for Casamance (para 2.16). As
Government has not indicated when this new agency will be operational, it
has been agreed with Government that the project would initially be imple-
mented directly by MDRH, and be transferred to the new agency only after
IDA had been satisfied the new agency was operational with: (a) by-laws
ensuring a reasonable financial and managerial autonomy; (b) equity capital
that had been paid in; and (c) sufficient working capital at its disposal.
These agreements were confirmed during negotiations.
Staffing
3.40      PMU employs both permanent civil servants, including the Project
Manager and contracted Senegalese staff. Expatriates currently are employed
to run the Extension, Civil Works and Finance and Administration Divisions.
The expatriate running the Extension Division would be the head of the Planning
and Evaluation Division; his previous post would be filled by his counterpart.
Senegalization of the two other positions probably would be rather difficult,
since there is stiff competition between the public and private sectors for
qualified engineers and financial specialists, and once trained the counter-
parts might prefer posts less isolated than those at Sedhiou.
3.41      The posts of Project Manager and counterparts to the Planing and
Evaluation Civil Works and Finance and Administration Division Chiefs are key
positions and should be filled by staff with qualifications and experience
acceptable to IDA. An assurance to this effect was obtained at negotiations
and also an assurance was obtained that contracted expatriate staff would
be employed before December 1976 under conditions and terms of reference
acceptable to IDA (Annex 13). To ensure the quality of Senegalese staff and
thus to facilitate Senegalization of key project positions, assurances were
obtained during negotiations that Government would: (a) provide the project
with suitably qualified and experienced senior and middle level staff, and (b)
allow the project manager to return staff to their original agencies if their
performance is unsatisfactory.
Coordination between PMU and ONCAD
3.42      Because of ONCAD's poor performance (para 2.10), Government agreed
during appraisal that in the project area PMU would:



- 1-
(i)  replace ONCAD in the supervision of cooperatives;
(ii) organize the marketing of cereals in liaison with ONCAD
and BNDS;
(iii) coordinate with ONCAD in the management of the seed stock-
pile; and
(iv) distribute farm inputs and implements to cooperatives.
In the long run, it would appear best for ONCAD to decentralize the
procurement of farm implements and inputs to cooperative unions or to the
Regional Agency; these institutions ultimately would be qualified for this
work and would be more responsive to the needs of farmers. However, this
could not be implemented until these institutions prove themselves to have
sufficient financial managerial capability. Meanwhile, ONCAD has agreed to:
(i) appoint a senior officer to liaise permanently with PMU for the purposes
of implements and inputs procurement; and (ii) consign to PMU a permanent
stock of farm equipment, fertilizer and pesticides available for cash or
credit sales to farmers. The primary marketing of groundnuts at cooperative
level will remain ONCAD's responsibility. An outlined agreement between
ONCAD and PMU is at Annex 14.
3.43      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that within the
first project year Government would define in detail and IDA agree the
respective responsibilities of PMU and ONCAD vis-a-vis cooperatives, the
management of the seed stockpile, the consignment of farm implements and in-
puts to PMU, the marketing of cereals and groundnuts and the procurement and
distribution of farm implements and inputs. Assurances were also obtained
from Government that it would commission a study of the feasibility of com-
pletely decentralizing the procurement of farm implements and inputs; that
results of such study would be made available to IDA for comments before the
end of the 1977/78 campaign; and that it would discuss with IDA the implemen-
tation of any recommendations resulting from the study.
IV. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A.   Project Costs
4.01      Total project costs for the four-year development period, 1976/77
to 1979/80, are estimated at US$14.9 million, including a foreign exchange
component of US$4.2 million, or 28% of total project costs. Excluding taxes
and duties, which account for about 13% (US$2.0 million) of project costs,
total project costs would be US$12.9 million. The following table sum-
marizes project costs; further details are at Annex 15.



- 22 -
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
% of
Total
% of    Project
Local  Foreign   Total  Local Foreign Total Foreign Cost
-----CFAF Million-----  ----US$ Million----
Capital Expenditure
Civil works                 169.3  133.1      302.4   0.7    0.6    1.3    44        9.0
Vehicles                     21.5   26.3       47.8   0.1    0.1    0.2    55        1.4
Equipment                    61.8   67.3      129.1   0.3    0.3    0.6    52        3.8
Rice and Feeder
Mills                       77.6   90.0      167.6   0.3    0.4    0.7    54        5.0
Incremental Field Costs
Personnel                 1,045.0  140.0   1,185.0   4.7    0.6    5.3    11    35.3
Operating Costs             164.0   32.7      196.7   0.7    0.2    0.9    17        5.9
Consultants                  10.4   41.6       52.0           0.2    0.2    80       1.6
Farm equipment
and inputs                  381.0  155.7      536.7   1.7    0.7    2.4    29    16.0
Base cost                 1,930.6  686.7   2,617.3   8.5    3.1   11.6    26    78.0
Physical
Contingencies
(6.8%)                     110.7   68.0       178.7   0.5    0.3    0.8    38        5.3
Price Contingencies
(22.5%)                    388.3  170.3       558.6   1.7    0.8    2.5    30    16.7
Total Project Costs         2,429.6  925.0   3,354.6  10.7    4.2   14.9    28   100



- 23 -
4.02      The  cost estimates are based on mid-1976 prices.  Physical contin-
gencies of 20% are provided on water control works and 10% on all remaining
costs except personnel. Expected price increases amount to about 22% of base
cost estimates plus physical contingencies and have been computed according
to the following annual compound rates: (a) 13% in PY 1, and subsequently
12% per year on costs of civil works and buildings; and (b) 9% in PY 1, and
subsequently 8% per year on all other costs. Total contingencies amount to
US$3.3 million, or 28% of the project's base costs.
4.03       Senegalese staff salaries are based on the current salary scale
fixed by Government. Expatriate unit costs average CFAF 13 million (US$58,000)
per year; they include basic salaries, allowances, travel expenses and provi-
sions for annual leave, consultant supervision and overheads. The project
will provide lodging and vehicles to be used subject to project needs. Average
consultant costs, based on current levels, amount to US$4,700 per man-month,
including travel expenses.
B.   Proposed Financing
4.04      The project financing plan is summarized in the following table:
FINANCING PLAN
(US$ Million)
Government   1DA  CCCE  BNDS  Cooperatives   Total
I.  Civil Works                0.3       0.7   0.3    -          -             1.3
Il.  Vehicles
& Equipment               0.2       0.4   0.2    -          -            0.8
III. Rice & Feed
Mills                      -        0.4   0.2    -         0.1           0.7
IV.  Personnel                  1.0       2.9   1.4    -          -             5.3
V.  Operating Costs            0.1       0.5   0.3    -          -             0.9
VI.  Consultants                 -        0.1   0.1    -          -             0.2
VII. Incremental Farm
Equipment &
Inputs                    0.9        -     -    1.5         -            2.4
BASE COSTS              2.5       5.0   2.5   1.5        0.1          11.6
VIII.  Unallocated                 0.9       1.3   0.7   0.4         -            3.3
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS   3.4         6.3   3.2   1.9        0.1          14.9
Percentage
of Total              22.8     42.3  21.5  12.8         0.6         100
Percentage
of Total
Net of Taxes          10.9     48.8  24.8  14.7         0.8         100



- 24 -
4.05      The project comprises joint financing between IDA and CCCE in
the ratio of 2:1. The IDA credit of US$6.3 milion would be on standard
terms, and equivalent to the foreign exchange costs (US$4.2 million) and
to US$2.1 million (24% of local costs) for a total of 48.8% of total proj-
ect costs net of taxes and duties. The CCCE loan of FF 14.2 million (about
US$3.2 million equivalent) would be for a term of 20 years, including a
five-year grace period, with interest at an assumed annual rate of 4.5%.
Together, the IDA credit and the CCCE loan would cover the equivalent of
total foreign exchange costs and US$5.3 million (61%) of local costs for a
total of 73.6% of project costs net of taxes and duties. Local costs would
include allowances paid to civil servants (US$1.3 million), comprising trans-
portation and housing, and arising as a direct result of the secondment of
the staff concerned to the project. The proposed financing, including that
of local costs, is justified, given the relatively low foreign exchange com-
ponent of this high priority project and considering the difficulties which
Senegal is facing in raising further its domestic savings in a period of de-
terioration of its terms of trade. Other costs totalling US$5.4 million would
be met from: the Government budget (US$3.4 million), BNDS (US$1.9 million),
and cooperatives (US$0.1 million).
4.06      A condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit would be that all
conditions precedent to initial disbursements of the CCCE loan had been ful-
filled.  The IDA credit and the CCCE loan (US$9.5 million) plus Government's
contribution to project costs (US$3.4 million) would be passed on as grants
initially to the project, and afterwards to the Regional Agency (para 3.37).
The IDA credit, CCCE loan and Government's contribution not directly paid by
the General Budget would be channelled to a special project account at the
General Treasury. Under existing arrangements, Government's contribution
is fully paid into the account at the beginning of the fiscal year in July;
and the project manager has authority to withdraw from it a cash advance up to
CFAF 50 million to meet current requirements. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained from Government that present arrangements would continue.
4.07      Government's contribution to project costs would be in the form of
salaries paid to civil servants (US$1.2 million); the cost of subsidies,
during the project development period, on farm inputs (US$1.2 million); and
taxes and duties on project items financed by IDA and CCCE (US$ 1.0 million).
BNDS would finance incremental farm equipment and inputs (US$1.9 million)
through short and medium-term credit provided to farmers. Cooperatives would
contribute US$0.1 million to cover 10% of the cost of rice mill construction
and equipment; for this they would use funds retained from their marketing of
groundnuts and depositied at BNDS; during negotiations assurances were ob-
tained that Government would make arrangements to ensure that these funds
would be made available to the cooperatives.
C.   Credit Arrangements
4.08      Credit to farmers is now channeled by BNDS through cooperatives
and the PMU. The amount of credit BNDS now grants to individual cooperatives
is determined by the average quantity of groundnuts marketed by the coopera-
tives. Credit requirements under the project could exceed these limits un-
less they are adjusted upwards to take account of the quantities of rice
and cereals marketed by cooperatives. Assurances from Government that
such adjustments would be made were obtained during negotiations.



- 25 -
4.09      BNDS would finance the credit to farmers, using in part the re-
volving fund created by IDA Credits 140-SE and 404-SE and funds borrowed
on favorable terms from the Central Bank of the West Africa Monetary Union--
currently at 5.5% annual interest.  Medium-term loans (five years) and sea-
sonal loans would finance farm equipment and seasonal inputs, respectively.
As under the terms of Credit 404-SE, the loans would bear interest at 2 per-
centage points above the Central Bank preferential discount rate. The re-
sulting interest rate would be applied to actual costs which include ONCAD's
intervening charges. An assurance were obtained from Government that it
would cause BNDS to lend sufficient funds to project farmers on these terms
and conditions. In addition, farmers would be able to purchase implements
and seasonal inputs for cash (para 3.30).
D.   Recovery of Costs
4.10      Project expenditures can be divided between:  (a) general agricul-
ture support activities, such as extension services, that are not normally
recovered through direct charges; (b) recoverable expenditures such as those
on rice mills and water-control schemes; and (c) grants to participants,
for example the settlement allowance. With regard to recoverable expenses
(b) above, the costs of rice mills, including equipment and stores, would
continue to be repaid by cooperatives over five years with a nominal interest
rate of 7.5% --terms applied to all agricultural credit in Senegal--through
levying and repaying to PMU a processing fee of CFAF 6 per kilo of paddy,
covering investment and operating costs (Annex 9, Table 1). Through an
additional fee of CFAF 2 per kilo of paddy marketed by all project rice
growers (Annex 20, Table 3), the PMU would recover 75% of the cost of water-
control schemes over 15 years, at the same rate of 7.5%. This represents a
rent-recovery index of about 20%. Repayments that would amount annually to
US$263,000 after PY 4 would be retained by the Regional Agency as working
capital. The income opportunities and security offered by the project to
participants could be attractive, but even so an anticipated average income of
US$127 per capita after four years would be well below the 1975 national
per-capita GDP of US$320 (para 2.01). Consequently, the partial recovery from
farmers of infrastructural development costs would be justified on income-
distribution grounds.
E.   Procurement
4.11      The cost of civil works, equipment, farm implements, and vehicles
would total about US$5.1 million. Individual contracts for buildings, water-
control works, equipment and vehicles for more than US$50,000 (aggregating
about US$3.4 million) would be awarded on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding in accordance with the Bank Group's guidelines for procurement.
Locally manufactured goods would be allowed a preference of 15% or the level
of applicable import duty, whichever is lower, when comparing domestic with
foreign bids. Contracts for less than US$50,000 (expected to total US$1.4
million) including small buildings and wells, would be awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with procedures
which are satisfactory to IDA. Equipment purchases, such as office furnish-
ings and equipment for agricultural demonstrations, in amounts of less than
US$10,000 (totalling US$0.3 million) would be purchased directly from local
suppliers. Consultant services, including expatriate management staff (US$1.5



- 26 -
million) would be obtained according to IDA's normal procedures. Fertilizer
and pesticides (US$1.8 million), produced locally at competitive prices,
would be procured by ONCAD, according to local procedures acceptable to
IDA. Seeds (US$0.4 million) would be procured directly by the PMU from
participant farmers. The remainder corresponds to personnel costs (US$5.0
million) and operating costs (US$1.1 million).
F.   Disbursements
4.12      The IDA credit would be disbursed pari passu with the CCCE loan in
the ratio of 2:1. The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed to cover:
(a) 50% of costs of water control works and buildings -- US$ 0.67
million;
(b)  44% of the costs of vehicles -- US$ 0.09 million;
(c)  53% of the costs of equipment -- US$ 0.30 million;
(d) 44% of the costs of rice and feeder mill civil works and
equipment -- US$ 0.33 million;
(e) 67% of the costs of project project personnel on contract,
and of allowances paid to civil servants -- US$ 2.9 million;
(f) 60% of operating costs -- US$ 0.53 million; and
(g) 67% of consultant services costs -- US$ 0.15 million.
US$1.36 million would be held unallocated. CCCE would finance the remaining
33% of the above items. Disbursements would be against constracts and
invoices for items (a), (b), costs of expatriate personnel in (c), and (e).
Disbursements against local contracted personnel and settlement allowances
in (c), and (d) would be against statements of expenditures certified by the
Project Manager and the Finance and Administration Division Chief, with the
supporting documentation retained by PMU and made available for inspection
during supervision missions. It would be conditions of disbursement against:
(i) the cost of establishing the regional planning unit that the consultants
required to carry out the master plan for the agricultural development of
Casamance and prepare follow-up projects be employed with qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA; (ii) the personnel
and operating costs relating to finalizing the above master plan and prepa-
ring follow-up projects that the Government and IDA agree on the specific
terms of reference of the consultants responsible for such tasks; (iii) each
annual investment program in rice mills that the Government and IDA agree on
each such program; and (iv) the construction costs of the experimental polder
that the results of the soil and hydrological survey become available and that
relating recommendations be formulated in agreement between the Government and
IDA. Any funds remaining undisbursed upon completion of the project would be
cancelled. A disbursement schedule is at Annex 16.



- 27 -
G.   Accounts and Auditing
4.13      The ongoing project organization has developed a satisfactory ac-
counting system. Since the proposed project would ultimately become part
of the new Regional Development Agency, an assurance was obtained from
Government that throughout the project development period: (a) existing
accounting standards would be maintained, and (b) in the event of a take-
over by a Regional Agency, the Agencv would maintain separate accounts for
the project. The Regional Agency, like all other public agencies in Senegal,
would use central accounting procedures and computer services in Dakar.
4.14      During the first project, the accountant general's staff have
regularly audited project accounts, in accordance with Government proce-
dures. An assurance was obtained from Government that the regular audit
of project accounts would continue but that in addition an independent firm
of auditors would be appointed under terms acceptable to IDA. An assurance
was obtained from Government that copies of the audited accounts and of the
firm of auditors' report would be submitted to IDA within four months of the
close of each financial year. Audit terms of reference are at Annex 17.
V. YIELDS AND OUTPUT, MARKETS AND PRICES,
FARMERS BENEFITS AND GOVERNMENT REVENUES
A.   Yields and Output
5.01      Crops.  Farmers would enter the project at different levels of
technology (para 3.20) and they would be expected to achieve significant
increases in their crop yields per hectare. Yields achieved by partici-
pating farmers in the three stages of adoption of improved practices are
shown below, and compared with yields under traditional cultivation. The
yields are those that would be obtained in a year of normal rainfall.
Improved     Semi-
Crop            Traditional   Manual   Intensified    Intensified
------------------ tons/ha ----------------------
Swamp Rice                 1.0          2.0          2.5            4.0
Grey Soil Rice             1.0           2.0         2.5            3.5
Upland Rice                 -            1.0         1.5            2.0
Millet                     0.8           1.2         1.5            2.0
Maize                      1.0           2.0         2.5            3.0
Groundnuts for Oil        0.9            1.2         1.5            2.0
Edible Groundnuts           -             -          0.9            1.7
Cotton                       -           1.0         1.5             1.5
5.02      Overall, in the four-year development period increases in yields per
hectare achieved by all project participants would average, if the phasing in
para 3.20 is achieved, 24% for rice, 56% for millet, 79% for maize, 25% for
groundnuts for oil, 15% for edible groundnuts and 20% for cotton. It is
expected that, without the project, yields would not increase significantly.
Average crop yields and incremental crop production would be as follows:



- 28 -
Average
Project Yields
Year Before                 Incremental
Crop                Project       PY 4        Production
----  tons/ha -----        ---tons----
Swamp Rice                1.7           2.4           2,300
Grey Soil Rice             1.8          2.4           4,700
Upland Rice                1.2           1.5          3,000
Millet                    0.9           1.4           2,700
Maize                      1.4          2.5           5,000
Groundnuts for Oil         1.2          1.5           6,500
Edible Groundnuts         1.3           1.5           1.600
Cotton                    1.0           1.2              600
5.03      Livestock.  Under the project, growth rates for fattened cattle
would average about 500 g/day, compared to about 150 g/day under traditional
grazing methods. Calves weaned and reared by project participants would have
a mortality rate of about 25% compared to about 35% outside. Breeding cows
would produce about 250 liters of milk per year, some 100 liters more than the
present average for the project area, and their calving rate would increase
from 60% to 75%. The project's incremental output between the year before the
project and PY 4 would average about 8,050 calves, 1,100,000 liters of milk,
and 78,000 kg of beef (Annex 19, Table 4).
B.   Markets and Prices
5.04      Cereals.  Following the withdrawal in November 1974 of subsidies
on imported rice, all domestically produced cereals are expected to find a
ready local market. The official farmgate price for millet and sorghum is
CFAF 30/kg and for maize CFAF 35/kg; these prices are equivalent to their
current economie import substitution value (Annex 20, Tables 1 and 2).
Project calculations employ, however, conservative 1980 import substitu-
tion values of CFAF 28/kg for millet and sorghum, and CFAF 30/kg for maize.
The official retail price of rice currently is CFAF 100/kg and the farmgate
price of paddy CFAF 41.5/kg. Based on projected world market prices, the
economic farmgate value of paddy would be CFAF 40/kg by 1980 (Annex 20,
Table 3); after deducting a contribution of CFAF 1,500/t to the Stabiliza-
tion Fund, the resulting financial farmgate price for paddy of CFAF 38,500/t
should be an adequate incentive for rice production.
5.05      Groundnuts.  ONCAD has a monopoly for groundnuts, which it buys
through cooperatives and sells to domestic processors. After processing,
all edible groundnuts, the groundnut cake and 80% of the groundnut oil are
exported. Marketing arrangements for oil groundnuts are satisfactory, and
world market prospects are fair, despite an expected decline in prices, from
about US$490/ton in 1975 to about US$362/ton in 1980 (in 1975 terms). The
current farmgate price is CFAF 41.5/kg, and in the light of market projec-
tions is likely to be maintained at this level in nominal terms. In real



- 29 -
terms the price would decline to about CFAF 30/kg by 1980, and the farm
budgets indicate that this price would provide an adequate incentive to
project participants (Annex 20, Table 4). Future export market prospects
are good for edible groundnuts, provided the product is of high quality.
Although world market prices are expected to decline by 19% over the period
1975-80 the actual farmgate price (in 1975 terms) would still provide a more
than sufficient incentive to farmers and support for the Government Stabili-
zation Fund. Therefore, a farmgate price of CFAF 50.0/kg of edible groundnuts
has been used in the project's fînancial and economic analysis (Annex 20,
Table 5).
5.06      Cotton.  There would be  ready domestic and export markets for
all project output. In response to improved world market prices in 1973-74
Government raised the official farmgate price for seed cotton from CFAF
30/kg in 1973 to CFAF 46.5/kg in 1974. Even so, this still represents only
about 55% of the market value of the product, the balance of which accrues
to Government. Because world prices for fiber and seed are expected to
decline and to be in 1975 terms US$1,279/ton and US$181/ton respectively
by 1980 Government's share will have to fall to maintain the current pro-
ducer price in real terms. Project financial projections have been based,
therefore, on a farmgate price continuing at CFAF 46.5/kg in 1975 terms
(Annex 20, Table 6).
5.07      Livestock Products.  Meat consumption in Senegal is about 74,000
tons, of which some 20% is made up of imported cattle, sheep, and goats
from Mauritania. Because of losses during recent droughts, prospects for
increasing output of livestock over at least the next five years are poor
in both Senegal and Mauritania. These prospects have already been reflected
in Dakar cattle prices, which have increased since 1970 from about CFAF 100/
kg to about CFAF 145/kg (liveweight). The farmgate prices used for beef
cattle and milk for the project's economic and financial analyses are the
current market prices and are equivalent, in 1975 terms, to CFAF 150/kg
liveweight for beef cattle, CFAF 26,000 for a two-year old steer and CFAF
50/liter for milk.
5.08      Under Credit 549-SE assurances had already been obtained that
Government would follow a policy of setting the prices of groundnuts and
of cotton at levels advantageous to producers, that it would promptly in-
form IDA of any decision to establish subsidies on imported cereals, and
that it would consult annually with the Association on the prices to be
paid to producers for cereals, groundnuts, and cotton (para 2.14).
C.   Farmers' Benefits
5.09      Indicative farm budgets for crop production (Annex 18) show that
project farmers would substantially increase their incomes over the four-
year development period. These budgets employ the farmgate prices for out-
put discussed above, and the assumption that by 1980 farmers will pay the
full cost of urea, that subsidies on composite fertilizers and pesticides



- 30 -
will amount to 25% of full cost and that the present 100% subsidy on rock
phosphate will be maintained. The global impact on both categories of par-
ticipating families incomes is summarized below:
Average Incomes (US$ per capita in 1975 prices)
Year Before                 Annual Rate
Farm Families                  Project       PY 4      of Increase %
Category I  - 4,150              73           104             9.2
Category II - 3,250              42            66            12.0
In addition, about 65% of project farmers would be involved in project super-
vised livestock production (Annex 19).  Average income per capita among proj-
ect participants, from such activity, including cattle sales and autoconsump-
tion of meat and milk, would increase from about US$5 to about US$10 during
the project development period.
5.10      Working days required would increase by 20% because of land clear-
ing needs, but this would be carried out during the dry season and met mostly
by family labor. By PY 4, average income per work day would average CFAF
290 (US$1.29), representing an increase of 45% over the level of CFAF 200
(US$0.89) in the pre-project year. Hired labor would account for about 1%
of total farm work days and would command daily rates of from CFAF 150 to
CFAF 200, the higher values applying to sowing and harvesting periods.
Projeet incomes compare favorably with these rates.
D.   Government Revenues
5.11      The largest source of additional Government revenues would be the
surpluses expected to accrue to price stabilization funds for rice, ground-
nuts, and cotton (Annex 20, Tables 3, 4, and 6, respectively). In the case
of groundnuts, it is assumed that Government would maintain the current pro-
ducer price although the world market price is expected to decline (para
5.05); this would imply a decrease by 47% in the contribution to the Sta-
bilization Fund by 1980. After the five-year disbursement period these
surpluses would average about CFAF 160 million (US$0.7 million) annually
(Annex 21, Table 2). In addition, Government would derive incremental rev-
enues from taxes on project costs and it would recover from participating
farmers the total costs of rice mills and 75% of investments in the water
control schemes (para 4.10). Government would incur costs on civil ser-
vants salaries, debt services and fertilizer subsidies (para 5.09). Gov-
ernment's net cash flow attributable to project activities would show a
positive cummulative balance in current terms of about CFAF 120 million
(US$0.5 million) in about five years, and subsequent annual surpluses would
average about CFAF 110 million (US$0.5 million). Overall, the project would
be self-financing.



- 31 -
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The project's direct benefits would be the increases in output
of groundnuts, cereals, rice and cotton, and livestock products (para 5.01
and 5.03). At the end of the four-year development period, the economic
value of this incremental production in 1975 prices would be about US$4.7
million, representing a contribution of about US$3.4 million to Senegal's
net foreign exchange earnings.
6.02      The project involves techniques which require either a single
application, stump removal, or simple repetition, use of oxen for plowing
and of fertilizers to maintain benefits indefinitely. The economic rate of
return calculation assumes that extension activities do not continue beyond
the four-year project period and that farmers trained during that period
would afterwards be able to maintain the levels of production reached by
PY 4. Therefore the calculation includes project expenditures and incre-
mental on-farm costs only upto PY 4. Half of the project area roads im-
provement cost as estimated in the Feeder Roads Project (para 3.05) is in-
cluded since it is assumed that it would serve project activities to this
extent. The calculation is based on the November 1975 Bank Group's price
projections for cotton, groundnut and cereals, and local current prices for
livestock products consistent throughout West Africa. A 25% annual reduction
of incremental output is made to allow for a drought every four years. For
each campaign up to PY 8, a lag of six months is assumed in project benefits,
to allow for delays in the farmer's rate of adoption of improved practices.
On this basis, the project's economic rate of return would be 23% over 15
years. Benefit decreases or cost increases of 20% would lower the rate of
return to 14% and 15%, respectively. 1/ Details are at Annex 22.
6.03      In addition to the directly quantifiable benefits derived from
increased production, the project would make a substantial contribution to
setting up cooperatives with sufficient human and cash resources to organize
the distribution of farm inputs, marketing of cereals and processing of paddy.
It would help reduce the threat of soil erosion; it would also strengthen man-
agement and organization of the new regional agency identify rural development
possibilities in Casamance.
VII.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
1/   Calculations have also been made using the May 1976 Bank's Commodity
Price Forecasts, and economic and financial results did not differ
significantly from those presented in this report.



- 32 -
(a)  concerning project's assistance and supervision of cooperatives
(paras 3.33 and 3.42), Government would have defined and IDA agreed,
within one year of the signature of the proposed credit agreement,
the respective responsibilities of PMU and ONCAD in the project
area, and that it would cause the transfer to PMU of adequate means
to assist and supervise cooperatives;
(b)  consultants employed for the project's evaluation and for the
preparation of the master plan would be selected and hired under
terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, and the evaluation report
would be made available to IDA within six months of the end of each
cropping campaign (paras 3.34 and 3.36);
(c)  the project would initially be implemented under MDRH and
would be transferred to the new Regional Development Agency
under conditions satisfactory to IDA (para 3.39):
(d)  Government would (para 3.41):
(i)  appoint to the positions of Project Manager and Extension
Division chief, and counterparts to the Planning and Evaluation,
Civil Works and Finance and Administration Division Chiefs
qualified and experienced staff acceptable to IDA; and
(ii)  contract expatriate staff before December 1976 to fill in the
positions of Planning and Evaluation, Extension, Civil Works
and Finance and Administration Division Chiefs, under terms of
reference and conditions acceptable to IDA.
(e)  concerning the procurement of farm implements and inputs (para
3.43), Government would commission a study of the feasibility of
completely decentralizing the procurement of farm implements and
inputs, and results of such study would be made available to IDA
for comments before the end of the 1977/78 campaign; and that it
would discuss with IDA the implementation of any recommendations
resulting from the study;
(f)  referring to IDA Credit, CCCE loan and Government's contribution
(para 4.06):
(i)  proceeds of the IDA credit and of the CCCE loan, and
Government's contribution would be paid into a projects
account opened at the General Treasury;
(ii)  Government would deposit into the said project's account
funds sufficient to cover PMU's estimate of expenditures
for the following three months; and
(iii)  Government would maintain the cash advance of CFAF 50 million
created under the First Project.



- 33 -
(g) project accounts would be independently audited under terms
acceptable to IDA, and copies of the audited accounts and of
the auditor's report would be submitted to IDA within four
months of the close of each financial year (para 4.14).
7.02      A condition of effectiveness would be that all conditions preceding
initial disbursements under the CCCE loan have been fulfilled (para 4.06).
7.03      Conditions of disbursement would be:
(a) against the cost of rice mills for each year after PY 1, that
Government and IDA had agreed on annual programs based on the
needs of the current situation (para 3.31);
(b) against the cost of the regional planning unit that Government
had appointed and IDA had agreed on the consultants responsible
for the preparation of the master plan (para 3.36);
(c)  against the cost of finalizing the master plan and preparing
specific investment proposals that IDA and Government had
reached agreement on the terms of reference for preparing
investment proposals (para 3.36); and
(d) against the cost of the experimental polder, that Government
and IDA had agreed on the results and recommendations of the
soils and hydrological survey (para 4.12).
7.04      With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project is
suitable for an IDA credit of US$6.3 million.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
Progress of Agricultural Projects
Financed by the Bank Group
Cr. 140         First Agricultural Credit Project:  US$6.0 Million Credit
and
Ln. 584         US$3.5 million loan;
Credit of February 10, 1969 and Loan of same date (can-
celled); Effective June 25, 1969; Closing Date: June 30,
1976
The Credit is almost fully disbursed.
Cr. 252         Casamance Rice Project; US$3.7 million
Credit of June 18, 1971; Effective January 6, 1972
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Details are in Annex 3.
Cr. 254         Terres Neuves Settlement Project; US$1.35 Million
Credit of June 18, 1971; Effective January 31, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The project's settlement program was completed in 1974 as anti-
cipated at appraisal. The project has been successful in providing higher
incomes than expected for settlers and has attracted families with more
adult workers than anticipated in 1974. 300 families have been settled
as envisaged and there are about 2,300 people in the six settler villages.
There are adequate water supply facilities and the necessary social infra-
structure is being completed. Adequate and evenly distributed rainfall
ensured good crops during the last seasons. Societe des Terres Neuves
(STN) (the State Corporation in charge of the project) is taking measures
to solve the major problems relating to financial management, audit and
project monitoring. The credit is expected to be fully disbursed in the
early CY 1976.
Cr.350    River Polders Project; US$4.5 Million Credit of January 9, 1973;
Effective June 8, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Procurement has been completed for the main components of the
project and contracts have been awarded. Construction of works is pro-
gressing satisfactorily. The Senegalese authorities requested that the
Debi/Lampsar components of the project be deleted from Credit 350-SE and
be reformulated within the broader framework of integrated development of
the Senegal River Basin. The proposed reformulation was agreed upon by



ANNEX 1
Page 2
IDA and an engineering project for Debi/Lampsar was appraised in December 1974
and approved by the Board in April 1975. The Credit was fully disbursed by the
end of March 1976. Because of price increases and US dollar devaluation, the
proceeds of Credit 350-SE were not sufficient to cover the projects as appraised,
despite the deletion of the Debi/Lampsar component. Government is presently
making arragnements for supplementary financing of about US$3.6 million to
complete the project.
Cr. 404         Second Agriculture Credit Project; US$8.2 Million Credit of
June 25, 1973; Effective November 28, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1977
The 1974/75 campaign was good. Groundnut and cereal production
reached their highest levels since 1969, about 50% over the 1973/74 produc-
tion level. Demand for short and medium-term credit remained stronger than
anticipated, but available credit funds will be sufficient to cover re-
quirements for the 1975/76 campaign, the output of which continued to be
significantly above average. The subsidy on fertilizers has been reduced
significantly, and the scheduled study under Credit 404-SE should provide a
basis for policy review. Major organizational and financial problems still
exist at ONCAD despite techincal assistance provided since 1969. Government
has taken steps to remedy this serious situation by giving ONCAD management
more financial autonomy and by strengthening it will qualified accountants.
Cr. 446         Drought Relief Project; US$3.0 Million Credit of
December 7, 1973; Effective February 5, 1974; Closing Date:
January 31, 1977
The project is part of the Senegalese plan to help people in
drought affected areas to re-establish their self-sufficiency by assisting
them to redevelop and improve theîr farms and lands. Operations, including
strengthening of health and water supply services, have been proceeding
satisfactorily and the project is expected to be completed on schedule.
Cr. 549         Sine Saloum Agricultural Development:  US$7.0 Million
Ln. 1113        Credit and US$7.0 Million Loan of May 22, 1975;
Effective October 31, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
This project, which started in late 1975, aims at increasing
and diversifying agricultural production in the Sine Saloum region through
the reinforcement of SODEVA's activities. Activities under the project,
including the setting up of extension services, are underway as planned.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Cr. S-18        Debi-Lampsar Irrigation Engineering Credit, US$1.0 Million
Credit of May 22, 1975; Not yet effective; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
The credit finances the execution of the engineering studies
needed for the implementation of the Debi-Lampsar irrigation scheme. With
provision for retroactive financing, the studies have been initiated. Des-
pite delays in effectiveness, the studies are well advanced and the original
schedule for project implementation will not be substantially delayed.
Cr. 578         Terres Neuves II Resettlement and Eastern Senegal
Technical Assistance Project, US$2.0 Million Credit
of July 8, 1975; Effective November 14, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project, which started in late 1975, consists of the re-
settlement of 600 families, and of studies and surveys for a master plan
for the Eastern Senegal region. The settler recruiting campaign and ini-
tial land clearing are underway, as scheduled.
Cr. -           Eastern Senegal Livestock Project; US$ 4.2 Million Credit
not yet signed; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project consists of developing and operating a controlled
grazing scheme, improving animal health and providing extension services and
credit to some 30,000 livestock owners.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
Cooperatives Organization and Development
Background
1.        In 1960, soon after independence, Government decided to ration-
alize groundnut production and marketing channels by promoting a large
cooperative scheme throughout the country. Direct participation by rural
people in economic development also was an ultimate objective, to be
reached step by step as the cooperative movement gains strength and man-
agerial capability. Next, Government established specialized public
agencies to assist cooperative in particular fields:
(a) administration, by helping in the organization of annual meet-
ings, the maintaining of accounts, and the training of coopera-
tive leaders;
(b) procurement and delivery of farm input requirements (seeds,
fertilizers, draft animals and implements):
(c) marketing or production essentially groundnuts; and
(d) provision of seasonal and medium-term credit.
These services are now provided by two agencies: ONCAD and BNDS. ONCAD
was set up in 1966 to replace the Office de Commercialisation Agricole du
Senegal (OCAS) and the cooperative services were made a part of ONCAD man-
agement. In 967, ONCAD was charged with the marketing of groundnuts from
the cooperatives to the local oil mills. BNDS was set up in 1964 by the
merger of the BSD (Banque Senegalaise de Development) with the Credit
Populaire.
Cooperative Organization
2.        The cooperative members elect a Board of Directors and a Chair-
man who is generally a well-respected community leader. To a certain ex-
tent, farmers can choose their cooperative. This relative freedom could
be restrained as a result of the ongoing administrative reform, which aims
at a coincidence of rural community and cooperative boundaries. Coopera-
tive members have to pay an equity share (CFAF 1,000) which is deposited
at BNDS (60%) and FMDR (40%). Cooperatives also derive resources from
their marketing operations, with the surplus being deposited at BNDS into
a guarantee and a development fund.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
3.         Cooperatives are responsible for:
(a) the assessment and the delivery of farm inputs among members;
(b) the recovery of credit;
(c) the collection and primary marketing of groundnut and cereals;
and
(d) the maintaining of participants' accounts.
Present Situation
4.         Based on February 1974 data, there are 2,153 cooperatives in
Senegal of which 1,664 are connected with groundnut and millet production.
The groundnut cooperatives have about 200,000 mnembers; but they affect the
entire rural population of about 1.2 million in the Groundnut Basin and in
Casamance.
5.         The groundnut production and markting objectives have been
reached, as only through cooperatives could farmers get their farm inputs
and market their groundnut production at the official price fixed by
Government. The system has been highly profitable for Government, which
has heavily taxed groundnuts through the Stabilization Fund. Further,
the system has the advantage that credit is collectively guaranteed at
cooperative level. Production and credit figures are summarized below:
1970/71   1971/72   1972/73   1973/74
---------------000 tons--------------
Groundnut production                 583        988        570         675
Groundnuts marketed
through Cooperatives               447        747        385        426
"Program Agricole":               ------------CFAF Million------------
Value of seasonal credit             155        272.4      441.8       444.2
Value of medium-term credit          216        616.5       752.9      682.0
Total                           371        888.9   1,194.7   1,126.2
Farmers' repayment, %                 51         99          53         72
Margin accruing to the
Stabilization fund.              4,400      4,900      2,900    14,000
Less Farmers' debt repayed
by the Stabilization Fund.         418        -          531        -



ANNEX 2
Page 3
On the other hand, little has been done as yet to effectively promote direct
participation in economic development by rural people. Three complaints
of the rural population can be cited:
(a) there is little effective initiative at the cooperative level,
as all responsibilities are held by ONCAD;
(b) ONCAD's services are not yet adequate; and
(c) with the elimination of private traders in the rural sector,
traditional channels have been disrupted for the supply of
basic household requirements.
6.        ONCAD's staff is responsible for:
(a)  listing individual requirements;
(b) distributing seeds, fertilizer and implements to cooperatives;
(c) maintaining individual and cooperative accounts; and
(d) selecting and training the seasonal cooperative officer, who
would be responsible, on behalf of the cooperatives, for
channeling funds provided by ONCAD to the farmers during the
marketing campaign.
Cooperatives can decide only on:
(a) individual farmer's indebtedness within the cooperatives total,
indebtedness as fixed by ONCAD and BNDS; and
(b) the distribution of inputs among cooperative members.
The cooperatives' situation is not improving because: (a) little is done
to select and train management staff at cooperative level; and (b) coopera-
tive funds available at BNDS cannot be invested in the rural sector. These
funds were as follows in September 1974:
CFAF Million
Equity Capital                            224.6
Development Fund                           95.4
Guarantee Fund                          1,061.6
Total                              1,381.6
Accounts are properly maintained, although with some delay; and the quality
of seeds has improved. Despite these improvements, farmers continue to
complain about ONCAD because:



ANNEX 2
Page 4
(a)  they have no control over how their production is weighed and
rated and, consequently, how the bonus paid at the end of the
marketing campaign is calculated;
(b)  they resent being held responsible for the mistakes made by the
seasonal administrative officer ("peseur");
(c)  farm inputs are not delivered on time;
(d)  ONCAD is unable to deliver carts in sufficient quantity to meet
farmers' demand; and
(e)  there is at least a six-month delay before cooperative accounts
are settled and bonuses are paid.
8.        A survey made in 1973 under the First Agricultural Project indi-
cates that farmers would like several innovations with regard to the co-
operatives:
(a) administrative assistant to be selected among participants;
(b)  stores to market household basic requirements; and
(c)  use of their capital and savings to invest in the rural sector.
Future of the Cooperative Movement
9.        Government, aware of shortcomings, has until recently considered
that the cooperative movement cold be improved through:
(a) the strengthening of ONCAD services; and
(b) the merging of cooperatives into units able to makret at least
1,500 tons of groundnuts per year.
10.       With regard to (a), few results have been obtained from ONCAD's
reorganization financed under the First Agricultural Credit Project. With
regard to (b), the merging of cooperatives has been studied since 1972
under Credit 140-SE.
Feasibility studies completed in 1973 indicate that the number
of cooperatives could be reduced from 1,000 to about 220 in the Groundnut
Basin. Mergers would save transport costs. But the biggest advantage
would be the marketing function: new cooperatives could generate resources
by directly administering the collection of groundnuts from farmers and
from the seed stockpile. They could then hire and develop managerial
skills and develop cooperative infrastructure (weighing and transport
equipment, stores). The merging of cooperatives is being tried on a pilot



ANNEX 2
Page 5
basis in the Groundnut Basin, but results have not yet been analyzed.  The
Government has now changed its policy toward ONCAD, recognizing that ONCAD
should not be responsible for both groundnut marketing and cooperative
development. It has recently decided, in principle, that the development
of the cooperative scheme should now be entrusted to regional development
agencies. However, no decision has been taken on how and when ONCAD's
responsibilities would be transferred to such agencies. The proposed
project would help the organization of cooperatives into unions with in-
dependent management and resources.
Cooperatives in the Project Area
11.       There are 152 cooperatives in the project area:  144 are con-
nected with groundnut production; five with bananas; two with fisheries;
and one concerns only craftmen. Cooperatives have 17,600 members repre-
senting the whole rural sector of about 175,000 persons. In normal years,
cooperatives collect about 35,000 tons of groundnuts, an average of 225
tons per coperative; 37 cooperatives market less than 100 tons each, only
seven market more than 600 tons.
12.       Cooperatives in Casamance and in the project area are much smaller
than in the Groundnut Basin because of ethnic and language differences and
communication difficulties. ONCAD supervises cooperatives in the project
area from its regional center at Ziguinchor and from two district offices,
one at Sedhiou, the second at Tanaff. Eight cooperative offices equipped
with four vehicles visit cooperatives to hold cooperative members meetings,
to assess farm input requirements and to maintain cooperative accounts. In
addition, ONCAD maintains permanent staff in the project area to collect
groundnuts, manage the groundnut seed stockpile (about 4,000 tons), and
distribute equipment and farm inputs.
13.       ONCAD only deals with groundnut production and marketing, where-
as the first project has been concerned with inputs and equipment for rice
and cereal production.  Under the first project, ONCAD and the MInistry of
Rural Development agreed that ONCAD would second the project's staff in
organizing the credit scheme, whether or not the farmers belong to a co-
operative. This arrangement has worked, but it has reduced the coopera-
tives' role and obliged the maintenance of separate accounts for each
participant at cooperative and project level. Under the proposed project,
cooperatives would be strengthened to enable them to handle directly the
delivery of all input supplies.
Cooperative Development Under the Project
14.       The following actions are contemplated under the project:
(a) the proposed project would supervise cooperatives instead of
ONCAD;
(b) the project would then use cooperative channels to deliver all
farm inputs and implements for rice and groundnut crops;



ANNEX 2
Page 6
(c) the project would organize five unions of cooperatives (one in
each subdistrict), with their own management and resources to
organize the procurement and delivery of farm inputs; the man-
agement of the seed stockpile; the primary marketing of cereals
(rice, maize), and the processing of paddy; and
(d) the five unions would be organized into a federation to coordi-
nate their activities in the project area.
The existing cooperatives will continue despite their small size because
farmers are not yet ready to accept being obliged to join a larger coopera-
tive including people from other ethnic groups -- particularly in light of
the joint responsibility of each farmer for cooperative debts. The project
would provide functional literacy programs for cooperative members to learn
specific cooperative tasks: weighing of production, distributing of farm
inputs, and maintaining individual accounts.
15.       The project would encourage cooperatives to join unions of
cooperatives. These unions would have an elected body of representatives
which would appoint a management team including a manager, one accountant
and one storekeeper. Initially, this staff would be selected, trained
and supervised by the project. Unions would be equipped with storage
facilities for seeds; offices and shops; and transportation and weighing
equipment. The unions would derive resources from the primary marketing
of agricultural products and the mangement of the seed stockpile. The
project would select and hire union staff. To that purpose, it would
second a cooperation adviser to each union; these advisers would be farmer
attendants in charge of maintaining individual accounts for farmers par-
ticipating in the project. Union and cooperative supervision by the
project would be financed also through a fee of CFAF 400/t of marketed
groundnuts presently paid to ONCAD. Cooperatives would also derive re-
sources from the allocation of the paddy farmgate price (CFAF 1.50/kg of
paddy to be processed by the project mills) and from the marketing of
seeds. The estimated cash flow at the cooperative and union level is at
Annex 21, Table 1.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
Evaluation of the Casamance Rice Project - IDA Credit 252-SE
Background
1.        The Casamance Rice Project (Credit 252-SE) was identified and
prepared by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program in 1970; it was appraised in
November 1970, the credit agreement was signed in June 18, 1971, and the
credit made effective on January 6, 1972. The Project had the objectives
throughout a 1O-year period to:
(a) develop the cultivation of 9,500 ha of rainfed rice, to be
grown mostly in rotation with groundnut and millet on about
32,000 ha of cultivated land by some 5,000 farm families;
(b) improve 2,000 ha of existing swamp rice fields; and
(c) provide rice milling and storage facilities.
During the five-year disbursement period, the project consisted of:
(a) establishing a project organization within MDRH and providing
it with housing, offices, buildings and necessary equipment
and exterior staff;
(b) constructing and operating 24 rice mills and associated
storage;
(c) clearing 9,500 ha of land;
(d) improving project area roads (250 km); and
(e) providing seasonal and medium-term credit to farmers through
cooperatives controlled by the project.
Project costs during the five-year period, 1972 through 1976, were esti-
mated at CFAF 1.3 billion (US$4.8 million) of which US$3.7 million were
financed by the IDA Credit 252-SE.
Project Implementation
2.        Government had satisfactorily set up a project management unit
by the end of 1971. Suitable Senegalese staff has been appointed and,
with the technical assistance of four expatriates provided by INSTRUPA,



ANNEX 3
Page 2
extension staff has been selected and well trained. Housing and office
accommodations have been constructed but made available to the project
only in 1975. In the meantime, project staff has been reasonably well
accommodated in existing government premises at Sedhiou.
3.        Agricultural Development.  As a whole, the agricultural targets
anticipated at appraisal have been reach (Table 1); the project has
successfully developed rice production, although in a different manner
than anticipated at appraisal. Farmer revenues have increased by 25%
(Table 2). Initially, the project was based on the development of rain-
fed rice, grown on the plateau soils in association with groundnut and
millet on about 9,500 ha. Due to severe droughts which affected Senegal
and also Casamance in 1970, 1972 and 1973, the project management clearly
perceived the potential of rice cultivation on grey soils; thus farmers
were encouraged to shift their rice cultivation form the plateau to grey
soils, since they benefit from a steady water supply throughout the grow-
ing season (June to November). In addition, these soils do not require
any investment (being already cleared) and are easy to work (sandy soils
with low clay content). In 1974, 4,500 ha of grey soils were cultivated
(5,000 in 1975) with new high-yielding varieties (IKP) ensuring an aver-
age yield of 3 ton/ha.
4.        The project supervised swamp rice on over 1,900 ha, already
reaching the appraisal's 1980 target of 2,00O ha. No drainage work has
been carried out because the civil works unit set up under the project
has no experience in that field and development costs were underestimated
at appraisal. Surprisingly, droughts have been a favorable factor be-
cause they lowered the water level in the valleys and, consequently,
allowed the introduction of high yielding varieties on 2,000 ha which
normally accept only local varieties with long stems. Average yields
have been about 2.5 - 3 tons/ha during the last two seasons.
5.        The project has successfully developed four small pumping
schemes to grow rice during the dry season. Although the development
concerns only a small area (35 ha), it has demonstrated:
(a) project farmers' willingness to participate in the development
proposed by project staff. Farmers have first provided their
own labor to level their fields, construct dikes and dig irri-
gation canals; then they have adequately maintained the small
perimeters and paid for the full pumpint cost (CFAF 25,000 -
30,000 per ha);
(b) the possibility to solve land tenure problems which have been
raised in some villages during the implementation period. in
these villages, it is now agreed that farmers who have par-
ticipated in field improvement have a definite right to culti-
vate them.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
6.        In 1975, the project has successfully begun to promote rainfed
rice on the plateau soils with a new variety recently selected (302G).
Although climatic conditions have not been favorable (rain began only in
July instead of June), good results have been obtained and an average
yield of 2.5 tons/ha could be expected. This experiment opens the way
for a further development during the second project.
7.        Roads.  The first project is expected to improve only 65 km of
roads instead of 240 km anticipated, because the cost of the roads improve-
ment program was underestimated at appraisal and because of inflation. At
the opening of bids in 1972, the minimum price offered was CFAF 900,000
against CFAF 600,000 per km anticipated at appraisal. Then the Bank agreed
to set up a unit within the project to carry out the roads program. In
1974/1975, the project improved 24 km at an average cost of CFAF 1.3 mil-
lion/km.
Problems Incurred
8.        Financial.  These problems fall into two categories:
(a) underestimation of costs at appraisal, in particular for infra-
structure: construction, roads, and drainage schemes;
(b) exchange rate variation, which has caused a shortfall of CFAF
190 million (US$840,000) and exhausted the IDA credit fund one
year earlier than anticipated.
Actual costs and appraisal estimates are at Table 3, and the 1975 balance
sheet at Table 4.
9.        Administrative.  In 1972, Government and IDA funds were ineffi-
ciently channelled to the project because of poor administrative proce-
dures. The situation improved in 1973, when Government made working
capital available to the project. Despite these improvements, the proj-
ect continues to have some difficulty in replenishing working capital
(Caisse d'Avance) in time to meet current expenditures. Under the pro-
posed project, Government's contribution would be fully paid into the
project's account at the beginning of the fiscal year in July.
10.       Structural.  The appraisal mission anticipated that credit for
fertilizers and farm implements would be channelled to farmers through
cooperatives. At the initial development stage, it became obvious that
cooperatives were not a convenient channel because:
(i)  farmers interested in rice production were mostly women,
who cannot be cooperative members, and their husbands
were not keen to accept credit on their behalf; and
(ii) credit channelled through cooperatives is primarily used
for groundnuts and not for rice production, so another
channel had to be found for seeds and fertilizers.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
To cope with these difficulties, the project entered into an agreement
with ONCAD, by which ONCAD was made responsible for supplying inputs to
the project and the project was responsible for their delivery to farmers
and for credit recovery. This arrangement has worked satisfactorily.
When the project started to deliver high yielding seed varieties and fer-
tilizers to women (55% of project participants), men became interested in
rice cultivation and they began to grow rice and to help women in their
fields. This move, together with a satisfactory recovery rate of credit --
despite no control by the project over paddy or rice marketing -- is
evidence of the project's success. On the other hand, although this
approach has been successful, it is a costly way to channel credit. There-
fore, the second project would aim at integrating project and cooperative
credit, with supervision of cooperatives being taken over by the project.
11.       Technical.  The project met difficulties in adequately staffing
the civil works unit. Consequently, the proposed project anticipates that
all irrigation works would be carried out by civil works enterprises, and
the roads by the public works unit to be set up under the proposed Feeder
Roads Project to be financed by the Bank.
Conclusions
12.       Despite the problems listed above, the project has successfully
reached its objective of developing rice.
Farmers have shown a favorable response to project staff initia-
tives. The results show that there is room for further development in the
region since only 25% of the farms and 10% of the total area cultivated
are now supervised by the first project.



SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
Casamance Rice Project - Appraisal and Actual Results
Cultivated Farm Area           Production                        Yields
Under Project Supervision
Appraisal    Achieved        Appraisal    Achieved          Appraisal    Achieved
ha                  -       ------      t-------            -----    t/ha--------
PY1 - 1972/73    Rice                 900          809            1,000       1,317               1.1          1.6
Groundnut         1,500           20           1,650            42              1.1         2.1
Food crops        1,450           25           1,150            37              0.8         1.5
PY2 - 1973/74    Rice               2,430        2,375           2,950        8,312               1.2          3.5
Groundnut         3,180       1,203             3,650       2,827               1.1         2.3
Food crops        2,450          738           2,250        1,547               0.9         2.1
PY3 - 1974/75    Rice               4,600        5,707            6,000      19,974               1.3          3.5
Groundnut         4,800       3,038            5,900        5,783               1.2         1.9
Food crops        3,275       1,485            3,400        2,561               1.0         1.7
PY4 - 1975/76    Rice               7,385       5,685           10,200       18,100 1/            1.4          3.0
Groundnut         6,480       4,117            8,300        8,200 il            1.3         2.0
Food crops        3,825       1,741            4,500        1,900 b'            1.2         1.1 1/ 2/
1/  Preliminary estimates.                                                                                              CIP
Xx
2/  The maize crop has been damaged by heavy rain in August 1975.                                                       F-W



Annex 3
SENEGAL                                     Table 2
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
Casamance Rice Project - Comparison Between Appraised and Actual Farm Budgets -l
Firat Project Appraisal Estimates                          Actual Estimates
PY.0                         py.4                             PY.4
Area               Net       Area                 Net         Area                 Net
Cultivated  Yield  Revenue  Cultivated  Yields  Revenue    Cultivated  Yields  Revenue
Ha       T/ha    CFAF 1/    ha        T/ha    CFAF 1/         ha       T/ha    CFAF_I/
Farms Without Oxen
Swamp rice               0.4        1    13,170       o.4         2     22,676         0.5       2.5    37.037
Grey soil rice                                        0.3        2.7    24,509         l,o       3.0    92,130
Upland rice                                           1.2        1.6    52,822          -
Groundnut                1.5        1    37,215       1.2        1.5    43,600         1.75      0.9    32,083
Cereals                  1.5       0.8   35,667       o.6        1.4    22,581         1.25      0.9    25,248
3-3:            U,-052       3.7              166,158        4.50             186,498
Less Debt service                           -                             -                                _
Revenue per Capita 2/                      7,822                        15,805                           16,954
Farms With Oxen
Swamp rice                                            0.4         2     22,646         0.5       2.5    37,037
Grey soil rice                                        0.3        2.7    24,172         1.5       3.0   136,5oB
Upland Rice                                           2.0        1.6    84,336
Groundnut                                             2.0        1.5    72,666         2.7       1.9   130,499
Cereals                                               1.0        1.4    37,635         1.3       1.9    67,207
5. 7            2JT,855         6.0              371,251
Less debt service                                                       35,893                           35,893
Net Revenue                                                            204,962                          335,358
Revenue per Capita.2/                                                   18,632                           30,487
1/  All values in 1975 terms following Bank's price forecasts (Annex 20).
2/ Farm family size estimated at 11.



SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PnOJECT
tasamance Rice Project - Actual and Appraisal Project Cost
(CFAF million)
1972                       1973                       1974                       1975 l/                    1976 2/                    Total
Actual   Appraisal         Actual   Appraisal         Actual   Appraisal         Actual   Appraisal         Actual   Appraisal          Actual   Appraisal
T.  Equipment                   7.2        27.6           20.9         8.6            87.8        15.7           34.8        12.1           40           9.3          190.7        73.3
Civil works, building       0.1        70.8            3.0       166.1           50.9        24.9           93.5        29.5            75          28.9          222.5       320.2
Personinel                 69.7        74.9           96.3        82.9          134.9        97.3          201.4        91.4           73           91.4          575.3       437.9
Operating cost             24.3         7.6           34.1        11.0           49.5        12.2           74.2        12.2           40           12.2          222.1        55.2
Contingencies               -          25.6            -          48.0            -          26.1            -          30.8             -          32.8           _          163.3
Sub-total                 101.3       206.5          254.3       316.6          323.1       176.2          403.9       176.0          228          174.6        1,210.6    1,049.9
Il.  Agricultural Credit         8.1        53.0           35.6        59.6           83.5        63.4          106.0        71.6           127          61.7          360.2       309.3
Total                     1.9-4       259.5          289.9       376.2          406.6       239.6          509.9       247.6          355          236.3        2,570.8
1/ Estimates after June, 1975
2/  Estimates for 6 months



SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT                                     Annex 3
Casamance Rice Project - Unaudited Balance Sheet Accounts, August 1975               Table 4
(CFAF)
Fixed Assets                                                      Capital Structure
Roads                                          37,000,000       IDA Credit  1/                        171,772,055
Pumping Schemes                                 4,950,000       Governnent  2/
Buildings                                      51,605,554       Contribution          96,375,001
Stores                                          4,o0o,ooo       Less Amortization    33,369,279        63,005,722
Road Construction Equipment                    78,353,372
Vehicles                                       11,351,602
Office Equipment                               11,564,157
Equipment  3/                                  22,925,860
Total                                     221,750,545
Less Depreciation                          33,369,279
Net Fixed Assets                          188,381,266
Current Assets
Inventories:
Fertilizer            32,704,ooo
Farn  Implements       6,o6g,ooo
Paddy                  6,706,856
Other                 14,967,157         60,447,013
Agricultural Credit:
Short term            80,711,210
Medium term           94,336,025        175,047,235
Other Receivable                                4,201,373
Banks and Cash on hand                         56,014,946
Total Current Assets                      295,710,567
Less Current Liabilities
ONCAD                213,820,608
Other, short term    35,493,448         249,314,056
Net Current Assets                             46,396,511
Totals:                                   234,777,777                                             234,777,777
1/  Disbursed Credit US$2,454,843; CFAF 588,924,ooo, of which CFAF 180,482,000 for investment and
CFAF 408,442,000 for operating expenses.
2/  Governnent total contribution CFAF 184,730,000, of which CFAF 96,375,000 for investment and
CFAF 88,355,000 for operating expenses.
3/ Includes farm, irrigation and rice mills equipment.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASPECTS OF CROP PRODUCTION
General
1.        The Sedhiou Department, located in the mid le of the Casamance
Region in Southern Senegal, has a land area of 7,300 , about 4% of Senegal's
land area. The Department has six "arrondissements" with an urban center
at Sedhiou. The low rolling countryside, which does not exceed 50 m above
sea level, is divided by a network of broad, flat-bottomed grassy and swampy
valleys. The swamp fringes are often covered with groves of wild oil plam.
The upland dry areas or plateau support a natural climax vegetation of
characteristic Soudano-Guinean woodland 1/.
2.        Climate.  The climate of the Sedhiou Department, of the Soudano-
Guinean type, is characterize by one dry season of about seven months from
November to May followed by one rainy season of about five months from June
to October. The average annual rainfall ranges between 1,500 mm in the
South and 1,000 mm in the North. At Sedhiou, the annual rainfall averages
about 1,400 mm, with a probability of at least 1,200 mm in four years out
of five. The rainiest months are July, August, and September with a peak
in August.  Rain intensity is high, sometimes over 100 mm per hour.  The
average monthly temperature ranges between 17°C in January and 39 C in
May. Humidity is low from January to April and very high from July to
October. Winds do not have enough drying power to damage the crops. At
Sedhiou, the annual evaporation averages 1,600 mm.
3.        Soils.  The distribution of soils in the project area is linked
to the topography. Basically, the soils are ferruginous and ferralitic
leached tropical soils on the plateau; mixed colluvial ochre soils on the
slopes; and hydromorphic soils in the valleys.
The ferruginous leached tropical soils of the plateau, or "red
soils", have about a 20 cm upper light textured layer (10 to 20% clay),
with the clay increasing in the middle and deeper layers. These soils
are suitable for rainfed cropping because of their good water retention.
The ferralitic leached tropical soils of the plateau, or `bei>^
soils", present approximately the same texture and structure as the r('
soils; they are also suitable for rainfed cropping.
1/   Acacia; Bauhinia; Cola; Conbretum; Cordyla; Daniella; Erythrophleum;
Khaya; Tamarindus; Terminalia; Parkia; Pterocarpus, etc.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
The mixed colluvial ochre soils on the slopes are located on 2-4%
grades. They have a thick sandy upper layer (up to 40 cm) and a high sensi-
bility to erosion because of their texture and structure and the high inten-
sity of rainfall in the Sedhiou area. Hence, they should be carefully cropped
under special soil practices.
The hydromorphic soils in the valleys include: (a) the grey soils
on the sandy fringes of the valley, which are especially suitable for rice
cultivation since they benefit from a steady water supply (water table between
20 and 100 cm) throughout the growing season; and (b) the hydromorphic bottom-
land soils, for which the clay content can reach 50-60%. These soils have a
high organic-matter content and their texture is fine. If they are not saline,
they are suitable for swamp rice production.
4.        Population.  The population is estimated at about 200,000 - less
than 5% of Senegal's total population - with rural population accounting for
about 95%. Population growth is about 2.2% per year. The density averages
27/km2 and ranges between 65/km2 for the Diattacounda "Arrondissement" in the
South, to 16/km2 for the Bounkiling "Arrondissement" in the North. Most of
the 800 villages of the Sedhiou Department are located at the rim of the
plateau.
Agricultural Production
5.        The cultivated area is estimated at about 90,000 ha, or 12% of the
Department's land area. Farm production is closely linked to topography,
and thus to soil distribuion; as a result, it is diversified, with swamp
and grey soil rice in the bottomlands (20% of the cultivated area), millet,
sorghum, maize and groundnuts and miscellaneous on the uplands (80% of the
cultivated area). Agricultural production is characterized by:
(a) rice (20% of the cultivated area), and sorghum and millet
(30% of the cultivated area) for subsistence; and
(b) groundnuts as a cash crop (40% of the cultivated area).
Other subsistence crops (10% of the cultivated area) are maize, cassava,
cowpeas, and vegetables. Sorghum, which grows usually in small areas near
the villages, is subsumed under millet in this report. Garden crops, which
cover very small areas around farm houses, are not taken into account.
6.        Traditional Agriculture.  Traditional farmers cultivate their land
under a shifting system; a rapid regrowth of the forest cover usually occurs
during fallow. In some lightly over-populated areas, especially along the
rivers and in the bottomlands, the extensive system tends to give way to a
more intensive one with a progressively shorter fallow. Where this occurs,
yields tend to decline, without fertilization and other improved practices,
in particular on the sandy and easily erodible ochre soils of the plateau
slopes.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
7.        In fact, several farming systems are found, combined within the
framework of a village's landholding. Swamp rice is grown mostly by women,
in small plots adjoining the villages, on the hydromorphic soils of the
valley bottomlands, and on the same field year after year. On the soils of
the plateau and on its slopes, rainfed crops are extensively grown both by
women and men. Land near the village is usually fertilized by cattle manure,
and cropped very intensively under very short rotation or even continuous
cultivation.
8.        Crop rotations are not clearly defined.  Groundnuts is nearly
always the first crop grown after land clearing, followed by millet the next
year, and possibly groundnuts again the third year. In many areas, most of
the groundnut fields are interplanted with millet. Under shifting cultiva-
tion, land is cropped less than five years, then left fallow for about 5-10
years, and then cleared for new cropping. Sorghum and maize are usually
cropped in fields near the village.
9.        The general structure of the "carre," or family compound, is very
complex in Casamance, with usually more than one decision maker in the same
"carre." Moreover, from the ethnic point of view, the Sedhiou Department
should be considered as a "melting pot," made up of 50% of Diolas Mandingues
in the center and in the west, 22% of Balantes in the south, 20% of Toucouleurs
Peuls in the North and 8% of miscellaneous ethnic groups. Nevertheless, the
different ways of life of these ethnie groups have a similar influence over
traditional farming.
10.       In the project area, crops are almost entirely hand cultivated by
an average family of Il people with 7 actives; fertilizer is not used. Aver-
age yields are 1,000 kg/ha for swamp paddy, 800 kg/ha for millet and sorghum;
and 900 kg/ha for unshelled groundnuts. Based on the first project data, the
average size of~a traditional farm is 4.5 ha.
11.       Improvement of Traditional Agriculture.  For the last 10 years,
improvement of land and labor productivity has been promoted under (i) the
Government-supported PA: (ii) the Chinese Rice Project, for which detailed
information is not available; and (iii) the Casamance Rice Project, IDA
Credit No. 252-SE, which followed the former FED/ILACO, USAID and CCCE/SATEC
Rice Projects. The PA package is essentially concerned with groundnut produc-
tion, and is promoted by the Casamance Regional Agricultural Service through
rural extension centers ("Centres d'Expansion Ruraux," CER), cooperatives
and ONCAD. The Casamance Rice Project is mainly related to swamp and upland
rice production, and is intensively promoted by the project's organization;
consequently, about 20-25% of the farmers in the Sedhiou Department have
benefited from improved practices.
12.       In terms of their extension programs the PA and, in particular,
the first IDA project have been successful (Annex 3). They have made use
of packages derived from results of agricultural research, which are similar
in their main components:



ANNEX 4
Page 4
(a)  Improved practices:  timely seeding and weeding, row seeding,
and adequate plant population; these basic improvements make
little or no demand on farmers' cash resources;
(b)  Improved seed:  multiplication is done by the Government's
Seed Services and also by ISRA and the first project; seeds
are made available by ONCAD, PA and by the first project;
farmers repay in kind after the harvest;
(c) Pesticides: they are increasingly used for seeds, crop and
storage pest diseases; farmers are overcoming their reluc-
tance to apply fungicides to seeds, especially shelled
groundnut seeds;
(d) Fertilization: soils in Senegal are deficient in phosphorus
and have become deficient in potassium after several years of
cropping; they lack nitrogen for non-legume crops; fertilizer
is heavily subsidized by the Government, and the extension
services promote their use according to recommendations by
ISRA; and
(e) Animal Traction: to minimize the serious labor constraint
imposed by plowing, timely seeding and weeding in the early
stages of plant growth, and to extend the area under cropping,
farmers are encouraged to buy plows, harrows, seeders and hoes
through credit facilities.
Proposed Project
13.       Taking into account the Department's agricultural potential, the
achievements of the first project and the linkage between farm development
and topography, the second project would aim at improving all aspects of
farm development in the valleys and in the plateau. It should be noted, in
particular, that appropriate grazing resources, well adapted cattle in good
health, and the increasing acceptance of animal traction under the first
project (Annex 19) should allow the unconstrained development of animal
traction in the project's area. The agricultural component of the project
would consist of:
(a) strengthening and developing grey soil rice production;
(b)  developing swamp rice production in the bottonlands; through
both improvement of traditional swamp rice fields, and im-
plementation of selected irrigated areas with full water
control; and



ANNEX 4
Page 5
(c) developing production in the plateau; this would consist of
a major development of rainfed upland crops, i.e., millet,
upland rice, maize, groundnut and cotton.
14.       Given the ecological characteristics and the present pattern of
land use, three main areas are considered within the proposed project,
North, South and Sefa (Table 1). The first two are treated in this Annex
while Sefa is described in Annex 7.
15.       Farm Development; Southern and Northern Areas.  The development of
traditional farms would be implemented in three stages:
(1) Improved manual. Improvements on cultivated farms of an
average size of 4.5 ha would be obtained by:
(i)  adopting better hand-farm practices such as timely
seeding and weeding, and row planting;
(ii)  using pesticides, improved seeds and a minimum level
of fertilizer, including basic rock phosphate appli-
cation on swamp and grey soil rice;
(iii) introducing stump removal to prepare the land for use
of animal-drawn equipment;
(iv) modifying traditional cropping patterns by introducing
upland rice (Southern Area) and cotton (Northern area)
and reducing millet cultivation; and
(v) using new implements such as sprayers, pedal rice
threshers and sickles.
(2)  Semi-intensified.  Farmers would introduce, using project's
credit facilities, animal-drawn techniques with one pair of
oxen for plowing and seeding. Stump removal, promoted under
the improved manual stage, would be a prerequisite to animal-
drawn farming. Semi-intensified farms would move to higher
levels of technology by:
(i) using a more comprehensive level of fertilization,
including basic rock phosphate application on stump-
removed upland fields;
(ii) increasing progressively the area under cultivation,
from 4.5 to 6.0 ha in the South and 5.5 ha in the
North, through efficient stump removal; and



ANNEX 4
Page 6
(iii)   improving through better farming practices the new cropping
pattern based on stabilization of millet, development of
upland rice, maize and groundnuts in the South, and cotton
as well as upland rice in the North.
(3)  Intensified.  Some semi-intensified farms would move to the
intensified stage by:
In the Southern Area:
(i)  purchasing another pair of oxen;
(ii)  increasing progressively the area under cultixation up
to 9 ha;
(iii) purchasing additional implements such as a hoe with lifter;
(iv)  increasing the level of fertilization; and
(v)  continuing to improve the cropping pattern.
In the Northern Area:
(i)  increasing progressively the area under cultivation up
to 7 ha;
(ii)  purchasing additional implements such as hoe with lifter;
(iii)  increasing the level of fertilization; and
(iv)  continuing to improve the cropping pattern including
cotton development.
16.        For most of the farm models labor requirements can be met by the
family. Some help, up to 25 hired labor days, would be needed in June when-
ever land preparation, seeding and first weeding are very carefully made,
monthly labor requirements and distribution per crop are shown in Annex 18,
Tables 3, 4, 5, and 6.
17.        In PY 4, 11% of farms within the project would be in tlhe intensifica-
tion stage, 54% in semi-intensification and 35% in improved manual (Annex 18,
Table 2).
18.       Fertilizer.  According to ISRA's 1975/76 recommendations on rice
fertilization, applications promoted under the project would not be as high
as foreseen by tlhe first one. For groundnuts, the new package would follow
recent results obtained by ISRA, i.e. a reduction from 150 kg/ha of 8.18.27
to IUO kg/ha, as practiced by the "Societe de Developpement et de Vulgarisation



ANNEX 4
Page 7
Agricole," SODEVA. A comparisoki of recommended fertilizer usage by the
first project, 1976/76 ISRA and the project is given in Table 2.
19.       The fertilizer recommendations could later on be adjusted by results
of the fertilizer study that SODEVA is carrying out under IDA finance (Credit
404-SE); further, a complementary field program could be carried out, within
the SODEVA field program, to test the efficiency of the project's fertilizer
applications.
20.       Data from ISRA's trials and experiments on farms in the areas in-
dicate the following average yields, brought about by different rates of
fertilization and improved practices:
Improved Manual Level         Intensified  Level
Crop                   of Fertilization            of Fertilization
Kg/ha                         Kg/ha
Swamp Paddy                    2,000                          4,000
Grey Soil Paddy                2,000                          3,500
Upland Paddy                    1,000                         2,000
Millet                          1,200                         2,000
Maize                           2,000                         3,000
Unshelled Groundnut             1,200                         2,000
21.       Land Clearing or Stump Removal.  The major obstacle to the adoption
of ox-drawn farming techniques is the presence of stumps. Besides preventing
correct plowing, stumps slow down the work of draft implements for seeding
and weeding, cause frequent breakdowns of equipment and encourage pest infes-
tations by providing shelter for parasites.  Stump removal is thus a pre-
requisite to ox-drawn farming, especially on the plateau. Stump removal,
which would require 50 to 100 mandays/ha, should start as soon as traditional
farmers join the project. Mandays available in slack periods would allow
progressive land clearing without over-burdening the farm family (Annex 18,
Table 3).
22.       In addition to a major labor investment, stump removal would require
a significant change in farmers' attitudes, as related to traditional land
tenure problems in the plateau. Farmers are generally less reluctant to in-
vest in the bottomlands, where they are used to cropping the same rice fields
year after year, than to invest in the plateau, where they practice tradi-
tional shifting cultivation without having real long-term user rights. Exper-
ience shows that this constraint can only be solved bv the project's extension
service, which has to convince farmers that improved practices would bring
then greater benefits.  The 13,000 ha to be cleared would come fron the area
presently under cultivation, and from fallow land which accounts for at least
five times the cultivated area.



ANNEX 4
Page 8
23.       Soil Conservation.  Given good soil and climatic conditions, and
the low density of population, the danger of erosion is not important in the
wood plateau and in the grassy valleys. Stump removal coupled with plowing
could increase the danger of water erosion on the slopes of the plateau. The
project would therefore promote strip cropping and contour plowing. Farmers
on sloping land would be required to alternate their crops on strips that
would not exceed 30 meters in width and to plow following master contour
lines at 60-meter intervals, using the standard plow. To reduce soil erosion
on the low rolling plateau, farmers would be required to preserve some forest
groves or strips, and thus avoid the clearing of too large blocks. The
density of the natural cover should allow a successful struggle against
erosion damages without expensive restoration schemes. Farmers would be
encouraged to adopt a rotational cropping system that could make shifting
culti-iation unnecessary and that would, therefore, slow down the present
pace of deforestation.
24.       Rotation.  In the Southern area, traditional farmers usually grow
about 1.75 ha of upland cereals per 1.75 ha of groundnuts; and in the North-
ern area, 2.0 of groundnuts per 2.0 ha of millet, that is an upland cereals/
groundnuts ratio of about 1.0. This means that groundnuts do not follow
groundnuts in the rotation, thus greatly reducing the risk of soil erosion
and pest attacks. This ratio would be maintained, except for the transit-
ional semi-intensified farm in the South.
25.       Main rotations would be:  the three-year rotation cereals/groundnuts/
fallow; the four-year rotation, maize-millet/groundnuts/upland rice/fallow;
and the four-year intensified rotation maize-millet/groundnuts/upland rice/
groundnuts. In the Northern area, cotton would be introduced in the frame-
work of the above rotations, as an excellent leading crop for cereals and
particularly for upland rice.
Crop Recommendations
26.       Swamp Rice.  The recommended varieties would be the high-yielding
110-day IKP (I King Pao) and 125-day IR 8 until ISRA completes development
of its Dijibelor varieties such as DJ 684D and DJ 346D; these new varieties
would be better adapted to the sandy and acid ricefields of Casamance.
27.       The nursery would be implemented in June at the rate of about 0.05
ha of nursery per hectare of rice field. About 8 kg/ha of nursery of pre-
germinated seeds would be sown by the end of June, that is 40 kg per hectare
of ricefield. Land Preparation would be done in June/July so that the seed-
lings could be transplanted in the mud from July 15 to the beginning of
August, in rows 25 cm apart and spacing of 20 cm on the row. Two or three
weedings would be done according to needs, two to three weeks after trans-
planting. For fertilization, in addition to a basic 400 kg of rock phosphate
application per hectare, the rice fields would receive 200-250 kg/ha of
8.18.27 before land preparation and 100-150 kg/ha of urea, of which two-
thirds would be side-dressed at tillering and one-third at heading. The
swamp rice would be harvested with a sickle in November, 90-100 days after
transplanting.



ANNEX 4
Page 9
28.       Grey Soil Rice.  The recommended varieties would be IKP and IR8.
The steady water supply of grey soils allow these two versatile varieties
to achieve better yields in spite of their somewhat longer cycle than the
short cycle upland rice varieties. Land preparation would be done in May/
June. Seeding would take place between June 25 and July 5 at the rate of
80 kg/ha, in rows 30 cm apart for manual or 45 cm apart for animal-drawn
cultivation. Grey soil rice would need at least three weedings, the first
at tillering 15 to 20 days after seeding, the second would follow 10-15 days
after and the third 30 days after emergence at heading. For fertilization,
in addition to a basic 400 kg of rock phosphate application 150-200 kg/ha
of 8.18.27 would be applied before land preparation and 75-150 kg/ha of urea
would be side-dressed in two doses at tillering and at heading. The grey
soil rice would be harvested with a sickle in October 45 days after heading.
29.       Upland Rice.  The recommended varieties would be the 100-day SE
302G and the 95-day SE 319G until ISRA completes development of earlier and
better-adapted varieties issued from the same crossbreeding. Nevertheless,
SE 302 and 319G are much better adapted to drylands and more resistant to
blast than IKP, which failed as upland rice variety during the recent drought
years, and would ensure high yields as suggested by their first performance
in the plateau. Land preparation, seeding, and weeding would be similar to
these required for grey soil rice. Recommended fertilization would be
100-150 kg/ha of 8.18.27 before land preparation and 50-100 kg/ha urea side-
dressed in two applications at tillering and at heading. The recommended
varieties would be subject to lodging. Therefore, it is recommended that
harvesting be done a few days before heads come to full maturity.
30.       Millet.  The recommended variety would be the 150-day (bearded
panicles) "Sanio of Sefa." ISRA is going to improve the sometimes low
resistance to insects and fungi of this high-yielding variety. Land prepara-
tion would be done in May/June. Seeding would be taking place as soon as
possible from June 10 at the rate of 4 kg/ha, in rows 90 cm apart and
spacing of 10 cm in the row. Some 10 to 15 days after emergence the seed-
lings would be thinned down at three per clump. The first weeding would be
needed 10 days after seeding and the second would follow 15 days after.
Further weeding would depend on needs. Recommended fertilization would be
100 kg/ha of 10.21.21 before land preparation and additional 50 kg of urea
in intensification. Urea would be side-dressed at thinning. The panicles
would be harvested 180 days after seeding.
31.       Maize.  The recommended variety would be the 95-day semi-fixed
hybrid SM10-BDS and JDS hybrids could be also used. Land preparation would
be done in May/June. Seeding would take place by the end of June. It would
be done on wet soil at the rate of 20 kg/ha, in rows 90 cm apart and spacing
of 25 cm on the row in animal-drawn cultivation. Some 15 to 20 days after
seeding the stand would be thinned down to one per clump. Two weedings would
be needed, the first 10 days after seeding, the second 15 days later. Further
weeding would depend on need. Recommended fertilization would be 150-200 kg/ha



ANNEX 4
Page 10
of 8.14.18 before land preparation and 100-150 kg/ha of urea side-dressed in
two applications three-four and five-six weeks after seeding. Harvesting
would begin 90 days after seeding. The grain would be stored with the husk
after treatment.
32.       Groundnuts for Oil.  The recommended variety would be the 125-day
69-101 which has been chosen because of its resistance to the Rosette, which
is a frequent disease in rainy areas like Casamance.  Land preparation would
be done in May/June.  Seeding of shelled and treated seeds would take place
in June as soon after millet and maize seedings, at the rate of 100 kg of
unshelled seed/ha in rows 60 cm apart. The first weeding would be made some
10 days after seeding. The second about 15 days later. Further weeding would
depend on needs.  Recommended fertilization would be 100 kg/ha of 8.18.27
before land preparation.  The crop would be lifted 115 to 125 days after seed-
ing and allowed to dry.  The dry crop would be stacked in the field to be
threshed by hand in December/January.
33.       Cotton.  The recommended variety would be the 120-day BJA 592, the
medium-staple variety promoted by SODEFITEX.  Seeding would take place after
the first heavy rain at the end of June or the beginning of July.  Seeding
would be at the rate of 40 kg/ha of Gamoran-treated seed in rows 90 cm apart
with spacing of 20 cm on the row.  The first weeding would be needed 10 to 15
days after seeding. The crop would be thinned down to one per clump three
weeks after seeding. The second weeding would be done two weeks after the
first.  The field would be furrowed 35 days after seeding.  For pest control,
Preprothion would be sprayed about seven times:  the first about six weeks
after seeding and the others at two-week intervals.  Recommended fertilization
would be 150 kg/ha of 8.18.27 before land preparation, and 50 kg/ha of urea
side-dressed one month after seeding. Picking would start 120 days after
seeding.  Several pickings are needed.  After the last picking, the stems
would be pulled and burned to control pests.
34.       Disease, Pest and Weed Control.  The project would make use of
pesticides for treatment of seeds, standing crops and harvested crops.
35.       For seed treatment, Captagranox would be used at the rate of 1.6
kg/t for rice, millet, maize and groundnuts seeds. For cotton seed, Gamoran
would be used at the rate of 2 kg/ton.
36.       The cotton crop would be treated with Preprothion at the rate of
18 1/ha.  Concerning other crops, given the small rate of infestation, it is
assumed that 10% of cropping area would be treated with Aldrin           at the
rate of 60 kg/ha, HCH at the rate of 60 kg/ha or Thimul 35 at the rate of 2
liter/ha.
37.       Rice, millet and maize harvest would be treated with Nexion-
Bromophos at the rate of 0.6 kg/t. The project would promote improved
storage based on three-meter-high cylinder containers, built on a well



ANNEX 4
Page 11
isolated rock foundation from mud bricks with concrete reinforcement, and
plastering under and outside. Warehouses and silos would be treated with
Zithiol at the rate of 1 liter/1,000 square meter of storage.
38.       Some weed-control experiments with upland rice have been undertaken
during the last campaign. The use of Preforan 30 at the rate of 10 liters/ha
seems satisfactory. Further experiments in the field should determine whether
the use of herbicides would be economically justified.
Expected Yields
39.       Average expected yields would be as follows:
Traditional  Manual-Improved  Semi-Intensified  Intensified
------t/ha- --- ----- - ---                            …     --
Swamp Rice                1.0            2.0                 2.5              4.0 /1
Grey Soil Rice            1.0            2.0                 2.5              3.5
Upland Rice                 -            1.0                  1.5             2.0
Millet                    0.8            1.2                  1.5             2.0
Maize                     1.0            2.0                  2.5             3.0
Groundnuts for Oil        0.9            1.2                  1.5             2.0
Cotton                      -            1.0                 1.5              1.5
/1   Under full water control.



SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
Project Areas - Farms and Land Development
Annual
PY O     1975/76             PY 4    1979/80
Increase
1/                     Farms                        Farms                           1975-79
Location                                    ha                          ha                 Farmis    ha
South         South of                         3,600   18,450                6,200   33,850               15        16
Bounkiling
North         Kabada, North
of Bounkiling                     400    1,800                  800    4,150                19       23
Sefa          Near Sédhiou                       150       90o                 4oo    2,850                28       33
4,150   21,150 2/            7,4oo   4o,850                16        18
1/ .ee Map.
2/' Of which 12,600 ha supervised by the first project and 8,665 under PA.
(D 



SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
Recommendations on Fertilizer Usage - First Project; ISRA, 1975/76; Second Sedhiou Project
(kg/'"a)
First Project            ISRA 1975/76                   Second Sedhiou Project
Preparation    Low          High        Improved       Semi-
CroD           Package       1975           Report       Level        Level       Manual    Intensified  Intensified
Swamp Rice                 8.18.27        250             200                     200           200         200            200
urea         150             200                      100          100         100            150
Grey Soil Rice             8.18.27        250             200        150          200           150         200            200
urea         150             200          75          150           75         100            150
Upland Rice                8.18.27        250             200         100         150           100         150            150
urea         150             200          50          100            50        100            100
Millet                    10.21.21        150             150         150         150           100         100            100
urea       0-100           0-100           0          100            50          50            50
Maize                      8.14.18        150             150         150          300          150         150            200
urea       0-100           0-100         100          200           100        100            150
Groundnuts                 8.18.27        150             150         150         150           100         100            100
urea            O              O           °            O             O           O
Cotton                     8.18.27        150             200         150         150           150         150            150
urea           50             50          50           50            50          50             50
CD X
rN) -P,



ANNEX 5
Page 1
SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASPECTS OF LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION
Background
1.        Traditional Grazing.  Most of the farmers in the project area own
cattle, sheep and goats. Traditionally, farmers' cattle are treated as a
capital asset to be slaughtered mostly in case of feast. At village level,
cattle are managed by pastoralists who are paid with milk, a practice that
results in excessive milking of cows. In Casamance as a whole, and in the
Sedhiou Department in particular, there is enough forest pasture and fallow
to insure cattle feeding during the whole year without need for migration.
Immediately after harvest, in December, cattle are allowed to graze crop
residues, mostly rice stubble, millet and maize stems and groundnut hay on
fields around the villages and in the valleys.
2.        Most cattle in Sedhiou are in good health.  The common N'dama
breed, lightly crossed with SouLhern Baoule and Northern Zebu Gobra, is
trypanotolerant. Veterinary services are adequate, and comprehensive
vaccination campaigns have eradicated Rinderpest and Pleuropneumonia. On
the other hand, Brucellosis seems to be responsible for numerous abortions,
and widespread internal parasites contribute to low weaning rates.
3.        As in the groundnut basin, traditional grazing patterns are also
beginning to change in Casamance through the introduction of animal traction
as a necessary step to intensify crop production. Farmers in the area are
now aware of the value of their cattle and thus recognize the need to improve
its management.
4.        Current Situation.  In the Sedhiou department, there are about
113,000 head of cattle, 77,000 head of sheep and goats, 12,003 head of pigs,
and 575,000 poultry.  Cattle, representing about 24' of the tital in
Casamance and 5% of the total in Senegal, is extensively managed at low
densities of 6.5 ha/head, i.e. 0.8 head per inhabitant.
5.         Cattle productivity is low:  a calving rate of about 60%; calf
mortality of 35%; and total cattle offtake of less than 10,', with a herd
growth of 2% per year. About 11,000 head of cattle--about 1,000 t of meat--
are slaughtered each year, 50% for family consumption, and 50% for marketing
mostly in Ziguinchor and Gambia through traditional marketing channels.
The demand for male calves to be trained as draft oxen has significantly
increased; there were 1,600 pairs of oxen in 1975. Prices of meat and live
animals remained almost constant during the 60s but have increased by 80%
over the past five years. Current prices (1975) for one-year-old calves is
about CFAF 10,000 per head and about CFAF 150 per kilo of meat (carcass).



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Project's Livestock Component
6.        Given appropriate grazing resources, the low density of population
of the plateau, a herd in relatively good health condition, and the growing
acceptance of animal traction among farmers, there is significant potential
for livestock development in the project's area. This holds in spite of
present constraints like inadequate traditional management, excessive milking
of cows, the small size of traditional cattle, and the long distances to
major consumption centers.
7.        The Second Sedhiou Project would promote, through its extension
network, better herd management, with particular reference to: calf rearing;
feeding of breeding and lactating cows; cattle fattening; and sheep and
poultry husbandry.
8.        Calf Rearing.  Weaner calves would receive treatment for internal
parasites, and daily rations as follows: 100 gr of concentrate feed rich in
proteins and minerals the second month; 200 gr the third, and 100 gr the fourth;
calf mortality would thus be reduced by 15%. By PY 4, 11,000 calves would
be under the project and 1,650 would be saved.
9.        Mineral Feeding of Breeding Cows.  With a dosage of drugs to control
trypanosomiasis, brusellosis and internal parasites, a supplementary feeding
of 6 kg of mineral concentrate per cow, and feeding of groundnut hay and
millet stems, the calving rate would be increased by 15% and the weaning rate
by 10%. By PY 4, 13,000 cows would be fed, 1,300 weaners would be saved and
195,000 more liters of milk would be produced.
10.       Feeding of Lactating Cows.  Excessive milking deteriorates the
quality of the herd, and increases calf mortality through undernourishment.
With a daily ration of 500 g of concentrate feed rich in proteins and minerals
during the six lactation months, daily milk production would increase by 0.5
liter, the calving rate by 15% and the weaning rate by 10%. By PY 4, 1,500
cows would produce some extra 136,900 liters of milk and 150 calves would be
saved.
11.       Cattle Fattening.  Cull cows, draft oxen and four-year steers would
be fattened during 120 days prior to slaughter on a daily ration of 6-8 kg of
groundnut hay and 0.75 kg of concentrate feed rich in proteins and minerals.
All animals would be dewormed. Gains would be of 60 kg per head (0.5 kg/day)
more than under traditional grazing. By PY 4, 600 animals would be fattened.
12.       Sheep and Poultry.  Project's extension services would demonstrate
the adoption of improved sheep management practices, such as parasite treat-
ment, crossbreeding with the northern "Djalonke" breed, and mostly, better
feeding. For poultry, the distribution of roosters would be improved.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
13.       Livestock Services.  The project's Extension Division would employ
13 extension agents specialized in animal husbandry techniques. Before PY 3,
feeding requirements would be provided by the SODEVA's mixing plant in Kaolack;
and afterwards the project would build and operate, on behalf of cooperatives,
a mixing plant at Sedhiou, with an annual capacity of 500 t of feed concen-
trate. The project management would transfer the ownership of the mixing
plant to a cooperative union after PY 4, on terms and conditions acceptable
to IDA.
14.       Initially, about 1,650 farms would be under the project, reaching
about 4,800 (65% of project's total) by PY 4. Details of costs and benefits
are at Annex 19, Tables 1 to 4.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
WATER CONTROL SCHEME
Background
1.        The first project had anticipated the improvement of about 2,000
ha of swamp rice production through simple drainage and irrigation works in
about 1,000 ha to secure partial control of the wet-season natural flow.
Two types of works were envisaged:
(a) on narrow valleys of up to 150 m wide, works would have
consisted of clearing the natural drainage ways and installing
concrete regulators on the main drains at intervals determined
by the slopes; and
(b) on wider valleys, works would have included small diversion
earth dams with earth canals and drains, with adequate regula-
tion and distribution structures.
Based on prelimiary studies by SATEC, the average cost per ha was estimated
at about CFAF 21,700 (US$80), of which 40% would be for labor to be provided
by farmers and 60% for material and tools. The program was not implemented
because of several factors:  (a) estimated cost was too low; and (b) the à--vil
works unit was never staffed with well experienced specialists. However, the
first project has made a detailed survey of irrigation possibilities and
successfully developed small pumping schemes (35 ha) used during the dry
season.
Description of Works
2.        The proposed project has been prepared with the help of a consultant
from INSTRUPA. Four types of works can be reasonably envisaged for developinent
under the proposed project:
(a) the construction of polders to reclaim alluvial plains along tlhe
Casamance river valley, and to conserve the surface runoff '.or
irrigation (Type A);
(b) the construction of a gravitational diversion irrigation
(gravity-fed) system on the upstream land in the Casamance
tributary valleys (Type B);



ANNEX 6
Page 2
(c)  the drainage of valleys where land is waterlogged during
the wet season, and diversion of the surface runoff for
irrigation (Type C); and
(d)  the extension of pumping schemes on plains bordering the
Casamance river upstream of the salt water front, where
fresh water is available throughout the year (Type D).
3.        Type A - Polders.  Pseudo grey saline soils cover about 15,000 ha
along the Casamance river.  They are very close to the sea and affected
by tides. Parts of these soils had been cultivated in the past during the
wet season; they are now abandoned since the salt-water front has advanced
by 40 km over the last 10 years. Reclamation of these lands seems possible,
but several unknown factors need to be studied:
-    control of the underground intrusion of the salt water;
-    seasonal and tidal variations of the river's salinity;
-    possibilities for eliminating toxic elements;
-    risk of soil alkanization; and
-    optimal solutions for ensuring desalinization by lowering
the water table, leaching, or by preventing evaporation
through dry-season irrigation.
4.        The proposed project would therefore finance a soil and hydrological
survey, to cover the above-mentioned factors. The survey would be carried out
by consultants during PY 1, at a cost of CFAF 10 million (US$44,000) and would
cover about 15,000 ha of alluvial plains (scale 1:20,000). The proposed 50 ha
experimental polder would be implemented only if the results of the survey
demonstrate that soils are suitable for the proposed development. The scheme
would include:
(i)  construction of embankments to protect from tidal floods
and to pond watershed runoff for irrigation;
(ii) improvement of natural drainage channels;
(iii) construction of pumping stations to drain the excess water
in the polder area when the water level outside the polder
is higher than inside;
(iv)  construction of on-farm works consisting of bunds. 'r:ratnage
irrigation canals and farm roads; and



ANNEX b
Page 3
(v) construction of drainage structures at the mouth of the
main ditches to drain the excess water by gravity.
5.   2    The protection embankments will have an average cross-section of
1.8 m 2, The interior embankments will have an average cross-se5tion of
1.15 m-. The averaFe cross-section of the ditches would be 2 m for the
main canals and 1 m for the secondary ones. The field deposited on both
sides of the excavation will be piled into spoil banks.
6.        The drainage control structures will consist of rows of reinforced
concrete duct5 with sluice valves. The pumping stations will have pumps with
a flow of 1 m /sec for a head of 0.75 m. The diesel motors (25 hp) will be
water-cooled and will have a daily reserve.
7.        Type B - Gravity-Fed Irrigation.  Gravity-fed irrigation schemes,
each serving at least 100 ha, would be developed in the upstream land of the
tributary valleys where rainflow is adequate in order to:
(a)  control the water level, thereby allowing the cultivation of
the short-stem, high-yielding rice varieties instead of local
long-stem floating rice varieties during the rainy season; and
(b)  to permit second crops other than rice from October to January
immediately after the rainy season.
This development would consist of:
(i) construction of a weir across a natural stream and regulate
the main canal to divert the river-rim flow into the irrigated
area; and
(ii)  construction of on-farm distribution systems which include
lateral canals, bunds, drains and land leveling.
In each area the existing natural drainage channels would be improved, and new
drains, if necessary, would be dug. Specific flood discharges provided by
ORSTOM would be used as the drainage design basic data.
8.        The water control and regulation structures will be built of
ordinary concrete with sluice valves. They will comprise two lateral walls
and wing-walls to brace the dam on the bank, a spread foundation resting on
two cut-off walls and a stilling basin. All earthworks will be done using
a power shovel and will be contracted out. In view of the small quantity of
concrete and earth work involved, all civil works which include diversion,
main canals and on-farm work will be carried out by the project's Civil Works
Division.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
9.        Rice growers will level the land and participate in constructing
the on-farm system by providing labor for building ditches and bunds.
10.       Type C - Drainage.  This type involves draining the waterlogged
land upstream of the tidal zone. The surface runoff would be controlled to
prevent the excess water that could be harmful to rice cultivation (critical
period equals three days) and would be kept for irrigation. Sites have been
selected to avoid successive downstream back-up water effects and, wherever
necessary, drainage works could be prolongated downstream.
11.       The development program includes:
(i) improving the existing natural drainage channels;
(ii) constructing new drains;
(iii) building drainage sluices to evacuate the excess water;
(iv) building bunds contoured to the land to conserve surface
runoff water; and
(v) constructing farm drains.
12.       Type D - Pumping Schemes.  The project proposes to increase the
hectarage under pumping and thus enable a second rice crop during the dry
season from the existing total of 35 to 100 ha. It would include the con-
struction of a canal system to convey the pumped water to the fields.
Development Program
13.       The following program has been established, taking into account
the access facilities. All valleys concerned have been mapped (1/2,000) with
contour intervals of 0.20 m and works have already been designed in detail
on about 600 ha.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
Type A         Type B           Type C                      Type D
Main          Main             Main
Village  ha  Village       ha  Village       ha   Improvement   ha   Extension  ha
Badiari  50  Singuer       70  Singuer      100   Bantaudiany    9   Dianahba   70
Diouniking 100  Diouniking  120   Kancia            19
Birkama      30  Birkama       60   Touba Kouta   10
Kounayan   100  Kounayan    230
Simbandi    210
Samine       150
Bambato      110
Bambali       90
Djiredji      80
Bakoum        50
Diende        70
Sitaba        60
Total    50               300             1,330 /1                30                70
/1   Only 1,200 ha would be implemented by PY 4.
Works Schedule
14.       As the topographical surveys and the development project are already
defined, the second half of 1976 would be devoted to final works design, pre-
paration of bid documents, and calling for bids.
15.       During 1976 the Civil Works Division will develop 10 ha by pumping
and will improve the existing 30 ha. The annual rate of development from
1977 onwards will be 100 ha for type B, and 400 ha type C, and 20 ha for
type D. If the findings of the supplementary soil and hydrogeological surveys
are favorable, the Type A experimental check will be set up in 1978.
16.       The project timetable is:
1976     1977    1978    1979       Total
---------------Hectares----------------
Type A                      -          -      50        -         50
Type B                  Bid call    100       100     100        300
Type C                  Bid call    400      400      400      1,200
Type D:
- extension               10        20      20       20         70
- improvement             30         -                -         30
Total                       40       520      570     520      1,650



ANNEX 6
Page 6
Project Costs
17.       Unit costs for construction of each water control type are described
in Tables 1 to 4; they are based on end-1975 prices in Dakar, augmented by 20%
for implementation in Casamance, and calculated for representative parcels.
Project Execution
18.       Construction of major earth works, such as main dikes and drainage
canals, would be carried out by local enterprises selected under competitive
bidding procedures following IDA guidelines for procurement. Difficulties
encountered under the first project in staffing the Civil Works Division and
the relatively small size of that project component do not justify supplying
the project with equipment to carry out the works by force account.
19.       Concrete structures would be done by the project with the equipment
purchased under the first project. The Civil Works Division would also provide
topographic teams to the contractor for installation of drainage works.
20.       Under project supervision, farmers would construct bunds and level
their lands.
Organization
21.       The Civil Works Division would be responsible for the project's
implementation and evaluation, headed by an engineer selected under criteria
defined at Annex 13. The division would comprise two sections:
(a) Rural Engineering: directly under the division chief, assisted
by an agricultural engineer (Inter-State School of Ouagadougou)
and a technical adviser (Agricultural Engineer), and including
one team of topographers, two draftsmen and one assistant
hydrologist. This section will be responsible for topographic
surveys, design and costing of works, and preparing and imple-
menting bidding procedures.
(b)  Construction and Maintenance:  responsible for field construc-
tion and supervision, and maintenance of project's infrastruc-
ture and equipment. Supervision of the contracted works will
be under an agricultural engineer assisted by a technician.
Works organization and management will be headed by an engineer
with experience in field construction; he will be assisted by
a technician from the Rural Engineering Section, two teams of
topographers, three works team leaders and a group of masons.
One technician will be in charge of infrastructure and equip-
ment maintenance.



ANNEX 6
Page 7
Production and Yields
22.       Under conservative assumptions swamp rice production and yields
with and without the project would be as follows:
With Project        Without Project
Type A - Experimental Polder
Area developed, ha                               50
Net area cultivated (90%), ha                    45
Yields, paddy                              1.5 to 3 t/ha
Type B - Gravity-fed Irrigation
Area developed, ha                              300
Area cultivated:
lst crop, ha                                 270                    190
2nd crop, ha                                  190
Yields, paddy:
Ist crop                                 2.5 to 4 t/ha
2nd crop                                 2.5 to 4 t/ha           2 t/ha
Type C - Drainage
Area developed, ha                            1,200                     -
Area cultivated, ha                           1,080                    270
Yields, paddy                               2.5 to 4 t/ha          2 t/ha
Type D - Pumping Scheme
Area developed, ha                              100                     35
Area cultivated, ha:                             90                     30
Ist crop                                       80                     -
2nd crop                                       90                    30
Yields, paddy:
Ist crop                                 3 to 4 t/ha             3 t/ha
2nd crop                                 3 to 4 t/ha



Annex 6
Table 1
WATER CONTROL - TYPE A
Cost Estimate - 225 ha parcel
(CFAF '000)
Cost
No.       Type of Works                   Unit      Quantity      Unit      Per Item
1        Flood Bank                       m3        6,120        1,000      6,120
2        Laterite access path             mi        6,400          800      5,120
including construction
linear meter.
Boundary road                    mi        3,400          800     2,720
4        Interior embankments              m3      11,500          800      9,200
5        Leader drainage canals           m3       10,000          550      5,500
6        Secondary canals                 ml       13,100          800    lo,48o
7         ;Exterior path with              mi       3,000        3,200      9,600
run-off canal
8        Drainage works in the bunds
8a       Small models (2/ha)              unit        450        2,000        900
8b       Large model - 1 row of ducts   u               31      90,000      2,790
- 2 rows of ducts  u              7      120,000        840
9        Reinforced concrete bridge       u              3   3,500,000    10,500
lOa       Main drainage facility            u             1   5,430,000      5,430
with pumping station
lOb       Pumps 3=lm2/area head =0.75m  (u)               3   6,815,000    20,445
Base Cost                                                         89,645
Cost/ha                                                              398.4
Cost/ha of farmers participation
(58 man/days/ha at CFAF 300/day)                                     17.5
Base Cost/ha                                                         416.9
Plus 20% contingencies                                               500.3
or US$/ha                        2,223



Annex 6
Table 2
WATER CONTROL - TYPE B
Cost Estimate - 37 ha parcel
(CFAF '000)
Cost
No.       Type of Works                   Unit      Quantity      Unit     Per Item
1        Control facilities - 8.2m3       one           2      700,000     1,4oo
of reinforced concrete with
equipment.
2        Lateral irrigation canals -    m3          4,600          450     2,070
average cross-section 2m2.
3        Leader drain - average           m3        4,o4o          550     2,222
cross-section 2m2.
4        Secondary drain - average        m3          927          450        417
cross section lm2
5        Works in the bunds -             one         148        2,000        296
4 units/ha.
5a       Laterite leads in the            u         1,750          500        875
secondary drains.
Base Cost                                                         7,280
Cost/ha                                                             196.8
Cost/ha of farmers                                                   28.8
participation 1/
Base Cost/ha                                                        225.6
Plus 20% contingencies                                              270.7
or US$/ha                        1,203
1/ Includes:
(a) levelling: 1,665 man/day;
(b) regular bunds: 1,233 man/day/linear; and
(c)  reinforced embankments: 648 man/day/linear.  That is a total
of 3,546 man/days at CFAF 300/day, CFAF 1,063,800.



Annex 6
Table 3
WATER CONTROL - TYPE C
Cost Estimate - 90 ha parcel
(CFAF '000)
Cost
No.       'ype cf Vorks                   Unit      Quantity      Unit     Per Item
1        Lateral embankments              m3        4,600          800      3,680
2        Leader drains                    m3        7,200          450     3,240
3        Secondary drains                 m3        2,355          450     1,060
4a       Drainage works
1 row of ducts                u             3       90,000        270
4b         3 rows of ducts                u             1      150,000        150
5        Drainage works in the bunds    u             240        2,000        48o
6        Control works                    u             2      700,000  - 1,400
Base Cost                                                        10,280
Cost/ha                                                             114.2
Cost/ha of farmers
participation  1/                                                  17.5
Base Cost/ha                                                        131.7
Plus 20% contingencies                                              158.0
or US$/ha                          700.0
1/ Includes:
(a) levelling: 4,050 man/days;
(b) bunds: 1,200 man/days.  That is a total of 5,250 man/days/ha
at CFAF 300/day, CFAF 1,575,000.



Annex o
Table 4
WATER CONTROL - TYPE D
Investment Cost Estimate 1/
CFAF/ha
Civil Engineering Works borne by the project                  100,000
Equipment furnished by the project                            100,000
Additional works for double cropping                           75,000
Base Cost                                            275,000
Farmers Participation (200 man-days/ha, at CFAF 300/day)       60,000
Subtotal                                             335,000
Plus contingencies                                            402,000
or US$/ha                                              1,787
1/ Based on constructed works.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
SETTLEMENT PROGRAM - SEFA
Background
1.        After World War II, 5,000 ha of woodland on the plateau were
cleared, near the village of Sefa, by the French agency CGOT ("Compagnie
Generale des Oleagineux Tropicaux)", and a fully mechanized groundnut
farm was developed. The scheme was technically unsound, and poor manage-
ment, cost overruns and unfavorable world market prices added to the
deficiencies. Finally, CGOT decided, late in the fifties, to provide 1,000
families with 4 ha each, promoting groundnuts and rice growing and providing
facilities such as mechanized land preparation.
2.        In 1962, the Senegalese Government replaced CGOT by the "Societe
de Developpement Agricole et Industriel de la Casamance" -- SODAICA. Under
SODAICA, with the same approach as CGOT, 600 families would have cropped
about 4,000 ha of upland, but achievements were marginal; in 1973/74 SODEVA,
already operating in Sine Saloum, took over SODAICA. Then, 350 families
would have cropped about 1,500 ha; but discouraged by poor results, SODEVA
gave up after one campaign.
3.        Within the same period, BUD/Senegal, a private company, set up a
scheme involving 1,000 ha of maize and millet under a block system within
the Sefa area, providing farmers with mechanized land preparation. Due to
late soil preparation, lack of rotation and inefficient extension services,
yields were low, and consequently, farmers' repayments unsatisfactory; the
scheme collapsed in 1974-75.
Present Situation
4.        The current Sefa-area population is estimated at 2,500, distributed
among 10 little villages and composed of power migrant laborers who cultivate
scattered areas. In 1974, the first project started to provide extension
services and credit to 150 families, concentrated in two villages, and to
promote animal traction, instead of tractors, to grow groundnut and millet.
This program has given good results. Though initial yields were rather low,
they have been high enough to induce settlers to stay in the area -- a
significant change from the previous experiences.
5.        Other programs and agencies are currently operating in the Sefa
area:



ANNEX 7
Page 2
(i) ISRA, with a 120-ha upland-crop research station;
(ii) a Chinese Mission, with a 4-ha under rice in the Diatouma
Valley;
(iii) SICCA ("Societe Industrielle et Commerciale de la Casamance"),
which processes paddy and edible groundnuts for ONCAD using
the former CGOT and SODAICA facilities; and
(iv) the Edible Groundnut Project ("Projet Arachide de Bouche"),
a six-month interim project started in May 1975 to promote
edible groundnuts production.
Settlement Proposals
6.        The ongoing settlement of farmers in the area under the first
project must be encouraged and intensified. Based on both ISRA opinion and
the first results, the farming systems under promotion would continue to be
suitable, in spite of a temporary depletion of soils due to the prior highly
mechanized agricultural practices. Rehabilitation of these soils would not
require special fertility-restoring measures under animal-traction farming;
normal use of fertilizer and an adequate balance between cereals and ground-
nut cultivation would be sufficient. Nevertheless, at the beginning, yields
would be lower than expected in comparison with the Southern and Northern
areas (para 11 and Annex 4, para 17).
7.        Out of 5,000 ha cleared in the Sefa area, 2,850 ha would be settled
by PY 4 through about 400 animal-traction-based farms including the 150 farms
already settled. On 1,000 ha, Senegalese officials are planning an agro-
industrial operation based on irrigated fruit-tree production; so far no
feasibility study has been made.
The Settlement Component
8.        Settler Recruitment.  Under the project, 250 new farmers would be
settled in the Sefa area over the next four years; they would be selected
from families previously associated with the mechanized schemes and now
partially unemployed but still living in the area villages, and from migrant
seasonal laborers. The settler families to be selected would average eight
persons, of which five would be actives; settlers would have to follow the
project's technical package (cropping, implements, seeds, fertilizer and
credit scheme), and would have to join the local cooperative.
Farm Development
9.        The cropping pattern and recommendations would be the same as those
for the Southern Area (Annex 4). Farm development would be implemented in
three stages:



ANNEX 7
Page 3
(1) Semi-intensified, Level 1:
During the first year of settlement farmers would crop
4 ha: 1.5 ha of millet and 2.5 of edible groundnuts;
would receive a pair of oxen and equipment for plowing
and seeding, under normal credit arrangements.
This type of farm would not be sufficient in cereals;
therefore the project would subsidize a subsistence
allowance in kind equivalent to CFAF 50,000 per farm.
(2) Semi-intensified, Level 2:
During the second year of settlement farmers would crop
6 ha: 0.25 ha of upland rice, 2 ha of millet, 0.75 ha
of maize, and 3 ha of edible groundnuts.
(3)  Intensified:
After the third or fourth year of settlement, some farmers
would crop 9 ha: 0.50 ha of upland rice, 2.50 ha of millet,
1.00 ha of maize, and 5.00 ha of edible groundnuts, with a
second pair of oxen and equipment for hoeing and lifting.
10.       Concerning edible groundnuts, not cropped in the Southern and
Northern areas, the variety initially would be 756A; replacement could take
place later on, based on experiments now underway under the Edible Groundnut
Project, by varieties like EH 301.13 and GH 119.20 of higher quality and
commercial value. Crop recommendations would be similar to those made for
groundnuts grown for oil, except for seeding which would be made at the rate
of 150 kg of unshelled seed per hectare.
11.       Expected Yields.  Average expected yields would be as follows:
Semi-intensified    Semi-intensified
Level 1             Level 2             Intensified
------------------------- t/ha------------------------
Upland Rice                     -                1.5                     2.0
Millet                        0.8                1.0                     1.5
Maize                           -                1.5                     2.5
Edible Groundnuts             0.9                1.25                    1.7
12.       Soil Conservation.  To protect cleared soil against water erosion,
the project would avoid farming on slopes above 1.5% and would systematically
promote strip cropping and contour plowing on sloping lands.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
3.        To compensate for the possibilities of wind erosion, windbreaks
could be envisaged in a further stage. As an initial step, the project would
encourage settlers to plant Neem (Azadarichta Indica), Eucalyptus and Cassia
trees through the governmental nurseries and would distribute cashew nut
seeds (Anacardiumr occidentale). This program would be implemented in colla-
boration with forest services.
14.       Infrastructure.  The settlement program would only require addi-
tional equipment, mainly for water supply and storage. Five wells would be
drilled under the project to improve water supply for human use in the
villages; the water level is about 20/25 m below soil level. The existing
school and health center would be sufficient; therefore, no further improve-
ments are now foreseen.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
SENEGAI.
SECOND SEDIIIOU PROJECT
TRAI NING
Introduction
l.        Under the first project, courses have been organized to train new
extension staff and to explain improved farm practices to farmers. On the
other hand, little has been done to recycle the project's senior or inter-
mediary staff who have worked in Casamance in nearly complete isolation from
outside events either in Senegal or neighboring countries. The introduction
of new improved farming techniques has been done mostly through personal
visits to farmers, a costly practice in terms of time and effort, and one
which only reaches a limited number of persons.
Training of Project Staff
2.        Senior and intermediary staff should be given the possibility to
improve their technical knowledge through union-organized training, either
at CETAD (Training Center for Agricultural Development Techniques) at Thies
or in collaboration with other development agencies operating in Senegal
(SAED, SODEVA) or ISRA. Annual training of 2-4 weeks is organized by CETAD,
basically to train new staff before they begin to work in the rural area.
SODEVA organizes training centers in the Sine Saloum (Credit 584) and is
responsible for the development of audiovisual aids under Credit 404-SE.
Training seminars in addition to formal courses in agricultural and animal
husbandry techniques also include applied field works. Special attention
should be paid also to evaluation techniques to be developed under the
project.  Training would permit an organized approach to the internal pro-
motion of the most competent staff.
3.        For senior staff, the best training opportunity would be the possi-
bility to visit other agricultural development projects or to participate
in seminars and training sessions organized by international research insti-
tutes in Africa (WARDA, IITA). Projects likely to be visited would be in
Senegal: the Sine Saloum project (SODEVA), cotton and livestock projects
(SODEFITEX), and rice projects (SAED). Exchange of experiences with other
rice projects in Western AFrica could be profitable to the project's staff:
for instance rice projects in Ivory Coast, Mali and Cameroon; and agricul-
tural projects in Gambia, Nigeria and Upper Volta.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
Training of Extension Staff
4.        Field extension staff would be trained mostLv at project level
through training sessions organized in subdistricts (zones) each year before
the beginning of the agricultural season (April-!lay). These sessions vniuld
focus on:
(i) objectives of the campaign;
(ii)  packages to be introduced, including anital traction, stump
removal, soil erosion control;
(iii) evaluation techniques; and
(iv) assessment of farm input requirenents.
Selected extension agents would receive special training in animal husbandry
techniques and in monitoring evaluation methods.
Training of Farmers
5.        Farmer training is the ultimate objective of the project, to be
achieved through group methods and individual visits.
Group Methods
6.        SODEVA has provided mobile units to the project:  these nobiLe units
have slides, movies and tapes which could be used to explain the basic organi-
zation of the rural sector (cooperatives, ONCAD, development proJect) and denon-
strate some technical packages (planning, animal traction, use of fertilizer,
animal husbandry, soil erosion control).  These denon.trations would be
followed by discussions held by training specialists attached to the project.
7.        Annual field meetings (one to two weeks) with demonstrations and
discussion, preferably at village levels, would contintue to be organized at
the beginning of the growing cycle to demonstrate anci promote new farming
practices.
Functional Literacy
8.        Functional programs would be designed to enable cooperatives to
directly handle the management of their operations with little assistance
from the extension staff. Experiments conducted in Senegal and other West
African countries show that selected farmers at village or cooperative level
could successfully handle marketing operations (weighing, paying and maintain-
ing accounts) after 12-18 months training. The program would be as follows:



ANNEX 8
Page 3
(a) Establishment of basic documents used at cooperatives. Existing
documents are simple but their design has to be reviewed to permit
their understanding by farmers. Preferably they should be trans-
lated into Arabic and local languages which are traditionally
taught by Muslim priests and literacy agents.
(b) General information, preferably during general meetings, aimed at
the purposes of functional literacy, with the help of audio-visual
equipment (slides, movies) developed by SODEVA under the second
agricultural credit project (404-SE) and an Iranian loan. Farmers
would be reminded of cooperative movement objectives, the role of
Government entities (ONCAD, Project, BNDS), and the necessity for
them to participate in cooperative management. Cooperatives
members would be asked to appoint interested members to the
functional literacy training courses which would be organized at
village level every week or two weeks for six to 12 months. Pre-
ferably, five to eight participants would be selected per coop-
erative or group of cooperatives.
(c) Training Courses would be organized to:
(1) explain in detail documents used by the cooperative; training
staff would explain terms and teach calculations related to
production, value of produiction, debts;
(2)  after three or four months, attendants would be trained to use
these documents wih actual data collected at cooperative level;
(3) after six months, these farmers would participate in the
maintenance of documents used for the coming marketing season;
and
(d) Special Courses would also be organized to train cooperative leaders,
administrative officers, and union staff.
Training Needs
9.        Training staff would consist of:
-    two ITA training specialists attached to the Extension and
the Cooperatives Divisions;
-    two training assistants (ATA) attached to the Extension
Division; and
-    three functional literacy agents.
10.       The training program is summarized at Table 1.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
11.        Training costs, surimarized at Table 2, would consist of:
(a; travel expenses %vithin and outside Senegal;
vb) external traininc session subsistence;
çc)  allowances to farmers and staff to be paid during training
,essions; a:id
d! denonstratinn costs.



Annex 8
Table 1
SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECI
TRAINING PROGRAM
A. TRAINING SESSIONS
Weeks             Number
A. Senior Staff (ITA)
PY1   PY2   PY3   PY4
Extension                      6           1      1     1      1
Evaluation                     4           1      1     1      1
Cooperation                    4           1      1     1      1
Livestock                      4           1      1     1      1
Civil Works                    4                  1
Training                       3           1      1     1      i
B. Intermediary Staff (ATA)
Sector chiefs                  4           2      1     1      1
Evaluation                     3           1      2     1      1
Livestock                      4           1      1     1      1
Cooperation                    4           1      1     1      1
Civil Works                    3           1      1     1      1
Training                       2           1      1     1      1
C. Extension Staff                             3        13.5  135   135   135
D. Union Staff                                 4           2     2      2     2
Cooberative staff                          4          4o    4o    4o    4o
E. Farmers                                     2        400   500   500   500
B. VISITS TO OTHER AGRICULTURAL PROJECTS
Senior Staff
Project Manager/Deputy                4/6          1     1      i      1
Division's chiefs and deputies        4/6          5     5      5      5



Annex 8
Table 2
SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
IRAINING COSTS
I.       Senior Staff: Field visits to other agricultural development projects
CFAF '000
Total: 24 visits
Field allowance: CFAF 6,000/day            6,h48o
Transport:  CFAF  150,000/visit            3,6oo         10,080
II.       Project Staff:Training in Senegal (CETAD - SODEVA)
Total: 172 manweeks
Allowances  CFAF 15.,O0/week               2,580
Transport   CFAF 25,000                    1,197
CETAD       CFAF 30.,000/week              5,16o          8,937
III.       Extension Staff: Training at Sedhiou
Total: 1,620 manweeks
Allowance   CFAF 500/day                   4,860
Transport   CFAF 2,000                     1,080
Demonstra-  CFAF 3,000                     1,620          7,560
tion
IV.       Cooperative Staff:
i.   Training at Sedhiou
Total: 640 manweeks
Transport   CFAP  2,000                       320
Alllowances CFAF 500/day                   1,920
DemonstrationCFAF 5,000                       800
ii.  Training at cooperative level
Transport                                  1,520
Demonstration                              6,500         11,060
V.       Farmers:  Training at Farm level
Total: 4,000 manweeks
Allowances  CFAF 300/day                   6,ooo
Transport   CFAFP,000/Farmer               2,000
Demonstration                              4,ooo         12,000
VI.       Total Training Costs                                                     49,637



ANNEX 9
Page 1
SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
RICE MILLS
1.        Actual Processing Capacity.  Paddy is now treated at the Sefa rice
mill, which has a nominal capacity of 2.4 t/hr. Due to mechanical misalign-
ment and poor management, real capacity varies between 1.6-2.0 t/hr, with 18
working hours per day, 20 days/month; 8 months/year; therefore, the annual
paddy processing capacity varies from 4,600 to 5,800 t. In addition, two
small mills financed by the first project, would be in operation at the begin-
ning of 1976; each with a paddy processing capacity of 430 t/year.
2.        Projected Production of Paddy and Processing Capacity.  Paddy to be
marketed in PY 4 under the proposed project would be as follows:
Paddy,t
Production                             25,000
Less Farmers' Consumption               3,000
22.000
Less Recovery from Debts                2,000
Paddy to be marketed                   20,000
Therefore, on the basis of an average of 5,000 t being now processed
with the existing capacity, there is a need for an additional milling capacity
of 15,000 t.
The rice mills proposed would have a nominal capacity of 430 t/year
(72% of maximum capacity); thus 35 rice mills would be needed.
3.        Equipment.  The equipment to be used in the mills would be:
(a) a diesel engine of 16 HP;
(b) a combined pre-cleaner, paddy huller and rice polisher; and
(c) a weighing scale.
Output per hour would be about 430 kg of paddy, with a rice to paddy
ratio of 65%.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
4.        Buildings.  Total building area would be 227 m  as per the following
detail:
2
m
paddy storage                 161
rice storage                   15
equipment                      25
materials; spares              26
227
The cost estimate of such a building is based on the following:
(a)  floor:  cement concrete;
(b)  frame:  imported metallic structure;
(c)  roof:   corrugated sheets (metal or cement - asbestos);
(d)  walls:  either all brick or mixed brick and corrugated sheet; and
(e)  door:   sliding metallic.
With these specifications the construction cost per m  is estimated
to be about US$51; thus the total cost of the building would be about CFAF 2.6
million (US$11,556).
6.        The construction schedule is as follows:
PY 1   PY 2   PY 3   PY 4    Total
Number of mills           6       9      10      10      35
7.        Operating costs of the mills are detailed in Table 1 of this Annex.



SENEGAL                                        Annex 9
Table I
SECOND SEDEIOU PROJECT
RICE MILLS OPERATING COST' 1/
Fixed Costs                                                                  --CFAF--
Dep:eciution
Equipment and Spare Parts
CFAF 1,827,000; 7 years                                             261,000
Buildings
CFAF 2,600,000; 20 years                                            130,000
Weighing Scale
CFAF 50,000; 10 years                                                 8,000
Interest on Investrment, 7.5%                                                338,025
Insurance  2/                                                                 33.802
Total Fixed Costs                                               770,827
Per ton of paddy                                                                 1,792
Variable Costs
Personnel;
Mechanic  3/                                                          68,833
Assistants  4/                                                       519,200
Cooperative Commissioner  5/                                         206,500
Office and General Services Equipment                                       20,000
Fuel  6/                                                                   194,130
Lubricants  7/                                                              20,000
Fuel and Lubricants,Transport                                               20,000
Maintenance  8/                                                             95,347
Storage Costs:
Interest on stocked paddy  9/                 207,500
Insurance  10/                                 69,000
Bagging material  11/                         350,000
Maintenance of building  12/                   39,000                665,500
Total Variable Costs                                           1,809,510
Per ton of paddy                                                                   4,208
Total Operating Costs Per Ton of Paddy                                             6,o00
1/  Milling Coste per ton of paddy have been based on a mill's annual capacity of 430 t requiring
five months operation at ten hours per working day.
2/  0.75% on total costs of equipment and buildirg.
3/  One every 3 mills, at CFAF 35,000/montt employed 5 months, plus 18% social benefits.
4/  4 at CFAF 22,000/month, employed 5 months, plus 18% social benefits.
5/  One at CFAF 35,000/month employed 5 months, plus 18% social benefits.
6/  Diesel oil, 2.7  1/hour at CFAF 71,90/1 for 1,000 hours.
7/ 10% of fuel costs.
8/  5% of equipment cost.
9/  Storage of 200 t of paddy during 4 months; interest rate 7.5%.
1J/ 8% on 200 t at CFAF 41,500/t
11/  Annual renewal cost; initial stock to be provided by OICAD.
12/ 1.5% of construction cost.



ANNEX 10
Page 1
SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
M4ONITORING AND EVALUATION
Scope and Tasks of the Evaluation
1.        The scope of evaluation is not only to measure the project's econ-
omic impact, but also to comprehend consequent changes induced in the tradi-
tional social patterns of the project area population. The main tasks of
evaluation would therefore be to: (a) carry out farm surveys; (b) identify
economic and social development constraints in the project area; and (c) pro-
pose measures to overcome them to project management.
2.        Under the first project, farmers responded to project initiatives,
although in a different way than ancitipated at appraisal (Annex 3). For
instance, rice development has been successful but only because the project
has provided inputs outside the traditional cooperative scheme. As a result,
men as well as women have participated in rice production, either directly or
by helping women in their fields. This is a radical departure from the normal
assignment of tasks within traditional farm families.
3.        The proposed project would promote new techniques which could also
affect traditional patterns. Swamp land improvement and stump removal on
the highland would oblige farmers to solve land tenure problems and would
induce them to reduce land rotation. The proposed changes concerning the
cooperatives and the establishment of unions of cooperatives would also have
to be understood by farmers. Farmers would also react to price changes, and
to new processing and marketing facilities. Production objectives could also
be in contradiction with traditional concepts in a rural society whose prime
objective has been to maintain self-sufficiency.
4.        Under the proposed project, project staff and consultants would be
used to monitor and evaluate the project's impact on the economic and social
conditions in the area. It would therefore increase the knowledge about
decision naking at the farnm level. Project evaluation and monitoring would
provide a continuing foeus on the extent to which project actions were con-
tributing to the project's overall objectives and would identify constraints
met and would outline ways of eliminating them, to enable a quick response
by the project management. Later on, it would provide the basis for the
preparation and evaluation of follow-up projects. This evaluation would
he carried out by:
(a) extension staff who would continue to record data on parti-
cipants, area cultivated, and yields;



ANNEX 10
Page 2
(b) an evaluation unit would, under the guidance of consultants,
conduct surveys at farm and village levels to measure the
economic and the social impacts of the project; and
(c) consultants would set up and supervise evaluation procedures,
identify constraints and make recommendations to management.
Initially, the evaluation unit and the consultants would be under the project
manager, but they would ultimately become part of the regional agency to be
established.
Extension Staff
5.        The project's extension staff would continue to record basic data
per farm and farmers supervised: area cultivated per crop, measurement of
yields, and sampling of production. Fields (usually 1/4 ha) are measured
with ropes and surveyor chain. In 1974, topographers from the Civil Works
Unit checked the results and found them to be accurate within a gatisfactory
5% margin. Prodyction and yields are estimated by sampling 10 m per field
of about 2,500 m . At harvest, about 30% of the area is sampled; samples
are dried and weighed at the 12 district centers before results are sent to
the central office to be analyzed. The assessment of yields and production
level has been satisfactory but further refinements are necessary to ensure
its accuracy. Extension agents would continue to be primarily responsible
for measurement and sampling under the supervision of the evaluation unit.
Evaluation Unit
6.        An evaluation unit would be set up to supervise farm surveys to be
performed by extension workers and to measure the project's impact at the
farm and village levels. This unit would consist of one expatriate, three tech-
nical assistants and six statistical assistants equipped with vehicles and motor-
cycles, and would be responsible for introducing a system of farm record-
keeping on about 2% of farm participants, who would be selected taking into
account diferent development stages (family and farm sizes equipment), and
the different ecological regions (North, South and Sefa). A slow introduc-
tion of farm recording techniques is envisaged, but by PY 4 the project would
maintain about 800 farm records.
Consultants
7.        The project would employ consultants for a total of 28 rmin-months
spread over the four years of the project to help design and implement the
evaluation system and to analyze the data. Consultants would work first
under the project manager and afterwards under the Regional. Development
Agency once it is established.  The schedule would be as follows:



ANNEX 10
Page 3
Man-months-
PY 1    PY 2    PY 3    PY 4
Agronomist/Economist               3       3        3       3
Sociologist/Anthropologist         4       4        4       4
/1   Field work and report preparation.
The consultants should have research experience at the field level in econ-
omic and social aspects of rural areas involving research design, survey
work, and data processing and interpretation. They would work as a team,
following terms of reference outlined below.
Design of a System for Evaluation and Monitoring
8.        At the farm level, the consultants would design the farm surveys,
as well as the criteria for their analysis and the procedures for revision
and improvement. Survey farms should be simple enough to enable their com-
prehension at farm level, and data should be clearly related to farm records.
Basic data to be collected are:
-    total population; number of activies, distributions by
age and sex;
-    farm inputs, equipment, oxen;
-    pattern of land-use (crops, yields, production);
-    use of credit; and
-    marketing details.
Survey data would have also to allow an estimation of the farmers' decision-
making scheme, thus specific questions would refer to what factors are con-
sidered as relevant from the farmers' point of view in formulating their
production decisions. Initially, a sample of farmers could be trained by
extension agents to organize and keep records every eyar, so that results
from the survey's evaluation could be fed back to improve or modify the data
collected.
9.        At the project level, using data from farm survey, monitoring and
evaluation procedures would be designed to analyze:



ANNEX 10
Page 4
annual production and revenues, both for project parti-
cipants and outsiders; a comparison would be made with
appraisal estimates;
actual costs, compared with those appraised;
farmers' responses to the project's technical packages,
i.e. land improvement, cropping patterns and soil
conservation practices;
farmers' response to the project and cooperative
organizations;
the land settlement program at SEFA;
effectiveness of the credit scheme;
technical, economic and social constraints; and
impact of the training and functional literacy program
Data would also be gathered at the cooperative level, to evaluate the effi-
ciency of cooperative investment - storage and processing.



ANNEX 1 1
Page 1
SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
REQUIREMENTS FOR REPORTING PROJECT PROGRESS
1.        In order to facilitate comparisons between appraisal estimates and
actual results, and in this way to assist both project's management and IDA's
supervision, the following format set nut in this Annex has been prepared.
Any changes in the proposed format which will simplify the task of preparing
reports without loosing any essential information should be discussed during
the supervision missions.
2.        Two types of progress reports would be preapred by the project's
management: (a) quarterly, and (b) annual. Reports should reach IDA within
60 days after the close of each reporting period.
3.        The essential information required would cover appraisal estimates
and actual results in tabular form, with the following detail:
(a) Participating farms
-    Per area; number of people and actives per farm
(b) Crop Production
-    Crop Development
Land use per crop (ha)
Yields (t/ha)
Production (tons)
-    Input Use (unit quantity per 1ha)
Seeds
Fertilizers
Pesticides
Draft Oxen
Implements
(detail)



ANNEX 11
Page 2
-    Input Prices 1/
Farmgate Prices
Subsidies
Total Input Costs
-    Output Prices 1/ (in financial and economic terms)
At farmgate level
At wholesale and retail levels
-    Labor
Unit Cost of farm labor
Total labor input
Hired labor: input and unit cost
-     ,Credit, short and medium-term
Disbursed
Recovered
-    Farm Budgets (Representative)
Details at Annex 18, Tables 8 to 10
-    Cost/benefit ratios at farm level.
(c) Livestock Production
-    Livestock Developnent
Calf Rearing
Breeding cows
Milking cows
Fattened cattle



ANNEX 1 1
Page 3
-    Input Use
Concentrate Feed
Mineral Concentrate
Treatment for Parasites
-    Input Prices 1/
Farmgate Prices
Subsidies
Total Input Costs
-    Output Prices 1/
Calves and Steers
Milk
Livestock Operating Budget
Revenues
Costs
-    Co)st/Benefit Ratio at farn level
(d) Project Cost Breakdown
Based on Project Costs Tables (Annex 15)
with indication of physical and price
contingencies per cost item.
(e)  Project Staff (Number)
(f)  Water Control Scheme (phasing and costs per type)
Type A -   Polder
Type B -   Gravity-fed Irrigation
Type C -   Drainage
Type D -   Punping
(g)  Rice `lills
Operating Costs
Paddy processed
(h) Cooperatives
Location and number of members
Marketed Production
I/   Cnrrected by the inflation rate.



ANNEX 11
Page 4
(i) Disbursement Schedule
(j) Project's contribution to the Senegalese Economy.
Foreign exchange earnings.



ANNEX 12
Page 1
SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR REGIONAL PLAN
FOR INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT IN THE CASAMANCE REGION
Background
1.        Casamance comprises about 28,350 km  or 14% of Senegal's land area,
and has a population of about 651,000 (15% of the total). It may be divided
into three ecological areas: Lower Casamance - East of the regional capital,
Ziguinchor; Middle Casamance - i.e. the SEDHIOU district, area of the pro-
posed project; and Upper Casamnce. Given adequate soil and climatic condi-
tions, these three areas have a good agricltural potential. Traditionally,
rice is grown along the tributary valley of the Casamance river and its de-
velopment has been, so far, the major objective of rural development; but
at present more attention is paid to the development of cash crops like
groundnuts and cotton, and to the introduction of new farming practices.
Several foreign agencies have been involved in Casamance rice projects:
IDA, USAID, CCCE, FED and a Chinese mission.
2.        Government maintains various services related to rural develop-
ment but little has been done yet to coordinate their activities. Govern-
ment has decided to coordinate project and services in the region through a
regional development agency, but it has not yet established in detail how
that coordination should be carried out; besides, there is no development
program outside the existing projects -- namely the proposed project, and
a FED-financed project in Upper Casamance being carried out by SODEFITEX.
No projects are being implemented or proposed for the development of Lower
Casamance. In the 1960s, FED financed large rice development projects which
have failed to reach their objectives because of the unexpected salinity
problems which have still not been solved. Now, most of the extension ser-
vices have been removed from this region, although it seems to have good
development prospects.
Scope of the Plan
3.        Based on Government's wishes for developing the region, the plan
would take into account Casamance's human and physical resources, covering
crops and livestock production by established farmers and cattle herders
and prospects for further resettlement.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
Data Collection
4.        As a great deal of information is available, the first plan acti-
vity would involve an exhaustive review of all existing physical, technical,
socio-logical and economic information on the region. The major sources
would be reports, maps, aerial photographs and data provided by Government
departments, development agencies and research organizations in Senegal.
The following information would be collected:
(i) Population. Number, location and size of villages;
distribution of rural population by ethnic groups;
population density; population growth; rural migration
toward the cities in Casamance and in Senegal;
(ii) Soils. Distribution of cultivable and grazing areas and
assessment of their production potential;
(iii) Water Resources. Identification of water resources from
rivers and from groundwater; possible changes in water
supply over recent years (in particular the incidence of
droughts), means of improving village water suplies, and
planned development for the Casamance and Soungougrou
rivers;
(iv) Climatic Conditions. Rainfall in the region; annual and
monthly distribution (average, high and low, with frequency
of low rainfall); implications for agriculture;
(v) Public Health. Location and intensity of major human diseases,
with particular attention to riverblindness and bilharzia; im-
portance of human health problems as a constraint to develop-
ment;
(vi) Agricultural Situation. Description of cropping patterns in
traditional and modern farming; yields and production of cash
and food crops; assessment of farm labor requirements; use
of farm implements, number and type of tools and farm imple-
ments; use of purchased seasonal inputs; status and achieve-
ments of reasearch organizations; farmers' revenues and returns
on labor in the main ecological areas with different cropping
systems; constraints on developing cash and food crops;
(vii) Livestock. Livestock numbers, traditional grazing, draft oxen,
cattle fattening, other livestok; assessment of the region's
resources for development and the availability of grazing land,
fodder and suitable farm residues; possible constraints to
cattle development, such as diseases, labor, water, marketing,
cattle prices; assessment of the region's potential for live-
stock development;



ANNEX 12
Page 3
(viii)  Institutions.  Description and role of existing Government
and quasi-Government agencies serving farmers and cattle
herders; efficiency of these services, particlarly with
regard to extension, credit, input supply and marketing;
number, size, role and effectiveness of cooperatives;
(ix) Land Tenure. Description of official and traditional land
tenure systems; methods of land allocation for agriculture
and grazing to local farmers and migrant farmers and to
cattle herders; effectiveness of the prevailing land tenure
systems for resource utilization;
(x) Infrastructure. Location and condition of existing infra-
structure, primary and secondary roads, storage facilities
for farm inputs and farm produce, infrastructure specifically
related to livestock, rice and cotton. Location and condi-
tion of schools and dispensaries and of rural stores for
consumer goods; regional conditions as compared with national
standards and with Governnent targets.
5.        Data collection would be supplemented by a critical analysis of
past and ongoing development projects in the region, with a view to deter-
mining the reasons for their success or failure and lessons for future
development.
The Plan
6.-       Information on the region would be presented in a data brief, and
on the basis of regional resources the plan would, (a) recommend an appropriate
development strategy and, (b) make an assessment of agricultural development
priorities, in terms of identified projects. Areas with high development pri-
orities, in terms of identified projects. Areas with high development poten-
tial could be selected and the plan would provide terms of reference for the
subsequent preparation of investment proposals for these areas. Additional
surveys and studies needed to prepare investment proposals would be detailed
and their costs estimated. Also, modifications would, if needed, be proposed
for projects being implemented or already planned to fit into the strategy
outlined by the plan.
Health Survey
7.        Existing information shows that human diseases, particularly river
blindness, represent in some areas a severe constraint on development. A
survey would, therefore, be carried out to determine the implications of the
disease for the region's development; this would be undertaken by a team of
specialists, and on the basis of separate terms of reference that would be
prepared in consultation between the Government, the Bank, the World Health
Organization, and other specialized institutions in this field. The survey
would cover areas identified during preparation of the plan as having good
potential for development.



ANNEX 12
Page 4
Institutions
8.        The plan would make recommendations on the appropriate roles and
responsibilities of Government departments and agencies in providing support
services to farmers, livestock owners and settlers (extension, credit, mar-
keting, human and animal health, rural works, communications, education etc.).
Responsibilities and Organization
9.        The Regional Planning Unit would employ three qualified Senegalese,
supporting staff and a consultant team comprising a team leader/economist, and
agronomist, and a rural engineer for two years (60 man-months), plus 30 man-
months of consultants to investigate specific aspects: a livestock specialist,
a soil surveyor, a sociologist, a marketing analyst and an organization special-
ist. Together, they will prepare the plan and investment proposals. The
consultants would therefore be needed for a total of 74 man-months, of which
37 would be required for the draft master plan, and 37 for the completion of
the plan and the preparation of investment proposals.
Timetable
10.       The plan and investment proposals would be prepared according to the
following timetables:
(i) Draft plan completed - December 1977;
(ii) Review of draft plan completed - June 1978;
(iii)  Final plan and terms of reference for preparation of investment
proposals completed - December 1978; and
(iv) Investment proposals completed - December 1979.



ANNEX 13
Page 1
SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR EXPATRIATE STAFF
Planning and Evaluation
The Planning and Evaluation Manager would report to the project
manager.  He would be responsible for:
(a) programming and budgeting project works six months in advance of
the beginning of the agricultural campaign;
(b) reviewing and establishing the evaluation procedures used by
extension and evaluation staff;
(c) establishing sampling procedures for farm monitoring;
(d) implementing a system of farm records;
(e) liaising and coordinating the work of consultants;
(f) preparing quarterly and annual project progress reports; and
(g) training a counterpart.
1le would be appointed for a four-year term. During the first two
years, he would have executive responsibility and afterwards he would act as
an adviser to the project manager.  He would have a degree in agriculture
or equivalent qualification, and professional experience in project evaluation
techniques in West Africa.
Civil Works Engineer
Reporting to the project manager, the civil works engieer would
be the head of the Civil Works Division and would be responsible for:
(a)  planning division's program in liaison with the extension
service division;
(b) designing irrigation works to be implemented; preparing and
opening bid calls and supervising the implementation of all
works contracted out;
(c) contracting topographic surveys;



ANNEX 13
Page 2
(d) supervising the maintenance and operation of irrigated
schemes developed under the project;
(e) organizing and maintaining the equipment operated under
the project; and
(f) training a counterpart.
He would be appointed for a period of four years.  He would have
a degree in rural engineering and solid experience on work site organization
and contracts involving development of small irrigation schemes in Western
Africa.
Financial and Administration Division Manager
Reporting to the Project Manager, he would be responsible for:
(a) organizating and maintaining adequate accounting procedures;
(b) preparing financial statements;
(c) liaising with cooperation services and other Government agencies
to monitor the management of credit services;
(d) preparing draft accounting plan and procedures for the
Regional Development Agency;
(e) liasing with Government Accounting Services in Dakar; and
(f) training a counterpart.



ANNEX 14
Page I
SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
OUTLINED AGREEMENT BETWEEN ONCAD AND THE PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT
Distribution of Inputs
ONCAD would continue to be responsible for the centralization of
cooperative's orders for farm equipment, fertilizers and pesticides.  To
insure proper planning, the PMU on its own part would:
(a) collect orders from cooperatives in the Sedhiou district;
(b) prepare a schedule of delivery per distribution points, agreed
upon with ONCAD;
(c)  distribute farm inputs to cooperatives from distribution points,
using trucks hired from or through ONCAD.
ONCAD would appoint an officer within its Division of Rural Supplies
("approvisionment du mode rural") to permanently liaise with the project Manager
for the purposes of input procurement.
Inventories
ONCAD would consign to the project a permanent stock of farm equip-
ment, fertilizers and pesticides available for cash sales to farmers.
PMU would be responsible for storage and would keep permanent
inventory accounts. Sales would be at current PA prices less credit charges;
repayments to ONCAD would be made monthly.
The initial inventory would represent 20% of farm requirements, and
could be later increased to adequatly meet farmers' demand.
Cooperative Supervision
Project staff would be responsible for cooperative supervision in the
Sedhiou district replacing ONCAD's cooperative management and implying:
(a)  assessing annual farm input requirements;
(b) organizing general cooperatives meetings;
(c) supervising unions and cooperatives;
(d) dispatching equipment;
(e) establishing individual and cooperative receipts "accuses
de reception";



ANNEX 14
Page 2
(f) maintaining cooperative and members' accounts;
(g) selecting cooperatives and union's administrative
officers.
In addition, the project would train selected cooperative members
in cooperative techniques to promote functional literacy. Extension staff
and administrative officers would be preferably selected among cooperative
members.
Marketing of Groundnuts
Primary marketing of groundnuts at cooperative level would remain
as ONCAD's responsiblity; therefore, ONCAD would allocate funds, recover
credit according to statements prepared by project staff, and would organize
transport of groundnus to collecting points and oil mills. Given the small
size of cooperatives in the project area, ONCAD and the project would organize
collecting points to be used by several cooperatives.
Marketing of Cereals
PMU would organize the marketing of cereals in liaison with ONCAD
and BNDS.
The project would be responsible for primary marketing, storage and
transport to the collecting points defined by ONCAD.
The project would maintain proper weekly accounts and inventories to
be made available to ONCAD and BNDS under procedures agreed upon with these
agencies.
ONCAD would make funds available to the project according to a
schedule agreed upon with the project one month before the beginning of the
marketing season.
Management of the Seed Stockpile
The project would be responsible for the preparation of the seed
multiplication program, would contract seed multiplication with selected
farmers and pay the multiplication premium, and would organize and control
storage facilities.
ONCAD and the local seed service would control the quality of seeds.
The project would pay seed multiplication premiums not more than two months
after seeds delivery, subject to verification of seed quality according to
required specifications.



ANNEX 14
Page 3
Financial Arrangements
ONCAD's cooperative staff in the project area would be transferred
to the project appropriate fee per ton of groundnut marketed of CFAF 400/t,
as already included in the "Bareme Arachide", would be paid to the project,
and could be adjusted annually at project's request.
The project, as entirely responsible for the multiplication of ce-
real seeds, would receive, instead of ONCAD, the 25% margin paid by farmers
on seeds distributed to them. Seed storage costs and multiplication premiums
would be paid by the project.



SENEGAL
SECOND SEDEIOU PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(Thousand CFAF)
TAXES                   FOREIGN EXCHANGE
PYI               PY2               PY3               PY4             TOTAL                 %          TOTAL            %         TOTAL
1976-77           1977-78           1978-79           1979-80
1. Infrastructure
Water Control                     14,250            69,355             89,277            69,356            242,238               24         66,847          41.4       114,955
Buildings                         24.150            39.200             49.800            38.050            151,200               25         37 800          40          60.480
38,400           108,555           139,077           107,406             393,438              24.4      104,647           40.9      175,435
2. Equipment
Topographie                     5,000               -                  -                 -                5,000               20          1,000           70          3,500
Demonstration                   5,000             2,000              2,000             2,000             11,000               20          2,200           70          7,700
Weighing Scales for Liveutock     -               7,100                -                 -                7,100               20          1,420           70          4,970
Cooperatives' Stores            1,500             3,000              3,000             2,500             10,000               20          2,000          40           4,000
Cooperative Unions              1,800             1,800              3,600             1,800              9,000               20          1,800          40           3,600
Rice Mill»                     11,400            17,100             19,000            19,000             66,500               20         13,300           70         46,550
Feeder Mille                      -              10,000                -                 -               10,000               20          2,000           70          7,000
Agricultural Equipment         18,771             9,212             15,875            26,174             70,032                9          6,302           50         35,016
Blacksmith  Equipment          12.320             1.560              1 560             1.560             17 000                9          I, 530       .              8.500
55,791            51,772                              53,034             205,632               15.3                       58.8      120,836
3. Vehicles                           34,171               -                  -               7,523             41,694               40         16,678           55         22,932
4. Settiement ProRram - SEFA
Wells                           4,000             2,000              2,000             2,000             10,000               20          2,000           20          2,000
Allowances                      1.500             2.500              4.000             4,500             12.500               -             -             -           -
5,500             4,500             6,000             6,500              22,500               8.9         2,000           89          2,000
5. Personnel
Expatriates                    39,000            39,000             39,000            39,000            156,000               20         31,200           60         93,600
Civil Servants                120,370           113,170            102,370           102,370            438,280               10         43,828           _           -
Contracted Staff              120.295           123.895            123.895           123.895            491.980                5         24,599
279,665           276,065           265,265           265,265           1,086,260                9         99,627            8 6       93,600
6.  operating Costs                   34,159             35,459            29,119            31,419             130,156               7.8        10,128          18.5       24,083
/  Trainin  Coasts                    12,675            12,820             12,645            11,497             49,637               10          4,964           15          7,446
8.  Planning & Evaluation(Consultants) 8,500             6,500              6,500             6,500              28,000              -              -            80         22,400
9. Rezional Planning Unit                -              63,854             59,370               -               123,224               4           4,929          56         69,005
10.  Incremental Farm Equipment        98,971            16,808             27,887             9,466             153,132              14.7        22,565          31.2       47,816
Il.  Incremental Farm Inputs
Seeds                          10,398            14,913             19,835            21,454              66,591              -              -            -             -
Rock Phosphate                 29,084            32,883             40,809            41,108             143,884               9          12,950          -             -
Fertilizers                    27,851             37,411            38,283            49,278             152,823               9          13,754          60          91,694
Pesticides                      4,024             4.272              5.596             6.412              20 304               9           1.827          80          16.243
71,348            89,479           104,523           118,252             383,602                7.4       28,531           28.1      107,937
BASE COST                        639,180           665,812            695,421           616,862           2,617,275               12.4      325,621          26.5       693,490
Physical Contingencies            35,952            44,893             51,986            45,900             178,731               16         28,597          39          69,705
Price Contingencies               31,475            103,710           187,010           236,351             558,546               14.7       81,548          29         161,978     x
TOTAL PROJECT COST               706,607            814,415           934,417           899,113           3,354,552               13        435,766          27.6       925,173



SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS - WATER CONTROL
(CFAF '000)
Area       Unit 1'      PYl         PY2          PY3         PY4                  Cost Allocation
Type              (ha)       Cost      1976-77      1977-78     197-9        1979-80      TOTAL     Project   Farmers
A.  Experimental Polder          50    398,422         -            _        20,796          -       20,796       19,921      875
B.  Water Control               300    196,757         -        22,550       22,551       22,551     67,652       59,027    8,625
C.  Drainage                  1,200     ii4,200        -        52,680       52,680       52,680    158,o4o      137,o4O   21,000
D. Pumping:
- Extension              70    200,000       2,600       5,200        5,200       5,200      18,200       14,000    4,200
- Improvement            30     75,000       2,700         -            -           -         2,700        2,250      450
Soil Survey  2/                         10,000      10,000          -           -            -       10,000       10,000       -
Total Irrigation                                    15,300      8o,430      101,227       80,431    277,388      242,238 3/35,150
1/ Annex 6, Tables 1 to 4.
2/ Scale 1:20,000; for about 15,000 ha to be done by consultants.
3/ Water control works for CFAF 194,738,000 (84%) would be allocated by contract
under competitive bidding, and the remaining CFAF 37,500,000 (16%) would be                                     ( 
done through Force Account.                                                                                    r\3



SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS - BUILDINGS
(CFAF thousand)
Unit       PY1 - 1976-77            PY2 - 1977-78           PY3 - 1978-79             PY4 - 1979-80                 Total
Buildings                               Size       Cost      No.       Cost           No.       Cost           No.       Cost           No.       CoBt            No.        Cost
Cooperatives Stores (80t)                60m2       350       15      5,250           30      10,500           30      10,500            25      8,750           100      35,000
Cooperative Union Stores (500t)         18Dm2    1,800         1      1,800             1      1,800             2      3,600             1      1,800             5        9,000
Cooperative Union Offices and Shops   75m2    1,500            1      1,500             1      1,500             2      3,000             1      1,500             5        7,500
Cooperative Federation Building 1/                6,700                 -                        -               1      6,700                       -              1        6,700
Feeder Mill Construction                2OOm2    2,000                  -               1      2,000                                                -              1        2,000
Rice Mills Construction                 227m2    2,600         6     15,600             9     23,400           10      26.000            10     26,000            35      91,000
Total Buildings:                                                     24,150                   39,200                   49,800                   38,050                    151,200
1/ Rehabilitation of existing Building.



SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS - EOUIPMENT
(CFAF thousand)
Unit             PY1 - 1976-77            PY2 - 1977-78           PY3 - 1978-79            PY4 - 1979-80                  Total
Cost             No.      Cost            No.      CoRt           No.       Cost           No.       Cost           No.        Cost
Topographie                             5,000              1      5,000                       -                                                                1       5,000
Demonstration                                                     5,000                    2,000                    2,000                    2,000                    11,000
Livestock; Scales                                                    -                     7,100                      -                        -                       7,100
Cooperatives; Stores                      100             15      1,500            30      3,000           30       3,000           25       2,500          100       10,000
Cooperative Union                       1,800              1      1,800             1      1,800             2      3,600             1      1,800            5        9,00<
Rice Mills                              1,900              6     11,400             9     17,100           10      19,000           10      19,000           35       66,500
Feeder Mill                           10,000                         -              1     10,000                                                -                     10,000
Farm Equipment
Paddy thresher                    73,963             58       4,290           36       2,663           41       3,032           47       3,476          182       13,461
Sprayer                           19,798            524      10,374           90       1,782          103       2,039          627      12,413        1,344       26,608
Hand tools set                        880            730        642        1,480       1,302        3,840       3,379        3,250       2,860        9,300        8,183           '>.
Clearing tools set                 4,950            700       3,465          700       3,465        1,500       7,425        1,500       7,425        4,400       21,780           Œ M
Blackemith equipment             260,000             47      124320            6       1,560        6           1,560            6       1,560           65       172 000
Total Equipment                                                  55,791                   51,772                   45,035                   45,035                   205,632



SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS - VEHICLES
(CFAF Thousand)
Unit                  PYI - 1976-77          PY2 - 1977-78        PY3 - 1978-79         PY4 - 1979-80               TOTAL
Cost 1!               No       Cost          No      Cost          No       Co0t         No       Cost          No       Cost
Break                                         2,100                   5        10,500                  -                     -           3      6,300            8      16,800
Pick-up                                       1,600                   2         3,200                  -                     -                   -               2        3,200
Utility                                       1,223                   1         1,223                  -                     -           1      1,223            2        2,446
Station Wagon                                 3,984                   2         7,968                  -                     -                   -               2        7,968
Truck, 3.5t                                   3,390                   2         6,780                  -                     -                   -               2        6,780
Minibus                                       4,500                   1         4,500                  -                     -                   _               1        4,500
Total Vehicles                                                                 34,171                  -                                        7,523                    4 _4,694 
Ax
il   Ail Taxes included



SENEGAL
SECOND SEDEIOU PROJECT
PERSONNEL COSTS - GENERAL AIMINISTRATION AND EXTENSION SERVICES
(CFAP Million)
Unit6ase                                             PlP2                              Y 
Salaries A=Lownces                 Total           Number            1976-77        1977-78         1978-79        1979-80         TOTAL
GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
Expatriates
Financial Manager                                                         13,000              1                13,000         13,000          13,000         13,000        52,000
Civil Servants
Project Manager                           2,280            1,440           3,720              1                 3,720          3,720           3,720          3,720        14,880
Deputy-AdministratioPl                      710              360           1,070              1                 1,070          1,070           1,070          1,070         4,280
Deputy-Personnel                            820            1,200           2,020              1                 2.020          2.020           2.020          2020          8,080
Total Civil Servante                                                                                       6,810         6,810           6,810          6,810         27,240
Contracted Personnel
Accountant                                1,320            1,440            2,760             1                 2,760          2,760           2,760          2,760         11,040
Secretery                                   500               60             560              1                   560            560             560            560         2,240
Accounting Clerke                           660             -                660              3                 1,980          1,980           1,980          1,980         7,920
Admeinistration Clerks                      450               60             510              2                 1,020          1,020           1,020          1,020         4,080
Typiste                                     420               60             480              2                   960            960             960            960         .3,840
Drivera                                     460              120             580              3                 1,740          1,740           1,740          1,740         6,960
Operators                                   350             -                350              1                   350            350             350            350          1,400
Guards                                      350             -                350              3                 1*05O          1.050           1.050          1.050         4.20
Total Contracted Personnel                                                                                10,420         10,420          10,420        10,420         41,680
TOTAL GENERAL ADMINISTRATION                                                                              30.230         30.230         30.230         30.230        120,920
EXTENSION SERVICES
Civil Servants
Division Chief                            1,700            1,320            3,020             1                 3,020          3,020           3,020          3,020         12,080
Deputy Division Chief                     1,700            1,320           3,020              1                 3,020          3,020           3,020          3,020         12,080
Head of Extension Unit                    1,320            1.440           2,760              2                 5,520          5,520           5,520          5,520         22,080
Head of Training Unit                     1,320            1,440            2,760             1                 2,760          2,760           2,760          2,760         11,040
Head of Livestock Unit                    1,320            1,440           2,760              1                 2,760          2,760           2,760          2,760         11,040
Head of Seed Unit                         1,320            1,440           2,760              1                 2,760          2,760           2,760          2,760         11,040
Deyuty of Seed Unit                         720            1,080           1,800              1                 1,800          1,800           1,800          1,800          7,200
Deputy of Training Unit                   1,320            1,440           2,760              1                 2,760          2,760           2,760          2,760         11,040
District Chiefs                           1,320            1,440           2,760              6                16,560         16,560          16,560         16,560        665240
Subdistrict Chiefs                          720           1,080            1,800              7                12,600         12,600          12,600         12,600        50,400
Livestock Assistante                        720           1,080            1, 800             5                 9.000          9.000           9000            936000
Total Civil Servante                                                                                      62,560         62,560         62,560          62,560       250,240
Contracted Personnel
Training Assistant                          425               60              485             2                   970            970             970            970          3,880
Extension Agente-Agriculture                390               60             450            133                59,850         59,850          59,850         59,850        239,400
Extension Agenta-Livestock                  480              120              600            13                 7,800          7,800           7,800          7,800         31,200
Laborers                                    350             -                 350            15                 5,250          5,250           5,250          5,250         21,000
Drivers                                     460              120             580              3                 1,740          1,740           1,740          1,740          6,960
Typivts                                     420               60              4ao             3                 1,440          1,440           1,440          1,440          5,760           >
Guards                                      350             -                 350             4                 1.400                        1.400            781450         _1600          w
Total Contracted Personnel                                                                                78,450         78,450          78,450         78,450        313,800
TOTAL EXTENSION SERVICeS                                                                                 141.010        141.010         141.010        141.010       564, 4



SENbGAL
SCORD SE8H10U PROJECT                                                                   Annex 15
Table 7
PERSONEL ODSTS - COODFEATIVES. vALUATION AND CIVIL UORKS
(CFAF Million)
unit Corte                                            ....f.. 1        VY2           1Y03          1 4
Salaries        Al1oae             Total          Nsaber             1976-77       1977-78        1978-79        1979-80           TOTAL
COOPERATIVEO
Civil Servants
Siviston Chief                         1,320            1,440            2,760              1               2,760          2,760         2,760          2,760             11,040
3eputy Chief-Trsining                  1,200            1,200            2,400              1               2,400         2,400          2.400          2,400             9 600
Intendest-P-rnhaaaa                   1,200             1,200            2,400              1               2,400         2,400          2,400          2,400             9,600
îvpervisor-Oeeds                       1,200            1,200            2,400               1              2,400          2,400         2,400          2,400              9,600
Fun-t.on..  Liter-cy Agene               720            1,080            1,800               3              5,400          5,400         5,400          5,400             21,600
Int-ndaots                               720            1,080            1,800             13-6            23.400        10.800           -             -                34 200
Total Civil Servants                                                                                  38,760        26,160         15,360         15,360            95,640
Contracted Personnel
Chief A-co.ntant                       1,200            1,200            2,400              1               2,400          2,400         2,400          2,400              9,600
A-ooosting Clerk                         660             -                 660               1                660            660           660            660              2 640
Stor-ge Clerk                            500               60              560               1                560            560           560            560              2,240
CSa ,s                                   350             -                 350               3              1,030          1,050         1,050          1,050              4,200
Drivers                                  350             -                 350              2                 700            700           700            700              2,800
Typiste                                  420               60              480               2                960            960           960            960              3.840
Total Contra-tod Per-oonel                                                                             6,330         6,330          6,330          6,330            25,320
TOTAL COOPERATIVES                                                                                    45,090        32 490         21.690         21 690           120,960
StffE not iLoloded i Proieît Cnet for cooneratives  snpDrvisoL
Union odvioorn                           720            1,080            1,800              6                -              -           10,800        1b,800              21,600
Cooporotive ossistonîn                   720            1,080            1,800              8                             144Q          144400         144400            43.200
14,400        25,200         25,200            64,800
PI.ANNIIIO AND EVALUATION
DExotrinte
Division Chief                                                          13,000              I              13,000         13,000        13,000         13,000            52,000
Civil Serv-nts
Division Chicf                         1,200            1,200            2,400               1              2,400          2,400         2,400          2,400              9,600
Tenhniool Assietsots                     720              600            1,320               2              2f640          2 640         2 640          2 640             10,560
Total Civil Servants                                                                                   5,040          5,040         5,040          5,040             20,1S0
Contraotnd Personnel
Statistilo1 A.elsitnnt                   460               90              550              6               3,300          3,300         3,300          3,300             13,200
Typists                                  420               60              480               1                480            480           480            480              1,920
Drivera                                  350             -                 350               3              1.050          1.050        lj5O            1 050             4.200
Total Contravctd Personnel                                                                             4,830          4,830         4,830          4,830             19,320
TOTAL EVALUATION                                                                                      22,870         22,870        22.870         22.870            91,480
CIVIL WORS
E'patriate.
R-ral Eigineer                                                          13,000               1             13,000         13,000        13,000         13,000            52,000
Civil Servants
Section Chiefs                         1,200            1,200            2,400              3               7,200          7,200         7,200          7,200            28ô,00
Techinial An.intents                     720            1,080            1,800               3               -             5 400         5 400          540200
TXsotal Civil Servants                                                                                 7,200         12,600        12,600         12,600           45,000
Contrutcd Personnel
Topographr                               720            1,080            1,800            2-3               3,600          5,400          5,400         5,400            19,800
Ansistant Topographer                    480              120              600            2-3               1,200          1,800          1,800         1,800             6,00
Assistant 9ydrol8ist                    480              120              600               1                600            600           600            600             2,400
Dr-aghtseen                              480              120              600               2              1,200          1,200         1,200          1,200             4,800
Topographinnl Laborers                   350             -                 350            4-6               1,400          2,100          2,100         2,100             7,700
TopiSts                                  420               60              480               2                960            960            960           960             3,840
A-eontont Cler-k                          00             -                 500             0-1                -              500            500           500             1,300
Driver                                   435             -                 435               1                 435           435            435           433             1,740
Installations-Chief                      710            1,000            1,790               1              1,790          1,790         1,790          1,790             7,160
Installoriont-Masnn                      710             -                 710               1                710            710            710           710             2,840
Instnllntiens-Aesîsno                    355               60              415               3              1,240          1,245          1,245         1,245             4,980
Monh-nins-Chief                        1,130               240           1,790               1               1,790         1,790          1,790         1,790             7,160
Moohonios                                780               60              840               2              1,680          1,680          1,680         1,680             6,720
>iochanias-Assisnsnts                    495               120             615               3               1,845         1,845          1,845         1,845             7,380
Dlcnhanies-Storshoepor                   495                60             555               2               1,110         1,110          1,110         1,110             4,440
GI-rde                                   350             -                 350               2                 700           700            700           700             2 eoo
Total Contracted Personnel                                                                            20,265         23,865        23,865         23,865            91,860
TOTAL CIVIL WORt8                                                                                     40.465         49.465        495465         49.4b5           188,860



SErIFGU.L
SECOND SEDHIOIJ PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS - OPERATING COSTS
(CFAF thousand)
UNIT COST     PYl           PY2          PY3           PY4           TOTAL
1976-77      1977-78       1978-79      1979-80
Vehicles                             700         9,100        9,100         9,100       11,900        39,200
Rents                                            5,000        4,500         3,500         3,000       16,ooo
Of fi ces
Statioriary                                  1,500        1,500         1,500        1,500         6,ooo
Communications                              1,000         1,000         1,000        1,000         4,000
Administrative Cost                          3,000        3,000         3,000         3,000       12,000
Buildings Maintenance                        2,000        2,000         2,000        2,000         8,o0o
7,500        7,500         7,500        7,500        30,000
Livestock; Demonstration                         3,540        5,340           -             -          8,880
Training; Demonstration                          5,000        5,000         5,000         5,000       20,000
Evaluation                                       2,500        2,500         2,500         2,500       10,000
Roads Maintenance                                1,519        1,519         1,519         1,519        6, 076       o
Total Operating Costs                           34,159       35,459        29,119        31,419      130,156



SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS - REGIONAL PLANNING UNIT
(CFAF thousand)
PY 1             PY 2              PY 4              PY 4
Unit Cost              1976-77          1977-78           1978-79           1979-80                  TOTAL
Contracted Senegalese Staff
Economist (1)                               2,400                    -             2,400              2,400               -                    4,800
Statistician (1)                            2,400                    -             2,400              2,400               -                    4,800
Reaearch Assistant (1)                      1,300                    -             1,300              1,300               -                    2,600
Draughtsmen (2)                               900                   -              1,800              1,800                                    3,600
Typists (2)                                   480                    -                960               960               -                    1,920
Drivers (2)                                   580                   -              1,160              1,160               -                    2,320
Operator (1)                                  350                    -            10,350                350                _                     700
-            -10,30.     370                         -                   2,4
Expatriates  if                                                          -             39,000            39,000               -                    78,000
Consultants  -                                                           -              7,000             7,000               -                    14,000
Vehicles
Coat 3/                                     6,084                    -              6,084               -                 -                    6,084
Operation and Maintenance                     700                    -              1,400             1,400               -                     2,800
-             7,484              1,400               -                    8,884
Report Preparation                                                                        -               1,600                -                    1,600
Total Regional Planning Unit                                         -             63,854            59,370               -                   123,224
1/ 3 expatriates for two years, each at CFAF 13 Million per year.
2/  74 man-months et US$6,000 per man-month, including travel expenses, with the following detail:
PY 2     PY 3      TOTAL
- Economist-Team leader                         10        10        20
- Rural Engineer                                10        10        20
- Agronomist                                     10       10        20
- Animal Husbandry Specialist                     1        2         3
- Organization Specialist                         1        -         1
- Soctologist                                     2        2         4                                                                                    3 >
- Soil Specialiat                                 2        1         3
- Marketing Analyst                               1        2         3
Total man-month                           37        37       74
3/  One break type et CFAF thousand 2,100; and one station wagon at CFAF thousand 3,984.



SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS - INCREMENTAL FARM EQUIPMENT AND OXEN
(CFAF thousand)
Unit             PY1 - 1976-77            PY2 - 1977-78            PY3 - 1978-79            PY4 - 1979-80                Total
Cost             No.       Cost           No.       Cost           No.       Cost           No.       Cost           No.        Cost
UCF Plough                             16,874            625      10,546          675      11,390          800      13,499          800      13,499        2,900       48,934
Harrow                                  5,500            655       3,603          725       3,988          880       4,840          890       4,895        3,150       17,326
Seeder Super Eco                       20,921            655      13,703          725      15,168          880     18,410           890      18,620        3,150       65,901
Cotton Hopper                           8,713             25         218           75         653          100         871          100         871          300        2,613
Sine 9; frame and lifter              21,810              25         545          100       2,181          175      3,817           300       6,543          600       13,086
Cart (Oxen)                            54,995            655      36,022          725     39,871           880     48,396           890     48,946         3,150      173,235
Arara; multipurpose frame              11,124             30         334           50         556           80         890           90       1,000          250        2,780
Arara; hoe and lifter                  15,719             -          -             30         472           60        943            80       1,258          170        2,673
Subtotal Equipment                                           64,971                   74,279                   91,666                   95.632                   326,548
Oxen (pair and accessories)            50,000            680      34.000          830     41,500         1,040     52.000         1,150     57,500                    185.000            S >
Total:                                                       98,971                  115.779                  143.666                  153.132                   511,548
Incremental                                                  98.971                   16.808                   27i887                    9.466                   153.132 2



SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS - INCREMENTAL FARM INPUTS
(CFAF thousand)
PY 1                       PY 2                       PY 3                      PY 4                                        TOTAL
Unit Cost               1976-77                     1977-78                    1978-79                   1979-80
----CFAFKg          --tons--- -- Cost---    ---tons --- -- Cost…---    ---tons -- ---Cost --             --- tons … -- ---Cost---             ---tons--- ---Cost---
1. Seeds
Rice                                 52               55         2,855           95         4,931          108         5,605          120          6,228                       378         19,619
Millet                               38                3           113            4            150           4            150           4            150                        15            563
Maize                                44               13           569            8            350           9            394          10            438                        40          1,751
Groundnut                            52              112         5,813          150         7,785          209        10,847          221         11,470                       692         35,915
Edible Groundnut                     52               18           934           30         1,557           52         2,699           57          2,958                       157          8,148
Cotton                               35                3           105            4           140            4           140            6            210                        17            595
Total Seeds                                                10.389                      14.913                     19,835                     21,454                                   66a591
2.  Rock Phosphate                      21;19;18;17        1,405         29,084       1,695         32,883       2,230         40.809        2,390        41,108                      7,720       143.884
3. Fertilizers
Urea                           56;53;50;45           105         5,880          197        10,441          142         7,100          380         17,100                       824        40,521
8-18-27                        46;45;44;42           230        10,580          422        18,990          506        22,264          558        23,436                      1,716        75,270
8-14-18                        39;38;37;37           105         4,095           61         2,336           76         2,850           92          3,386                       334        12,667
10-21-21                        76;68;60;52            96         7.296           83         5,644          102         6,069          104          5.356                       385        24,365
Total Fertilizers                                           27.851                     37,411                     38.283                     49.278                                  152.823
4. Pesticides
Captagranox (t)                     855/t              0.4         342            0.4         342            0.6          513           0.7          599                         2.1        1,796
Gamoran (kg)                        280/kg             6              2           8              2           8              2          12              4                        34             10
Heptaclore (t)                      133/t              5           665            5           665            6           798            7            931                        22          3,059
HCI  (t)                            118/t              5           590            5           590            6           708            7            826                        22          2,714
Thimul 35 (1)                       896/1           450            403          510           457          655           587          700            627                     2,315         2,074    >
Peprothion (1)                      900/1         1,350          1,215        1,566         1,409        2,124         1,912        2,610          2,349                     7,650         6,885  C R
Nexion (t)                          269/t              3           807            3           807            4         1,076            4                                        4          3,6766    x
Total Pesticides                                            4,024                       4,272                      5,596                      6.412                                   20.304



SENEGAL                           Annex 16
Table 1
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT`SCHEDULE
(CFAF Million)
PYl         PY2         PY3         PY4         PY5        Total
1976-77    1977-78    1978-79    1979-80    1980-81
A. IDA
a) Commitments
50%  Civil Works          11.4       42.6          56.5        40.2                  150.7
40%  Vehicles             13.7                                  5.5                   19.2
53%  Equipment            23.5       18.4          13.8        12.9                   68.6
44%  Rice mills           11.9       17.8          19.8        24.7                   74.2
67%  Personnel           167.7      ]65.7         159.2       159.9                  652.5
60%  Operating cost       29.5       29.5          29.5        29.6                  118.1
67%  Consultants           6.4       11.0          11.1         6.4                   34.9
264.1      285.0        289.9       279.2         _       1,128.2
Contingencies         Z7.Y       63.6         89.8        118.0        _         299.3
292.0      348.6        379.7       397.2         -      1,417.5
b) Disbursements
Annual               146.0      320.3        364.1        388.5      198.6
Cumulative           14(.0      4.G6.3       830.4    1,218.9   1,417.5
B. CCCE (50% of IDA contribution)
a)  Commitments          146.0      173.3         189.8       200.9                  710.0
b) Disbursements
Annual                73.0      159.6        181.6        195.3      100.5
Cumulative            73.0      232.6        414.2        609.5      710.C



Annex 16
Table 2
SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
IDA CREDIT-ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ '000)
Fiscal                             Disbursement           Undisbursed
Calendar                   During                           Amount at
Year          Semester     Semester      Cummulative      End of Semester
1977             1          325              325              5,975
2          325              650              5,650
1978             1          700            1,350              4,950
2          700            2,050              4,250
1979             1          800            2,850              3,450
2          800            3,650              2,650
1980             1          850            4,500              1,800
2          850            5,350                 950
1981             1          475            5,825                 475
2          475            6,300



ANNEX 17
Page 1
SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
Audit Terms of Reference
Reasons for the Bank Group's Auditing Requirements
In any business or other enterprise the prompt and regular prepara-
tion of accuratge accounts is an important means of ensuring that the enter-
prise is carrying out adequately the tasks assigned to it. Accounts are
essential not only for the enterprise itself, but also for lenders, who
need reliable information about the financial condition of the organiza-
tion they are helping to finance. As a lender, the Bank Group, in apprais-
ing a project, has to be satisfied that the financial data presented are
accurate and complete, and that, during the implementation of the project,
the borrower will have adequate financial controls and follow proper account-
ing principles. These are the reasons why the services of auditors are re-
quired for IDA projects.
Definition of Audit
An audit is an authorized examination of the accounts and account-
ing system of an organization, whose purpose is to enable the auditors to
report on the financial statements of the organization and to express an
opinion on their fairness, consistency and conformity with accepted account-
ing principles.
(a) to make a critical review of the system of bookkeeping,
accounting and internal control;
(b) to make such tests and enquiries as the auditors consider
necessary to form an opinion as to the reliability of the
records as a basis for the preparation of accounts;
(c) to compare the financial statements with the underlying
records in order to see whether they are in accordance
with them;
(d) to make a critical review of the financial statements and
to report whether, in the opinion of the auditors, the
accounts are presented and the items are described in such
a way that they show not only a true but also a fair view
and give in the prescribed manner the information required
by law.



ANNEX 17
Page 2
Selection and Appointment of Auditors
The borrower is responsible for the selection and appointment
of auditors. The Bank Group requires, however, that the person or firm
appointed should have experience and qualifications acceptable both to the
Bank Group and to the borrower.
The criteria employed by the Bank Group is judging the accept-
ability of auditors are that the auditors should be professionally quali-
fied and in particular:
(a) be impartial and independent of the control of the entity subject
to audit and of the person appointing them: in particular, the
auditors should not, during the period covered by the audit, be
employed by, or serve as director for, or have any financial or
close business relationship with the entity, except as independent
professional advisers;
(b) be well-established and reputable, using procedures and methods
in conformity with internationally recognized and generally
accepted auditing practice and employing adequate staff with
professional qualifications and suitable experience by inter-
national standards; and
(c) have experience of auditing the accounts of entities comparable
in nature, size and complexity to the entity whose audit they
are to undertake.
Before project auditors are appointed, therefore, the borrower should arrange
that the Bank Group be furnished with sufficient information about the audit-
ors to enable it to satisfy itself on the above matters. This information
would normally include the name of the firm (or Government department or
agency) the names and qualifications of the principals, the approximate num-
ber of professional staff employed and some of the main audits carried out.
Professional and Government Auditors
The choice between professional and Government auditors will normally
depend on the nature of the project and who is executing it. A non-revenue
earning project being carried out by a Government department, following Govern-
ment accounting and budgeting procedures, would normally be audited by the
Government auditor. On the other and, a revenue earning project executed by
a company or corporation (whether wholly Government-owned or not), and using
commercial accounting and budgeting procedures, would normally be audited by
a professional firm. In some cases, the nature of the project calls for a
joint audit by the Government auditor in collaboration with a professional
firm.



ANNEX 17
Page 3
To encourage the growth of domestic firms of auditors, the Bank,
wherever possible, agrees to the appointment of a local firm, either alone
or in conjunction with an international firm.
Audit Procedures
The procedures employed by the auditor should always be designed to
enable him to arrive at an opinion on the fairness of the financial statements
which are the subject of his report.
The extent of the auditor's test of the accounting records is depen-
dent on the system of accounts and internal check and control maintained by
the company.
For this purpose, the auditor should examine:
(a) the organization and procedures for taking financial decisions
and authorizing expenditures;
(b) the design, management and operation of the accounting system;
(c) the efficiency of the system of internal control and of
interal audit;
(d) the adequacy and competence of accounts staff;
(e) the effectiveness of related systems and procedures, such as
inventory control, or data processing.
In the light of this examination of systems and procedures, the
auditor should test the financial transactions of the organization, in con-
junction with such evidence, documentary or otherwise, as may be necessary
to enable him to be satisfied as to the authenticity and correctness of the
transactions, their complete and proper record in the books of account, and
their effect on the financial results. The evidence referred to above will
include: documents such as checks, invoices, contracts, minutes of meetings,
bank statements and confirmations by third parties of amounts payable or
receivable; and information obtained by the auditor from enquiry, observation
and physical inspection.
By means of similar tests, the auditor should satisfy himself as to
the existence and basis of valuation of assets and liabilities, such as:
(a) land, building, machinery and equipment, including the provision
for depreciation;
(b) inventories, including provision for obsolescence, spoilage or
losses;
(c) receivables, including provisions for bad and doubtful debts;



ANNEX 17
Page 4
(d) cash and bank balances;
(e) amounts due to thrid parties (long and short-term loans and
suppliers' accounts payable).
In addition, the auditors' examination should cover such items as capital
commitments, contingent liabilities and events occuring after the balance
sheet date (for example, material changes in the value of commoditiy inven-
tries).
Audit Report
The auditor should submit both short-form and long-form reports.
These reports should be addressed to the Chairman of the Board of Directors
(or equivalent) and not to any member of the management.
The following is an example short-form report:
"We have examined the balance sheet of  ____ as of
19 , and the profit and loss account and related statements for
the year then ended.
Our examination was made in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards, and accordingly included such tests of the
accounting recores, verification of assets and liabilities, and
such other auditing procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements and appended
notes present fairly the financial position                        at
____ 7 19  , and the results of its operations for the year
then ended, in conformity with generally accepted accounting prin-
ciples, applied on a basis consistent in all materka respects with
that of the previous year."
When a qualified opinion is offered by the auditors, or when an
opinion is disclaimed, the opinion paragraph of a short-form report should
be modified in such a way as to make clear the nature of the qualification
or disclaimer. It should refer specifically to the subject of the qualifi-
cation and of the effect on the financial position and results of operations,
if reasonably determinable.
The report should include comments, if any, deemed apropriate by
the auditor with respect to any material deficiencies or inadequacies in the
organization's accounts or accounting system and recommendations for improving
accounting procedures.
The long-form report is an extension of the short-form report and
should give appropriate details (analyses, summaries, explanations and com-
ments) of items in the various audited financial statements. The audited
financial statements would normally include:



ANNEX 17
Page 5
(a) balance sheet;
(b) profit and loss account;
(c) profit and loss (income and expenditure) statement of each
major unit contributing a material part, say more than 20%
of revenue of incurring more than say, 20% of costs, or such
other criteria as the auditor shall determine;
(d) statement of sources and applications of funds.
All statements should, when practicable, show comparative figures for the
preceding year.
Comments and recommendations in the long-form report would cover,
for example:
(a) implementation of recommendations made in previous years;
(b) management organization;
(c) budgetary control;
(d) financial and field controls;
(e) payroll, procurement and sales procedures;
(f) inventory control and stock levels;
(g) adherence to public accounting standards;
(h) efficacy of the internal audit procedures; and
(i) events after the date of the balance sheet significantly
affecting the financial position.
With regard to the IDA Credit disbursement applications, in particular
those accompanied by a statement of expenditures, the auditor's report should
also indicate that:
(a)  goods and services have been procured from member countries;
(b) goods have been received or works performed;
(c) payments have been made; and;
(d) goods and services are eligible for financing under the
credit agreement and have been used under the project.
The borrower should arrange for copies of the short- and long-form reports
to be transmitted to IDA together with the audited accounts.



SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
FARM MODELS
Traditiona2            Improved Manual                 Semi Intensified                    Intensified
ha_                      ha                               ha                               ha
Level i  Lcvel 2  l,evl ,        Level l  Level 2  Level 3    Level 1  Level 2  Level 3
Southern area
Swamp Rice      traditional      0.50           0.25       -        -            -         -         -             -         -         -
"    "  improved           -             0.25     0.50      0.50         0.50      0.50     0.50          0.50    0.50       0.50
Grey soil Rice traditional       0.50           0.25       -         -            -        -         -             -         -        -
"t  il  ",  improved             -             0.25      0.50     0.50         0.50      1.00      1.00          1.00    1.00       1.00
Upland Rice                       -             0.25      0.50      0.50        0.50      0.50      0.50          1.00    1.50       1.50
Millet          traditional      1.50           1.00      0.50       -            -        -         -              -       -          -
I"             improved          -             0.25      0.50      1.00        1.00      1.00      1.00          1.00    1.00       1.00
Maize                            0.25           C.25      0.25      0.25        0.50      0.50      0.50          1.00    1.00       1.00
Groundnut for oil                1.75           1.75      1.75      1.75        2.00      2.00      2.50          3.00    3.50       4.00
TOTAL              4.50           4.50      4.50      4.50        5.00      5.50      6.00          7.50    8.50       9.00
Northern area
Swamp Rice                       0.25           0.25      0.25     0.25          --         -       0.25          0.25    0.25         -
Grey Soil Rice                   0.25           0.25      0.25      0.25          -         -       0.25          0.25    0.25         -
Upland Rice                       -              -         -         -            _                 0.50          0.50    0.50
Millet          traditional      2.00           1.00      0.75       --                              -              -       -          -
"l            improved          -             0.25      0.50     1.25                             1.25          1.25    1.25
Groundnut for oil                2.00           2.00      2.00      2.00           -         -      2.50          3.00    3.25         -
Cotton                            -             0.75      0.75      0.75                    --      0.75          1.25    1.50 
TOTAL             4.5            4.5       4.5       4.5            -          -     5.50          6.50    ,.00         -
Sefa area
lDpland Rice                      -                         -         -           -       0.25        -              -       -        0.50
Millet                                                                           1.50      2.00               -              -        2.50
Maize                                      -            -             --          -       0.75                                        1.O0 0
Edible groundnut                                                      -          2.50     3.00        -              -        -       5.00        0 
TOTAL               -               -                   -         4.00     6.00        -              -        -       9.00



SENEGAL
SECOND SEDIOU PFOJ8ECT
FARM DEVELCPHENT SGCEDULE
Farm Model                      lovai  ha/Fans
Farts             ha               Fanas             hai           Fanrms             ha2            Fanas              ha                      PY4 F                              PY5       ha
SOUThERN AREA
1.  Improved Masail           1      4.5               -                 _               600            2,700             600             2,700             700            3,150              700            3,150              8ao             3,600
2.  Improved Masoal           2      4.5               --                                                   -             600             2,700             600             2,700             700            3,150              700             3,150
3.  Improved Massai           3      4.5            2                 9.450             1.500           6.750             900             4.050             800            3.60               70U            3.15D              7003
lotal                                           2,100            9,450             2,100            9,450           2,100            9,450           2,100             9,450           2,100             9,450            2,200             9,900
4.  Ssmi-lontesaified         I      5.0               -                 -                600           3,000             600             3,000             700            3,500              700            3,500              700             3,500
5.  osmi-Istessified          2      5.5               _                 _                 -               _              600             3,300             600            3,300              700            3,850              700             3,850
6.  Sesi-lstessifisd          3      6.0            1.500             9.000             1.475           8.850           1,400             8,400           1.900           11.400           2JOO             13,800            2,600            15.600
lotal                                           1,500            9,000             2,075           11,850           2,600            14,700          3,200            18,200           3,700            21,150            4,000            22,950
7.  lst.ssifisd               1      7.5               -                 -                25              187.5            75               562.5           100               750             200            1,500              400             3,000
'.  Int-ified                2       8.5               -                 -                -                -               25               212.5           75               637.5           100               850              200             1,700
9.  I3tssiîiod                       9.0              _                 _                _                  -              -                 -               25               225             I00               900             200             1.800
Total                                              -                 -                25              187.5           100               775             200            1,612.5           400             3,250              800             6,500
Total as1thoro Ar-a                                 3,600            18,450            4,200           21,487.5         4,800            24,925           5,500           29,262           6,200            33,850            7,000            39,350
NORTHERN ARIA
1.   mproved54 Masoal         1      4.5               -                 -               100              450             100               450             100              450             100               450              200               900
2.  Improved Manual           2      4.5               -                 -                -                -              100               450             100              450              100              450              100               450
3.  I=proved Omscal           3      4.5              400            1.800                375           1.687.5           300             1.350             300             1.350             300             1.350              300            1.350
Total                                             400             1,800              475            2,137.5           500             3,250             500            2,250             500             2,250              600             2,700
4.  Sei- Intes ifi,Id                5.50              -                 -                 25              137.5           75               412.5           10                550             100               550              100              550
5.  Intensified               1      6.50              -                 -                 -               -               25               162.5            75               407.5           100               650             100               650
6.  lntansified               2      7.0               -                _                  -               -               _                 -               25               175             100               700             200             1.400
Total                                              -                 -                25              137.5           100               575             200             1,212.5           300             1,900             400             2,600
rotai North-rn Ar"a                                   400             1,800              500            2,275             600             2.825             700            3,462.5           800             4,150            1,000             5,300
Total N-rtl,rs & Sosthers Arfso                         4,000            20,250             4,700           23,512          5,400            27,750           6,200            32,724.5         7,000            38,000            8,000            44,650
SEFA AREA
1.  155115t5050045d           1      4.0               90               360               30              120              50               200              80               320              90               360             100               400
2.  Semi-lnt-ssified          2      6.0               -                 -                90              540              90               540              80               480             100               600             120               720
3.  Istsssifisd                      9.0               60               540                60             540              90               810             150             1.350             210            1890               280             2.520
Tatal SEFA Ares                                       150               900               180           1,200             230             1,550             310             2,150             400             2,850              500            3,640       »g
TOTAL PR1)J0CT                                          4_10             21.1 _80                          24.962            S 630                0           65 10            34874              400            40.850            8.500           48.290
/1  0f  hicIW 8,550 ha -ad-r  VA.



SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
MONTHLY LABOR REQUIREMENTS
FARM MODEL
Level    ha           JAN.          FE3.         MAR.          APR.         MAY          JUNE          JULY         AUG.          SEPT.          OCT.          NOV.          DEC.       TOTAL
Southern Area
Traditional                  4.5           40            15            -            26            93          165           83            69            60             57            60            70         738
Manual Improved       3       4.5           35            10           -             24            86         165            86            71            63             66           68            76          750
Semi-intensified      3       6.0           49            il           -             28           47           91            99           89            83             33            95           120         745
Intensified           3       9.0           36           12            -             50            64         162            70           53            58             73           141           124         843
Total mandays
available                                150          150           150          150           150          150          150           150           150            150           150           150       1,800
Northern Area
Traditional                   4.5           49            20           -             25            97         173            67            60           55              37           45            64          692
Manual Improved       3       4.5           41            13           -             22            92         173            70            66            64             39           54            76          710
Semi-intensified              5.5           52            14           -             22            47          85            80            74           72             19            98           105         668
Intensified           2       7.00          34            15           -             31            63         131            60            48           44             33           136           117         712
Total mandays
available                                150          150           150           150          150          150           150          150           150            150           150           150       1,800
SEFA Area
Semi-intensified      1       4.0           55            16           -             19            31          69            42            46            45             17           42            52         434
Semi-intensified      2       6.0           69            22           -             29            48         100            64            69           66             45            57            71         640
Intensified                   9.0           59            29           -             55            77         183            39            37           40             52            93           106         770   I. b
- M
Total rnandays
available                                100          100           100           100          100          100           100          100           100            100           100           100       1,200



SENEGAL
SBCOND SE18dlOU  IOJJECT
RICE - NET VALUE PFR NECTARE AYTER SEASONAL INOPV  COSTS
(1980 pri-o i  1975 constant ternm)
FA8,A4TE PRICE            IIADTEIO8AL                   IMPROVED MAliOAI,                SE11-7NTEfSlFIED                     lNTENSlFlED
CFAF/kg             kg          CFAF                  kg         CFAF                  kg          CFAF                  kg         CFAF
0~14814? 10CR
A   C:r.s6 Vaîn- af Pradat itn           35.0               1,000        35,000               2,000       70,000               2,500       07,500                4,000      140,000
8.  Seasonal TaPit Cuns.
Sonds                            51.9                  40        2,076                  40         2,076                 40         2,076                  40         2,076
Fertilizer.
8.10.27              32.0                  -             -                 200         6,400                 200        6,400                  250        8,000
Urta                 45.0                  -             -                  100        4,500                 100         4,500                 150        6,750
Pesticideso                                                         _                                408                              451                               579
Total                                                2,076                            13,384                           13,427                            17,405
C. Nlet Vaine                                                            32,924                           sik..n                            74, n74                         I22511
D.  oaodays per ha                                                          226                              226                               226                               199
E.  Entores per ianday (CF"?)                                               145                              Z50                               327                              616
GREYSOI R01ICE
A. Grass VaIae af Production             35,0               1,000        35,000               2,000       70,000               2,500        07,500               3,500      122,500
B.  Seasnoial InsPut Conte                                                                                                                                           0        4,5
Seeds                            51.9                  80        4,152                  go         4,152                  80        4,152                   80        4,152
Frle    8.28.27      32.0                  -             -                  150        4,800                 150        4,800                  150        4,800
8rna                 4575                                                              3,375                 100        4,500                  100        4,500
Pesticides  -/                                           _                               372                               458                              543
Total                                      -         4,152                            12,699                            U3,910                           13,995
C.  Net Value                                                            30,848                           517301                           735901.                          LMS5OS
D. Manda":; per ha                                                          225                              225                               131                   .           97
E. R1turob par manday (CFAF)                                                137                              254                               361                             1,118
UPLAIID RICE
A. Crons Value oE Productitn             35.0                                                 1,000       35,0OO               1,50<'      52,500                2,000        70,000
B.  Onn-in  Ispeit Conta
Seeos                            51.9                                                   80         4,152                 80         4,152                  80         4,152
Forti1izars
8.18.27              32.0                                                   100        3,200                 150        4,800                  150        4,800
urea                 45.0                                                    50        2,250                 100        4,500                  100         4,500
Peeticides i/                                                                                       329                               372                             _ 415
Total                                                                                  91931                           53,824                             13,867
C.  Net vaine                                                                                             25.069                          3IL876-                            -56.-1D
0. Mandavn par ha                                                                                            154                              130                                87
E. xtnrnn per fsnday (CYAF)                                                                                  163                              297                               645
k! Seed Lrcatoent      1.6 kg/t  of CAFTAGRANOX at CFAF 428/Ig.
Crop treatment    60   kg/ha  af HEPTACIIORE at CFAF  67/kg (2% cf the orna).
60   kg/ha  of 1CII         at CFAF  6Ockg <2% cf thn orna).
2    1/ha  cf T1dM1 . 35   at CFAF 475/1  (6% cf the orea).
Storagn trentnnat  0.6 kg/t  of NEXION         at CFA? 143/kg.



SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECI`
MILLET AND MAIZE - NET VALUE PER HECTARE AFTER SEASONAL INPUT COSTS
(1980 prices in 1975 constant terms)
FARMGCATE PRICE  TRADITIONAL            IMPROVED MANUAL                        SEMI-INI'ENSIFIEI)                                   INTENSIFIED
CFAF/kg       kg       CFAF           kg       CFAF           kg    CFAF       kg    CFAF        kg    CFAF             kg    CFAF          kg    CFAF
MILLET
/2              /3                 /4                    /2 L5
A.  l,ross Value of Production                       30.0          800    24,000         1,200    36,000         1,500  45,000    800  24,000    1,000  30,000             2,000  60,000      1,500  '*5,000
B. Seasonal Input Costs
Seeds                                        37.5            4        150            4        150             4     150       4      150         4      150            4      150          4      150
Fert ilizers
10.21.21                          32.0          -          -            100      3,200          100   3,200      100   3,200        100   3,200           100   3,200         100   3,200
tlrea                             45.0                     -            -           -            -       -       -        -         -        -             50   2,250          50   2,250
Pesticides â1                                 _                       _                    _315                     341.            _81                 296                  '574                '341
Total                                                               150                   3,665                 3,691            3,631             3,646                 5,984               5,941
C.  Net Value                                                              23.850                  32,335                41,309          20,369             26,354                54,016              39.059
D. Mandays per ha                                                             130                     130                    88               88                88                     81                  81
E.  Returns per manday (CFAF)                                                 183                     248                   469              231               299                    666                 482
A.  srosa V'alue orf Producticu                                                                                        /6                                 /5                    /6                  /
30.0        1,000    30,000         2,000    60,000         2,500  75,000                       1,500  45,000         3,000  90,000       2,500-75,000
g. Seasonal Input Costs
Seeds                                        43.75          20        875           20        875            20     875                         20      875           20      875         20      875
Fertilizers
8.14.18                           32.0          -          -            150      4,800           150   4,800                        150   4,800           200   6,400         200   6,400
Pei                               45.0 i100                                      4,500           100   4,500                        100   4,500           150   6,750         150   6,750
PoSt icides                                                                                   39 5                  436                                 352                   4-80                436
bit al                                                              875                  10,570                10,611                             10,527                14,505              14,461
C.  Net Valuu                                                             29,125                  49,430                 64                                 34,43                 75,495              60,53'
D. Manda- per ha                                                              150                     150                    92                                  92                    79                  79
E.  Re.      j    anday (CFAF)                                                194                     329                   699                                374                    955                 766
/I  Seed treatmeuL    1.6 kg/t  of CAPTAGRANOX at CFAF 428/kg.
Crop treatment   60   kg/ha of IfEPTACHLORE at CFAF  67/kg (2% of the area).
60   kg/ha of HCH           at CFAF  60/kg (2. cf the area).
2    1/ha of THLMUL 35   at CFAF 475/1  (67. of the area).
Storage treatment 0.6 kg/t  uf NEXION          at CFAF 143/kg.
/2  Southern, & Northern Areas.
/3  SEFA Level 1.
T4  SEFA Level 2.
/5  SEFA.
/6  Southern Area.



SENEGAL
_EC)ND SSI)I 1)1 'KOJECI
GROUNDNUTS AND COTTON - NET VALUE PER HECTARE AFTER SEASONAL INPUT COSTS
(59SO prices in 1975 consta-t terms)
UAI1WSATE PRICE      TRADITIONAL              iMPROVED MAEAL                      SEMI-INIENSIFIED                              INTENSIFIED
CFAF/kg        kg        CFAF               k1       CFAF             kg         CFAF          kg       CFAF               kg        CFAF
GROUNONDITS FOR OIL
A. Cross  Value of ProdcctisUn                       30.0           900      27,000            1,200     36,000                                   1,500     45,000            2,000      60,000
B.  seaaonal Input Co-te                                                                                                                             0         ,9                0         ,9
Seeda                                       51.9            100      5,190              100       5,190                                    100       5,190              100      5,190
0         dôtiliser                          3                                          100      3'200                                      100      3,200              100      3,200
8 E8 .27                         32.0                                         10       320277                                                                            277
Peaticide-277
lTota1                                                     5,190                       8,667                                              8,667                        8,667
C. Net Value                                                                 Zl,810                      27,333                                             36,333                       51.333
D. Mandays per ha                                                               160                         160                                                121                           89
E.  Returns pet taauday (CFAF)                                                  136                         170                                                300                          576
EDIBLE GROUNDNUTS9
A. Cross Value of ProauctiOon                        50.0                                                                9002 45,000              E,25O/    62,500            l,7OOL    85,000
B. SeSonae Id put Cos1.9                                                                                                 150    7,785               150      7,785              150       7,785
8.18.27                          32.0                                                                 100    3,200               100      3,200              100      3,200
Pesticides/L                                                                                                              312                         312                          312
Total                                                                                                       11,297                       11,297                      11,297
C.  Net Value                                                                                                                  33.703                       51.203                       73.703
C.  MaNetys pVtlhe                                                                                                                121                          121                           89
E. Rmtures per manday (CFAF)                                                                                                       278                         423                          828
COTTON
A. cross Value ,f Production                        62.7                                      1,000      62,700                                  1,500     94,050             1,500     94,050
B. Scasonal e npud  Cos t                           35.0                                          40      1,400                                     40       1,400               40       1,400
Fertilizrs.                                 32 0                                        150       4,800                                    150      4,800              150       4,800
Ur1a                             45.0                                          50      2,250                                      50      2,250               50      2.250
esticcdesLU                                                                                       8.386                                             8.3868
Total                                                                                 16,836                                             16,836                      16,836
C.   Net Value                                                                                           45.864                                             77.214                      77.214
c.  Nandays pet ha                                                                                          154                                                136                          136
E.  Retur-s pe- sanday (CFAF)                                                                               297                                                567                          567
1/  Seed treato.e.t  1.6 kg/t  df (APTACRANOX at CFAF 428/kg.
Crop treatsent 60   kg/ha of HEFTACdLORE at CFAF  67/kg (2% of the  rea).
60   kg/ha of HNC          at CFAF  60/kg (27. of the area).
2    E/ha of THIMUL 35   at CFAF 47511  (67. or the are.)
2/ Seed treat-ent  2   kR/t  cf GAMORAN        at CEAF 143.'kRe.
Crop treatm.ent 18    1/ha of PREPROT'ION at CFAF 450/1.
_/ SEFA Level 1.
4/  SEFA Level 2.
5/ SEFA.



SENEGAL
SEODND SEDMIOU PROJECT
&ree CultivMed and Production Estimates
PYO                          PYl                                        PY2                                        PY3                                        PY4
W/O 1/      With  2/    Increment         W/O          With          Increment       W/O          With          Increment        W/O         With          Increment
-C-td r-------ea-------------------------------Cultivated  Area, h--------------------------------------------------------________________
Swamp rice               1,900         2,225       2,225            -             2,550       2,550            -             2,925       2,925            -             3,300        3,300            -
Grey soil Rice            2,650        2,975       2,975            -             3,300       3,600           300            3,675       4,275           600            4,050        5,000           950
Upland Rice               1,830        2,830       2,027           197            1.830       2,430           600            1,830        2,920        1,090            1,830        3,505         1.675
Sub-total rice           6,380         7,030       7,227           197            7,680       8,580           900            8,430      10,120         1,690            9,180       11,805         2,625
Millet                    4,385        5,485       5,350          (135)           6,585       6,180          (405)           7,835        7,205          (630)          9,085        8,235          (850)
Maize                     1,035        1,185        1,715          530            1,335       2,082.5         747.5          1,510        2,535        1,025            1,685        3,060         1,375
Groundnuts for oil       8,525         9,775       9,650          (125)          11,025      11,150           125           12,450      13,244           794           13,875       15,450         1,575
Edible Groundnuts           525          525          645          120              525          845          320              525        1,190          665               525       1,575         1,050
Cotton                      300          300          375           75              300          462.5        162.5            300          580          280               300         725           425
Total                   21,150        24,300      24,962           662           27,450      29,300         1,850           31,050      34.874         3,82            34,650       40,850         6,200
-----------------------------------------------Crop Production, tons------------------------------------------------------------------------------------r---
Swamp rice               4,175         4,500       4,845                          4,825       5,721                          5,200       6,737                          5,575        7,862
Grey soil rice            6,050        6,375       6,726                          6,700       8,367                          7,075       10,149                         7,450       12,187
Upland rice               2,235        2,235        2,617                         2,235       3,279                          2,235        4,130                         2,235        5.172
Sub-total rice          12,460        13,110      14,188         1,078           13,760      17,367         3,607           14,510      21,016          6,506          15,260       25,221         9,961
Millet                    4,663        5,543       6,813         1,270            6,423       7,899         1,476            7,423        9,664          2,241          8,423       11,122         2,699
Maize                     1,800        1,950       3,969         2,019            2,100       4,926         2,826            2,275        6,115          3,840           2,650       7,512         5,062
Groundnuts for oil       11,445       12,590      13,124           554           13,695      15,513         1,818           14,977       18,947         3,970          16,260       22,760         6,500
Edible Groundnuts           712          712          915          203              712       1,215           503              712        1,755          1,043             712       2,362         1,650
Cotton                      300          300          384           84              300          505          205              300          683            383             300         899           599
- 3
l/  W/O  = Without project                                                                                                                                                                                   O -
2/ With = With project.



SENECAL
SECOND SEDIOU PROJEC
FARH BUDGET - _smrRBN AR1A 12'
(CFAF; 1980 prions in 1975 constant teron)
TRADITIONAL                           IMPROilED MANOAL                                          SSEMI-INTENSIFIED                                             INTENSIFIED
Laval I            Lavel 2           Levai 3               l-sal I            Leavel 2           Lev-l 3                Levai S         Leval 2             Levai 3
A. Banin Data
Surface (ha)                                                   4.5                  4.5                4.5               4.5                   5.0                5.5                6.0                    7.5             8.5                 9.0
People                                                         11                 11                  il               1i1                     l                 11                 11                     i1              il                 il
Activas                                                         7                   7                  7                 7                      7                 7                  7                      7                7                  7
Pair  of  e.                                                    O                  O                  °                  °                     S                  1                  1                      2                2                 2
B.  Oras. Value of fPrdsction 2/                                     125,750             172,250            195,500            201,500               286,250           330,000             352,500               592,500          657.500            687.500
C.  Seaannal Isnpt Coats _/
Seeda                                                           12,640              13,640             14,641            14,641                 16,157            18,233             20,828                 25,937           30,608             33,203
Fenntlisera                                                       -                 14,856             21,787            23,387                 29,000            33,650             35,250                 54,175           60,425            62,205
Pesticides                                                        -                    939              1,295              1.453                 1.753             1.982               2.121                 2.942           3.288              3.426
Total                                                       12,640             29,435             37,723             39,481                46,910             53,865             58.199                83.054           94,321             98,654
D. Net Va.1   Of Prsduttieo Aftar Sasonal Isnwt Conts                113,110             142,815            157,777            162,019               239,340            276,135            294,301               509,446          563,179            588,846
e.  S-al Equip-ent
Oand Tonîs 5/                                                      880                 880                880                880                   880                880                880                   880              880                880
c.enrIng Tolns 6/04.950                                                                                                                          -                 4.950 -                                   4,950 _                            44950
Total                                                          880               5,830                880             5,830                   880              5,830                880                  5,830             880              5,830
O   operation ad laintesanrn Costa
M-intesana nef Ffrs Equip.nnt 7/                                  -                    786                786                786                18,733            18,733             18,733                 27,423           27,423             27,423
Paddy Threah1ga                                                   -                    300                500                500                   650               900                 900                 1.500            1,700              1,700
Hird Labor !4,500                                                                    4,500              4,500            4£500                                                                                * -                                3.600
Total                                                       4,500                5,586              5,786             5,786                19,383             19,633             19,633                28,923           29,123             32,723
G. FPmily Coaneeption  lo/                                            84,500              94,750             94,750             94,750                97,850            97,850             97,850                 97,850           97,850             97,850
il.  Net Cash Iancoa  Before Debt Service asd Tanes - l.              23,230              36,649             56,361             55,653               121,227           152,822             175,938               376.843          435,326            452,443
1. Debt Service
Draft Oxan and Implesents 12/                                     -                   -                  -                 -                   35,893             35,893             35,893                53,274           53,274             53,274
Sprayer M1/                                                       -                    479                479               479                   479                479                479                    479             479                479
Total                                                         -                    479               479                479                36,372             36,372             36,372                53.753           53.753             53,753
J.  Ttas-l b'                                                          3,500               3,500              3,5D0              3,500                 3,500             3,500              3,500                  3,500            3,500              3,500
K.  Nat Cash innovas After Debt Selaina sd Tas 742S                   19,730              32,670             52,382             11,674                81,355           112,950            131,065                319,590          378,073            395,190
L. Msndays Raquired Per Year 4/                                          738                                                       750                                                        745                                                       843
M. Net Caah Innoms PlF. Femily C-npumpti-n Pet Mands-yL-                 141                                                       195                                                         313                                                       584
1/ Witho-.  ,.ivatnck  nd d<,able rire cropping.                                                                            Ill a, D - (E  PF + 07
2/ Fmon Annex 18 tablea 1, 4, 5 snd 6.                                                                                     12/ Se-intensified: 1 pair af es, 1 U0F plcagh, I locl hrn,   -Pr i-    dea,   d 1 on   rt; 5-yaar orndit,                          ;
35 From Annax 18 tables 1, 4, 5 aod 6.                                                                                         Intensified        2 pairs ef o:es, 1 UCF plough, 1 local hart', I sar ton seder, I Si.  lifter hae, *nd 1 an rart    o
Conta  alai,e soancnal credit.                                                                                                                 5-y-ar crdit.
4/ D - 8 - C                                                                                                               13/ 1 aprayer every 10 impraved f-rs; 5-ye-r tedit.
51 1  .asd h.,e, 1 -achate end I siakla par ytr.                                                                           1.4/ CFAF 500 per active persan.
6  1 ose-, i pick end I shoven  avarage life .a  thi, ont ni Snobs i 2 yean-.                                             15/ K - H - (I + J)
7/ 131 nI nq,ip-.snt   nosts including one..                                                                               16/ Fron Ann-x 18 tabla 3.
8/ FCFA 200 pet ton nf paddy; pedal threnlha   c-n-cd hy the prnject.                                                      17/ M = (G + K):L
9/ CFAF 330 par  -5d517.
10/ Family connapttion ni fart production up ta a  -asi-an  nf 1,100 kg nf rire, 1,150 kg nI rsllet, 550 kh  ai naine,
100 kg n' gncosdnst.



SENEGAL 
SECOND SEDHI:)B PK CI'
FARM BUDGET - NORTHERN AREA 1'
(CFAF: 1980 pricei in 1975 constant t:rms)
TR8Dl71 q)AL                     '__      tR0VED MANIIJL                               SEMI-INITENSS PlED                 INTENSIFIED
Level 1            Level 2             Level _                                              Level 1           Level 2
A. Basic Data
Surface (ha)                                                      -5                   4.5                 4.5                 4,5                         5.50                    6.50              7.00
Pea)ple                                                          11                   il                  il                  1i                          11                      11                il
ArtEves                                                           7                    7                   7                   7                           7                        7                 7
Pair af Oxen                                                      O                    S                   O                   O                           E                        I                E
N.  Crss Value of Productior 2/                                         L19,50û              187,025            190,025              199,025                    309,285                  473,185           511,700
C.  Seasoasl Iput Costs
Seeds                                                             12,237               13,174              13,174              13,174                      17,845                  21,140            22,788
Fertilizers                                                         -                  17,256              18,056              20,456                      26,987                  35,887            38,450
Pesticides                                                          -                   7,117               7,196               7.432                       7.821                   12_276           14_477
Total                                                         12,237              37,547              38,426               41,062                      52,653                  69,303            75,685
D,  Net Valse cf Production After Seasoial Input Co-ts -                107,263              149,478            151,599              157,963                    256,632                  403,882           436,015
E. SmaalS EguiPsmeut
Hand ! .ols 5/                                                       880                  880                 880                 880                         880                      880               880
Clea,-ing Tools                                                     4-           _                                                                           -                      4,950 _  4950-
-lotal                                                          880               5,830                 880               5,830                         880                    5,830               880
F. aperation snd MaiSatesauce Guats
Maintenance of 6507e [9atpnent V                                    -                   1,026               1,026               1,026                      20,027                  22,986            22,986
Paddy Thte.hig 83                                                   _                     100                 200                 200                         400                      575              575
Hired Labor 9/                                                     6.900                6.900               6,900               6,900 
.otal                                                         6,900                8,126               8,126               8,126                      20,427                   23,471           23,471
G.  Fn,ily Coneue,ptiO/                                                  71,500               74,000              7.7,0(0             86,000                      95,373                  95,375            95,375
B.  Net Cash Iflcsae Befu-e Debt Secrvire -ad Tase, E.                   27,983               61,522              65,593              58,007                     139,950                 279,206           316,289
I.  Debt Service
Draft oxen and Implements 12/                                       -                    -                   -                   -                         38,002                  43,281            43,281
Sprayer 1.3/                                                        -                     958                 958                 958                         958                  1597              1_597
Total                                                           -                     958                 958                 958                      38,960                  44,878            44,878
J.  Taxes  ,4/50                                                                               3,500               3,500               3,500                       3,500                   3,500             3,500
K.  Net Cash Income After Debt Service and Taxes 15i                     24,483               57,064              61,135              53,549                      97,490                 230,828           267,911
L.  Mandays Reguie.,l Per Year L6/                                          692                                                          710                         668                                       712
M.  Net Cash Irc        ..me Plus Pmily Ct.s,aption Pet Masnday  U7         138                                                          196                          288                                       509
_.. ._. _.....................  ....,_._.,..._..  _ .        .......... .............. ..
Ji  6I'Iout livestcck and Ses *      e   ' s   .7'                                      10/ -amG si,7 si >t :,-_ l                            .co:L,.    .  . c  sciau  of 1,375 kg of rice, 1,3?5 ,: ,  eitL-t, O.1d  7U!) zg
.'i  Er-, 'a:.l18 cibles 1, 4, 5, and 6.                                                         O' ,.c     .
if fr i-,.  .vsas 76' :- c   1, 4, S ad 6.  Costs include seasonal credi-.              I1/ H = D - (E + F + O)
's, D =  B                                              C                               12/ Ba.i-L:tics:ifN d: I pair of oxen, i 106 -p ?L.)g,   1 iIc.s       ' 5-s-c e , E I s   ':c-  32..    ler, I Tamba rst ou hopper,
56 1 !rs.i ,O<S '7.70, I 5 . -*, 3i L stukle pec yeas.                                                          and 1 ce carL; 5.ys.- ccedit.
6/ 1 axe, I pi:k  sa,    :C-'                              3 . .aO-.J-.c  lL:- f'c3:: E t,,ols is   2 years.  I1I.-,Sciqd:  1 ,n'.r  ,£ no,n, I UCF plough, 1 local ha-rr,c, 1 Sspv C.o .i. sanIe:r, 1 I tt',a ,oin happer,
7/ 10% of £anu  q i,.r    >-5;S  sci ing -st-cs,                                                                l Sine liEter ho:, -.1 - C -r;; 5--a.cr :c-l_-.
-s! CP.,/ 2915 per ten of  paddy; pedal thr-c-r ;'-cr-dV,e'  s.wi,:                        ..... 13/ IaproE   j,r aver-y 5 faes; 5-year credit.                                                   =a
9/ CPs! 37 ï;): par manday.                                                                  T.,F;rii.ed                             . ie :pr-aec  avery 3  anas; 5-year creIdt.
14, CFPbV  5i).o3 acrive person.
15/I =   - (i + lj                                                                                                         m
16/ Cc,: .'Ii:7.sn 13 i-cIi, 3.
17/ M = (G   K): L



ANNEX 18
Table 10
SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
FARM BUDGET - SEFA AREA 1/
(CFAF; 1980 prices in 1975 constant terms)
Semi-intensified 1           Semi-intensified 2           Intensified
A. Basic Data
Surface                                                          4.0                          6.0                       9.0
People                                                           8                            8                         8
Actives                                                          5                            5                         5
Pair of oxen                                                     1                            1                         2
B.  Gross Value of Production 2/                                       148,500                      294,375                   u47,500
C. Seasonal Input Costs 3/
Seeds                                                             19,687                       25,349                    42,251
Fertilizers                                                       12,800                       25,300                    47,425
Pesticides                                                         1,201                        1885                      3,056
Total                                                         33,688                       52,534                    92,732
D.  Net Value of Production After Seasonal Input Costsk/               114,612                      241,841                   554,768
E.  Subsistence Allovance                                               50,000
P. Small Equipment
Hand Tools 5/                                                        880                          880                       880
G. Operation and Maintenance Costs
Maintenance of Farm Equipment 6                                   19,183                       19,183                    27,137
Paddy Threshing 7/                                                  -                              75                       200
Hired Labor 8/ -                                                                                                         24,9o
Total                                                        19,183                        19,258                    52,237
H.  Family Consumption 9/                                               48,ooo                        67,875                    70,000
I.  Net Cash Income Before Debt Service and Taxes 10/                   96,549                      153,828                    431,651
J. Debt Service
Draft Oxen + Implements 11/                                       36,793                       36,793                    52,700
Sprayer 12/                                                          479                           479                      479
Total                                                         37,272                       37,272                    53,179
K.  Taxes 13/                                                            2,500                         2,500                     2,509
L.  Net Cash Income After Debt Service and Taxes 14/                    56,777                       114,056                   375,972
M. Mandays Required Per Year 15/                                            434                          640                       77C
N.  Net Cash Income Plus Family Consumption Per Manday .6/                  241                          284                       5,19
1/ Without livestock and do-able rice cropping.                                   11/ Semi-i;transifi-d: 1 pair of oxen, 1 Arara
2/ From Annex 13 tables 1, 4, 5, and 6.                                                                   multiframe, 1 Arara equipment,
3/ Fram Annex 18 tables 1, 4, 5 and 6. Costs include seasoqal credit.                                     1 local harr,)w, 1 Super Eco
4/ D = B - C                                                                                              seeder and 1 ox-cart; 5--year
3/ 1 hand hoe, 1 machete, and 1 sickle per year.                                                          credit.
6/ 107,/ if farrn eq.iipinent costs including oxen.                                    Intensified        2 pairs of oxen, 1 Arara
7/ CFAF 200 per ton oe paddy; pedal thresher rented by the project.                                       multiframe, 1 Arara equipments
8/ CFAF 300 per manday.                                                                                   1 local harrow, 1 Super Eco
9/ Family consumption of farts pr)ductien up to a maximum of 750 kg                                       seeder, 1 Arara canadiai. hce
of rice, 750 kg of millet, 500 kg of maize, and 200 kg of groundnuts.                                 and 1 Arara îlifter; 5-year
10/ I = (D + E) - (F 4- G + H)                                                                             credit.
12/ 1 sprayer every 10 improved farms; 5-year credit
13/ CFAF 500 per active person.
14/ L = I - (J + K)
15/ Prom Annex 18 table 3.
16/ N = (H + L) :M



SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION
DEVELOPILENT OF LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION
PYl                PY2                PY3                 PY4
I.  Calf rearing
Calves participating in the project             3,000              5,000               8,000             11,000
Saved Calves  1/                                  450                750               1,200              1,650
II. Mineral feeding of breeding cows
Cows participating in the project               7,000              9,000              11,000             13,000
Supplementary liters of milk  2/              105,000            135,000             165,000            195,000
Supplementary calves  3/                          700                900               1,100              1,300
III. Peeding of lactating cows
Cows participating in the project               1,000              1,500               1,500              1,500
Supplementary liters of milk  4/               90,000            135,000             135,000            135,000
Supplementary calves  5/                          100                130                 150                150
IV. Cattle fattening
Culled cattle participating in the
Project  6/                                     100                200                 300                400
Purchased cattle participating in the
Project  6/                                                                            100                200
Incremental weight in kg  7/                    6,o0o             12,000              24,000             36,000        CD x
1/  Decrease of calf rnortality, from 35% to 20%o.
2/  150 liters per supzplerierltary calf.
3/ Increase of weaning rate by 10%.
4/  0.5 liter,  180 days/cow - or 90 liters/cow/year.
5/  Increase of weaning rate by 10%.
6/  200 kg per head before entering the project.
7/  60 kg per head (0.5kg / 120 days).



SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION
REQUIREMENTS FOR FEED SUPPLEMENT AND FOR PARASITES TREATMENT
i.te              lr                PF2                 PY3                 PY4
I.  Calf rearing.
Treatment for parasite         1 treat./calf       3,000 treat.       5,000 treat.      8 ,000 treat.      11,000 treat.
Concentrate feed in tons       12 kg/calf             36                 6o                 76                132
II.  Mineral feeding of breeding
cows.
Treatment for parasite         1 treat./cow        7,000 treat.       9,000 treat.      11,000 treat.      13,000 treat.
Mineral concentrate in tons   6 kg/cow                42                 54                 66                  78
III. Feeding of lactating cows
Concentrate feed in tons       90 kg/cow              90                135                135                135
IV. Cattle Fattening
Treatment for parasite         1 treat.              100 treat.         200 treat.         400 treat.         600 treat.
Concentrate feed in tons       90 kg/head              9                 18                 36                 54
Total concentrate feed in tons:                           135                213                247                 321        t
Total mineral concentrate in tons:                         42                 54                  66                 78



SENEGAL                            Annex 19
Table 3
SECOND SEtHIOU PROJECT
LTVESTOCK PRODUCTION
FEED SUPPLEMENT AND INCREMENTAL ON-FARM COSTS
(CFAF 'non)
A.  FEED SUPPLEMENT COSTS                                     PYl      PY2      PY3      PY4
1.  Concentrate feed required (in tons) 1/               135       213      247      321
Mineral concentrate required (in tons) 1/             42       54       66    _78
Total:                                 177      267      313       399
2. Ingredients required (in tons)
- Concentrate feed:
Groundnut cake             75%                101      160      185      241
Salt                        9%                 12       19       22       29
Bone meal                  11%                 15       23       27        35
Fish meal                    5%                 7       il       13       16
- Mineral concentrate:
Salt                        35%                15       19       23        27
Bone meal                  45%                 19       24       30        35
Fish meal                  20%                  8       il       13        16
- Total ingredients:
Grounlnut cake                                101      16C      185      241
Salt                                           27       38       45        56
Bone meal                                      34       L7       57        70
Fish meal                                      15       22       26        32
3,  Ingredient costs.
Grouninut cake (CFAF 40/kg)                    -        -    7,400   9,640
Salt (CFAF 6/kg)                               -        -       270       336
Bone meal (CFAF 20/kg)                         -        -    1,14C   1,400
Fish meal (CFAF 10/kg)                         -        -       260       320
Total:                                 -        -    9,C70  11,696
4. Animal feed plant operating costs.
Labor (CFAF 3,500/t)                           -        -    1,096   1,397
Energy (CFAF  750/t)                           -        -       235       299
Maintenance (5.25% on equipment)               -        -       525       525
Transport (CFAF 1,000/t)                       -        -       313       399
Total:                                 -        -    2,169   2,620
5.  Ingredient costs plus operating costs.                -        -   11,230  14,316
Contingencies 20%                                -      -    2,247   2,863
Total:                                 -        -   13,486  17,179
6.  Feed supplements bought from SODEVA's plant.    2/              3/
(CFAF 45/kg)                               7,965  12,015         -         -
P. INCTENENTAL ON FARM COSTS
1. Treatments 3/
- Calf rearing treatment (CFAF 20/calf)               60      100      160       220
- Mineral feeding of breeding cows
treatment (CFAF 60/cow)                         420      540       660      780
- Cattle fattening treatment
(CFAF 200/head)                                  20       40        80      120
Total treatments:                             500      680      900   1,120   
2.  Concentrate feed and mineral concentrate           7,965  12,015  13,486  17,179          ", -.
C.  TOTAL INCREMENTAL COSTS                                 8,465  12,695  14,386  18,299
1/ Prom Annex 19, Table 2.
2/ 177t x CFAF 45 = CFAF 7,965.
3/  267t x CFAF 45 = CFAF 12,015.



SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION - BENEFITS
(CFAF '000)
PY 1         PY 2          PY 3          PY 4
A.  Incremental Benefits  _/
1.  Calf rearing           Calves (CFAF 10,000/calf)         4,500          7,500       12,000        16,000
2.  Mineral feeding of
breeding cows        Calves (CFAF 10,000/calf)         7,000         9,000        11,000        13,000
Milk (CFAF 0.50/liter)               52            67            82            97
3. Feeding of lactating
cows                 Calves (CFAF 10,000/calf)         1,000         1,500         1,500         1,500
Milk (CFAF 0.50/liter)               45            68            68            68
4.  Cattle fattening       Incremental value
CFAF 13,000/head  2/      1,300         2,600         5,200         7,800
Total incremental benefits:                         13,897        20,735        29,850        38,965
B.  Benefits from Sales                                           4,425 3/      6,675 3/    15,650 4/    19,950 4/ l       >
(b
C.  Total                                                        18,322        27,410        45,500        58,915          x
1/  From Annex 19, Table 1.
2/  260 kg x CFAF 150 - 200 kg x CFAF 130 =  CFAF 13,000
3/ CFAF 25 per kg.
4/ CFAF 50 per kg.



ANNEX 20
Page 1
SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
MARKET AND PRICES
Cereals
1.        In normal years, over one third of Senegal's total cereal require-
ments -- comprising the major part of the marketed supply -- are imported.
The average imports over the five years 1970-74 was some 340,000 tons; in 1973,
after the severe drought, 420,000 tons were imported. On average, annual
imports include about 170,000 tons of rice, 100,000 tons of wheat, and 290,000
tons of maize.
2.        Of the domestic cereals, millet and sorghum are the most important,
with combined production of just under 500,000 tons per year. Most is pro-
duced for subsistence consumption; only 30,000 tons were purchased by ONCAD
in 1973/74. Maize production is about 35,000 tons per year, of which some
12,000 tons were purchased by ONCAD in 1973/74. ONCAD's producer price for
millet and sorghum, which had been considered to low to encourage production
of a marketable surplus, was recently raised from CFAF 25/kg to CFAF 30/kg,
while that of maize was set at CFAF 35/kg. With world market prices for these
commodities doubling between 1972 and 1975, the new producer prices are about
equal in 1975 terms to their economic value based on import substitution
(Tables 1 and 2). With regard to the domestic market outlet, there is a possi-
bility for some substitution of millet for wheat in bread (up to 25% of the
flour). The main prospects, however, lies in its substitution for urban con-
sumption of rice, two thirds of which must be imported.
3.        There is a strong preference for rice in Senegal because of taste
preferences and because rice is easy to prepare (in contrast to millet). In
addition, consumption of imported rice in urban centers has been encouraged
by recent consumer price subsidies. Prior to 1972, imported rice at whole-
sale cost CFAF 29/kg while domestic rice cost CFAF 39.5/kg. Then, to encour-
age local production, a subsidy for domestic rice has introduced as a tax on
imported rice, with both wholesale prices set at CFAF 37/kg, or about half the
price of processed millet couscous. However, as the world market price of rice
tripled between 1972 and 1975, the wholesale price of rice was raised to only
CFAF 58/kg, which meant that the previous tax on imported rice was replaced by
a subsidy equivalent to about half the wholesale cost. At these prices, rice
was cheaper than processed millet couscous. Recognizing the severe strain on
its finances and the negative incentive for domestic production, Government in
November 1974 raised the official sale price of rice to CFAF 100/kg and the
farmgate price of paddy to CFAF 41.5/kg, and announced that prices would follow
the world market in future. This decision, which wiped out the subsidy, should
bring multiple benefits: (i) reduce imports and the burden on the Government
budget, (ii) enable domestic rice production to become more attractive, and
(iii) help millet to compete more effectively for a share of the urban cereal
market.



ANNEX 20
Page 2
4.        Basing domestic values on projected work market prices, the eco-
nomic value of paddy at farmgate by 1980 would be about CFAF 40,000/t; assum-
ing a contribution of CFAF 1,500/t to the Stabilization Fund, the resulting
financial farmgate price for paddy of CFAF 38,500/t would more than cover
all on-farm costs, thus providng project farmers with an adequate incentive,
and would leave a margin sufficient to recover project and cooperative's
costs. Details of the price and marketing structure are in Table 3.
Export Crops
5.        Groundnut marketing is a Government monopoly.  The marketing agency,
ONCAD, buys groundnuts from the cooperatives at a fixed price, provides hand-
ling and transport services, and sells the groundnuts to oil millers at a
price based on the world market price. The total marketed production, ranging
from 500,000 to 1 million tons per year, is processed locally; and virtually
all of the groundnut cake and about 80% of the oil is exported. Oil is sold
on the domestic market at a subsidized price of CFAF 200/liter, whereas the
wholesale cost is about CFAF 300/liter.
6.        The whole market price of shelled groundnuts, which fluctuated
around US$190/ton through the 1960s, reached US$610/ton in April - May of 1974.
As a result of these increases, ONCAD's selling price to oil millers rose from
CFAF 34/kg in 1971/72 to CFAF 80/kg in 1973/74. However only a fraction of the
increase was at first passed to farmers, as the producer prices for unshelled
groundnuts were augmented from CFAF 23.1/kg in 1971/72 to only CFAF 29.5/kg in
1973/74. But Government then raised the price for the 1974 crop to CFAF 41.5/
kg. In 1975 terms, the world market price for groundnuts is expected to dec-
line through 1980 to the extent that, if the producer price is maintained at
CFAF 41.5/kg, no transfers would be made to the Price Stabilization Fund; to
the contrary, this fund would probably have to support the farmgate price. To
naintain positive and adequate balances -- for price stabilization and to cover
t'Le costs of Government services to groundnut farmers -- the producer price may
have to be lowered to about CFAF 30/kg in 1975 terms (Table 4). This price has
been used in all financial analysis in this report.
7.        For edible groundnuts, although yields have suffered from adverse
climatic conditions, high quality varieties are now well established in the
country. As product quality has not been affected by recent droughts, Senegal
has successfully maintained its main European outlets: exports to Western
Europe over the past three years have averaged about 200,000 tons, unshelled.
8.        For edible groundnuts, export prices for grades 32/40 and 28/32
remained stationary from 1969 to 1973 -- about US$470 to 550 per ton, shelled.
But present levels are now higher by 30 - 50% according to quality differen-
tials for the locally produced type "Virginia Senegal". Future market pros-
pects are good, provided a high product quality is maintained, i.e. the product
must be aflotoxin - free. World prices for the period 1975-80 would decline
by 19%, but the resultant economic price at farmgate would be more than suffi-
cient to provide farmers with a very positive incentive and to amply support
the Government Stabilization Funds; thus the price of CFAF 50,000 per ton of
edible groundnuts has been used in the financial analysis (Table 5).



ANNEX 20
Page 3
Cotton
9.         Cotton marketing and ginning is the exclusive monopoly of SODEFITEX.
About 55% of the cotton fiber is exported, with the rest sold to local textile
factories; this proportion is likely to change as production increases faster
than local demand. All seed not required for planting is sold to oil mills,
and most of the oil is exported.
10.       During the commodity price boom of 1973-74, world market prices for
cotton fiber reached a peak of USe90.2, and cottonseed was about US$160/ton
in 1973 and about US$228 in 1974. The proportion of the sales proceeds trans-
fered to the stabilization fund increased from about 25% in 1972/73 to 60% for
the 1973/74 campaign. Coupled with a 40% increase in production, stabilization
fund revenues increased from CFAF 300 million to about CFAF 2 million over the
same period. Governnent has increased the net producer price for seed cotton
by 55%, from CFAF 30/kg in 1973/74 to CFAF 46.5/kg for the 1974-75 crop; but
even so, the effective tax rate on farmers is about 45%. However, by 1980,
world prices for fiber and seed are expected to be in 1975 terms USe58/lb and
US$181/ton respectively. As a result, it is expected that Government revenues
will have to fall to maintain the producer price in real terms at its current
level, and to keep the taxation rates on cotton and groundnuts at similar values.
Project financial projections have been based, therefore, on a farmgate price
continuing at CFAF 46.5/kg (Table 6).
Livestock
11.       Current Market Situation.  By the end of 1973 Senegal's livestock
population included 2.2 million cattle, 1.7 million sheep, 800,000 goats,
400,000 horses and donkeys, 180,000 pigs, 4,550 camels, and 6 million poultry.
Meat consumption in 1973 totaled about 74,000 tons comprising 41,000 tons of
beef from cattle imported from Ilauritania, 14,000 tons of meat from sheeps and
goats and 10,000 tons of pork. Per capita consumption of meat was about 20 kg,
of which beef accounted for 13 kg. Following the 1972/73 drought, beef prices
have risen sharply, and the herd has been reduced by deaths and by increased
slaughtering. Liveweight cattle prices in Dakar increased by about 180%
during the past five years, and total slaughter rose from about 142,000 head
in 1970 to 180,000 in 1973.  Between 1972 and 1973, the average carcass weight
of animals slaughtered in Dakar declined from about 160 kg to 120 kg; thus,
despite increased slaughter, the supply of meat has remained relatively stable.
Therefore, there is a need to rebuild the national herd for meeting future
beef demand.
12.       Until the 1972/73 drought, domestic production covered about 80% of
meat demand, with the balance coming from Mauritania. But, in addition to the
depletion of its national herd, Mauritania is switching to meat export in
response to a strong competitive demand from countries in coastal West Africa,
in the Mediterranean and Middle East, and the Canary Islands. Given the stor-
age in supply, meat retail prices have risen to 25-40% above official prices,
with a consequent drop in annual meat consumption to 10 kg per capita. Fur-
thermore, meat price increases have led to the substitution of fish for meat;



ANNEX 20
Page 4
annual fish consumption per capita, of 50 kg, is now the highest in West
Africa. There is also a milk deficit covered by milk imports of about
CFAF 2 billion (US$9 million) per year.
13.       Future Beef Market.  Future demand for beef will be mainly deter-
mined by population growth and the relative price of beef among other protein
sources. Assuming that the present high prices of beef are maintained while
the national herd is restocked, demand for beef will probably grow in line with
the annual population growth of 2.7%; this means that an additional 6,000 tons
of beef will be required by 1980 to maintain consumption at present levels.
The short term constraints on the market will be the restriction on domestic
supplies and imports. Given the general shortage of livestock in West Africa,
it is unlikely that beef supplies will rise above the present level for the
foreseeable future, and if anything may decline. Medium-term propects for
increasing domestic production rest largely on: (a) Government plans for the
higher potential grazing areas of Eastern Senegal and Casamance, and (b) on
increasing output from the predominantly arable areas of the country through
mixed farming as proposed for the present project. The combined incremental
production from these two activities is expected to be about 4,000 tons bet-
ween 1980 and 1985, and this production could be easily allocated to the
domestic market even if prices remain at their present levels.
14.       Prices.  Given supply restrictions, it is assumed for project ap-
praisal purposes that the farmgate price for beef cattle in the project area
would average CFAF 150/kg liveweight. Two-year-old steers suitable either for
training an oxen or for fattening are expected to maintain their current market
value of CFAF 26,000; and calves would be marketed at CFAF 10,000. Milk prices
are assumed to be at about CFAF 50/liter.
15.       Marketing.  99% of the annual marketing is handled by a complex
traditional system which includes a large number of established private traders
(Dioulas), intermediaries (Tefankes) and butchers. In 20 primary and 50 secon-
dary cattle markets, animals are sold for cash on appearance and are not weighed.
To increase the bargaining power of producers and reduce intermediaries the
project would promote the establishment of selling points at each cooperative
union. Farmers would be encouraged to bring their animals to these points,
where the cooperative union would sell animals on their behalf directly to
wholesalers and thus by-passing small bush traders.



An-vipu 2r
SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
MARKETS AND PRICES
Price and Marketing Structure for Millet
(In 1975 terms)
1975           1980                     1975            1980
--     us$/t -------                    ------CFAF/t-------
Reference price   1/  2              113              93                    25,425          20,925
Freight, insurance,
port, customs                                                           10,450         10,450
Value ex-Dakar                                                              35,875          31,375
Transport, handling                                                          2,4oo           2,4oo
Economic Farmgate Value  3/                                                 33,475          28,975
1/ Bank forecast prices of November 26, 1975 (U.S. No. 2 Milo Yellow f.o.b.
Gulf Ports) in 1973 constant dollars, adjusted to 1975 terms by the Bank
Index of DC's exports of manufactures SITC 5-8.
2/ Exchange rate CFAF 225 = US$ 1.00.
3/ Official farmgate price is CFAF 30,000 per ton.



Annex 20
Table 2
SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
MARKETS AND PRICES
Price and Marketing Structure for Maize
(In 1975 terms)
1975             1980                     1975             1980
-       .US$/t -------                    -------CFAF/t …
Reference price    21 /                  121              105                    27,225           23,625
Freight, insurance
port, customs                                                              10,450           10,450
Value ex-Dakar                                                                   37,675           34,075
Transport, handling                                                               2,400            2,400
Economic Farmgate Value  3/                                                      35,275           31,675
1/ Bank forecast prices of November 26, 1975 (U.S. No. 2 yellow, f.o.b.
Gulf Ports) in 1973 constant dollars, adjusted to 1975 by the Bank
Index of DC's exports of manufactures SITC 5-8.
2/  Exchange rate CFAF 225 = US$ 1.00.
3   Official farmgate price is CFAF 35,000 per ton.



Annex 20
Table 3
SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
MARKET AND PRICES
Price and Marketing Structure for Paddy
(In 1975 terms)
1975             1980                  1975             1980
1.  Economic Price Structure                       --------US$/t -------                   -------CFAF/t…----
Reference price  1/                             278              224
Freight, insurance                               50               50
Value CIF Dakar  2/                             328              274                 73,800          61,650
Port, customs, handling                                                                3,000           3,000
Value ex-Dakar                                                                       76,800           64,650
Plus handling and storage                                                              3,000           3,000
Plus transport cost from Dakar to
Kaolack (189 km; CFAF 8 per t/km)                                                 1,512           1,512
Less transport cost from Sedhiou mills
to Kaolack (195 km; CFAF 8 per t/km)                                              1,562           1,562
Value of rice, ex-mill                                                               79,750           67,600
Milling yield                                                                          (65%)           (65%)
Value of paddy equivalent                                                             51,838          43,940
Milling costs  3/                                                                      3,804           3,804
Buying and collection                                                                    400             400
Economic Farmgate Price of Paddy                                                      47,634          39,736
2. Domestic Price Structure
Economie Farmgate Price                                                               48,ooo          40,000
Official and Projected Farmgate Prices                                                41,500          38,500
Margin to the Stabilization Fund                                                       6,500           1,500
3.  Allocations from theProjected Farmgate Price
(a)  Farmers                                                                                          35,000
(b)  Cooperatives                                                                                      1,500
(c)  Project Cost Recovery                                                                             2,000
Projected Farmgate Price                                                                         38,500
1/   Bank forecast prices of November 26, 1975 (Thai, 25% - 35e br., f.o.b. Bangkok)
in 1973 constant dollars, adjusted to 1975 terms by the Bank Index of DC's
exports of manufactures SITC 5-8.
2/   Exchange rate CFAF 225 =  uS$ 1.00.
3/   Excluding amortization of mills and interest on storage (Annex 16, Table 1).



Annex 20
Table 4
SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
MARKETS AND PRICES
Price and Marketing Structure for Groundnuts
(In 1975 terms)
1975           1980                      1975            1980
--------US$/t -------                    -------CFAF/t-------
Reference price 1/  2/                     490             326                   110,250          73,350
Equivalent unshelled
basis (70%)                                                                     77,175          51,345
Freight, insurance                                                                 8,670           8,670
Value f.o.b. Dakar                                                                68,505          42,675
Transport and handling  / (ONCAD)                                                  4,300           4,300
Economic Farmgate Value                                                           64,205          38,375
To the farmer  /                                                                  41,500          30,000
To the Stabilization Fund                                                         22,705           8,375
1/   Bank forecast prices of November 26, 1975 (Nigerian c.i.f. Europe) in
1973 constant dollars, adjusted to 1975 terms by the Bank Index of DC's
exports of manufactures SITC 5-8.
2/   Exchange rate CFAF 225 = US$ 1.00
S/   Includes transport cost CFAF 3,000 per ton; storage CFAF 450 per ton; and
fixed charges CFAF 850 per ton.
ç/  IOfficial farmgate price in 1975 is CFAF 41,500/t.



Annex 20
Table 5
SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
MARKETS AND PRICES
Price and Marketing Structure for Edible Groundnuts
(In 1975 terms)
1975           1980                     1975            1980
------ US$/t ------                     ------CFAF/t-------
Reference price    2                      800             650                    180,000         146,250
Equivalent unshelled
Basis (65%)                                                                    117,000          95,063
Freight, insurance                                                                 9,500           9,500
Value f.o.b. Dakar                                                               107,500          85,563
Transport, storage and
selection costs                                                                  5,500           5,500
Economic Farmgate Value                                                          102,000          80,063
To the Farmer                                                                     50,000          50,000
To the Stabilization Fund                                                         52,000          30,063
1/   Bank's Commodities and Exports Projections Division forecast prices of
December 1975; average of several quotations Grade 55/65 (Nigerian
c.i.f. U.K.).
2/   Exchange rate CFAF 225 = US$ l.oo.



Table 6
SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
MARKETS AND PRICES
Price and Marketing Structure for Cotton
(In 1975 terms)
1975            1980                      1975            1980
---   US$/t --------                     ------CFAF/t-------
Reference prices: 1/ 2/
Lint  (c.i.f. Liverpool)                 1,257           1,279                    282,825         287,775
Cottonseed  (c.i.f. N. Europe)             214             181                     48,150          40,725
36.8% of one ton of lint                                                              104,080          105,901
60% of one ton of cottonseed                                                            28,890          24,435
Value f.o.b. Dakar                                                                     132,970         130,336
Freight, insurance and
marketing expenses                                                                 12,121           12,121
Seed Cotton in Senegal                                                                120,849          118,215
Ginning 3/, transport and
production costs 4/.                                                               38,601           38,601
Economic Farmgate Value                                                                 82,248          79,614
To the farmer                                                                           46,500          46,500
To the Stabilization Fund                                                               35,748          33,114
1/ Bank forecast prices of November 26, 1975 (Mexican SM 1-1/16" c.i.f. Liverpool;
cotton seed c.i.f. N. Europe),in 1973 constant dollars, adjusted to 1975 terms
by the Bank Index of DC's exports of manufactures SITC 5-8.
2/ Exchange rate CFAF 225 = US$ 1.00.
3/ Ginning costs CFAF 11,200/t of seed cotton.
4/ Farm inputs, about CFAF 16,225/t of cotton are paid by SODEFITEX; the farmer
receives the net price of CFAF 46,500/t of cotton.



SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
COOPERATIVES AND UNION OF COOPERATIVES CASII FLOW
(CFAF '000)
PY 1              PY 2              PY 3              PY 4               PY 5
1976-77           1977-78           1978-79           1979-80           1980-81
I. BASIC DATA
Marketed Production:
Groundnut                35,5b0            37,300             41,200            47,800            50,00(
Groundnut seeds           3,500             3,700              4,100             4,800             5,000
Mai e                       -                  800             1,800             2,800             4,00(
Rice                        860              3,440             7,310            11,690            15,910
II. SOURCES
Marketing Margins:
Groundnut                 7,100             7,460              8,240             9,560             9,560
Groundnut seeds             -                  74o             1,640             3,840             4,800
Maize                       -                  800             1,800             2,800             4,000
Rice                      1,290              5,160            10,965            17,535            23,865
Total Sources             8,290            14,160             22,645            33,735            42,225
III. APPLICATIONS
Investment:
Rice Mills                1,402              4,208             6,312             7,ol4             7,014
Union Costs:
Intendants                                  1,260              2,520             5,o4o             6,300
Accountants                                  1,260             2,520             5,040              6,300
Typists                                        480               960             1,920             2,400
Administrative Cost                            500             1,000             2,000             2,500
Laborers                                    1,4oo              2,8oo             5,6o0             7,000
4,900             9,800            19,600            24,500         >
Total Applications        1,402             9,108             16,112            26,614            31,514    CDx
IV.  SURPLUS                      6,798             5,052             6,533             7,121             10,711



SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
GOVERNMENT CASH FLOW 1/
(CFAF  '000)
1976/77     1977/78      1978/79     1979/80      1980/81     1981/82      1982/83      1983/84     1984/85      1985/86      1986/87     1987/88      1988/89
A. SOURCES
IDA Credit                 146,000      320,300     364,100     388,500      198,600
CCCE Loan                   73,000      159,600     181,60       195.300     100,500
219,000     479,900     545,700      583,800      299,100-
Taxes                       87,661     103,007      117,592      115,836      36,795       39,360      42,118       45,041      45,041       45,041       45,041       45,041      45,041
Stabilization Fund
- Groundout 2/                -          8,226       25,033      48,515       50,671       54,437      58,262       62,343      67,331       67,331       67,331       67,331      67,331
- Edible Groundnut            -          3,676       17,600      48,088       52,833      49,500       52,977       56,690      60,625       60,625       60,625       60,625      60,625
- Cotton 3/                   -          2,142        5,562      11,054       18,455       19,827      21,219       22,707      24,283       24,283       24,283       24,283      24,283
- Rice 4/                                1,212     4j231         10.166       13.907       14,941      15.990       17,111       18,480      18,480       18.480       18,480      18,480
-         15,256      52,425      117,823      135,866     138,705      148,448      158,851     170,719      170,719     170,719      170,719      170,719
Farmers' Repayment 5/        3,200       8,507       27,194      43,487       59.186       57.638      52.994       46,028       38.288      30,548       30.548        30.548      3
Total Sources                          606 670      742,911     860,946      530,947      235,703     243,560      249,920     254.048                   24.J0&  2hk246 308        I; w
B. APPLICATIONS
Project Cost               468,861     559,525      563,011     489,144       12,000       12,000      ]2,000       12,000      12,000       12,000       12,000       12,000      12,000
Subsidies
- Rock Phosphate            29,084      32,883       40,809      41,108         -            -           -            -            -           -            -            -            -
- Fertilizers 6/            13,349      14,731       13,735      11,033       11,033       11,033      11,033       11,033       11,033      11,033       11,033       11,033       11,033
- Seeds                        130         210          300         400          400          400         400          400          400         400          400          400          400
- Insecticides               4,024       3,845        4.470       4.490        4,4          4.490       4.490        4.490       4.490        4.490        4,490        4.490       4,490
46,587      51,669       59,314      57,031       15,923       15,923      15,923       15,923       15,923      15,923       15,923       15,923       15,923
Debt Service
IDA Credit                    -          1,094        3,577       6,385        9,049      10,631       10,631       10,031      10,631        17,718      24,700       24,590       24,488
CCCE Loan                     -          3.350       10,949       19.539      27,689      65,600       65.600       65 600      65.600        65,600      65,600        65,600      65,600
-          5,444      14,526       25,924       36,738       76,231      76,231      76,231       76,231        83,318     90.300        90,190       9(),088
Coni:ingencies              52.575     133,424      205,476     230.074       15.232       18.125   21l 779         25.                       .,68       9             285 69    725e6
Total Applications         568,023     750,062      842,227     802,173       79,893     122,279      12933        129,843     129,843      1            143.92      4L-3802       143.700
C. SURPI.US <REb1CIT)
Annual                    (258,162)   (143,392)    (99,416)       58,773     451,054      113,424    17,627       120,077     124,205      11)9,378     102,396      102,506     102,608
Cumulative                             (401,554 )   t500,970)  (442,197)       8,857      122,281     239,908      359,985     484,190      593,568      695,964      798.470     901,078       t 
fb t
1/ Current terms until 1'J5 and constant terms thereafter.
2/ Based on IBRD price projections and a farmgate price declining between PY 1 and PY 5 fromi CFAF 41.'i/kg to CFAF 40/kg (in 1975 ter,ns).
3/ Based on IBRD price projections and a farmgate price equivalent in 1975 teras to CFAF 46.50 (if  1975 tenas).
4/  Based on IBRD price projections and a farmgate price declining between PY 1 and PY 5 from CFAF 41.50/kg to CFAF 38.5/1;g (in 197'i t,rs,.
5/ Actual cost of rice mill investment and 75% of watet control scheme; 7.5'l1 interest rate.
6/ Sibsidy on composite fertilizer reduced from 70% in 1975/76 to 25% in 1979/80; eliminaîed on urea after 1979/80.



ANNEX 22
P.1 -
SENEGAL
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATE OR RETURN
1.        The economic rate of return for the project was calculated on the
basis of the data in Table l and on the following assumptions:
(a) the project is assumed to have an economic life of 15 years,
the average expected life of the main capital investments;
(b) the Bank's nominal exchange rate of CFAF 225 = US$1.00 has
been used;
(c) transfer payments - taxes and subsidies - have been excluded
from the project;
(d) project costs, based on mid-1976 prices, include all project
investment and operating base costs plus physical contingen-
cies, but provisions for expected price increases are excluded;
(e)  costs necessary to maintain pre- and post-project production
levels, namely costs of input distribution and of personnel
to supervise the functioning of cooperatives, are excluded;
(f)  no incremental extension costs are included after the project
develoment period, as project benefits would thereafter be
obtained with expenditures at previous levels;
(g) annual farm inputs costs are incremental values;
(h) half of the roads improvement cost in the Feeder Roads
Project (para 3.05) is included since it is assumed to
serve project activities to this extent;
(i) Regional Planning Unit costs are excluded because they have
no direct relation with project's benefits;
(j) benefits are calculated on the incremental crop and livestock
production due to the project; output is stabilized by PY 4
the assumed full development of the project. A 25% loss of
incremental output per year is assumed as being equivalent to
a drought every four years. In each year up to PY 8 a lag of
6 months has been assumed in project benefits, to account for
delays in the farmers' rate of adoption of improved practices.
It is assumed that production without the project would not
increase significantly beyond average levels reached by the
end of the first project;



ANNEX 22
Page 2
(k)  cereals and livestock output are treated as import substi-
tutes, and groundnut and cotton output as exports; economic
farmgate prices for crops and for fertilizers are based on
IBRD world market price forecasts. Prices for livestock and
livestock products are based on current market prices. Details
are at Annex 20.
2.        Based on these assumptions, the economic rate of return is 23.1%.
3.        Sensitivity Analysis.  The sensitivity of the rate of return for the
whole project has been tested against changes in costs and benefits due to
different assumptions, and results indicate that the project would be econo-
mically justified under such changes as may be reasonably expected. Details
are as follows:
Economic Rate
of Return
Costs 1/          Benefits 1/                  %
Base Case                  100                1O                       23.1
Sensitivity:  (1)         120                  100                      15.4
(2)        100                   80                      13.8
(3)        110                   90                      14.7
(4)        110                   80                      10.2
(5)        120                   90                      11.3
(6)        120                   80                       6.9
1/   As a percentage of the base case.



SENEGAL                                                   Annex 22
Table 1
SECOND SEDHLOU PROJECa
ECO0INMIZ BATO OF RETOUP
(CFAF '000)
pYlI            FY2             PY3             F04             PY5              FY6             PY7              PY8-il
1976-77         1977-78         1978-79         1979-80          1980-81         1981-82         1982-83        1983-O,wards
1. BENEFITS
Incre.onta1 Crop Production
Rice                                    24,794         104,148         215,980         335,846         446,556          506,876         519,080          519,080
Millet                                  20,955          44,571          58,352           75,220          80,970          80,970           80,970          80,970
Maize                                   35,333          83,350         111,377         144,352          161,984         161,984          161,984         161,984
Ground,utc                              14,958          61,317         139,654         233,045          279,500         279,500         279,500          279,500
Edible Groondouto                        9,744          32,882          69,030         115,192          138,600         138,600          138,600         138,600
Cotton                                   3-444          11.644          23.520          39.280           47.920          47.920          47.920           47.920
Subtotal                          109,228         337,912          617,913         942,935       1,155,530        1,215,850       1.728,054       1,228,054
Ioes provision for drooght              27.307          84.478         154.478         235.733          288.883         303.963         307.014          307.014
81,921         253,434         463,435         707,202          866,647         911,887         921,040          921,040
Incremental Liveetack Production
Calves                                   6,250          15,250          21,250           27,750          31,000          31,000           31,000          31,000
Milk                                        48             116              143             143             157              165             165             165
Fattened Cattle                            650           1.950           3,900            6.500           7,800           7.800            7.800           7.800
6,948          17,316          25,293          34,407           38,965          38,9651         3-,qs&           38,965
FePd Supplement Saleo                    2,212           5,550          11,162          17,800           19,950          19,950           19,930          19,950
Total Benefits                          91,081         276,399         499,890         759,409          925,562         970,802          979,955         979,955
Il. COSTS
Prolect Ctats
Infrastructure                         22,087          88,222         114,770          88,860
Equipm.ent                             36,982          34,061          40,483           44,335
Vohicles                               48,070             -                -             4,514
Settle,n t                              4 700           4,100           5,600            6,100
Personnel                             256,732         253,427         243,513          243,513
Operating Costs                        30,592          30,134          29,219           28,761
Training                               11,407          11 538          11,380           10,347
Evaluation                              7,000           7,000          7,000             7,000
417,710         42ET4H          451,965         433,430
Ruads                                      66,688          96,732           49,263           9,607           9,607            9,607           9,607             9,607
FaPn Eauiptnent and Onen
Oxns (pair)                            34,000          41,500          52,000           57,500
UCF Plough                              9,683          10,458          12,394           12,394
ndrrow                                    324             359             435              441
SIndors                                12,582          13,927          16,903           17,096
Cotton Hopper                             200             600              800             800
Sioe Lifter and Hoa                       501           2,000           3,504            6,008
Oxen-Carte                             26,560          29,398          35,684           36,089
Arars Framen                              306             511              817             919
Arawa Hoe and Lifter                      -               433              866           1,155
84,156          99,186         123,403          132,402
FPem Ecoipeent Maintenance                  5,016          10,784           17,925          25,415          25,415           25,415           25,415           25,415
Fa=re EZquipent Reneval                       -                -               -               -                -            50,156           57,686           74,902
Part Inputs
Rock Phosphate                         27,679          32,202          40,140           41,825              -               -                -                -
8.18.27                                 9,430          26,080          45,162           65,208          65,203           55,2085          a5,208          S5,208
10.21.21                                6,720          11,098          15,455           18,287          18,287           18,287           18,287          18,287
8.14.18                                 3,706           5,727           8,180           11,023          01,023           11,023           11,023          11,023
Urea                                    52460          146798          20.424           33 784          33,78.           33,75.4          33,784           33,784
52,995          89,905         129,361         171,126          128,301         128,301           128,301        1-28 ,30 1
Pe.ttnides                                  3,745           7,893           11,837          22,413          22,413           22,413           22,413           22,413
Seeds
Ri.e                                      793           2,418           6,810           10,578          10,578           10,578           10,573           I3,57S
Xaize                                     860           1,323            1,896           2,560           2,560            2,560            2,560            2,560
Groundnuts                                -               630           4,000            7,933            7,933           7,933            7,933            7,933
Edible Gonundnuts                         604           1,612           3,350            3,289           5,289            5,289            5,289            5,289
Cotton                                    102             221              380             578             578              578              578              578
2,359           6,204          16,436          26,938           26,938          26,933            2-6,93-8        26,938
Liventock production - Operatin  Conte   8, 465             12,695          14,386          18, 299          18, 299         18, 299           10, 299         18, 299
Water Contrai Scheme
Punping and Maintenance Conta           1.576           3,232          10.019           18.439          24.279          24,279            24,279         i24279
Subtotal                        642,210         755,383          824,145         857,069          225,665         275,821          283,351          300,567
PhYsical Contingencies
Civil WMrks (207.)                      4,417          17,644          22,954           17,772             -                -                -
Othe- Castn (107,)                     3691            36.712    ~     47 057           52.5~04         22.566           27.582           20.335          30..22057
Total Conts                           683,541         809,739         894,156          027,345          2353,80         306,052          314,33           335,257
III.  NET BENEFITS                                (592,460)        (533,340)       (394,266)       (167,936)        674,682          664,750          665,620         646,682
IV. ECONOMIC RATE OF RETUR,: 23.I7.



GEOGRAPHICAL AREA                                                                                                                  SEN EGAL
FOFINFLUENCE                                                                                                           SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
REGION AND                 EGINA      T7
DISTRICr         A      COORDINATING    --   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   *| PROJECI MANAGER
("DEPARTMENT")           CM TTE
PLANNING AND
EVALUATION DiVSO
COOPERATIVE S                         COOPERATIVES                  EXTENSION                  CIVIL WORKSAN                                     REGIONAL
E  TENSION              CIVIL WORKS             ADMINISTRATION            ~~PLANNING UNIT
FEDERATION                            DIVISION                     DIVISION                   DIVISION                DIVISION
Credit                     Agriculture              Rural Engineering         Accounti;ig                Eccinomics
Procurement               Animal Husbandry          Construction and          Personnel                  Agionomics
Training                  Training                  Maintenance of            Procurement                Consul iants
I   u Faim Inputs                                   Equipment and              Financing
Farm Inpuss                           ~~~~~~~~~~Infrastructure   General Services
SUB--DISTRICT            COOPERATIVES
("ARRONDISEMENT")    UNIONS
Manager              I                                                                                      Responsiîblity Line
COMMUNRTA                    Store Keeper                            C .  _  INTENDENTS     SE(TOR CHIEF                      *  -   . Functiotial Relation
Accountant           ;
VILLAGE  COOPERATIVES                                              FIELD EXTENSION
VILLAGE                   COOPERATIVES   ._-~                                             WORKERS
L Seasonnal Secretary                                                 Agriculture
Animal
Fl usbantlry
Worid Bank- 1 56111 (RI



IBRD 11923
IE°OO                                           thY>,   .                                 /                                                       1EJ30'                                  MARCH   ZS73~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ACH 17
S E N E G A L
SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
PROJECT AREA
G    A   M   B  I A   j:                                                                      l                                  `  S i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROUECT AREA EOUNDARY
G A M BlA
. I { ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SÉFA ARE,A
iDJINANI                                                                                                                            FNE.DR ROADS T:D:E IMPROVED UNDER THE FEEDER ROADS PROJ:CT FIPRST OEARi
l   !                 t                                         " J                                _     _  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FEEDER ROADS TO BC IMPROVED UNOER THE FEEDER ROAOS PROJECT ISECOND YEARI
| ~ ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ `O   HINESE MISSION
L   ZZ`,   FORENST RESERVE5
`,    _       -/                                                                '                                                FEEDER 0OADS IMPROFVE UNDER SEDIOU I
k-'                                              /                                                'I 1s)    SESHIE U I ZONE CENTERS
/  '                                                                                                                                                 S /  O ;  \  -   GRAVEL ROADS
,  SWAMPS
-/ <f  _~ "  ,,                            " .RIVERS AND NTERMITTENT STREAMS
- - -  `_-- DEPARTMENTAL SOUN-ARIES
TN ENNATIONA B-0NDARIES
S            ~~~~~~10            20
KH-LOMETERS
MIES
13o-
IA4NAH MALARI                                     gd
Y ;: e>           MAI RITANIA
N  k,                                                       B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~ I    SS  A   U                        SEE oijo
53pau                                                                                                                                                                                S     g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EHuN'
t  1-~~~~~~~~~-'~~                                                                                                               CoooqptJ         5






IBRD 11924
*-  SA                             ,,                                    30                         MAORC  iRUR
S E N E G A  L
1---- ;'             ---SECOND SEDHIOU PROJECT
t                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WATER  CONTROL  SCHEME
i  I                             PROJEC T-REABUNDARY
TROTA-N ER TYPEA(POLD ER
G  A  M   B I  A                                                                                                                      EA NDE TYPE B(GRATVY FED IRRIGATIONI
®DDJLNAN[jTU RTI YECTAAE
AREA UNTER TYPE D (PU.PING)
NUMBER 0F HECTARES
VSEFA AAOA
E CHINESE MIESON
_ .i /                                               u , ' \ ES FOREST RESERVES
/SEHIOU I ZONE CENTER
GRAVELROADS
EZ~SWAMRS
RAVERS AND NTERM!TTENTSTVOAS
>/     *'N         '       ---- OEPARTNENIALBOUNEARIES
j   , X ,   <      ,<,,,G,              "      «   "           , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~`0`'r~~j                S[`          ; S,
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NENTOA R O JUOUMARÉES                                          Mi
N ,BIe .                                                                           lLES X   ft  t  /  ,   9 , <  < E
,                                                                t          /                 I N  E~        ~       ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~ DAAH MAA
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
16"o~~~E,d~kUPfiT~
DJI ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~eEO 
,'  ~ ~ ~ ~         ~         ~         ~        ~       ~             S' ~~~~~~~~~4$,. ~ MARTA~
NO AnC eReg~ or
DI'A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ \          - 
IEET    ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~            (s'il,                                                                            B SSAJ   3GL.INEA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c 



