CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 647 SE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Second Sedhiou Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 25, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 25, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association),,
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association and
the Caisse Centrale de CooDration E.onomique, an Agency of the
Republic of France (hereinafter called Caisse Centrale) to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement; and
(B) The Borrower intends to contract from Caisse Centrale
a loan (hereinafter called the Caisse Centrale Loan) in an amount
of fourteen million two hundred thousand French francs (FF14,200,000)
to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the Caisse Centrale
Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and Caisse
Centrale;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meaning, therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "First Credit Agreement" means the Development Credit
Agreement (Casamance Rice Project) between the Borrower and the
Association dated June 18, 1971;
(b) "First Project" means the project described in Schedule
2 to the First Credit Agreement;
(c) "Project Area" means the D6partement of Sgdhiou;
(d) "Organization" means the unit, defined in Section 1.02
of the First Credit Agreement and responsible to the Minister of


﻿E.-3-
Rural Development and Hydraulices for carrying out the First Proj-
ect and the Project; and
(e) "Agence Rggionale de Développement" means the "organisme
de mise en valeur de la Casamance" being established by the Bor-
rover.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to six million three hundred thousand dollars ($6,300,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.


﻿-5-
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrover shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each April 1
and October 1 commencing October 1, 1986, and ending April 1, 2026,
each installment to and including the installment payable on
April 1, 1996 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower, acting through the Organiza-
tion, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficien-
cy and in conformity with appropriate agricultural, engineering,
financial and administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) The Organization's responsibility under paragraph (a)
of this Section and its staff referred to in Section 3.02 (a)
shall be respectively transferred to and integrated in the Agence
Regionale de Dgveloppement only after such agency shall (i) have
been established by instruments providing adequate financial and
administrative autonomy and (ii) have been adequately funded and
become fully operational. The Borrower and the Association shall
exchange views on the details of and the timing for such transfer
and integration. To that end the funds required by said agency
for the execution of the Project, including the proceeds of the
Credit, shall be provided in the form of a grant under an agree-
ment satisfactory to the Association between the Borrower and said
agency under which said agency is charged with the responsibility
for carrying out the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall deposit in the Project Account funds
which shall cover the Organization's estimate of expenditures
under the Project during the following three months. The Borrower
shall also credit in said account the proceeds of the Credit


﻿.1                           -7-
withdrawn from the Credit Account which the Association shall not'
have paid directly to suppliers of goods or services at the Bor-
rower's request and on its behalf. The Borrower shall maintain
the Caisse d'Avance of CFAF50,000,000 created for the purpose of
the First Project.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to provide the Organization with
qualified senior and middle-level staff, the Borrower shall:
(i) employ or continue to employ experts whose qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, to fill: (A) the position of project direc-
tor, (B) the posts of the agro-economist in charge
of the programming and evaluation division, the
rural civil works engineer in charge of the civil
works division, and the financial analyst in charge
of the finance and administration division and the
latters' counterparts, the three said posts to be
filled not later than December 31, 1976 or such
other date as the Association may agree and (C)
the posts of inspector of cooperatives in charge
of the cooperative's division and of agronomist in
charge of the extension division; and
(ii) second to the Organization suitably qualified
senior and middle-level staff in adequate numbers
to meet the Organization's needs for Project staff;
the Organization will be entitled to return to their
respective administrations those of such staff


﻿- 8 -
which in the Organization's judgment would be un-
suitable for the Project.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts
D (2), J and K of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consul-
tants, and with respect to Part K of the Project counterparts to
such consultants, whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
The consultants required in carrying out Part J of the Project
shall be employed not later than December 31, 1976 or such other
date as the Association may agree.
(c) The Borrower shall ensure that three literacy agents
be made available to assist the Organization in carrying out Part
F(l) of the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) Until the feed mixing plant to be construc-
ted under Part C (2) of the Project has come into operation, the
Borrower shall cause the Soci4t4 de Dgveloppement et de Vulgari-
sation Agricole to supply the animal feed supplements required for
the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1981 or
such other date as the Association may agree, transfer to a coop-
erative union ownership of said feed mixing plant, under terms
and conditions which shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. The selection of farmers' families to be set-
tled under Part E of the Project shall be made in accordance with
criteria satisfactory to the Association.


﻿-9-
Section 3.05. (a) In view of carrying out Part G of the Proj-
ect, the Borrower shall (i) study means of decentralizing the pro-
curement of farm implements and other agricultural inputs; (ii)
transmit the results of such study to the Association for its com-
ments not later than June 30, 1977 or such other date as the As-
sociation may agree; and (iii) consult with the Association on
the measures required for implementing the recommendations result-
ing from said study.
(b) In carrying out Part G of the Project, the Borrower
shall ensure that pesticides, seeds and other inputs required for
cotton production shall be supplied by the Sociotg de D6veloppe-
ment des Fibres Textiles.
Section 3.06. (a) With a view to ensuring adequate assistance
to and supervision of cooperatives in the Project Area, the Bor-
rower shall, within one year after the date of this Agreement, or
such other date as the Association may agree, cause to be defined
in detail under arrangements satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association the respective responsibilities of the Organization
and ONCAD in the Project Area with respect to extension services
and the management of said cooperatives, to the management of
stocks of seeds, farm implements and other agricultural inputs,
to the marketing of cereals and groundnuts and to the procurement
and distribution of farm implements and other agricultural inputs.
To that end, the Borrower shall provide to the Organization ade-
quate means to enable it to carry out its tasks.


﻿-10-
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that part of the
cooperatives' funds deposited at the Bangue Nationale de Dgveloppe-
ment du S6n@gal (BNDS) be made available for the financing of not
less than 10% of the cooperatives' expenditures for equipment,
including those under Part H of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall take all necessary steps to cause
BNDS to provide short- and medium-term financing to cooperatives
and farmers for the purchase of seasonal agricultural inputs, and
farm equipment and traction animals, respectively. Short-term
credits shall be extended for a term of twelve months to cover
the cost of seasonal agricultural inputs and medium-term credits
shall be extended for a term of five years to cover the cost of
farm equipment and traction animals, both at an interest rate
which shall exceed by at least two percentage points the prefer-
ential rediscount rate of the Borrower's central bank in effect
on the date on which the credits are granted to cooperatives. For
the purpose, the limits of cooperatives' indebtedness shall be
established on the basis of total production marketed by coopera-
tives.
Section 3.08. In carrying out Part J of the Project, the
Borrower shall cause the evaluation reports to be made available
to the Association by June 30, in each year.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards in-
cident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to


﻿4,- 11-
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any in-
demnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Bor-
rower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and, services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the Proj-
ect; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representa-
tives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Association all such information as the As-
sociation shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and ser-
vices financed out of such proceeds.


﻿-12-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Organization
and, after the transfer of the Organization's responsibilities to
the agency referred to under Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement,
such agency to maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting prac-
tices the financing of the Project, detailed and itemized accord-
ing to purpose and function.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) cause such accounts for each
fiscal year to be audited, in accordance with sound auditing prin-
ciples consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as
available, but in any case not later than four months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of said accounts for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonely requested; and (iii) furnish to the Asso-
ciation such other information concerning said accounts and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.


﻿-13 -
Section 14.03. The Borrower shall ensure that the Organization
and, after the transfer of the Organization's responsibilities to
the agency referred to under Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement,
said agency be at all times managed and operated in accordance
with sound administrative, financial and agricultural practices
by qualified and experienced management and staff.


﻿- 14 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely that:
(i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the pro-
ceeds of the Caisse Centrale Loan shall have
been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of
the Caisse Centrale Loan Agreement, or
(B) the Caisse Centrale Loan shall have become
due and payable prior to the agreement matu-
rity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that: (A) such suspension, cancel-
lation, termination or prematuring is not caused
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of
its obligations under such agreement, and (B) ade-
quate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.


﻿-15-
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely that the event specified in para-
graph (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿-16-
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Caisse Centrale has notified the As-
sociation in writing that all conditions precedent to initial dis-
bursement, if any, under the Caisse Centrale Loan Agreement have
been fulfilled, save only for the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date September 24, 1976, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.


﻿-17 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist re des Finances
Rue Charles Laine
Boite Postale 4017
Dakar, S6n9gal
Cable address:
MINIFINANCES
Dakar
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿-18                                       1
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By /s/ AndrS Coulbary
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
.By /s/ Xavier de la Renaudi4re
Acting Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿-19-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amount of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil Works under           670,000          50%
Parts D (1) and
I (3) and construc-
tion of wells under
Part E of the Proj-
ect
(2) Civil Works under            330,000          44%
Part H and equip-
ment under Parts
C (2) and H of the
Project
(3) (a) Vehicles under            85,000         o%
Part A of the
Project
(b) Equipment un-           305,000         53%
der Parts A and
G of the Project
(4) Staff on contract         2,900,000          67%
and allowances of
public servants


﻿- 20 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(5) Operating costs              525,000           60%
(6) Consultants' ser-            155,000           67%
vices for Parts
D (2), J and K of
the Project
(7) Unallocated                1,330,000
TOTAL      6,300,000
po


﻿2.   (a) The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of
the Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments fo:r, taxes
levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or ser-
vices, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on
or in respect of aW item to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice
to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
(b) The disbursement percentage under Category (2) has been
calculated taking into account estimated cooperatives' participa-
tion of 10% in the expenditures included in said Category. If such
participation increases or decreases, the Association may, by no-
tice to the Borrower, correspondingly decrease or increase said
disbursement percentage.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures:
(i) prior to the date of this Agreement; and (ii) in respect of
(A) Categories (4) and (5) on account of Part K of the Project un-
til the consultants required for carrying out said Part of the
Project have been employed pursuant to Section 3.02 (b) of this
Agreement; (B) Categories (4), (5) and (6) for finalizing the mas-
ter plan and preparing projects to be included in the plan under
Part K of the Project until the Borrower and the Association shall
have agreed on the specific terms of reference of the consultants
with respect to such tasks; (C) Category (2) on account of the


﻿- 22 -
construction program in each year under Part H of the Project un-
til the Borrower and the Association have agreed on each such con-
struction program; and (D) Category (1) on account of the experi-
mental polder to be developed under Part D (1) of the Project,
until the results of the survey included in Part D (2) of the Proj-
ect have become available and relating recommendations have been
formulated in agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insuf-
ficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in
that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the As-
sociation are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if
such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, re-
duce the disbursement percentage thehn applicable to such expendi-
tures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, can-
cel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable         .


﻿- 23 -
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit.


﻿- 24 -1
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is a four-year (mid 1976-mid 1980) program of the
Barrower to increase and diversify agricultural and livestock pro-
duction and raise farmers' income in the Project Area. The Proj-
ect will assist about 7,400 farmers' families.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Strengthening of the organization's services by, inter
alia, (1) training extension agents and (2) providing
vehicles and equipment.
Part B:   A program for demonstrating and promoting improved man-
ual, semi-intensified and intensified farming methods.
Part C:   (1) A program for demonstrating and promoting improved
animal husbandry; and (2) the construction, equipment
and operation of a feed mixing plant at Sedhiou.
Part D:   (1) The construction of water control systems in ap-
proximately 14 locations along the Casamance River and
its affluents to cover a total area of about 1,650 ha
of paddy rice fields; and (2) a soil and hydrological
survey of about 15,000 ha of potentially irrigable land.


﻿- 25 -
Part E:   The settling of about 400 farmers' families in the Sefa
area, including the construction of wells and the provi-
sion of settling allowances.
Part F:   (1) Organizing annual training sessions for farmers and
agricultural extension workers and organizing a continu-
ing program of adult literacy. (2) Fellowships for the
Organization's staff and selected agricultural extension
workers.
Part G:   The organization of the distribution of agricultural
inputs to farmers and the supply of farm implements and
tools to farmers and blacksmiths.
Part H:   The construction, equipment and supervision of operation
of about 35 rice mills to be located in the main paddy
rice production areas.
Part I:   (1) The training of agricultural cooperatives' staff in
credit management, procurement, accounting and market-
ing; (2) the organization of five cooperative unions and
a federation of said unions; and (3) the construction
and equipment of facilities for agricultural cooperatives.
Part J:   Monitoring and evaluation of Parts A through I of the
Project.
Part K:   The establishment of a regional planning unit to be
resp6nsible for the preparation of a master plan for


﻿-26 -
agricultural development of Casamance and for the pre-
paration of projects which shall be included in said
plan.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1980.


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the pur-
chase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guide-
lines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   Contracts shall be grouped so as to permit bulk procurement
consistent with appropriate technical standards and procurement
practices.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Any contract or any bulk contract estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent, may, up to an aggregate amount of $ 900,000
equivalent to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally
and in accordance with local procedures acceptable to the Associa-
tion.
2.   Furniture and equipment for staff offices, and equipment for
agricultural demonstrations, estimated to amount to less than
$10,000 equivalent, may, up to an aggregate amount of $ 200,000
equivalent to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, be
purchased after having obtained quotations from local suppliers.


﻿- 28 -
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-
factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and sim-
ilar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and
(iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expen-
ditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their
use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Senegal may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Sene-
gal if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association


﻿- 29 -
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Senegal equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group_B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Senegal.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall
be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A
after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the
importation of the goods offered in such group C bid; or (ii) 15%
of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and
taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in such further
comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if
not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison under
paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 30 -
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suf-
ficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the recommenda-
tions for award and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.


﻿-31-
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro--
ceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Association shall rea-
sonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.


