Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONl
Repb   No. 12147
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
KARACHI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1374-PAK)
JUNE 30, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 12147
Type: PCR
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department III
South Asia Regional Office
Tids document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Juue 30, 1983  US$1.00 - 0.92  SDR US$1.00 - F.Rs.13.00  P.Ro.1.00 - US$,077
June 30, 1988  Us$1.0G - 0.728 SDR US$1.00 - P.Ra.17.50  P.Rs.1.00 - US$.057
June 30, 1991  US$1.00 - 0.712 SDR US$1.00 - P.Ra.24.27  P.Re.1.00 - US$.041
ADB   -     Asian Develops-ant latkk
GOP   -     Government of Pakistan
GOS   -     Goverment of Sindh
INC   u    Karachi Matzopolitan Corporation
FYW.    8   Karachi Joint Water Board
KSDP  -     Karachi Jpecial Development Project
N   -       Karachi Water Management Board
K-SB          arachi Water & Sewerage Board
KDA   m     Karachi Development Authority
MIS   -     Management Information System.
ODA   -     Overseas Development Administration (UK)
PC-I  -     Proforma by Planning Commission
P-CR   -    Project Completion Report
SU1   -     Staff Appraisal Report
USAID =     United States Agency for International Development
JlyAL Je
July I - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Office Cf Director-General
Operations Evaluatioc
June 30, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:  Project Completion report on Pakistan
Karachi Water Sugnlv Project (Credit 1374-PAR)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Pakistan - Karachi Water
Supply Project (Credit 1374-PAR)," prepared by the South Asia Regional Office
with Part II contributed by the borrower.
This ambitious project has achieved most of its objectives, albeit with
significant delays.   Its physical scope was substantially expanded during
implementation resulting in major improvement in Karachi's water supply service.
Institutional improvements were commendable and large tariff increases
substantially improved revenue generation. However, the pilot domestic metering
progre-, has failed and billing and collection as well as control of revenue
losses need further improvement.   The financial performance targets set at
appraisal were unrealistic and could not be achieved under the project. The
follow on project, now under implementation, incorporates the required measures
to remedy these shortcomings. Accordingly, the overall outcome of the project
is rated as satisfactory, its sustainability as likely and its institutional
development as substantial.
The PCR adequately describes the project experience but it falls short
in its analyses and project cost and firancial information. The borrower's
contribution is of high quality. This project may be audited.
This document has a restricted distribution wid nmy be -6 ov recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disc vsed without World Bank authoritation.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
(CREDWM1374-PAK)
ncWBEOALMQBEE
Table of Contents
PRE*AC                     ... . *.*..........*......*.*....*.     . 4
EVALUATION SUI4Y  ......... .. .. ... .. .. ......  .   il
PART  I - PROECT MIE N           ID&'S mSPECTIVE . . . . . . . . . . . . 0   1
A. Project Identity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .0.0 ..0  . .*..0 ..000    1
B.  Background  a . . 0 0 . . . . . 0 0 0 0 . . . 0 0 . 0 o 0 . 0 . . . 0    1
C. Project Objectives and Description  .0. . .0.*.  .  .0...  .0 . .  .0.*.*.  2
D. Decign and Organization .0. 0 a 0 * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * o o 0   2
E. Project Implementation  . . . . . . * . * . . . 0 * . * 0 0 . 0 0 . 0   3
P. Project Results .*. . 0  0 0 0 0 . a 0 * * * *   0 0 9 0 0 * 0 0 . 0 * *   5
0. Project Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
R. IDA's Performance and Suggestions . . . . . . . * . a * a * * * * * .   9
1. Borrower's Performance  0 * 0 0 0 * * * o*o * * * 0 0 0 0 0 * *  o * * . 9
J.  Project Relationship  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 . 0 9
K. Consulting Servies,8 Contractors and Suppliers  . . . . .   * *   * *    10
L. Project Documentation and DMa  o   * 0000    .........* .    10
PART IIA - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE PERSPECTIVE OF THE
KARACHT DEMVLOPMENT AUTHORITY               0 . . .   . ... .   11
A. Adequacy and Accuracy of the Information Contained in Part III  . . .  11
B. Coments on Part I of the PCR 0 * 0 * * * * * * * * * * o * * * . . .  11
C. IDA's Performance During the Project  0 *.*  *  * * * * * *.  * . . . . .  12
D. Borrower's Own Performance During the Projects  . . . . . . . . . . .  12
E.  Effectiveness of Relationship Between IDA and the Borrower  . . . . .  13
F.  Performance of CofCofinrscirs .............0.....*        .a................    13
PART IIB - PROJECT REVIEW NIOG THE PERSPECTIVE OF THE
KARACHI WATER AND SEWERAGE BOARD           0. .. *      * 0 0    14
A. ReviewofProjectImplementation  ..a. .ooooooo.oooo    14
B. Project Results . .0.  0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 a 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 .   0  16
C. Cooents on PCRPart I . 0 00000.......   0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 .0 0 0 0 00  16
D.  Commts on PCR Part III  . 0.0.0. 0 0 0 0 0 a 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0   1s
E. Lessons Learned . . . . . . . . . 0 0 . . 0   0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0  19
p.  IDA's Performance During the Project  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
G. Effectiveness of Relationship Between IDA and the Borror  0 . 0 . 0  20
H.  Performoce of of      finecs er                                          20
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



P TUIII-  STATISTICA IIMFORM&TIO.. .. .              ... ..... .  ... .   22
1. Related Bak Loans/IDA Credi;s  . .............  ....23
2. Project Timetable . . .                            . . . . . . . .  24
3. Credit Disbursemente-Appraisal and Actual . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
4.  Implementation Schedule . . a . . e a  . . . . . . e  . . * * * * * .  26
5. Project Cost and Financing        . . .     . . . e     . . . . . . .   . *  .   27
6. Project Results.  . . . . . . . . . . .    . . . . . .                 28
7. Stat-'s of Covenants ........... ..... .....  33
8. Use of Staff Resources  o       a .   a . . . . . a . oo . . . . . *    34
I.  Details of Supplemental Works  *... . . a . .. . . . . . .   *. .     35
II. Schedule of Establisbmet Budgeted Grade-Wise Strength . . . . . . .  36
1II. KWSB Income Rates, Billing & Collection (Tables 3.1 & 3.2) . . 9 . *  37
IV.  Project Co't and Pinancing Details (Tables 4.1 to 4.3) . . . . . . .  39
V.  KWSB Balance Sheet of FY1985 thru FY1989 (Tables 5.1 thru 5.5) . . .  42



- i -
lKARACH WATE MUM O^
(CREDIT 1374-PAK)
PROJECT COMPLEON REOT
ERPCE
This is the Project Completion Report for the first Karachi Water Supply
Project, Cr. 1374-PAK. Under this project, SBR 23.0 millici (US$25.0 million
equivalent) was provided to the Government of Pakistan, and on-lent through the
Government of Sindh (GOS) and the Karachi Metropolitan Corporation (KMC) to the
executing agencies--Karachi Water and Sewerage Boar: (KWSB) and the Karachi
Development Authority (KDA).
The credit was signed on June 30, 1983 after formation of a semi-autonomous
agency, KWSB. The credit became effective on January 31, 1984, after signing of
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOS and DIC. The credit was closed on
October 31, 1991, and the final disbursement was paid on November 11, 1991.
Parts I and III were prepared by the Energy and Infrastructure Operations
Division, Country Department III, South Asia Region, with the assistance of the
Resident Mission in Pakistan. The two executing agencies (KDA and KWSB) prepared
separate and independent reviews which are included in Part II. Aside from
correction of minor typographical errors, the Part II submissions have not been
altered or edited. Copies of the government's submLssion are in the project
file.
This Completion Report is based In part on a review of the Staff Appraisal
Report, the Development Credlt Agreement and Project Agreement (between IDA and
GOS, KDA, KIC and KDA) supervision reports, project correspondence on file,
progress reports and data obtained from the executiag agencies.



- ii -
KACHRA  WATER SUPLROJEC
(l(REDIT 1374-PAKI
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EYAWIAflMf1MB
The first Karachi Water Supply Project (Cr. 1374-PAK) was initiated by the
Government of Pakistan (GOP) as part of a general sectoral strategy of extending
the potable water supply to the entire urban population. The credit also formed
part of a general sectoral objective of strengthrning urban government.
Obietives
The objectives of the project were to (a) inecrease Karachi's water supply
by 60 MGD; (b) introduce system and household metering; and (c) strengthen the
Karachi Watar and Sewerage Board (KWSB) through tecbnical assistance and
ttaining.
Implementation Exoerience
There was an initial delay of six months in signing the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement for credit effectiveness. Some delays also occurred in the start of
civil works due to late mobilization in swampy areas. However, these delays were
overcome, and by June 1987, the civil works implementation program was on
schedule and nearing completion. The original closing date was June 30, 1988.
In 1986, with almost all the contracts awarded, a cost saving of 9Z in
local currency and 19Z in foreign exchange was forecast for tht. project, mainly
due to change3 in exchange rates.  Supplemental works were included in the
project to use these savings (Part I, para. 5.2). However the PC-1 processiug,
review, and appraisal of these revisions, primarily in the GOP and the Goverrme'it
of Sindh (GOS), took two years, up to 1988. As a result project completion was
delayed by rlmost three years (Part I, para. 5.7).
the supplemental works were designed to improve siphon capacity in the
trunk system, and to convey 28 MGD of the additional supply through primary
distribution mains, to some inner city areas experiencing acute water shortages.
The latter objective was only partially achieved.
Results
As a result of major physical investments completed under the project,
Karachi is now getting between 60 to 70 MGD of new bulk water supply. However,
success in controlling leakages within the network has been limited. Meter
installation and repairti have improved revenue recoveries from bulk users, with
less effect on revenues from domestic consumers. Efforts to improve service
levels, especially in neigbborhoods that face acute shortages of water, have
continued in IDA's follow-on projects.
The project initiated KWSB's institutional developmont and strengthening
program.   KWSB has attained the capability to manage and execute large



- iii -
cons>tuction works, to operate and maintain the city's extensive water supply
system, and it ha* computerized its billing and collection operations. Further
work towards strengthening its revenue-related operations is in progress under
an Asian Development Bank Loan (No. TA 1246-PAK).   The project has helped
convince the GOS of the need to mak KWSB an efficient and financially viable
agency.  Important studies of operations and maintenance, expenditu'a control-
and metering were funded through the project. However, Implementation of their
recommendations has been slow. The financial covenant requiring KWSB to finance
a portion of its own capital investment could not be met during the project
implementation period. This condition has become a requirement of the ongoing
Second Karachi Water Supply and Sanitation Project (Cr. 1987-PAR, approved in
1989 for US$125 million; supplemental financing of US$91.9 million was approved
on February 9, 1993.
Sustanability
The project has resulved 12 increased long-term qcriatity and reliability
of bulk water supply to Karachi. The internal rate of return for the water
supply operations exceeds 8.81 per year.   In addition, the institutional
strengthening and streamlining of KWSB is a permanent improvement that will
benefit the agency, the city government, and the people of Karachl.
However, IWSB hao not achieved financial sustainability and still requires
subsidy. Continued financial efficiency and discipline, as well as increased
freedom from unnecee;&ary regulation, are required to ensure KWSB's financial
viability.
Flndingi and Lesons Lamged
!LDd41"u. All physical investments described in the Staff Appraisal Report
were successfully completsd.  The supplemental activities begun in 1988 added
distribution works and pumping units, spares, and maintenance equipment to the
original project contents.
Although there has been success with initial institutional development
activities, KWSB requires continued support and technical assistance to extend
and consolidate the gains achieved during this project.
The agency successfully implemented tariff revisions (almost quadrupling
the water tariff) in 1985, 1989, 1990, and 1992, Including a sewerage surcharge
of 75Z implemented in 1990.  KWSB plans to implement further major tariff
increases in the next few years, to meet financial covenants agreed under the
Second Karachi Water Supply and Sewerage Project.
However, tariff increases alone will not ensure financial viability. KWSB
must improve its technical and financial operational efficiency, control the
number of employees to keep wages in line, reduce excessive operational costs,
intensify billing and collection efforts, and cut losses due to leak.ges.
Lessons rLiated
The following lessons have been learned from the first project:
(a) Projects to increase bulk water supply to major urban centers can
Increase the supplier's revenue-generating capacity, and improve



- iv -
service levels to consumers, by including secondary distribution
network components (Part I, para 6.2).
(b) Provision of a continuous supply of water at workable pressures must
p'ecede any phased program of domestic metering (Part I, para 6.8.3).
(c) Institutional development is possible, even in unpromising conditions,
with sustalr.d technical assistance and training inputs over an
exteaded period (Part I, para 6.8).
(d) Further dialogue between the Association and the Borrower is necessary
to minimize delays in approvals from the gt.vernment (Part I, pare
3.3).
(e)  Achieving full  .nancial viability may have to be approached gradually
at first (Part I, para 4.3) when working with a new agency and
consolidating formerly dispe-sed functions for the fir..t time in a
large and rapidly growing city.



EKAIZCSU-WTERt SUPPL  BSC
(CRT 1374-PA
PROJEJ C()MPL=IQMON REIMR
PART I - PQaRIEW FROM IDA PERSPE
A.         let Idtlt
Project Name   :   Karachi Water Supply Project
Credit No.     t    1374-PAR
RVP Unit       s   SA3
Country        s   Pakistan
Sector         s   Infrastructure
Sub-sector     s   Water Supply
_.        Karachi has seen phenomenal growth since the Pakistan's independence
in 1947.  By 1989, the city's population was over 7 million, and growing at
around 4.7Z per annum-U.
2.        The Karachi Water and Sewerage Board (KWSB) was formed in 1983 as a
semi-autonomous body, with the Karachi Metropolitan Corporation (13C) Mayor as
its Chairmn, to address all sectoral affairs for the entire Metropolitan Karachi
area in a comprehensive way.  KWSB gradually took over bulk conveyace and
treatment worke from Karachi Development Authority (IDA). In addition, KWSB took
operation and financial control of the distribution system from KIC.  KWSB
initiated institutional development and strengthening measures, to enable it to
effectively mAnage all technical and financial matters related to water supply
and sewerage for Karachi.
3.        Sectoral Oblectives: The broad sectoral objectives conformed to goals
set out by a World Health Organization that visited Pakistan in November 1981.
The objectives were to raise service coverage for potable water supply from the
701 to 1002 of the population, and to raise service coverage for urban swerage
from 421 to 582 by 1990.
4.        An  additional  objective  was  to  support the national  goal of
strengthening provincial governments and major local government institutions by
improving financial management, taking effective control of critical municipal
services, and eventually organizing those services on a self-financing bais.
A strong, supportive local government and efficient delivery of urban services,
are essential components of the dynamic urban economic growth on which the
national economy will depend.
C.        froieU Ohhln and. DsdnU
5.        Pro2ect Objectives.  The project objectives at appraisal weres (o) to
increase RWSB's volume of water supply, through a net 60 MGD increase in
production; (b) to introduce system and household metering on a pilot basis, and
monitor demand patterns with the ultimato objective of more economic water use
I/ IDA Cr. 1987-PAR Staff Appraisal Report.



and volume-based pricing; and (c) to strengthen KWSB, and to enhance its
efficioney and financial viability, by providing managemnt assistance to improve
management information systems, accounting proceduress, and billing and
collection, and by providing funds for studying and engineering needed system
expansion.
6.        ProgSet Dasetintio.  The project consisted of physical components,
and operational, institutional, and financial Improvements, as described below.
(a)  The major physical co-aponents consisted of: (i) raised Ambankments on
the Gujjo Canal over a 17-kilometer length, to increase capaclty from
280 MOD to 315 MOD; (ii) a fourth line (3.74 km) of 84" diameter
pres-ressed concrete pipe in fourteen siphons (additional 70 MOD
capacity) on flash drai' crossing.; (iii) an additional 4.5-kilometer
longs, 72" diameter steel force main from Dhabeji Pumping Station (PS)
to High Point; (iv) modifications at Dhabeji PS to increase capacity,
and a 3.2-kilometer long additional 11 XV electrical connection to
increase power supply; (v) a 25 MCD clarifier ad"ttion at Pipri
Treatment Plant (TP)l (vi) pumps, electric connection, force main and
ancillary works at Pipri TP; (vii) repair and rehabilitation of about
16.5 kilometers of trunk mains from 18" to 48" diameters and a new
pump stations (viii) 5,000 residential water meters installed on a
pilot basis; (ix) expansions to an existing metor repair workshop and
calibration and test facilities; and (x) vehicies and equipment for
KWSS for effective maintenance.
(b) The major operational improvements included: (i) establishment of a
leak detection cell; (ii) implementation of a leak detection program;
(4 ii) implementation of a meter re-calibration programs (iv)
implementation of a pilot metering program; and (v) studies for system
expansion.
(c) The Institutional Improvements envisioned under the project included
providing assistance tcs (i) revalue KWSB's fixed assets; (ii)
establish Management Information Systems (MIS); (iii) introduce
double-entry bookkeeping and accrual accounting; and (iv) prepare and
implement a staff training program.
(d)  Financial improvements includeds (i) preparation of a register of
consumers; (ii) computerized billing in phases; (iii) Improvement of
the billing and collection system; and (iv) periodic review of
financial performance and revision of tariffs and policies to meet
financial targets.
D.         k      d   achadcr
7.        Doj,g    The project was designed to improve water supply service
levels in Karachi, to support and strengthen KWSB, and to encourage financially
sustainable investments in urban muicipal services through the introduction of
full cost recovery from beneficiaries. The project was well prepared, ond the
design supported project and sector objectives. The majority of the physical
works helped increase levels of water supply, and the remainder, water meters,
cwtributed directly to the project objective of a pilot metering program, and
indirectly to the goals of financial oustainability and institutional efficiency
for KWSB. The operational improvements enhanced KWSB's service capacity and
streng'henad Its organization. The institutional and financial Improvements were



- 3 -
essential first steps for KWSB's evolution as a strons autonomous agency. IDA
and the Borrower agencies shared this clear concept of the project design.
8.        During implementation, the project design changed in two minor ways.
First, to reduce costs, work on the primary distribution network was restricted
to repair and rehabilitation of trunk mains.   Subsequently during project
Implementation, some supplemental distribution works were also included in the
project, funded by cost savings realized through changes in the exchange rate.
Both of these modifications were marginal responses to unexpected changes in the
availability of funds, and neither compromised the project objectives or impugned
the original design.
9.        In retrospect, the only flaw in the project design was the requirement
that KWSB achieve financial independence during the project. Work with a new
agency, consolidating formerly dispersed functions for the first time in a large
and rapidly growing city, suggests that the achievement of full financilo
viability in the early years was an over-optimistic goal.
10.       The civil works primarily consisted of expansiong duplication or
repair of the existiug system only, and no design innovation was involved. The
institutional strengthening measures were innovative in the context of public
service agencies in Karachi, but not by the standards of cities in other
countries.
11.       Organization.   Major physical components under the project were
executed through IDA, which already had substantial experience and staff trained
in the execution of large civil works. KDA also undertook the feasibility study
for future expansion of the system. KWSB carried out the rehabilitation of the
existing mains.   Institutional development of KWSB was supported through
technical assistance and training provided by accounting and management
consultants under the project. This arrangement provided a clear delineation of
project responsibilities, which was well understood by all parties, and helped
in a smooth implementation of the project.
EL        ProXxLbEplemention
12.       Project  implementation was  generally  smooth,  rith  costs  below
appraised costs in SDR terms sud no overall slippages in schedule for the
original de'ign.  The project lasted longe ! than expected because additional
supplemental work was included during implementation.
13.       Supplemental Works. Due to changes in exchange rates, a cost saving
of about 192 of the foreign exchange component was projected in 1986.  These
savings finaneed supplemental work to strengthen the supply mains, in order to
facilitate conveyance end distribution of the additional water to the chronically
water deficient inner city areas. Two other components were added, namelys (a)
two 25 MOD pumps, motors and spares to restore standby capacity at Dhabeji, and
(b) Siphon 8 commissioning for raising conveyance capacity to 280 MOD.
14.       Project Costs.  The cost of the completed project (Table 5) was Rs
780.764 million (including the actual cost of supplemental works, training of 12
engineers, and a policy tour added in 1989). This total is 64U higher than the
appraised cost of Rs 475 million in terms of current rupees.    owever,
comparisons in current rupees are misleading because of continual change in
exchange rates. The best objective standard is the SDR. IDA disbursed SDR 22.4
million under this project against an original loan amount of SDR 23 million,



4
despite performing supplemental work not included in the initial design.
Therefore, the cost of the project was at least SDR 0.63 million lea than
expected.
15.       KDA managed its part of the project efficiently, and there were
practically no cost overruns. The only significant increase in cost for the RK
portion of the project was on cleaning siphons and breaking walls which was about
Rs 10 million above estimates. This is explained by the perilous conditions of
working in running water.5f Nowever, this cost increase was more than offset
by substantial savings on Dhabeji Force Mains and particularly on Pipri treatment
plant components, where a total saving of Rs 27 million was effected compared to
the Rs 103 million appraisal cost estimate.
16.       KWSB performed work on the rehabilitation, repairs and replacement of
trunk mains, with the assistance of local consultants.   The contractors'
performance on this part of the project was not satisfactory. This was partly
attributable to very low rates initially quoted by these contractors at the
tender stage, followed by various legal claims soon after award, which ultimately
resulted in the cost of these works increasing to 27S above the highest bid and
causing delays of up to 62 months. The interconnection of the 18" diameter line
to Hauripur and Federal Trunk main could not be completed as required, because
of these implementation problems.
17.       Schedule. Project implementation was also well controlled against the
project scheoule, and initial mobilization delays were overcome by 1988.
Escalation claims were speedily settled within the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)
price contingency provision. The project closed later than originally planned
1"ecause of addition of supplemental works and delays in the implementation of
those works.
18.       The PC-1 for the supplemental work was prepared in 1988 and revised
in 1989. Tentative approval was accorded and works started in April 1988.
Because of the delays in preparation and approval of ths PC-1 and the resulting
delays in completion of these supplemental works, the closing date for the credit
was extended. Three annual extensions were granted and the credit finally closed
on October 31, 1991. However, even vith the extensions, a part of the conveyance
and distribution system expansion envisioned under the supplemental works could
not be fully completed. As a result, very little of the additional 28 MOD supply
actually reached the downstream scarcity areas. The slow pace of lmplementation
of the supplemental works (despite the originally stated emergency nature of
these works) indicates that some shortcomings still remain in the technical and
institutional capacity of KWSB, the implementing agency.
19.       IMrtant  Decisions.        The  basic  decision  to  support  and
institutionally strengthen the newly formed [WSB through this project was
extremely important, and its positive benefits in terms of enhanced Institutions'
capacity and improved level of aunicipal services to the city of Karachi are
already obvious. The second important decision taken at the project design stage
was to entrust the execution of the major physical components to KM while KWSB
gained needed experience in the field. The third important decision, taken
2/ An accident took a toll of six lives in siphon 6, which later slowed down
progress as an enquiry committee ordered work during winter only when water
shortage was not so acute. Closures by putting gates on both sides was
made compulsory.



- 5 -
midway through the project, was to use the SDR savings to finance necessary
supplemental works, Including restoration of vitally needed standby pumping
capacity at Dhabeji.
F.        Projec Resul
20.       The project achieved almost all the original objectives, and an
additional set of accomplishments performed under the supplemental works.
21.        w ater  ip.    Physical components included in the project were
satisfactorily completed except for two interconnections mentioned under Section
5. KWSB's bulk water production and conveyance capability has increased by
around 60 MOD.
22 *eteXriA  Repair. IXstalation and Waste Control.  A pilot metering
program was initiated to monLtor patterns of demand with a view to ultimately
a.-.leving more rational water use through proper pricing. For bulk consuaers
where the metered supply was already in effect, a large number of meters were
found defective and under-recording. About 400 out of the 500 installed were
damaged, and these were repaired or replaced.
23.       Under the domestic pilot metering program, 484 meters from KWSB stores
were installed in RDA Scheme 1, and approximately 1300 meters in low and middle
income areas of Scheme 5.  However, the resulting information obtained was
inconsistent, and a more detsiled study has been completed and an action program
(financed by the Overseas Development Administration under Cr. 1987-PAK) is
satisfactory.
24.       TraihniS ProEram.   Twelve engineers have completed a two-month
training program at a British University, and job training with Water Supply and
Sewerage Consultants in the U.K. KWSB is contemplatlng creation of a new design
cell where these trained personuel can be effectively utilized. A Training
Institute has also been established and conducts regular lectures and workshops.
25.       Study and Policy Tour.  The managing director and senior officers of
KWSB, along with XNC councilors on water affairs, undertook an overseas study and
policy tour in September 1991. This opportunity to study the positive results
achieved by some other water agencies, including the Istanbul Water and Sewerage
Authority, will provide important lessons for KWSB's future policy decisions.
26.       Economic and Financial Viabilt .  The average incremental cost of
water provided under the project on completion is estimated as Rs 4.05 per 1,000
gallons.   The internal rate of return (IRR)31 of the completed project is
/     IRR calculations are based on the following assumptions (taken from the
1983 SAR): (a) additional water becomes available from loss reduction
efforts included in the project (explicit quantification of the extent of
this is not available, but the latter calculation assumes gains starting
in 1987-88, to reflect the delay in implementation of the loss reduction
program); (b) the additional water from enhanced facilities, as well as
from loss reduction will be sold at the going tariff rates.   This
assumption is somewhat untenable as the project did not provide for
secondary and tertiary network additions to distribute the additional
water, and because about 70S of the water supply is unmetered.  As a
result, not all the additional water will generate additional revenues; and



- 6 -
estimated at 8.8Z (Table 6-C).  This return compares favorably with an IRR of
8.2Z projected at the time of appraisal. The computed IRR of 8.8Z understates
total benefits, because it does not Include non-quantifiable benefits.   The
project has contributed to reduction in health risks by increased supply of piped
,water to more people at Improved pressures.   It has  contributed to the
improvement in institutional capability of an agency providing vital municipal
services. It will ultimately contribute towards environmental improvement
through control of leakages and localized flooding.   It has helped the
government's poverty alleviation efforts, as the beneficiary population includes
a significant proportion of low income groups.
27.       Benefits.  (Ref. Table 6) The benefits that have been realized as a
result of the project include:
(a)  Institutional Development:  This project has helped RWSB take the
first steps towards institutional development. These have included
computerization of the billing and collection system, modernization
of the accounts and financial system, development of information
database, establisbment of an independent Leak Detection Cell and a
Development Directorate within KWSB.   In addition,  a cadre with
technical competence has been built up within the organization to
operate, maintain  and  expand the system.   During  the project
implementation period, KWSB has accumulated capital assets in the form
of machinery, equipment, and vehicles.
(b) However, agency achievements and improvements in the provision of
services, though significant, still leave considerable room for
further improvement. The 1990 auditors' report expresses coutinuing
concern with regard to over-staffing, remaining gaps in the accounting
system and loopholes in construction umangement.
(c) Detection of faulty bulk meters and their repair at KWSB's expanded
workshop has increased agency revenues considerably. A large number
of illegal connections have been detected and regularized, plugging
substantial revenue leaks.   However, the results of installing
domestic meters in KDA Scheme No.1 and Seheme No.5 have not proved
encouraging. Meter tampering, air locks, and irregular (even reverse)
flows from consumer tanks have hampered efforts at establishing a
realistic correlation between billing and actual supplied volume.
(d) Sectoral Growth: The additional bulk production and supply of around
60 MGD of water constitutes an expansion of about 162 of the present
total supply to the city. This has provided some Immediate relief to
consumers and reduced some of the political and social pressures on
GOS, KMC, and KWSB for additional water, at least in the short term.
(e) The water treatment capacity of the system has increased by 25 MGD
through the installation and commissioning of the clarifier at Pipri.
This constitutes 12% of total present capacity.
(e) from 1992-93 onward, there will be an increase of 10 in tariffs in
real terms after every two years.



-7
A.~~~~~~~~~~~~ 7 -
(f) Two additional pump-motor sets and vital spares provided at Dhabejit
through the supplemental works have raised the additional system
pumping capacity by nearly 70 MGD.
(g) Human Resourcess The KWSB started operations with about 5,000 workers
transferred from RDA and KHC and about 1,000 new employees. When the
credit was closed, KWSB had a budgeted staff of about 119900, of which
about 9,200 workers are engaged in water supply operations (AnnexDus-
II).  Staff and labor redundancy is becoming a matter of serious
concern as the agency tries to improve efficiency and reduce
operational costs.
(h)  Tochnologlcal Environment:   The project has been instrumental in
bringing the technical and financial issues related to the provision
of essential urban municipal services into sharper focus. While some
successes have been achieved, most of the issues initially addressed
through this project are being pursued further in follow-up projects.
It has also helped raise general public awareness about such issues
in other parts of the country.
G.        Prolect Sustalnabilt
28.       Under the project, KWSB developed considerable technical and financial
competence.  However, it was unable to meet the project's financial covenant
designed to ensure the agency's financial self-sufficiency.   The financial
covenants agreed at the time of credit negotiations for Cr. 1374-PAZ required
KWSBI's revenues to cover (a) its operating expenses and debt servicing by 1985/86
and (b) a progressively increasing portion of its capital investment needs (302
by 1988/89). These covenants could not be fulfilled during implementation of
this project, and were passed on to the follow-on project Cr. 1987-PAR.
29.       In retrospect,  the financial covenant was probably unreasonably
optimistic. KWSB emerged in the 1980s as an entirely new institution with a new
set of responsibilities, never before collected in one organization in Karachi*
It has made enormous strides to meet its responsibilities for water and sewerage
delivery to a fast-growing  city of over eight million people,  and has
understandably needed financial support during this initial phase of growth.
30.       However, KWSB's financial performance continues to be a matter of
concern. An mission visited Karachi in February 1992 to re-appraise the project
to determine the extent of supplemental financing requirements. The mission
reviewed the financial projections for the current financial year and suggested
a series of measures that KWSB should undertake imediately, includings reducing
operational expenditures (wage bill, inflated medical benefits, subsidized tanker
supplies); increasing efficiency (water loss reduction through improved leak
detection and repair); and enhancing revenues (through improved collection
performance and a series of periodic tariff increases).
31.       The  emerging  federal  government  policies  of privatization  and
decentralized control of provincial revenues, will create an environment in which
such autonomous institutions can become self-sustaining. With the icreasing
urbanization in Sindh, its changing demographic complexion and political
alignments, there now appears to be a greater political willingness to grant
freedom to institutions such as KWSB for devising their own tariff levels and
collection policies.   KWSB has shown  a willingness and ability to raise
additional revenues and reduce costs.



32.       *&Ur -Wes.  Water rates were revised in 1985 and in 1989.  The
approximate average increase In 1985 was 33Z (252 for domestic consumers and 55S
for other categories) . In 1989 the average increase was about 322 (202 dometic
and 552 other categories) . A swerage surcharge equal to 752 of the water tariff
was introduced in July 1990. Collectively these measures have resulted in an
aggregate Increase of around 135Z since 1988. To meet the covenant conditions
starting July 1, 1992, RKSM  revised its overall water charges again by an average
of 702 These tariff adjustmets have resulted in more than a four-fold increase
over the 1988-93 period.
33.      Ogeratgin Costs. From 1984 to 1989 recurring costs increased annually
by only 42; in real tems, they declined.  The recovery ratio showed an
improvement from 1987-88 to 1990-91, increasing from 97Z to 1041.
34.       KWB  has  conmissioned  two major  studies  (an  organization  and
management study and an expenditure control study), to identify inefficiencies
in organization and operations and to develop strategies to eliminate them. The
recommendations of both studies are now being implemented. The organization and
management recommendations have resulted in a restructured RWSB organization,
with strengthened upper management, increased delegation of authority,
developmnt of job descriptions and position qualifications, improved matching
of job skills with position qualifications, and establishment of functional
departments in line with current and projected organizational goals.  The
exenditure control study has begun to implement strategies to control
ependitures on medical coverage, water tanker service, and overtime payments.
In the longer term, KWSB expects some reductions in unit operating costs, through
economies of scale.
35.       IMMn   a29nn In the 11lling and Collection SyAtem. KWSB made serious
efforts during the mid 1980s to improve the collection rate (which reached SO8
of current receivables), including pecuniary incentives to the collaction staff.
However, the rate had slipped to 70% by 1989-90. The budget target for the
current fiscal year is 752 of current receivables plus 102 of arrears.
36.       Significant improvements  are being made under the ADB financed
technical assistance (TA 1246-PAR) for Strengthening of Billing and Collection
Operations.  A Bill Distribution Monitoring System and a Daily Collection
Reporting system have been established. Recovery rules and regulations have been
revised and service disconnection strategy developed.   ADB and IDA will
coordinate in implementing the water lose reduction program and installing
hardware/software in the revenue units. Automation in the Tax Division began in
1992. A major effort to take iaventory of bills and clean-up divisional records
is also underway.
37. *     Acountina. Fiancial Renortina and  ndemendent Audits.  KWSB now
prepares and publishes audited annual accounts. However, these are generally not
available until almost a year after the close of the financial year (15 montEs
for 1989-90 accounts), instead of the currently covenanted nine months. The
accounts are audited by independent commercial auditors, approved by IDA.
Updated project-wise audited account figures therefore are not readily available.
38.       On the whole, the institutional and financial strengthening process
initiated through Cr. 1374-PAK has been successful in increasing awareness of the
major issues. Necessary remedial measures havo largely been identified.



- ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     9
1IL      IDAsm Permane and s_neat
39.       TDA maintained a responsive and flexible position throughout project
implementation. During the execution stageg staf f changes in top managerial
positions at the agency level were no numerous that it vas in fact the IDA
supervision missions that supplied necessary continuity to the project.
Technical suggestions made by visiting supervision missions, such as the one
relating to improvement of prestressed concrete pipes, were effective in
improving the quality of the project.  The aonitoring by IDA staff of the
physical indicators included in the appraisal report was intermittent, and the
covenant requiring timely submission of agency project accounts and audit report.
to IDA was not rigorously enforced. IDA was only reminded of its obligation to
submit audited project accounts in 1989. However, this wa a conscious decision
by IDA, agreed vith agency personnel, and was probably the only course available
in light of evolving accounting systems at MOSB.
40.       IDA's timely advice about expected cost savings, due to exchange rate
fluctuations, resulted in maximizing overall project benefits for the Borrower,
through the inclusion of supplemental works.
41.       There was a reduction in the frequency of IDA supervision missions In
the period between March 1986 and August 1988, which is attributed in part to the
reorganization and related changes at the World Bank headquarters. This period
overlaps with the period during which PC-1 approval for supplemental works
remained pending with government. This illustrates the need for regularly spaced
supervision missions, and the positive role such missions can play in identifying
and removing procedural bottlenecks that threaten timely project implementation.
L         Bnme8 Enmom
42.       The main strengths and weaknesses of KWSB have been outlined in
Section 6. Delays occurred in the preparation and approval of PC-1 documents for
supplemental works, and these procedures need streamlinint. There have been
recent indications that GOP is now willing to allow the provinces grater
autonomy in making revisions to the detailed composition of individual projects
within the agreed project concept and financial envelope.  In addition to
procedural difficulties, political upheavals and changes. both at federal and
provincial level also caused Implementation delays.
43.       There was great enthusiasm for the project and exemplary cooperation
between KWSB and IDA through 1988. Even thorny issuesO such as the division of
assets and liabilities, were resolved amicably.
44,       Initially, RDA took the leading role in the preparation of PC-1
documents with the guidance of GOP and GOS. INC played an effective role in the
property survey and registration of customers, billing and collection9 initially
through a comercial bank and later through its own staff. This function is now
completely under KUSB control. and is shoving progressive improvement.
1         Raft .ela.slX
45.       IDA-Borrower relationship generally rsmained smooth throughout the
various phases of project implementation.



- 10 -
KC        CosulIne Serv. Contrdo, and SupollI
46.       Comultants employed for the system expansion studies (called phase
V) financed through the project generally performed their job well. As a result,
their services were retained by KWSB for the detailed design and supervision of
the follow-on project (Second Karachi Water Supply & Sanitation Project). The
in-house KDA consultant performed satisfactorily by effectively controlling
project quality and cos-, and by assisting RDA in amicably settling escalation
claims on contracts well within budgetary limits, resulting in practically no
cost overruns . The accounts and management consultant devised the accounting
forms and system and prepared an Accounts Mauual for the agency.
47.       Contractors' & suppliers' performances were generally satisfactory,
except for two local KWSB contractors involved with the work on rehabilitation
of trunk mains.
L         frsjg Dcummotdon and Data
48.       Throughout the project implementation period, IDA's 5AR remained the
single  comprehensive  reference,  documenting  the project.   However,  some
indicators included in the report (like standposts), became less significant in
view of subsequent developments in the subsector (increasing regularization of
Vatchi Abadis and individual house connections).  In retrospect, additional
indicators such as information related to water treatment would have oroved
useful.
49.       Progress reports prepared by KWSB did not fully address IDA's
concerns, and largely reflected the weak institutional capacity of the agency.
These reports described project components primarily based on the PC-1 document
which did not correspond with the SAR items. Considerable difficulties in data
collection and comparison were therefore encountered during Project Completion
Report (PCR) preparation.
50.       There has been a considerable improvement in KWSB's performance in
this  regard  since the  implementation  of  this  credit.    The  quality  of
documentation and reports being prepared by KWSB for the follow-on project (Cr.
1987-PAK) is noticeably better, both in terms of form as well as content. The
centralized database being evolved under the KWSS development directorate
(through efforts of recent IDA missions) will fulfill a long-standing and crucial
need. On future projects, therefore PCR teams should find the report compilation
exercise much simpler.



- 11 -
1PART nR. PRO.IE' REVIEW FROM BONRQOWERS PERSPECaIVE
Two borrower agencies, Karachi Development Authority and Karachi Water and
Sewerage Boards, prepared independent versions for Part II. The submissions of
both agencies are Included in this report.
PART 1   KCHI DEVELAQPM(NT AUY (Jme 16,1992)
A.  A&MM ad AeMac pf the Information Conted In Pr m
1.        The information contained Part III "Annexes & Tables" of PCR showing
the "Project Timetable," "Implementation Schedule,' "Credit Disbursement," etc
is correct, as far as IDA component is concerned. However, scme errors were
found in Table 4.3,'/ "Appraisal, Actual Cost & Financing," and a corrected copy
is enclosed. The increase in the IDA funding is due to the payment received
against KDA application nos. 97, 98 and 99 vide payment advice dated November 13,
1991.
L    CgMmentsonFartIofthe PC
2.        The review tf the Karachi Water Supply Project, IDA Credit 1374-PAK,
contained in Part-I of PCR appears complete to the extent of projects executed
through KDA. As a result of works executed under GKBWSS, Phase-IV, Stage-I, 50
MNO additional water is made available in bulk, out of which 28 MNO is brought
to the inner city areas of Karachi. Feasibility Study for Future Expansion of
water supply for Karachi from Indus source was also undertaken, as a result of
which ways and means for augmenting bulk water supply to meet the future
requirements were identified.
3.        In the preface of PCR it is mentioned that most of the civil works
were awarded by early 1986. In this regard it may be pointed out thax the civil
works of 4th Phase, Stage-I, of Greater Karachi Bulk Water Supply Schem under
takev by IDA started in May 1984. All the works were awarded by mid-1985 and
were timely completed in June 1987. The work of breaking of walls and removal
of obstructions in syphons and 280 MCD Conduit was completed in March, 1989.
4.        As far as the availability of audited figures for project expenditure
is concerned, the audit reports for IDA funded expenditures weis forwarded to all
concerned as was being dons for credit 1652-PAK for fiscal year 1986-87 to 1989-
90. At no stage it was objected that GOP portion of Audit Report were missing.
5.        Later, howevers, during a meeting with the World Bank representatives
on 11-11-1991 the requirement for audit of the expenditure against the
counterpart GOP funding was discussed. It was pointed out by the KDA Officials
that if it is now desired to conduct the audit of GOP portion also then it may
officially be conveyed so that in due course of tim the same may be arranged
through couercial auditors. The representatives of World Bank promised in the
meeting that they would xamine the whole case and convey the requirement if
necessary. It is regretted that no further action was taken by the World Bank
in this matter, otherwise complete audited figures could have been made available
on request froa the World Bank.
4/ A corrected copy has been provided by govornmeat and Part III has been
amended accordingly.



- 12 -
6.        ID& a performance remained satisfactory during the evolution and
implementation of the project 'No objections' as and when requested by KDA were
accorded without delay. Issues and problems arising during the implementation
stage were resolved amicably. The regular supervisory missions of IDA staff,
having experience of similar project, contributed by making fruitful suggestions
at various stages of the work. They also helped in removing the bottlenecks,
whenever necessary.
7.        The performance of Disbursement Division, in general, and the Resident
Mission at Islamabad in particular, were exemplary.   The payments of KDA
Applications were made expeditiously and procurement of equipment and materials
from abroad was facilitated by assisting in establishing the letter of credits
and making direct payments to the suppliers In their foreign banks.
8.        Further, the saving in the project due to exchange rate fluctuations
were   identified   well   in   time   for   their   utilization   towards
Additional/Supplemental works.
9.        The covenant regarding submission of audit reports were, however, not
closely monitored and KDA was reminded only in 1989 to submit the same.
Commercial audit of IDA Credit 1374-PAK was conducted immediately and the audit
reports were forwarded to World Bank on similar pattern as was being done for
credit 1652-PAK.
10.       It is required that for future credits the financial covenants be
obsorved closely from the very beginning.
D. BIMoraffnmmuOn     eDn hzDdsifroem
11.       The Greater Karachi Bulk Water Supply Scheme, Phase-IV Stage-I,
project was prepared by IDA taking into consideration the existing facilities
with udinium of works to provide extra water of 50 MGD to Karachi. After
completion of this project, 50 MOD is available at Pipri out of which 28 MOD is
brought to inner city areas of Karachi. Balance 22 MND of water together with
provisions for future 20 MGD of 4th Phase, Stage-I1, works are being undertaken
separately by KWSB. 25 MOD clarifier capacity wa also added at Pipri treatment
Plant.
12.       Throughout the project, the perfornmance of IDA remained satisfactory.
The works were timely completed in June,, 1987, with practically no cost over-runs
due to efficient project scheduling and cost and quality controls through its
trained and experienced staff.
13.       During the progress of works the KWSB met a number of maintenance
hardships and sought assistance for procurement of spare parts and additional
motors which were arranged by KDA, for the much needed stand-by pumping capacity
at Dhabsji, with the approval of World Bank.
14.       Due to efficient implementation of the project by IDA and increase in
$DR rates a compared to rupee value, a substantial saving occurred in Cr. 1374-
PAK. As a result, to utilize the savings, supplemental works were included In
the project for equitable distribution of 28 NOD of water to inner city areas of
Karachi experiencing acute water shortages. The PC-1 was accordingly revised by
RDA.



- 13 -
15.       The cooperation between RDA and WSI remaied excellent throughout the
project. The progress of works and expenditures incurred were revised from tim
to time. It was the result of this cooperation that the savinrg8 in the credit
were identified at an early stage and procurement of additional equipment for
Dhabeji Pumping Station and execution of Supplemental work was made possible.
This spirit and excellent relationship remained till the end of the project which
is evident from the fact that reimbursoment claims for the expenditure on
supplemental worko were amicably settled before the loau closing date.
16.       The covenant regarding submission of audit report to IDA was, however,
not observed closely and the audited accounts were only submitted by KDA when
raminded by IDA.
17.       The relationship between IDA and RDA remained professional and cordial
throughout the evolution and implementation of the project.   The regular
supervision missions helped in developing personal relationship. Whatever date
and information requested by IDA was immediately provided. Sximlarly any help
and  assistance  required  from  Resident  Mission,  Islamabad,  or  other
representatives of World Bank, was readily available.   Mutual cooperation
resulted in timely decisions, removal of any procedural bottlenecks and
successful completion of this project.
F.   furofmaDm ml  lnandemn
18.       The counterpart funding for the project was provided by Government of
Pakistan. The monitoring of the project by Federal and Provincial authorities
helped in identification and removal of bottlenecks that could have threatened
the timely completion of works.
19.       There is, however, room for improvement in the procedure for obtaining
approval of PC-1 and the time period inolved needs to be minimized.



. 14 -
PARtT li. I K"ACHI NA=  ANID SKETB&D BCDAB
A.  BoLEIuL bOIMnRmomntl
l.        PCR-Part I Paragraph 6 succinctly describes various components of the
projoct. FollowUng are brief comaments on their Implementation status.
2.        All the physical components listed in Paragraph 6(a) are complete as
specified in the project. Some constraints in interconnections at the Federal
and the PIPRI Trunk Mains were encountered because total closure of water supply
was difficult, which delayed interconnection several times. But these inter-
connections have been established now.
3.        The Pilot metering program envisaged installation of 500 bulk and 4500
domestic meters. All the 500 bulk metors were installed, 400 of these were later
found damaged. They have been replaced/repaired nov and are being monitored.
Although bulk metering program is facing some consumer resistance, KWSB is
nevertheless determined to achieve success. The experience of the installation
of domestic meters, a total of 1783, is not encouraging mainly because of
frequent meter tampering, air locks and intermittent water supply.
4.        An action program for revenue metering has been identified.  It is
currently under active review for developing a consensus and allocating required
funds.
S.        A meter workshop has been established and the meter-calibration
program is in progress.
6.        Referring to the components listed in Paragraph 6(b), relating to
operational improvements it may be observed that the Leak Detection (LD) Cell was
actually established during 1984 when it started repairs of visible leakages only
but the system was not planned on the basis of a leakage policy and a time bound
work program.   However experience was gained by  involving international
consultants having related experience elsewhere. Now under IDA Cr. 1987-PAK, the
Leakage Division has been reactivated through the mobilization of KWSB staff and
the consultants M/s. MHIL(UK). Leak detection equipment was purchased under ODA
grant and initial training in its use ha been provided. Pipe location equipment
has been purchased and on the job training given in its use. This training is
still continuing under the supervision of both expatriate and local consultants.
Some off-the-job training will also be needed if this objective is to be
achieved.   Action Program for leak detection and water loss reduction has
determined revised priorities of urgently required investments and probable time
schedule.   Concurrence is &waited and additional funds are being sought to
implement the program.s' Some re-appropriation arrangements have already been
made with the Bank under Cr. 1987-PAK to rehabilitate the Rub Main Trunk. Also
a Loss Reduction policy is being evolved for future implementation.
SI The Bank has issued its no objection end the action program is underway
(3/19/93).



- 15 -
7.        The  feasibility  study  for the  system  expansion has  also been
completed.
8.        Regarding institutional improvements listed in Paragraph 6(c), it may
be mentioned that the MIS for KWSB has been established and a new Planning
Evaluation and MIS department has been created in KWSB for the maintenance and
further improvements in the system.
9.        Accounting procedures have been streamlined and computerized as
stipulated in the project. Accounting manuals have been developed.
10.       An crganizational re-structuring is underway in KWSB.  Several new
departments have already been created such as Planning Evaluation and MIS, and
Development Wing for implementation of Projects.   The re-structuring and
streamlining is now being carried out within individual departments.
11.       Training Department has been set-up which is now conducting short-
courses to familiarize staff with the recently introduced automated financial
techniques. This department will eventually become the training center providing
intensive in-house training to its staff. Besides, KWSB has arranged specially
tailored courses for its accountants through the co-operation of the Instituto
of Cost  and Management Accountants  of Pakistan.   KWSB's  staff  is also
participating in Courses at PETROMAN and National Institute of Public
Administration.   Human Resource Development is a high priority for KWSB
management and in this connection KWSB has now started construction of a skill
Training Center locate at 9th mile at a cost of Rs. 6.0 million funded under IDA
Cr. 1987-PAR.
12.       In order to improvo overall technical and financial efficiency,
several studies under a comprehensive Institutional Strengthening Project have
been completed. The recommendations are being scrutinised by the Board and
stage-wise implementation is under way through Implementation Assistance Program.
Career Planning and Development of KWSB Engineers is also a training activity
being looked into for further expansion by Training Directorate.
Fandal Comnonenb
13.       The components relating to financial improvement have also been
completed.
14.       Starting almost from scratch, KWSB has prepared computerized records
of all the consumers vwhich are about a million now. Billing system bas been
fully internalized and computerized.  Collection is through nominated bank
branches and daily reconciliation has been started with some success.  Further
improvements in this area are in progress with the help of the ADB sponsored
Revenue Advisor under TA-1246.
15.       In order to facilitate the payments by the domestic consumers
according to their affordability limits, the Board is in the process of switching
from yearly to quarterly billing.
16.       While the recommendation of the Expenditure Control Study are under
the scrutiny of the Board, some significant achievements have been made in
controlling recurring expenditures (Table-I).   Expenditure on water supply



- 16 v
through takers has been reduced by 252 during last year. Similarly expenditure
of POL and chemicals has been reduced by 14S in one year.
IT
=UU _Mff SHM _R LDUCllIINN hKEXND=JR
IN MAOMN BEMZ I=ENYA 199269
# ~~~(UPrO JUE30, 19Q2)
(Rs In nUo)
SR.                            EXPUDTTURB        EIPENDITUE
NR.    DESCRIPTION                1990-91            1991-92       SAVINGS
01    Iolport of                  241.56            225.00          16.56
n.intmne6n Work
02     Watr Suply                 40.00              30.00          10.00
through Tankers
03    aodicaFaoaiti.              70.60              68.00          3.6,
to Eaptoyo                                           _   __
04    PL As Chinlcats             40.37              40.37          6.63
Total                      399.16             363.37         35.79
| . .  _=      0       .    .  .                S  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- --- -- r- --- z 
17.      Due to political constraints, the KWSB was unable to increase
tariffs as envisaged. However, it has now been decided that effective from
January, 1993, water rates will be increased by 501. It may be mentioned here
that the management of KWSB is constrained by the parametric limits determined
by IACIGOS, which have to take into account social implications of their
deciaons.
L.
I8O       The project has resulted in an increase of bulk water supply by 50
MOD as was stipulated. This has provided some relief to the acute water
shortages in the city.
19.       In addition to this, additional water has been made available
through controlling water losses. While exact quantification of this
additional water is difficult, it is estimated to be close to the target of 10
MGD. This has been achieved by repairing the relatively large leakages in the
Mains. However, significant leakages still exist in the system.
20.       The ex-post Cost-Benefit Analysis as contained in PCR-Part I and
Table-6c (Part-III), though based on somewhat heroic assumptions due to lack
of more accurate data, showv the financial viability of the project. In
addition there are significant non-quantifiable benefits which are expected to
accrue in due course. In view of those benefits there is no doubt about the
economic viability of the project. An obvious example of such benefits is the
support provided by the project in the establishment and development of the
Board itself. The Board's contribution to the management of the city is now
so aignificaat that it is difficult to think of the socio-econoamic future of
Karachi without it. Much of the credit of the radical changes which have
taken place in the approach of water supply management to the city is
attributable to this project. The development of information data base,
development of various manuals and standardization of procedures with regard
to major activities during this project, vill be instrumental in the
evaluation, implmentation and effective management of pricing and revenue
collection policies of the Board.



_ 17 -
C.  commen  an am Part I
Comments Relatina to RD
(a) Part-I of PCR io complete to the extent of projects executed
through KDA. All the contractual obligations have been fulfilled
as envisaged.
(b) In the preface of PCR it is mentioned that most of the Civil works
were awarded by early 1986. In this regard it may be pointed out
that the civil works of 4th Phase, Stage-I, of Greater Karachi Bulk
Water Supply Scheme undertaken by RDA started in May 1984. All the
works were awarded by aid 1985 and were timely completed in June,
1987. The work of breaking of walls and removal of obstructions in
siphons and 280 MCD Conduit was completed in March 1989.
(c) As far as the availability of audited figures for project
expenditures in concerned, the audit reports for IDA funded
expenditures were made available. The desirability of audit
reports of GOP portion was expressed as late as 11-11-1991 in a
meeting with the World Bank's representative. Since audit report
is not a contractual obligation, KD officials wxpressed
willingness to provide such a report on an official request by the
Bank. Rowever the Bank did not pursue the matter any further.
Comments Relatna to KWSB
(a) The report mentions that the "success in controlling leakages
within the network has been very limited" (Summary, results Para
1). As mentioned above, significant loss reductions have been
achieved by rehabilitating some badly leaking Mains.  However,
because the water is supplied through the urmatered network, the
savings thus achieved are not properly accounted for in revenues.
Also LD cell activities are now being monitored and the Department
has been reactivated under a revised program.
(b) The report observes that due to non-completion of the two inter-
connections oan time the target group is not getting the assigned
quantities of additional water. It was actually delayed due to
IWSB,s limitations to avoid closure of water supply. Now that they
are complete, the target group is receiving additional water.
However, since the network is not metered, the supplies can be
measured only approximately through valve-control timings and
therefore it is difficult to measure exactly the additional
supplies. It may also be mentioned that the priorities of the
tertiary network are partly determined on the basis of technical as
well as political process.
(c) It has been stated in the report that problems were encountered
during execution of the KWSB part of the project and the
contractors performance of several contracts was far from
satisfactory (Section 5.1, p.4)
(d) While most of the contracts were completed on time, cost
escalations and time delays occurred only in contracts 9A, 93 and
9C, which may be attributed to the following reasons:



- 18 -
(i) For some works, designs were not available in sufficient
details. Blids were made on item rates basis which turned out
to be too crude. Filling out missing design details on the
one hand led to cost escalations and on the other created
disputes with the contractors leading to litigations end
arbitration with time delays.
(ii) Although, for the contract awards Bank's concurrence was
obtained, the fact remAins that at that time KWSB had only
limited experience in ouch large works. There was no separate
Project Department to deal with foreign aided projects. Now
the procedures such as bid evaluation, base line estimateos
procurement procedures have been standardized and all such
project. are being executed by a newly established Development
Wing.
(e) The report observes problems in the maintenance of project accounts
and audit report. Although providing audited report was not a
contractual obligation, the audit report of the project is now
available.
(f) It has also been mentioned that the progress reports were not
adequate. This was becauses
(i) Our staff was not familiar with the Bank's procedures.
(ii) IDA did not monitor these progress reports rigorously.
(iii) Lack of automation and consequent non-availability of
appropriate data in the early years of KWSB.
(iv) Preparation of comprehensive reports on monthly basis proved
to be too frequent given the resource constraints.
(g) The report mentions the slippage of collection rates from 802 to
701. This is largely due to lack of automation. Many effectively
in-operative connections were, on the basis of past history
carried forward and continued to be billed. These added to the
total of uncollectables. This part has now been identified during
the detailed scrutiny under [ADB Loan] TU-1246 and corrected.
D. Comments On PER Part III
21.       The information contained, in part 'Annezures and Tables' of PCR
are correct for both IDA and KWSB with the following minor corrections.
22.       In Table 4.3 there is a mistake in the IDA funding of Feasibility
study. It is 0.442 rather than 4.42 million. In the same table the total IDA
funds are shown as 509.335 while the corresponding actual is show as 511.804
million. However the funding is also 511.804 million. The increase is due to
the payment received against IDA applications 97,98 and 99 vide payment advice
dato November 13, 1991.!/
6/   A corrected copy has been provided by government and Part III has been
amended acaordingly.



- 19 -
23.       In Table 5, page 27 there is a typing mistake.  The SDR appraised
cost is shown as 33,62 million which should be 23.0 million.  Corrected copy
ts below.!7
TABLX - 5 (Comcledf
PRQ1ECOT AND FRINANING
EAY DE CSE
RUPEES               EQUIVALENT
MILLION              SDR MILLION
01    A4proaie  Cost                 475.00                23.00
02     Actuat Cost inctuding         780.764               34.96
added Supptlemntal &         (Ref. Tabte 6.3)     t1nferred fro we
Institutional o lo           (                     vRt3el)ef
Vorks
03     IDA Finwaing upto             511.804               22.336
Octobef 191                   65.61 of Total
04     Go Finaning                   268.960
34.4Z of Total
Inference:
1. Actual cost (October, 1991 figures) includes the additional cost of
supplemental works (Table 4.3)
2. The total actual cost includes cost of supplemental works worth P. Rs.
239.1 N increasing the estimate to P. Rs. 714 M. Thus the nominal
overall increase in terms of P.Rs. is 91.
3. The net I.D.A. Financing percentage to actual cost works to 65.61 and
COP financing to 34.42 as against Appraisal Ratio of 68.4:31.6.
NOTE: Itemized details of cost given in Annexure V - Tables 4.1 thru 4.3.
L    I. sons oned
(a)  IDA Cr. 1374 PAK for KWSB was virtually the first World Bank
project for KWSB which provided opportunity to learn almost about
every important aspect of World Bank funded p;.oject. Iu the light
of this experience, KWSB has laid down detailed procurment
procedures. These procedures for ICB/LCB procurements are now
being practiced and are acceptable to the Bank as well.
(b)  Domestic metering does not seem feasible technically/economically
in the nesr future or at least till such time the second 100 MND of
water is made available to Karachi.
7/   33.62 million is the appraisal costv not the IDA credit value.  Table 5
therefore needs no change.



- 20 -
(c) Assigning projects jointly to multiple agencies should be avoided
a8 far as possible.
(d) We concur with the IDA's recommendations regarding a detailed study
of the existing distribution network for further expansions/
improvements. KWSB has already obtained the approval of COS for a
detailed study for strengthening the tertiary distribution system
and is now considering to extend the scope of this study to include
an engineering survey mapping of the distribution network.
However, a separate study is needed to prepare digitized mapping of
the network and to have instant information on all aspects of the
distribution system. System mapping for both water supply and
sewerage sector should therefore be taken up on priority basis.
(e) The delays in the PC-1 processing affects project costs. Therefore
in cases of changes/extensions/re-appropriations for on-going
projects which require fresh PC-1 approvals, KSB would resort to
anticipatory approval subject to finalization through the normal
process.
F.  IDA's Performance Dung the Project
24.       IDA's performance remained satisfactory during the evaluation and
implementation of the project 'No-objections' as and when requested, were
accorded without delay. Issues and problems arising during the implementation
stage were resolved amicably. The regular supervisory missions of IDA staff,
having experience of similar project, contributed by maklng fruitful
suggestions at various stages of the work. They also helped in removing the
bottlenecks, whenever necessary.
25.       The performance of Disbursement Division, in general, and the
Resident Mission at Islamabad in particular, were exemplary. The payments
were made expeditiously and the procurement of equipment and materials from
aborad was facilitated by assisting in establishing the letter of credit and
making direct payments to the suppliers in their foreign banks.
26.       Further, the savings in the project due to exchange rate
fluctuations ware identified well in time for their utilization towards
Additional/Supplemental works and later on for procurement of spare parts etc.
27.       The covenants requiring progress reports and project accounts were
not closely monitored by IDA which created unnecessary confusion towards the
end of the project.
G.  fAbeEwn  of  BiUh  Betwe MAand Om
28.       The relationship between ID, ZDA and   SI remained professional
and cordial throughout the project. The regular supervision missions helped
in developing personal relationship which provided assistance in
implementation. Whatever data and information requested by IDA was
immediately provided. Similarly any help and assistance required from
Resident Mission, Islamabad, or other representatives of World Bank, was
readily available. Mutual cooperation resulted In timely decisions, removal
of sny procedural bottlenecks and successful completion of the project.



- 21 -
IL  ktnMML5of nncm-
29.       The counterpart funding for the project was provided by Goverment
of PAkistan. The monitoring of the project by Federal and Provincial
authorities helped in completion of the project otherwise the money would have
been left un-utilized.
30.       There is, however, room for Improvement in the procedure for
obtaining approval of PC-l.



- 22 -
PART-i - STATISTICAL NFORMAIION
TABLES & ANNEXTRES



- 23 -
Table I: RELATED BANK LOANS AID IDA CREDITS
l              l                         I~~~IYear of
S.No. Loans/Credits Title        P u r p o a e      Approval   Status           Comments
1.  CR 106 PAR US$3.5    Studies and Improvement
Million Lahore       of Lahore W.S.& S.           __        __               _.
Water Supply, Sewe-  Drainage Works.
rage & Drainage.
2.  CR 630 PAK US$26.6   Extension and Main          1976   Closed in   4 years' delay.
Million Second       Works.                             Dec. 1983.  Objective mainly
Lahore Water Supply                                                 achieved: institu-
Sewerage & Drainage                                                 tional development
Project.                                                            of Water & Sewerage
Agency.
3.  CR 1652 SDR 65.4 M   Purposes include         | 1985        In      This would streng-
(US$70.0 Million)    Bulk Water Supply and               Progress   then the upstream
Karachi Special      Sewerage Treatment               |             source and also
Development Project  works; Improvement                             bulk conveyance
and Lining of                                 downstream from
K.G. Canal;                                   Pipri in contitua-
and Stand-By Siphons                          tion with Siphons.
19 & 20 for the sub-
sector.
4.  CR 1987 SDR 97.1 M   Continuation of(CR 1374   1989         in      The related loan by
(US$125 Million)     works) Bulk Water                  Progress   IDA, ADB, CDC & ODA
Second Karachi       Supply Improvement                             is a logical seque-
Water Supply and      (Part of projected                            nee of CR.1374. The
Sanitation Project.  Phase-V (100 MCD)                              size of the project
Works-I to reduce the                         was reduced in view
gap in Supply.                                of the financial
and strengthen                                viability of KWSB.
financial position and                        High cost over-runs
efficiency of KWSB).                          as per tenders have
upset the financing
plan which is under
active review.
5.  LN 1985 for PUDP   | Includes substantial   |               In
Water and Sewerage   components of Water                 Progress
|   Agency (WASA).    Supply & Sewerage.       I
I   I                                I        I~~~~~~~~~~~~~r gr s



- 24 -
Table 2: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Date        Date         Date
I t e m a                                Planned      Revised     Actual
- Identification (Executive)
Project Summary)
-   Preparation                        (Missions Sep. 76, May 77, Nov. 77
April 78, July 78, June 80, Dec.80
April 81, Aug. 81, Nov. 81.
-   Appraisal mission                    Dec. 77      Jan. 82    Nov. 82
Report
May 2, 83
-   Credit                                  ---         ---         ---
Negotiations
-   Board Approval                         ---          ---       5-26-83
-   Credit Signature                       ---          ---       6-30-83
-   Credit                               6-30-83        ---        1-31-84
Effectiveness
-   Credit Closing                       6-31-88      6-31-89     6-30-91
6-31-90
-   Credit Completion                      ---                   10-31-91
Comments: Issues raised at following stagess
A. Preparation:
I.Consumers' economic surveys.
2.Engineering & Financial Studies.
3.Creation of Semi-Autonomous Body RWSB for all sectoral affairs in Karachi
Metropolitan Area.
4.Functions, Assets & Liabilities, Modernizing Account System.
5.      Tariff Revision & Implementation.
B. Imulementation:
1.      Additional (Supplemental/Works)
2.      Revision & Approval of PC1.
3.      Extensions granted for supplemental works.
C. Closing:
1.      The unutilized surplus forecast by Bank in 1989 was largely used up by the
credit closing date. The unutilized balance of SDR 633,848.35 was cancelled.



- 25 -
Table 3: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS - APPRAISAL AND ACTUAL
APPRAISAL           ACTUAL
Year      Million  Revised   Million                  R e m a r k *
US$       z        US$      z
1983-84     1.50       6%      0.12    0.48
1984-85     6.00      24%      2.87    11.5
1985-86    13.00      52Z      7.59    30.3
1986-87    20.50      82%     10.29    41.2
1987-88    24.50      982     15.59    62.3
1988-89    25.00     1002     20.17    80.7
1989-90                       22.66    90.6
1990-91                       24.23    96.0
1991-92                       24.31    97.24
Note: Utilized credit amount - SDR 22,366,153.65 out of 23.0 M
Unutilized balance     - St    633,846.35 (cancelled)



Table 4:  ILEA ERATION SCHEDULE
1983      1984        1985        1986         1987        1988        1089        1990         1991
Calendar Year2   3 ' 2421  31 41 '| 21 31 4  1 2{    3  4  1h    31 4                                   21 31 4 Kh   2  31 4 1  2 34           2  3  4
1    1               T 3r1            23       123        12       41       34       23
Cujjo Canal Enlargement             Proj.                                 CCDDD13DB81nnCcccccc               1
ACT                   BBIBE113 EC1 CEE C CCCCC CC
Siphons                                           I   I 1111111111 I
Siphons 1,2                  Proj .                            IDBiBEEEEEEtlCCCCICCCC C
Sipho.s 3-15                 ACT "          || EEEEEEHHN j1CCCCCC1         |Mg HkIHtIgt
Dhabeji Rising Main                 Proj.      DDDDDDBBEEEE  HMIIMCCCcCCCC1CCCCCCj
Civil WorksiInstallation            ACT                          EEE I  IIIIIIIIIIII
Supply Plates               ACT                             I~~C
Supply Valves               ACT          |                   CCCCCCC
Pumping Statlon Pipri               Proj.     [DJDDD8BEEEtCCCCCCCCCCI
Nodif. Existing Equipments.         ACT                             C          C ,  C  (    CC X    11
MiNse. Pump Equipments.             ACT                                      CCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCI
MAN Pump 25 MGD     at Dhabeji    ACT            1cccecccccZ ccC                            c 1C,,1C
ESB Pump 25 33D PS 102              ACT                                           IcccccCccCCCC
KSB Pump 25 MOD PS 3                ACT MCCCCC
Pipri 25 MOD Clarifier.                                                             I IT
Equipment                    Proj.      DDDDDDBBBBBEEEECCCCCCCC CC       IIUIUI1I
Civil Works                  Proj.       I1         DDDDDDDDEREEEM               CCCCCCC CCC 2 C X CI 
Civil Works/Equip.          ACT                          E iH 1  1  UE MEEI CCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCC   I  I
Trunk Maine Rehab.                  Proj.      8B11ErEE hICCCCCC XCCCCCC|  |                             I                               I
ACT                                       EEEC  :CC CcX  CCCCCOc 2 XCC CC  CC1C CC CCC
Supplemental & Strengthening Maimn                                                                         I  I  1  I  I  I
Trans. 28 MGD               ACT                                                                E11  EEEWCCCCCC(C CTCCCT
Pipri 540 Pipe Link                 ACT                                                                               EECCCCCC            TTT
Training                                                                                                   J111
Policy Study Tour                          -            -  -                                -             j         j            -   I          1 11
Design - DDDDOD       Evaluation - EEEEEE        Construction Supply a CCCCCC               Test & Commission - TCTC
Bidding -     3BBBBB  Mobilization - WHtM    InstallationlImplementation = 111111



- 27 -
Table 5: PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. PROJECT COSTS
P.Rs.         Equivalent SDR
Millions            Million
1.  Appraised Cost                    475.00              33.62
2.  Actual Cost including             780.764
added Supplemental &          (Ref. Table 4.3)
Institutional Development
Works.
3.  IDA Financing upto                511.804             22.366 M
October, 1991.                65.62 of Total
4.  GOP Financing                     268.960
34.4Z of Total
L _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ I __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



- 28 -
Table 6: PROJECT RESULTS
6.A Direct Benefits:
ADDED SUPPLY DURING CREDIT PERIOD
A.                           (1984-1991)
1.       Extended increase in supply                  60 MGD
through Cr.1374-PAR
2.       Completion of Hub Scheme (non IDA)           89 MGD
TOTAL                  149 MGD
B.                  PREVIOUS SUPPLY
4.       Hilays Scheme - Indus Source through         20 MGD
Haleji.
5.       3 Phases of GRBWS (210)                     210 MGD
GROSS TOTAL ....      379 MGD
NET AS PER KWSB HANDOUT 1991 .........      352 MGD
Benefit 1: Bulk Supply (production & conveyance) Addition through the project
of total supply.
(However, it is still short by 70 MGD on KWSB's projiected low growth
demand, and only 28 MGD of the additional supply actually reached
the urban consumers).
Benefit 2: Total Treatment Facility increased from 210 to 235 MGD i.e.,12%
increase.
(However, it is still short by 332 which is partially treated by
disinfection to potable standards).



- 29 -
6.B   Economic !mpact
IRR                          Actual (at Final Development)                              Appraisal Estimate
Assumptions
1.                                         2                                                    3
Underlying
Assumptions
1.         The year-wise actual capital costs of the local component of the           As per SAR 83
KDA part of the project are not available to us.  The local cost          Schedule
is assumed to be complementary to the foreign cost and accordingly
has been broken year-wise in proportion to the Bank's disbursements
to KDA.
2.          The operating cost per thousand gallons is obtained dividing the           Rs.1.75 per 1000
direct and indirect costs by the corresponding year's supply of           gallons.
water. Depreciation has not been included.
3.          It has been assumed that 28 MGD is available now and the additional        All 60 MMD to be
22 MGD goes to Pakistan Steel.  From 1992 onwards. 60 MGD would           available from
become available.                                                          1987 onwards.
4.          Out of the additional water. 78 percent was available for
distribution in 1987. This percentage would gradually increase
till it attains a maximum of 82 percent in 1994-95. This
assumption is the same as was made in the Staff Appraisal Report
1983 (SA 83).
S.          It has been assumed that the additional water from plugging                Additional supply
leakages would be available almost in accordance with the                 to start in 83-84.
assumptions made in the SA 83, except that it would start from
1987-88 rather then 1983-84 as was envisaged there. because the
efforts in this regard are somewhat behind schedule.
6.          In estimating the revenues per thousand gallons it has been
assumed that there will be a 30 percent leakage of the bulk
supply of water which was available in 1983-84.
7.          It has been assumed that all the additional water both from the           As Column 2.
project and from the loss reduction will be available to the
customers at the going tariff rates and collection for this
addition water will be 100 percent.  It has further been assumed
that from 1992-93 onwards there will be a 10 percent increase in
_e_l tariff rates every two years.



Table 6C: INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN
CA.  OP.  NM   TOM   OTAL VATRI   AT.ER               M         A T.   ADDT.          W./ AWUT.  VWT
lR              COST C09S     WATER O0M. COO?   MAML. AVAnL RM . moc.  AT                  ATER   1000 0  RPE.   Cam
1000    MM   COO L             Aoa    MOD   0 ASS  m"      NO        mn                       1w2
1983-84            2.16   2.19   0.00   0.00    2.16  0.760    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00       0.00   2.30    0.00    -2.16
1984-85           64.46   2.54   0.00   0.00   64.46  0.770    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00       0.00   J.29    0.00  -64.46
198s-86          130.72   2.55   0.00   0.00  130.72  0.7so    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00       0.00   3.48    0.00  -130.72
1966-67          105.8"   2.48   0.00   0.00  105.86  0.780    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00       0.00   3.72    0.00  -105.88
1987-88          107.37   3.48   6.00   7.61  14.98  0.780    4.68   1.00   3.04   7.72   2.817.80   4.92   13.86  -101.12
1988-89          149.25   4.36   6.00   9.54  158.79  O.79o    4.74   1.00   3.04   7.78   2.839.70   s.IS  14.70 -144.09
1989-90           94.26   S.68  28.00  37.61  131.87  0.800   22.40   2.00   6.08  28.46  10,395.20   6.51   67.60  -64.19
1990-91           50.57   3.44  28.00  35.15   85.72  O.6S00   22.40   2.00   6.08  28.4   10 395.20   6.72   69.91   -15.81
1991-92           76.91   3.44  30.00  62.77  139.68  0.804   40.20   3.00   9.12  49.32  IS.001.80   7.39  121.06   -18.61
1992-93            0.00   3.44  60.00  75.32   75.32  0.810   48.60   4.00  12.16  60.76  22.177.40   7.39  149.14    73.82
1993-94            0.00   3.44  60.00  75.32   75.32  0.810   48.60   4.00  12.16  60.76  22.177.40   8.13  149.14    73.82
1994-93            0.00   3.44  60.00  75.32   7s.32  0.820   49.20   s.00  15.20  64.40  23,506.00   8.13  158.08    82.76
1995-96            0.00   3.44  60.00  75.32   75.32  0.820   49.20   6.00  18.24  67.44  24.615.60   8.94  165.54    90.22
1996-97            0.00   3.44  60.00  7532   7.32  0.820   49.20   6.00  18.24  67.44  24.615.60   8.94  165.34    90.22
1997-9             0.00   3.44  60.00  75.32   75.32  0.820   49.20   6.00  18.24  67.44  24,615.60   9.84  165.54    90.22
1998-99            0.00   3.44  60.00  75.32   7s.32  0.820   49.20   7.00  21.28  70.48  25S725.20   9.84  173%    97.68
1999-2000          0.00   3.44  60.00  75.32   75.32  0.820   49.20   8.00  24.32  73.52  26834.80  10.83  180.46   105.14
2000-2001          0.00   3.44  60.00  75.32   75.32  0.820   49.20   8.00  24.32  73.52  26 ,34.80  I0.83  180.46   105.14
2001-2002          0.00   3.44  60.00  75.32   75.32  0.820   49.20   8.40  25.54  74.74  27,278.64  11.90  1S3.45   108.13
2002-2003          0.00   3.44  60.00  75.32   75.32  0.820   49.20   9.00  27.36  76.56  27 944.40  11.90  I17.93   112.60
2003-2004          0.00   3.44  60.00  75.32   75.32  0.820   49.20   9.20  27.97  77.17  28 166.32  13.10  189.42   114.10
2004-2005          0.00   3.44  60.00  75.32   75.32  0.820   49.20   9.60  29.18  78.38  28.610.16  13.10  192.40   117.08
2005-2006          0.00   3.44  60.00  75.32   75.32  0.020   49.20  10.00  30.40  79.60  29,054.00  14.41  195.39   120.07                          o
2006-2007          0.00   3.44  60.00  75.32   75.32  0.820   49.20  10.00  30.40  79.60  29,054.00  14.41  195.39   120.07
2007-2008          0.00   3.44  60.00  75.32   75.32  0.820   49.20  10.00  30.40  79.60  29,054.00  15.85  195.39   120.07
2008-2009          0.00   3.44  60.00  75.32   75.32  0.820   49.20  10.00  30.40  7.60  29.054.00  15.85  195.39   120.07
2009-2010          0.00   3.44  60.00  75.32   75.32  0.820   49.20  1o.00  30.40  79.60  29 os4.00  17.44  195.39   120.07
2010-2011          0.00   3.44  60.00  75.32   75.32  0.820   49.20  10.00  30.40  79.60  29,054.00  17.44  195.39   120.07
2011-2012          0.00   3.44  60.00  75.32   75.32  0.820   49.20  10.00  30.40  7.60  29,054.00  19.18  195.39   120.07
2012-2013          0.00   3.44  60.00  75.32   75.32  0.820   49.20  10.00  30.40  79.60  29.054.00  19.18  195.39   120.07
2013-2014          0.00   3.44  60.00  75.32   75.32  0.820   49.20  10.00  30.40  79.60  29,054.00  21.10  195.39   120.07
in                                                                                                                      8.8
Ale      1000 a                                                                                                     Rg.4.05



- 31 -
Table 6D:  KARACHI WATER AND SEWERAGs BOARD
6.D  Balance Sheet as at June 30. 1990
FUNDS & LIABILITIES        (RUPEES)         A  S  E T-8                  (RUPEES)
Capital Reserve         84,04,20,094.98    Fixed Assets:
Deposits               20,04,04,070.04    Property plant and        1,44,30,14,908.91
equipment
Long term loans        54,11,71,568.79    (at cost less
depreciation)
G.O.S. Loan              1,00,00.,V0.00
Grant-in-aid            10,58.50,194.50
Employees pension/      8,60,25,669.86
Provident Fund
Deferred revenue        10,48,30,962.61
(Provision)
CURRENT LIABILXTIES                        CURRENT ASSETS
Accrued Liabilities    15,77,50,092.80    Consumer's Balances         58,04,58,428.85
Creditors                   8,19,686.93    Loan Advances &               64,94,676.54
prepayments
Other liabilities      24,81,15,603.26    Other receivables           30,70,79,908.00
Current Maturity of    16,42,09,659.00    Cash & bank balances         7,77,25,482.02
long term loan and
interest                                                              97,17,58,495.41
Net Deficit                 4,48,24,198.45
TOTAL  ....  2,45,95,97,602.77             TOTAL   ....    2,45,95,97,602.77
NOTE: Other balance sheets for FY85 thru FY89 are attached as Annexure V - Tables 5.1 t
5.5 to indicate progressive financial position.



- 32 -
6.3 Studies
Purpose as Defined           Status    Impact of Study
Studies at Appraisal
1.    Financial management        Completed  Cash & single
assistance, development                 entry system
of accounting, budgeting,               changed to
billing & collection                    accrual & double
procedures, assistance                  entry system.
in transfer of assets
to KWSB.
2.    Assistance in implementa-  Completed  Billing & reco-
tion of systems through                 very completely
manual collection and                   computerized
billing procedures.                     and now fully
taken over from
KMC by KWSB.
3.    Engineering Studies for    Completed  Led to a massive
expansion of Indus system  in Dec.85  Long Term Plan
Phase-V.                                (upto 2025 A.D)
with the first
stage for addi-
tional 100 MGD,
being implemented
under financing
under Cr. 1987-
Pak.



- 33 -
Table 7: STATUS OF COVENANTS IN PROJECT AGREEMENT
_        ~~PROJECT    |
DESCRIPTION               PAGROEEIT |            STATUS                           REMARIKS
SECTION
Prepare project completion      |  2.05(e)    | IDA draft Parts I & III        Borrower's Part I1 inputs
report not later than 6                          ready. Sent to KWSB in        received September 1992.
months after credit closing                      mid April '92.
date.                           j                                             l
Furnish Quartarly Progress          2.06(a)    l                               Received upto June 30,
Report within 6 weeks of        l               l                               1991.
Quarter end.
KDA to transfer all equipment       2.10                                        Partly done. The contract
& facilities to KWSB on                                                        requirement was explained by
completion.                                                                   ( PCR Mission on Nov. 11, 1991.
KWSB to furnish audited             4.02 tI)     Received upto FY 91.          Requirement temporarily sus-
accts.,financial statements          A & B       Reports frequently received  pended by supervision missions.
and audit report within six                      late.
months of close of FY.
KDA shall furnish annual            4.03         All audit reports and          1. No follow-up by supervision
accounts, Financial State-                       certificates for IDA part        missions until 1989.
ments & Audit Certificates                       furnished but none for GOP
within six months of close ofFY                  part.
KWSB's revenues to cover            4.04(a)I     Barely covered in 1991.       Covenant was passed on to
(I) operating expenses                                                         Credit 1987-PAR. Revenues to
debt service and                                                               cover operation,maintenance
(II) reasonable portion                   II     Not achieved.                 and debt service in FY 91/92
of capital expenditures.                                                       & 20X capital exp. FY92/93
onwards.
Review at least annually            4.04(c)                                                  - do -
action plan to implement
above financial objectives.
Prepare suitable financial          4.04(c)      Done.                                       - do -
forecast one month before
above review.
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ l  l__  _      _   _   _   _   _  _   _



- 34 -
Table 8: USE OF STAFF RESOURCES
A. Inputs
Staff Weeks
i)            Thru Appraisal   .............. .................                                                188.4
ii)            Appraisal  thru  Board  Approval                            .................                        6.3
iii)             Supervision   *4*..**..**..**.....................    ...........                                  56.5
Total    ..........................                251.2
B. IDA Suvervision Missions
No. of    No. of   Specialisetion         Performance       Problem
S.No.   Visit Date               A.M. Date    Persons    Days    Represontative           Rating Stat.      Type       R a a a r k e
1.    Jul. 1983               Aug. 1983         2         7      Eng./Fi.n An1                I           F .   T
2.    Feb. 1984               Itr. 1964         2         3      Eng./Pin Anal                I           F & T
3.    Aug. 1984                Sep. 1984        2         2      EZg./fin Anal                1           Y &T          Trend 2
4.    Dec. 1984               Jan. 1985         2          7     Eng./Fin Anal                2           F & T         Trend I
S.    Sep. 1985                Oct. 1985        2          6     Eng./Fin Anal                I           F & T
6.    Feb. 1986               Iar. 1986         2          9     Eng./in Anal                 I           F & T
7.       .-.                   Oct. 1986
8.    Oct. 1987                Dec. 1987        2         10     Eng./fin Anal                            F   T    Combined Report
9.    Jun. 20 to Aug. 13       Sep. 1987        7                3 EnS.14 Fi  Anal           -             -      Combined Report
10.   Aug. 1988                Sep. 1988         2        -_      2 Fin Anal                   2             F      2IaareKoend ion
11.    Dec. 13 to Dec. 23       Jan. 1989        1         10     Eng./Fin Anal                2             P      Combined Repert
12.    may  01 to Jun. 11       Jul. 1989        7                3 Eng./4 Fin Anal            2           F & T    Prj. Management 1
13.    Oct. 17 to Oct. 23      Dec. 1989         2         7      Eng.lfin Anal                2           F & T
14.    Jun. 17 to Jun. 26       Jul. 1990        1         10     Fin Anal                     2             F      Combined Report
15.    Nov. 29 to Dec. 16       feb. 1991        2         12     Eng./Fin Anal                2           F & T    Combined Report



- 35 -
ANNEXURE - I
DETAILS OF SUPPLEMENTAL WORKS (AS ADDED IN 1988)
For Strengthening Malns to Convey 28 MGD Supvlv
to Acute Shortage Pockets in Inner City Areas
ESTIMATED
S.No.   I T E M S                   COST 1989       ACTUAL COST   COMPLETION
(Million Rs.)
1.     Breaking remaining
Siphon walls and
commissioning.                18.19            18.19       Mar. 1989
2.     54" Valve @ L.S.R.              2.39             1.92      Feb. 1989
3.     Control Valves or
Distribution Lines
@ T. & C.                     1.393            1.392       Jun. 1989
4.     6 Pumps 2 MGD each
@ T. & C.                      9.97            11.05       Jan. 1989
5.     48" Landhi Pipri               23.89           22.95       Jun. 1989
6.     6 Pumps 3.45 MGD
each @ L.S.R.                  8.76            10.46       Jan. 1989
7.     33" Main Korangi,
27" Main Clifton,
54" Pipri Link.               86.08           88.375       Feb. 1989
8.     8 Pumps 3.3 MGD
each @ 9th Mile.              14.50            15.43       Feb. 1989
9.     15" Main Korangi
T. & C. to Feeder Lines        8.87             7.84       May  1989
10.    Interconnection
T. & C. with City
Trunk Main.                    3.67             2.90       Aug. 1989
T 0 T A L                   177.713          180.507
Problem:    Main Shahrah-i-Faisal Crossing 9 Encroachments on alignment which
was changed (crossing services, Telephone & H.T. Cables].
Note: 1.    All the above works were executed through KDA by KWSB.  Taking over
by Distribution Department was delayed but reported complete in June
1991.
2.    Revised PC1 in 1990 by KWSB also included Training of Graduate
Engineers & a policy Tour at a total cost of Rs.19.642 M completed
in June 1991 & September 1991 respectively.



- 36 -
ANNXUMRE - II
SCHEDULE OF ESTABLISHMENT
BUDGETED GRADE-WISE STRENGTH
BULK    WATER
GRADE      SECTT.   FINANCE   TAXATION   WATER   DIST.   SEW.   TOTAL
1        72         33          133       1535    1848    825    4446
2         15         13          11        612      661   1526    2838
3          4          1           1         44       66      31      147
4          3          -          27        206      303    206       745
5         50         70         171        377      365      68    1101
6         39          9          21         69      113      99      350
7         15         41           -        313       91      36      496
8          3          -         432         38       12      17      502
9          1          _           -         98       46      17      162
10          5          -           -         30       22       -       57
11          7          5         184        106      120      73      495
12         18         37          27         98       17       6      203
13          2          -           -          7        7       1       17
14          -          9           _          5        2       -       16
15          5          2           -         12        5       -       24
16          8         17          49         45       78      12      209
17         20         10          27         43       13       3      116
18          6          3           2         16       17       6       50
19          3          1           1          4        6       -       15
20          1          -           -          1        1       -3
21                     -           -               -       -            -
22          -          -           -          -        -       -        -
TOTAL       277        251        1086       3659    3793   2926   11992
Note:   Copied from KWSB "Basic Facts 1991-1992."



- 37 -
ANNEXURE - IIX
KWSB PERFORUNICE
Table 3.1:  KWSB INCOME AND WATER RATES TRENDS
(P.Rs. Millions)
1985   1986   1987   1988   1989-  1990   1991
Total Income      245    344    373    422    528    735    719
Total Own         210    291    308    333    445    496    647
Revenues
Water Charges    196    280    296    323    430    486    478
KWSB BILLING AND COLLECTION PERORNANCE
1991-92
(in P.Rs. Millions)
Industry (23 MGD)
Billing                                            118
Revenues                                            32
Commerce (52 MGD)                                    162
Non-Metered (147 MGD)                                113
Billing                                            342
Revenues                                           240
Total (222)
Billing                                            643
Revenues                                           457



- 38 -
ANNEXURE - III
Table 3.2:  KWSB FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
Direct Cost                   290    341    351    337    410    477    588
Indirect Cost                  25      86     73      91     91    599    163
Total Income                  245    344    373    422    528    735    719
Operating Surplus             -45       3     22      85    118    257    131
Net Surplus                   - 7    -83    -66    - 6       26   -342    -31
Revenue Supply                -36    -79   -139   -140   -106   -448   -463
Term Loans                     -      198    264    269    316    542    880
Net Working Capital          -122    -89   -100    - 9    104   -378   -500



ANNEXURE - IV
Table 4.1:  PROJECT COST & FINANCING DETAILS
SAR 1963 EsusrT!B                  ACT0u OCTOs  31. 1991                    weUI1t vALENT
No  Datall of Work                          P.R.. (Million)    US $ (w4lllon)    P.R.. (Million)      VS $ (Million)    P.Rn. (wilijon)      us S (Yilon)
_ P    t            L    p     T      L r           T     L    P    T    GOP  -IDA         T   OOP  _A    T
I  5- a CIVIDa -   5.5
,,oDOCYZO  (a)
canal Enlargement                     2.58   5.65  11.53 0.222 0.665  0.89  2.507  7.153   9.66 0.133 0.445 0.578  2.507  7.153  9.660 0.133 0.445 0.578
Sip'iona                             10.94  32.83  43.77 0.84  2.53  3.37 13.121 40.239 53.360 0.828 2.515 3.343 13.121 40.239  53.36 Q.828 2.515 3.343
Dhab*jI Rising Main                   5.751 17.26  23.01  0.44  1.33  1.77 2.845  9.32t. 12.165 0.188 0.530 0.718  2.845  9.320 12.165 0.188 0.530 1.718
Dhabeji Altarnation.                  0.10   0.29   0.39  0.01  0.02  0.03 0.030  0.070  0.100 0.001 0.005 0.006  0.030 0.070 0.100 0.001 0.005 0.006
Dhabaji Eloc. Connection              1.19   3.54   4. 3  0.09  0.27  0.36 2.183 4.820  7.003 0.133 0.303 0.436 2.183  4.820  7.003 0.133 0.303 0.436
Pipri 25 )3 Claritler                 5.52  16.55  22.07  0.42  1.27  1.69
Pipri Pumping Station                 3.86  11.61  15.47  0.30 0.89  1.19  8.480 22.453 30.933 0.465 1.317 1.782  8.480 22.453 30.933 0.465 1.317 1.782
Pipri Rising main                     1.80   5.41   7.21  0.14  0.42  0.56                   _           _
Plprtil oc. Connection                2.04   6.12   8.16  0.16  0.47  0.63  2.312  6.927 9.239 0.136 0.388 0.524  2.312  6.927  9.239 0.136 0.388 0.524                    W.
PlPrl MiDe. Roads                     1.66   4.98   6.64  0.13  0.38  0.51
Rehbailitation Mains                 10.94  32.76  43.70  0.84  2.52  3.36 26.365 65.180 91.545 _     3.470      26.365 65.180 91.545       3.470
MXat  Repair vorlkhop                 0.51   1.53   2.04  0.04  0.12  0.16  1.027  1.740  2.767      0.101        1.027  1.740  2.770       0.101
L IInstallation Pilot mator            I0.19, 0.60   0.79, 0.02  0.05  0.061 1.677 3.4061 5.0831 1__0.1821           167346   .8                .8



ANNEXURE  IV
Table 402: PROJBCT COST & FINANCING DE!AILS
SAR 1983 ESTIMATES                       TUL CSO8R 31, 1991                      FUDING       WJIIVALR2T
No.  Detail of Work                  P.R*. (Million)      US S (itlton)       P.Re. (tillion)      US S (MLtlLon)       P.Rs. (MiUlon)        US S (million)
L      P      T     L     P    T       L      F       T       L            S T    GOP    ID      T      GOP   IDAI   T
11   ITDI-lI  SQ WlAIIT   EhIR_
PRODUCTION (A)II
Siphons                        0.21   0.28   0.49  0.02  0.02  0.04   =
Dhabeji Rising Main           16.63  17.59  34.22  1.28  1.SS  2.63 14.445  16.180  30.625 0.980 1.001  1.981114.445  16.180  30.625  0.980 1.001  1.981
Dbsb*ji Alterations            2.78   4.36   7.14  0.21  0.34  0.55  3.476  13.728  17.204 0.204 0.786  0.990  3.476  13.728  17.204  0.204 0.786  0.990
Pipri 25 MOD Clarifier         3.16   4.93   8.09  0.24  0.36  0.62
Pipri Pumping Station         19.46  30.41  49.87  1.60  2.34  3.94 14.922  31.405  46.327 0.897 1.830  2.727 14.922  31.405  46.322 10.897 1.930  2. 727
Rising Maine                   1.27   1.99   3.26  0.10  0.15  0.25
Miecellsneous                  2.05   3.21   5.26  0.16  0.25  0.41                                                                                I
Db*baji Elec.Connection                                               2.310   5.215   7.525 0.136 0.303  0.439  2.310   5.215   7.525  0.136 0.303  0.439
Survey lnstrumets                                                     0.038   0.060   0.098 0.004 0.004  0.008  0.038   0.060   0.098  0.004 0.004  0.008
DISTRIIUT10O  (3)                                                                             _
tebabilitation  ine            1.00  16.93  17.93  0.08  1.30  1. 38
- _                      .    .   22.8W   18.899  41.72R  __  1.153          22.829  18.894  41.7268__  1.153i
Meter Repair Workshop          0.72   1.62   2.34  0.06  0.12  0.15   -        -                          -
Water Meter                    2.48   3.72   6.20  0.19  0.29  0.48  J.758  58.30  66.148                       7.758  58.390  66.148
Otber Civil Vorks                                                     8.657  11.430  20.087       0.948         ..657  11.430  20.0S7        0.t48



ANNEXURB - IV
Table 4.3: PROJECT COST & FINICING DETAILS
SAl 1983 EBSTIKES                         ACTUAL OCTOBEt 31. 1991                        FSNDISG     EQIVAWLIT
No: Detadl of Work               P.R1. (Millio)        aUS SniLMoa)        P.A. (Mlllion)            US S (Million)        P.E. (Million)          US S (million)
L  |F         P      L     _IT           L       F       P        L      F      T      GOP     IDA      T       GOP   ID       S T
1    Phy tcal Contingeny        13.50  28.15  41.65  1.04  2.17  3.21
IV  -Final Deasig  Superwiaon 13.99  11.53  25.S4  1.08  0.89  1.97   0.005   0.120   0.125S  0.001  0.007  0.008   0.005   0.120   0.125  0.001  0.007  0.008
-Eotablildment KDA                                                  46.034    -      46.034  2.675          2.675  46.034           46.034  2.675          2.675
-Estobliebmeat RSB                                                   0.454            0.454                         0.454            0.454
V  Vohiclso aec.               1.09   3.29   4.38  0.06  0.25  0.33   0.406   0.770   1.176  0.046  0.004  0.090   0.406   0.770   1.176  0.046  0.044  0.090
Vehcloe    S                                                         1.017   0.999   2.016           0.024          1.017   0.999   2.016           0.024
VI MsagtelOt/Organization
Aseetence                   2.00           2.00  0.15         0.15   0.4693   8.176   8.87$          0.457                                          0.457
VII  fLim     Equipment and
Record Preparation          3.00           3.00  0.23         0.23   0.043   1.341   1.382      _ 0.537             0.041   1.341   1.382           0.537
VIII Maneageet, Training
Tour and Policy Tour        0.80   0.50   1.30  0.06  0.04  0.10             19.642  19.6421         0.857                  19.642  19.642          0.857
II  Fsaibility Study            3.90   1.30   5.20  0.30  0.10  0.40   0.080   7.170    7.25  0.111 0.442  0.553   0.080   7.170   7.250  0.111  0.442  0.553
Total t - IX .     ...... 135.4  272.0  407.4 10.43 20.92  31.3
Sbhn In  =  ..... 4..  141.  271.96 407.36 10.42 20.92 31.34
Price Contingencjimec..  14.57  53.051 68.62  1.12  4.08  5.20   5.742 ____           5742 ____                      .742            5.742
Sub-Total IDA Part..  156.0  325.0  476.0  11.5  25.0  36.5 113.194 165.630 278.e24  6.938  9.920 16.858 113.194 165.630 278.824  6.938  9.920 16.858
Shmma in SA  6  ctl. X  150.0  325.0  475.0  11.5  23.0  36.5 189.454S 3S4.s83  544.289                           189.454 354.035 544.289
Supplenental Work          _
(ea added in 1988-89)
Stregtbhenin8g Mma         171.1          171.1                     50.913 116.114 167.057  3.617  5.821  9.438  50.913 113.675 164.588  3.617  5.721  9.338
Cmisesionia  Sihen-C... 17.10              17.1                      0.071   0.210   0.281  0.005  0.03  0.0ole   0.071   0.210   0.281  0.005  0.013  o0.01
NA  Breao4n  wall.                                                   6.039  12.151  1S. I9   0.362  0.580  0.942   6.039  12.151  18.190  0.362  0.580  0.942
Motor Pump* & Spore Parts 23.93  27.02  50.95                       22.483  28.464  50.947  1.272  1.621  2.s93  22.438  28.464  50.947  1.272  1.621  2.893
Total    .       ... 212.1  .27.0  2379.so6 156.969 236.47    5.3 s 8.035 13.291  79.506 134.500 234.0061 5.256  7.935 13.191
R_    d Grnd Potal.I *     3T62.1  352.0  714.1                    268.960 511.804 780.7                          26s.960 509.335 77=.29=
(RDA+ MDS)                                                             Ia 
*    Difference In coversion. 511.804 - 509.335 - 2.469 P.Be. Mllion.
ltates  1   T1P.  undterlind tfigure  repr.aent VAS Part of work
2. Pb. aoP shAre toe th total financinS coms too 34.42 and VS Part io 65.62 as against Appraisal Ratio of 31.6*68.4.



- 42 -
ANNEXURE - V
KARACHI WATER & SEWERAGE BOARD
Table 5.1: BALANCE SHEET AS AT JUNE 30, 1985
111109 a. LI2thItSZES         mnOT         1985             1954               pOPUnIT & ASSETS               TE         1983               98'
MIVENUE SURPSLUSIWEFIC)T                    (36.007.469)       14,961.979      UD  ASSETS
LOIW tM LUILITiES                                                              At Cost less Acculated
droation (As pet
Consumer, Deposits                  3        6.993.496        4,507,874       echedulo attached)                           92,700,61S       44.285.913
C00R1ll LUB2LZTESS                                                            OUBRUT  ASSETSB
Ourrent liaturit? ofLogFIventory                                                                                  It        14252               6,7
tU   Loans endX  ccgUed fcterest    4       264215.445       13.125.448        S     Debtrs                       12        4531. S097      2 .151 1971
npa"id Cheque c3                            50 191.175       52,7S 9652       Advances and Prepaymate             13        9,3S2.681       10,036,310
Conta ctor      posits              6       211534.066       17,018 270       carachit ator Management Board      14      $8678:025        8,678,023
Creditor.                           7       39,123.606          A SIS4912     KArachi r0P :e nsnt attority        15          790,787 i0s.787
Acerued Liabilities                          1.024.331        2.85.22         KArachi Metropolitan Corporat.ion                             2: 700000
Emplay.  Funds                      9       19.634.647       11 010,492       Cash at Bake                        16       12,222.155       18.317,973
158,723.272     104.854,296                                                    37,008.684       S0,138.236
00820  31? C IIS  St LtStthS         10                       _  _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _
129.709,299     124,424.149                                                   129.709,299      124.424,149
AUDITOES' REPORT
As per out report annexed.
NOTES.                                                                            EARTh .73 4 COtlT                             10UW11  OXEECTO, EWSS
1. the assets end  liabilities taken over from   DA                        Chr tered ACCOUntn t
(Water WV1)  and  RMC  by amt8  *s on 21st may,
1981  hav nOt yft be a  3ncorpvAtec4  a. tbh  se
are stil under fialization.                                                                                             DIECTO  FINC. EW&S3
2. The elostag balsnes of Karachi (ater Management                        2. The closin  balanoss of Karachi Voter Manage.ent
Board as on 31st Januay, 1983 have oleo not beDn                          Bolrd as on 31st Jantary,  1983 hav  also DOt been
incopore     a   peig blnems in tbese accounts                            Inoprte  so opening balances i thutese eccounts
as the sm  he   lso  t          filised                                   a th e sa  hve als ilo not boen finali;ed.
S. The attached Votes fovm an ntogrl part of these                        3. Tba *ttache4 Notes torm an integral part of  these
"CCounts.                                                                  aCcoUnts.



- 43 -
ANNEXURE -V
KARACHI WATER & SEWERAGE BOARD
Table 5.2: BALANCE SHEET AS AT JUNE 30, 1986
POND5 AND LItIALITISS              NOTE        196               198S               ROPgM  AND ASSETS                 NOe          1986              1985
Kg                                                                                  1,1E 
Capital Reserve                       3     950,718,551                            Pixed assaets
Revenue Surplua/(DefSeitl                   (76.577.474)      (36.007.449)         At coct leae accumaated doprecition    1.171.070.996            92.700.615
AA per scbodule attacebo
LongTot  Liabiltitlee.                                -
Consumer deposits                     4      11,50.912|         6.993.496          Current Asc"toa
Lt  Ter  Loans                        S  [o7,700'                                  InventO                             1         14.094,013        1.402,529
Su dr  D Tor                     14       30.682,047        4.531.907
Current Liabilitiess                        209,524,917         6.993.496            Danc           prepa rmnta         13        5,014,760         9 382.681
Karachi Vater Nanasenent Board       16        :6.68,025        8.678.025
TCrrent maturitytof lon1 term         6     109.024,499        26.215,445          KArsabi  Dvov  p ue      b Autbority  17      148789,3S81        1902.757
npId  the          rses7                   68.9at05.750s  50.1931                                                                                 2.,1 15
ntrctcors deposits                    8      27,294,870        22,534,068
Creditors                             9      69.248.86S        59,123*606
Accrued Liabilities                  10       1 130.635         1,024.331
Employees funds                      11   5 9.376.581          19.634,647
t a4.981.30      158,723.1272                                                       2451,57S.78        7,008.684
Contingenc Liability                 12.__
416.647,374        129.709,299                                                      1,416.447.374      129.709.299
AUDZTMS REPOT
As per oUT repor  *an -sed.
1. She cloinag  blauces of Raracht Vater  Nanaseant
Ba&rd as on  31St  January   1983  have  not  been                                      Sd/A
inacorporsted ao openig balanes in Oht s ccouate                                   bASa    CQtP
as the am  hav, also nDO  ,b D f6 isaied.                                      CATUSTZD ACCOUMNTATS
2. The attached noteo  form an lutogral part of  these                                     HAN N  DIE                       DE=CTO   PA
44*00ATo.                                                                                       VIIMuS
archib
Daced a



-44-
ANNEXURE-- V
KARACHI WATER & SEWERAGE BOARD
Table 5.3: BALANCE SHEET AS AT JUNE 30, 1987
TUN0 AD L4AttITIC9                 Ogm        1987             I16           PRWOP=    M10 L8SE                                  1965             1964
Ca *tl  atrve                    3     950.718,551       950,716,531     fixed Lsoates
aeveina. Sutplual(Deficit)           '     139'13S1.S1)      (78.377'474)    At  ot lose to   t 4 deprooation               1.22,.189.758   1.171.070.996
4A per shadul atted
Grant-in-aid.                        3.1   32.090.000               __
Lon" term  on                             5~S7~               9.7.0           UU6                                     13              *-        14,094,013
,.1u ffi| ,9, 9, 00,1xnvdr  Dbtors     14       g. 747,314       s0 682 047
276.166.437      209,324.917         a      and prpaysto                  is         3.42 9611      35314.740
vaah   atsr Iaacoent Board          16         6,76035         $.678.023
Pi"     ~     -s                                                             Karacht  Davelop"0 1 Authority           117     18,769, U1       146.749.3$1
tern loana    "a eerein  rt          6      2186776          10.2.9            aaciterpltan Corporation               is        593.664
anpai m hoqt                         7 r    71 125.630        669024739      Cab3 at Saub                             19       33,374,208       18,016.112
Cotators daposits                6       36.log.73        372.70
CreditoT                             9     10 0163.6"8        69 248 865
ccrued lliabiltie                   10       1 0484,64         1.30358
ZepicYOee JNade                     11      67.969.34         39,376361
401,341,676      334.981,340                                                       301,014,137     245,376,374
ocotingent Liability                1               -               -*
1,523,303.913    1,416,647,374                                                    1,523,203,913   1.416,647,374
i. The closl  balsanea  of tarachi Voter         atgeat
Board as on 3Ust Janury, 1963 have not been
icporsted asopei      wbaac  fn these  ccounts                                  13S(  & CCO*I
as the eamn have louo     been."  finl.IUad                                   CmZ nUM     AccourAM
2. The attached notoe for an Integral pert of these                                       MAGbS  EIZCJ0                          DIuC=  fIANC
accunts
Dated,



- 45 -
ARACHI WATER & SEWERAGE BOARD
Table 5.4s BALANCE SHEET AS AT JUNE 30, 1988
Y08S AM LItAB?l198                Not Y Jl.MM                                               AMD ASSI                    mE         195 8  !          1987.
Capital 1*8erve               s             81490.40.95       III950.78.1
8ur~,1,seI (DeSicit)(I39.7328)    (139,1I2:91)
Gront u-Ii-a                          3.1    65,090,000        32.090,000      De     i taou (A. per                    is      ,215991.341   1.222.189.738
;=ero Liabilities$
LaW; ,r  LiabilG&%o s                4       I,8043,935        14,357 686      Cutreut Aseelt_
Lo    tos   1                               IC'  933,257      263.480875
- ~4f .955,257      265.808,711      Sunday Debtor.                           16      233 ,395937       S8 747,214
286,979,192      278,166.437                and p       t                  61026.089                   3 429 6j1
u0rr maturlsy  fz  leg term                                              go       Doalopean  Authority             19      14$.789.381      148,789,58
loau and aeemed Interest             6      1i55 88 801       121 S67  763     Kar       etropol4te  Corporation        20        1.956.341        S.995.684
Upai^Bd cheqe.                       7      10 l.687,239       71.1253630      Cas  at tak                              21       70,730,31       _33, 74,202
Contractore dopcto                    8      52 7035750        38 209 732
Creditotr                            9       96 973 976       100 162,658                                                       462.862.261      301 014*lS7
LAcued Labtlitie.                    10       *,169,522         2.046 848
Deploy.. funde                       11      743252,014        67 969,247
471.877,302       401,381,878
Yraneferred fre g I SB (Poe
liabilt  *      a
12      10,000,000
OtherLiabilities
e irayebJe py  )                    13      144,229,751
144,229,751
Cottigtc  Liabtlity                 14                                -
1,6768S43.602    1,523.203,915                                                      1,67N.843,602   1.5233203,913
voese                                                                             A. eotrF             I93"
. Tbc closln  balan.c of KArachi Water  HaageSeat  Board
as an 31St January, 1983 bhav ban incerporated as
sing bala c  i  thes  accouants as the see  have been                             tUEl! * C0tUT
liced by laIbs  Jan & Co.. Chrtered Accountnts.                                CIAZIUNO ACCOONTS
S. The attached notes form an intesral port of tbhee  accounts.                                    mimmi lDaEcm                    PRCT   PINNCI
11298 cbtgS
Ia rai,
INed



- 46 -
ANNEXURE - V
KARACHI WATER & SEWERAGE BOARD
Tale 5.5: BALANCE SHEET AS AT 30Th JUNE, 1989
YUNDS AND LIABILIUTS              808          1989              1968          fRP      6 ASSS0 RO                                 1989              1988
Captal SRoetrve                      3      840,420.093       840.420,093      fixed Assets
Rsvemw SurpluelWefioit)(106.190,02                (139,732,738)    A   otls   cdtdDpeito
Orant-in-Aid                         5.1   10442  000          65,090.008      (h  por Schadu"l Atteobod)               13    L,224.973,724   1.213.981.34
Lo=g  ore Liabiliti..,                          -               -              Current LAsette
C or 4         tepost                4  I  20.38S.3561   I  I8 043 9331    Sundry Debtors                               16      362 .90.063      235.359.937
Long ter  loc =                          | 31621.4861   1 268935271    Advances cud prepayment                          17        6.5325130         6.026,089
336.207.042       286,979,192
Current Liabilitlesa
current ucturity of long term
locas 4 accrued iynotoct             6      1429.07,672,93     3,088.01        Karacbi Development                      i8      148,789,381       148,789,3$1
Unpaid cheque.                       7  I102,97.2 71    I108687.239l    AAltbOrtty
rootratre deposits                 8 1169.966.0131    j32 5750l    Karschi Iletropolitcn
SMedtors e9t   100  g01.793                                    969,73,976      Cortporati                               19       48,064,936         1,936.541
Ascuo 1Liai 4iie               10  [j:00 j    [,9    1322
mployes rund                        11i      83834,744         74 252 014      Cah St Bank                              20      143.633,231        70,730,313
607,668.689       471,877,302                                                       712,001,761      462.862.261
Transferred fromP g Y HL8.
TUow Liabilities of K.K.C.)
Long Toru Liabilitioes
0vrm.nt of Sind Loan                12       10,000,000        10,000,000
Other Liabilitiesw
%.D.A. Payable by E.I.C.             13     144,229,751       144,229.751
154,229,731       154,229.751
Contingent Liability                14             .-                --
1,936,975,485    1,678,843,602                                                      1,936,975,485   1.678.843,602
Auditor's Rbeort
-asirper ouaeport            .nrector r TnanO           Easbai & Company
Not.s    The attached note. form an integral part of these occounts.              Anexed.                         KV.& 5.8.             Chartered Accountants
KArachis
Dateds



