L ntenationai Development Association
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FOR                                                                For consideration on
EXECU TI VIE                       SPECIAL PROCEDURE               May 26, 1983
DIRECTORS'                                            l_l_I
M 4EET NO 
MEE TINGIDA/R83-62/l
FRO'M:  Vice President and Secretary                         May 16, 1983
r- !>c- Z
PAKISTAN:  Karachi Water Supply
Corrigendum
The President's Report and Recommendation on the proposed credit to
Pakistan for a Karachi Water Supply Project, distributed on May 9, 1983
(IDA/R83-62) contains an incorrect SDR amount on the grey cover.   The
correct amount is SDR 23.0 million.
Distribution:
Executive Directors and Alternates
President
Senior Vice Presidents
Senior Management Council
Vice Presidents, IFC
Directors and Department Heads, Bank and IFC
This document has a restricted distribution and rmay be used bv recipients only in the performance,
of their offlcial duties. Its contents mav not o~therwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.l



I



Document of                                   FILE 00pY|
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION                     Report No.P-3541-PAK
OF THE
iPRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 2310 MILLION
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
-0                                          FOR A
KARACHI WATER SUPPLY
APRIL 27, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUI]VALENTS
Currency Unit  =   Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
Rs 1            =   US$0.077
US$1.00         =   Rs 13
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
KDA     -   Karachi Development Authority
KMC     -   Karachi Metropolitan Corporation
KWSB    -   Karachi Water and Sewerage Board
MGD     -   Million Gallons Per Day
!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
KARACHI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiary:           Karachi Water and Sewerage Board (KWSB)
Amount:                SDR 23.0 million (US$25 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard
Relending Terms:       The proceeds of the credit would be onlent to the
Karachi Metropolitan Corporation (KMC) through the
Province of Sind with interest of not less than
11% p.a. for up to 25 years, including 5 years' grace.
Project Description:  The project is designed to assist in the expansion
of the water supply system in Karachi, the improvement
of service to consumers, and the strengthening of
KWSB. The project includes: (a) expansion of the water
supply conveyance system, pumping and treatment
capacity; (b) rehabilitation of trunk mains; (c) the
provision of metering, workshop, vehicles and
equipment; and (d) technical assistance, training and
studies. Risks relating to KWSB's institutional
capability would be addressed through an Action Plan to
improve KWSB's operational efficiency and financial
viability.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs:
Local     Foreign      Total
---- US$ million--------
Water Conveyance, Pumping and
Treatment Expansion                             8.17         6.50      14.67
Rehabilitation of Trunk Mains                     1.58         2.20       3.78
Metering, Workshop, Equipment
and Vehicles                                    0.58         1.12       1.70
Technical Assistance, Training
and Studies                                     1.33         1.52       2.85
Taxes and Duties                                  5.14        _           5.14
Base Cost                                      16.80        11.34      28.14
Physical Contingencies                            1.82         1.,38      3.20
Price Contingencies                               2.92         2.28       5.20
Total Project Cost                             21.54        15.00      36.54
Project Cost Net of Taxes and Duties             16.40        15.00      31.40
Financing Plan:                                  Local      Foreign      Total
…S-------- U)$ million--------
IDA                                              10.00        15.00      25.00
Federal and Provincial Governments               11.54         -         11.54
Total                                          21.54        15.00     36.54
Estimated Disbursements:            FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89
-…15$ -million--------------
Annual                           1.5    4.5    7.0    7.5    4.0    0.5
Cumulative                       1.5    6.0   13.0   20.5   24.5   25.0
Rate of Return:    8.2%  based on presernt water charges
Appraisal Report: No. 4327-PAK dated May 2, 1983
Map: IBRD No. 16904R



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMNENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIIC REPUBLIC OF
PAKISTAN FOR A KARACHI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Credit to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for SDR 23.0 million (US$25
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a Karachi Water
Supply Project. The Credit would be onlent through the Province of Sind to
the Karachi Metropolitan Corporation (KMC) for a term of 25 years, includ-
ing 5 years of grace, at an interest rate of not less than 11% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.      The most recent economic report "Pakistan:  Economic Developments
and Prospects" (No. 4215-PAK, dated February 11, 1983) was distributed to
the Executive Directors on February 11, 1983.
3.      The past five years have witnessed a significant economic recovery
in Pakistan. Between FY77 and FY82 GDP growth averaged over 6% p.a. This
growth was accompanied by a recovery in agricultural and industrial produc-
tion well above the rate of population growth, currently averaging about
2.8% p.a., and by a rapid growth in exports. Exports increased in real
terms by 10% p.a. Value added in agriculture rose by an average of 3.8%
p.a. and in industry by 9.3% p.a. This performance contrasts markedly with
the economic stagnation of the early and mid-1970s, wlhen the growth of GDP
averaged only 3-4% and goods production 1.1% p.a., and export growth was
negligible.
4.      The recovery in the economy since 1977 has been aided by several
factors, including favorable weather and higher domestic demand associated
with better crops, rising rural incomes and workers' remittances from the
Middle East. Various policy changes introduced by the Covernment have also
contributed significantly to the recovery.
1/ Parts I and II are substantially the same as Parts I and II of the
President's Report P-3507-PAK (Population Project) dated April 7, 1983.



-2--
5.      In recent years the Government has taken a number of initiatives to
improve agricultural production. Particular attention has been given to
improving farmer incentives and input supplies. Support prices for all
major crops have been raised so that they are now closer to world prices.
At the same time, steps have been taken to reduce the fertilizer subsidy
(which has been creating budgetary problems) and to separate it from the
development budget for agriculture in order to protect allocations for
other priority agricultural projects and programs. An Agricultural Prices
Commission has been set up to make recommendations on appropriate changes
in crop support and input prices on a consistent and timely basis.
6.      The Government has formulated and begun to implement a new agricul-
tural policy based on the main recommendations of a IJNDP study on irrigated
agriculture which emphasizes the need to improve the efficiency of the
water delivery system through the rehabilitation of distributaries and
better scheduling of water deliveries to the farmer; and. to expand the role
of the private sector, for example, through the promotion of private
tubewell development in sweet groundwater areas. Other programs--in pes-
ticides, seeds, agricultural credit, extension, research and farm
power--have also been strengthened. These initiatives are still at an
early stage and a breakthrough from the problems of low productivity at the
farm level is yet to take place.
7.      Major changes have also been made during the past five years in
government policies in the industrial sector. The policies pursued in the
early and mid-1970s of extensive nationalizations, tight restrictions on
the private sector, and rapid expansion of the public sector to spearhead
industrial investment and growth have been gradually reversed. Most
agricultural processing and some industrial units have been denationalized;
constitutional safeguards have been provided to private industry against
further arbitrary government acquisitions; and the areas open to the
private sector have been widened. A wide range of incentives including tax
holidays, excise and imoort duty concessions, concessionary credit and
income tax provisions, and direct cash rebates have been granted to
encourage private investment and exports. These have been supplemented by
a partial liberalization of imports which has improved the availability of
inputs. The investment sanctioning procedure has been streamlined. These
measures have led to an improvement in private sector confidence and to a
sharp increase in private investment, mainly in small and medium-scale
projects.
8.      At the same time, the Government has embarked on the difficult and
inevitably long process of reforming the public industrial sector, which
has been plagued by low efficiency and profits. Major studies have been
completed of the management and organization of the public sect:or, and the
performance of individual enterprises. -In accordance with the recommenda-
tions of these studies, the Board of Industrial Management (BIM) has been
abolished, the number of sector holding corporations has been reduced, and



-3-
boards of directors have been established which have helped to increase
autonomy at the enterprise level. Some public sector units which have
little prospect of improved financial performnance have been closed down.
These measures, together with additions to capacity and steps to retain
skilled technical personnel through salary adjustments, for --ample in the
fertilizer subsector, have helped to increase production and capacity
utilization substantially in the public sector.
9.      The higher level of economic activity during the past five years
and the Government's efforts to raise existing tax rates, introduce new
taxes and reduce tax evasion have helped to improve public revenues. The
budgetary situation improved significantly during FY80 through FY82.
Government revenues, following increases of 21% in FY78 and 16% in FY79,
rose by an average of 18% p.a. dturinig the next three vears as a result of
the continued growth of the economy, tax and tariff increases and inten-
sified efforts to improve tax collections. Although political developments
outside Pakistan's borders led to unplanned expenditures, tight restraints
were maintained on total spending; the growth of public expenditures was
limited to 13% p.a. The expansion of development and administrative expen-
ditures were restrained, while subsidies were reduced by more than 25%.
These restraints on expenditures, continued revenue growth and some
improvement in surpluses generated by public sector agencies helped to
increase the availability of non-inflationary domestic resources. nuring
FY80 through FY82, the overall budget deficit averaged 5.7% of GNP and the
bank-financed budget deficit 1.7% of GNP; both figures are well below those
of the late 1970s.
10.     Pakistan's export performance improved considerably between FY77
and FY81. Rapidly rising workers' remittances from abroad, from US$578
million in FY77 to over US$2.1 billion in FY81, also greatly assisted the
external position. These increases, however, were partly offset by an
increase in the value of imports, mainly petroleum, oil and lubricants,
fertilizer, edible oil and capital goods. The current accotnt deficit was
ITS$991 million or 3.3% of GNP in FY81, compared to US$1,050 million or
nearly 7% of GNP in FY77 in current prices.
11.      A number of developments contributed favorably to Pakistan's
ability to finance the FY81 current account deficit. These included the
conclusion of an Extended Fund Facility arrangement with the IMF in Novem-
ber 1980; a positive response from aid donors to the country's improved
economic performance resulting in increased aid commitments and inflows;
and an agreement with bilateral creditors in the Pakistan Consortium for
rescheduling of debt service payments on official concessional debt falling
due over an 18-month period beginning mid-January 1981. As a consequence
of improved performance on both current account and capital account, for-
eign exchange reserves increased from US$748 million to US$1,039 million
during the year; the latter was the equivalent of about two months' worth
of import of goods and services.



-4--
12.     The balance of payments deteriorated somewhat during FY82.  The
principal reasons were a 17% decline in the value of exports coupled with
relatively slow growth of migrant remittances (6%). For Pakistan's major
exports, rice and cotton, the combination of deteriorating world economic
conditions plus output expansion in other countries led to a decline in
both unit values and volumes.  For manufactured exports, the slowdown in
the world economy, together with a deterioration in Pakistan's competitive-
ness resulting from the linkage of the rupee to the US dollar up to January
1982 (the currency is now being managed with reference to a weighted basket
of currencies), led to a decline in value as compared with the previous
year. Because of the decline in world petroleum prices and import sub-
stitution in some key sectors (most particularly, fertilizers), the volume
of imports of essential raw materials and capital goods could still grow
sufficiently to nrovide for a real GDP expansion of 6% wThile the total
value of imports expanded by only 2%. Owing to the above factors, Pakis-
tan's current account deficit rose from US$991 million in FY81 to US$1,530
million in FY82 (the latter being equivalent to 4.7% of GNP).  Net inflows
of official assistance, private capital and IMF resources were not suffi-
cient to cover the increased deficit and there was a drawdown of about
US$200 million in reserves. At the end of FY82, reserves were US$840
million, the equivalent of about 1.5 months of imports.
13.     The developments in the PakistarL economy since 1977 represent
welcome steps towards the solution of a set of problems which are essen-
tially structural and long-term in nature. Notwithstanding these improve-
ments, further wide-ranging measures to address the basic issues which are
limiting economic growth in the longer term are necessary if Pakistan is to
sustain its recently improved economic performance over the present decade
and bring about a modest improvement in the living standards of its popula-
tion. These issues include the farm-level factors affecting low produc-
tivity in agriculture; the structure and competitiveness of the industrial
sector; the need to improve performance of public sector enterprises; the
factors lying behind continued rapid growth in population; the need to
redirect social service expenditures; and the problems of resource mobi-
lization.
14.     Agriculture remains the economy's mainstay, accounting directly for
roughly a third of GDP, employing about 60% of the labor force and,
directly or indirectly, providing nearly two thirds of total exports.
Despite recent improvements in output and yields, a number of fundamental
factors continue to limit agricultural productivity at levels well below
the potential implied by the resources and technologies already available.
Generally, output growth has not been commensurate with the substantial
increases in available inputs, especially water and fertilizer. While
considerable potential still exists for the additional use of fertilizer
and other inputs, it appears essential to give greater priority to evolving
complementary policies and programs which would have a direct impact on



-5-
yields at the farm level.  The importance of increasing farm productivity
is recognized in the Government and a beginning has been made in addressing
this problem. Nevertheless, support for programs to strengthen research,
extension, water management and other programs in the agricultural and
water secturs needs to be intensified, while fertilizer subsidies must be
flurther reduced, accompanied by necessary adjustments in output and con-
sumer prices.
15.     Manufacturing contributes about 15% of GDP and during much of the
1950s and 1960s provided a major stimulus to growth. Growth rates in
manufacturing production, though recently better, remain below the levels
attained in the 1960s. The textile industry, in partictular, which accounts
for nearly 40% of value added in large-scale industry, has suffered from
problems of inefficiency, excess capacity and a lack of competitiveness in
foreign markets. Although there have been some recent improvements in the
output and profitability of public enterprises, these improvements need to
be carried further through appropriate reforms to remove distortions in
pricing and improve performance criteria and incentives to managers. To
assist the recovery in private investment and to maintain the increased
momentum in the industrial sector will require an adequate supply of local
and foreign financing, both for investments and current inputs, and the
more rapid provision of necessary utilities and other infrastructure
requirements. At the same time, it is necessary to ensure that the Govern-
ment's incentive system supports those industries in which Pakistan has a
comparative advantage. Analysis is in progress to determine levels of
effective protection in order to provide the basis for formulating an
appropriate industrial development strategy for the 1980s.
16.     The Government's efforts to deal with the energy situation by
adjusting domestic oil prices, and by encouraging the substitution of other
energy forms and the exploration and development of domestic oil resources,
have met with some success. Growth of petroleum consumption has been
restrained by the development of hydro electricity and natural gas resour-
ces as well as by petroleum price adjustments. At the same time, activity
in the oil sector has been stepped up, in some instances through joint
ventures with foreign private companies. Nevertheless, due to a variety of
technical, geological and other reasons, progress on exploration of new
fields as well as the development of existing fields has been slow and
Pakistan's considerable potential in the oil and gas sector has yet to be
realized. The Government has begun to implement a number of reforms relat-
ing to such matters as energy planning, pricing and organization in order
to accelerate progress.
17.   While it is clearly vital to sustain rapid growth in the commodity-
producing sectors, it is also necessary to contain the rapid growth in
population, currenltly running at about 2.8% p.a., which has seriously
handicapped the country's ability to improve living standards. Family
planning programs have so far had little effect and there have been few



- 6-'
changes in the socio-economic environment of a type that usually accompany
declines in fertility. Rapid population growth places severe burdens on
government resources simply to maintain education and health programs at
their current inadequate standards. However, without higher literacy
rates, improved health facilities and a reduction in child mortality, it is
doubtful that population growth rates can be much reduced. Expenditures on
social services have been low and undue emphasis has been given to higher
education and urban health facilities. The Government has recently shown
more awareness of this problem; a new and more promising population program
is in the initial stages of implementation, and several special programs to
improve basic health and education facilities were introduced in the FY83
budget, especially for rural areas.
18.     Policies that face the longer-term issues in both the productive
and the social sectors will take time to have an appreciable effect and
will have to be implemented in the context of continued domnestic and exter-
nal resource constraints. To improve the budget and the balance of pay-
ments, a fundamental improvement is required in the overall savings levels
in the economy, particularly in public savings.  At 12% of GNP, national
savings are substantially above the levels of the early and mid-1970s, but
are still low for a country at Pakistan's per capita income level and stage
of development. The continuation of the Government's recent efforts to
restrain public spending, improve the performance of the publi'c sector and
encourage private investment will help to reduce present imbalances between
investment and savings flows. At the same time, an increase in savings
inevitably calls for restraining private consumption through further
appropriate price adjustments and selective (luty increases on non-essential
imports.  Continued restraints on spending and measures to further improve
revenues through improvements in tax administration and tax and rate
increases (for example, property taxes, domestic water rates and irrigation
water charges) are also needed.
19.     Increased agricultural production of major crops (particularly rice
and cotton) will help directly to sustain export growth. Efforts are also
necessary to stimulate the output of minor crops, for example, pulses,
potatoes, onions and fruits, for which markets exist in neighboring
countries. In addition, substantial scope exists for increasing Pakistan's
exports of manufactured goods such as textiles and engineering products, as
well as of a wide range of goods produced by the small-scale industrial
sector. Increased domestic output of wheat, edible oil, sugar, mineral
fuels and fertilizer would help to moderate import growth considerably.
20.     Although, as described above, the Pakistan economy continues to
face a number of difficulties, the improvements over the past few years in
demand management and in planning, incenltives and government programs in
agriculture, industry and energy have heLped to create a climate more
conducive to rapid economic growth and better international trade perfor-
mance, and have established an improved framework within which further



-7-
reforms can be effectively pursued. The recent government policy initia-
tives, which have been formulated in close consultation with the Bank and
Fund, have improved Pakistan's creditworthiness for commercial borrowing
and for a blend of Bank and IDA borrowing.
21.     At the end of calendar 1981, Pakistan's external public debt
(excluding the undisbursed pipeline) stood at US$8.8 billion, of which
US$4.6 billion was owed to bilateral mehlbers of the Pakistan Consortium,
US$1.2 billion to OPEC and US$1.9 billion to multilateral agencies and the
balance to other bilateral and private lenders.  In 1981, the Bank Group's
share in Pakistan's external public indebtedness was 13.8% and in external
debt service was 13.3%. According to Bank forecasts, provided recent
policy improvements are sustained, Pakistan's debt service ratio (debt
service divided by exports of goods and factor and non-factor services),
which was about 12% in FY82, should rise slowly during the 1980s, even
assuming substantial commercial borrowing, reaching 15% in FY85 and remain-
ing in the 15-16% range through FY90.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
22.     The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan (exclusive
of Loans and Credits or portions thereof which were dishursed in the former
East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$2 billion. During its long
association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been involved in almost all
sectors of the economy. This has included its involvement with other
donors, over a 20-year period, in the major program of works to develop the
water resources of the Indus Basin. Approximately 38% of total Bank/IDA
commitments to Pakistan have been For public utility services, 30% for
agriculture, 31% for industry (of which 9% was for industrial imports) and
2% for education. Lending for public utility services has included loans
and credits for railways,. electric power, gas pipelines, ports, highways,
telecommunications and water supply.
23.     Lending operations in Pakistan have three main objectives:  first,
to support the directly productive sectors of the economy; secondly, to
support the expansion of, and to improve the institutions which are respon-
sible for, the principal public services supporting economic growth; and
thirdly, to meet basic needs in the areas of rural and urban development.
24.     In pursuit of these objectives, the Bank Group has placed special
emphasis on lending for agriculture, which is the mainstay of the Pakistan
economy. Projects in this sector are aimed at augmenting the supply of
essential inputs, principally irrigation water, fertilizer, seeds and
credit; strengthening research, extension and other agricultural supporting
services; improving water management; reclaiming land by controlling
salinity and waterlogging; and providing essential facilities including



-8-
tubewells, livestock development and dairy processing.  An important pur-
pose of tnis lending is to assist the Government's program to increase the
productivity of available land and water resources in the Indus Basin
through quick-yielding investments, as recommended recently in a
UNDP-financed study for which the Bank was executing agency.
25.     In industry, most lending for the private sectLor hnas been through
the DFCs, principally through eleven Loans/Credits amounting to US$270
million for the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation
(PICIC), and two Credits to the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
(IDBP), totaling [S$50 nmillion.  Direct lending for industry has also
included assistance to three large fertilizer plants, as well as for
small-scale industry.  As of March 31, 1983, TFC had made investments in 16
Pakistan enterprises for a total of US$183.1 million, of which US$176.7
million was by way of loans and US$11.4 million by equity participations
(these are shown in Annex II). About US$58.4 million of these investments
remained outstanding. The enterprises assisted by IFC include 3 in the
field of pulp and paper products, 2 each in textiles, food and food
processing, and petrochemicals, and one each in cement, steel, fertilizers,
plastics and wood processing. IFC is also a shareholder in PICIC.
26.     The focus of Bank Group lending for transport and communications
has shifted increasinigly towards assisting Pakistan to better utilize
existing capacity by improving the efficiency of operations and strengthen-
ing the institutions respoasible for these services, especially the Karachi
Port Trust, Pakistan Railways, the Telephone and Telegraph Department, and
federal and provincial highway agencies. In the power sector, the Bank
Group has assisted the Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESC) and the
Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) with four and three projects
respectively; the sector has also been assisted by the construction under
the Indus Basin Development Program of Mangla and Tarbela Dams.
27.     In the oil and gas sector, the two Sui gas transmission companies
have been assisted with five projects, while IDA has financed a petroleum
development project and begun to play an important role in strengthening
the Public Oil and Gas Development Corporation. These efforts are assist-
ing in the efficient development and utilization of Pakistan's domestic
energy resources and in establishing a policy and institutional framework
for increased private investment in the sector. A second water supply
project in Lahore is carr(,:alv tinler iLrplmentation.  Five credits for
education, totalinig 'TS$62.5 million, have assisted in upgrading primary,
post-secondary and higher technical and agricultural education, mid-
dle-level training of primary teachers and agricultural extension agents.
28.     In addition to financing specific high-priority projects in key
sectors of the economy, the Bank has from time to time supported Pakistan's
development thirough program assistance., A first structural adjustment
lending operation (SAL) was approved by the Executive Directors in June



-9-
1982. This SAL program consists of a number of significant reforms in
government development planning and in policies and programs in the
agriculture, energy and industrial sectors.
29.     Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
as of March 31, 1983, anid notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
Credit and loan disbursements have been generally satisfactory. Some
projects have experienced initial delays due to protracted government
procedures for project approval, which have now been streamlined, and to
slowness in the procurement of goods and services. Rapid turnover of
managerial and technical staff, in part due to migration to the Middle
East, and budgetary constraints have been problems in the case of some
projects.
30.     A number of further projects for Bank Group financing are currently
under appraisal or being prepared in Pakistan. These include projects for
agricultural credit, drainage, oil and gas development and education.
Pakistan continues to have domestic resource constraints for the reasons
set out in Part I. To assist the Government to finance agricultural and
other high-priority projects which have a low foreign exchange component,
financing of some local expenditures in specific cases is justified.
31.     Tn add(lition to lending, economic and sector work provides the basis
for a continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government of
Pakistan on development strategy, and for the coordination of external
assistance within the Pakistan Consortium.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE SECTOR
32.     Pakistan's urban growth rate has averaged 4.5% p.a. during the
decade 1971-81, while total population grew at about 3.0% p.a. At present,
about 30% of Pakistan's population lives in urban areas; this is expected
to increase to approximately 40% by the end of this century. Due to rela-
tively low levels of investment in urban infrastructure and housing, a
large and increasing backlog of unmet demands for basic services has been
created, particularly in water supply, sanitation, developed land, shelter
and social services.
33.     About 70% of the estimated 26 million people living in urban areas,
and some 20% of the rural population of 12 million, have access to public
potable water. Only 11 million (42%) of the urban population are served by
waterborne sewerage sysh(rs, ancl sanitation is available to about 1.2
million (2%) of rural dwellers.
34.      As a semi-arid country, Pakistan depends on the Indus River system
for its growth and sustenance.  The river provides surface water for direct



-10-
abstractions and, through normal infiltration, recharges a large portion of
the underground aquifers from which water is drawn for irrigation and
potable use. In general, the underground sources near natural watercourses
and surface irrigation areas are of good quality except in coastal regions
where wells can be brackish and unsuitable for drinking.  Tlhroughout the
rural areas canals, shallow wells and tubewells are relied on for drinking
water.
35.     The provision of water supply and sanitation service is primarily a
local function, administered and controlled through budgetary provisions
determined at the level of the Provinc:ial Governments within the framework
of a central national planning policy. In each province, water supply and
sanitation projects are constructed throug'n one or more of the following
agencies:  (a) the Public Health Engineering Department (PHED); (b) the
Public Works Department; (c) Local Government Work Agencies; (d) Municipal
Committees; and (e) in the case of large cities, Development Authorities.
Completed schemes are handed over to local governments responsible for
their operation and maintenance except in the larger cities such as
Karachi, Lahore, Peshawar, Multan, Faisalabad, Hyderabad and Islamabad
where autonomous authorities have overall responsibility for building and
operating the systems.
36.     Apart from a general scarcity of trained personnel and professional
management and support staff, the main constraint to sector development is
a shortage of funds for new construction and of foreign exchange for the
purchase of goods and materials not available in Pakistan; imported com-
ponents include construction equipment, pumps, electrical units arnd con-
trols, steel for fabrication, jointing materials and a variety of special
equipment.  Because of general budgetary constraints in Pakistan, financial
allocations to the sector have been inadequate. In addition, a large
proportion of available resources has been utilized to neet operational
expenses rather than to finance new investment; cost recovery from the
public for most services has been low. Although a number of external
agencies have been providing assistance to the sector, including USAID,
UNICEF, WHO, UNDP and the Asian Development Bank, the availability of
foreign exchange to the sector has been. extremely limited.
37.     Until now the Provincial Governments have generally looked to the
Federal Government to meet financing gaps in the sector. The Federal
Government is seeking to discourage this attitude and is encouraging the
Provincial Governments to wield stricter control over municipal and local
council spending and to promote greater cost recovery for services
rendered. Water and sewerage operations are considered prime candidates
for this approach. The Government's long-term objective for the sector is
to establish viable and well-operated urban public water supply and
sewerage systems and to progressively extend this effort to rural areas.
Emphasis is being placed on improved long-term planning for future needs



-1 1-
and increased operational efficiency of existing systems with appropriate
cost recovery.
The City of Karachi
38.     Initially a small fishing village endowed with a fine natural
harbor, Karachi today has grown into a bustling city of about 5.7 million
inhabitants. It is the major industrial center of Pakistan and the prin-
cipal port serving the country. The climate is generally moderate but with
periods of high humidity; temperatures can reaclh 110 F degrees in May and
June while in January may drop to 40 F degrees. The city lies in the
monsoon belt and generally receives its main rainfall in July and August,
with a mean of about 180 mm annually.
39.     Karachi was the capital of Pakistan until 1959 when the seat of
Government was transferred to Islamabad. Since that time the population
has tripled and continues to grow at about 5% per annum, somewhat greater
than the national urban average. The city remains the capital of Sind
Province and contains about 29% of the entire provincial pFpulation in one
million dwellings covering a metropolitan area of 3,530 km .
40.     The economy of Karachi is mainly based on trade, industry and
commerce. There are over 1,800 formal industrial units producing a wide
range of goods, including textiles, paper and cardboard, leather, glass,
rubber and plastics, garments, pharmaceuticals, soap, food and beverages;
the heavy industry is in shipbuilding, ship wrecking and repairs, steel
making, vehicle assembly, electrical goods and machine tools.  The city is
also a center of learning with two universities, five polytechnics, over
fifty colleges and more than 2,300 primary, middle and high schools.
Health care is delivered by some nine hospitals, 56 clinics and about 450
dispensaries.
41.     The physical characteristic of the area on which the city is built
is one of flat topped parallel hills devoid of vegetation, with wide inter-
vening plains between the two dry river beds of the Malir and Lyari rivers;
these only flow for short periods of the year and act year round as
recipients for the city's wastewater. The highest elevation of the greater
city area barely exceeds 80 m above sea level.
42.     The water supply system of Karachi has been developed in stages.
It began with the development of wells at Dumlotti, which today yield
between 1-3 million gallons per day (MGD). The first abstraction from the
Indus was developed in 1941 and has since been expanded through a series of
canals, pumping stations, filtration plants and trunk distribution systems,
to deliver a total of about 203 MGD. A third source of water is now being
developed from the Hub river and is currently delivering some 24 MGD. The
combined total of these three sources, about 230 MGD, represents a 30%



-12-
deficit on the estimated maximum daily demand of 327 MGD. Water is cur-
rently available over much of Karachi for only four to six hours during the
day.
43.     Karachi is served by some 1,000 miles of lateral and secondary
sewers, with about 130 miles of trunk and rising mains.  There are over
160,000 sewer connections, only part of w,hichl drain to a system terminating
in treatment; much of Karachi's domestic sewage thus finds its way
untreated to the most convenient watercourse. It is estimated that 29% of
properties are connected to the main system, 4% to local systems or septic
tanks, 25% served by non-effective systems and some 42% completely
unserved.
44.     A serious problem with the operation of the sewerage system is the
lack of sufficient quantities of water for flushing purposes, resulting in
numerous blockages. The system was designed on a conventional hydraulic
approach assuming self-cleansing velocities which in many instances are
difficult to obtain because of the overall water shortage. However, recent
improvements to the system through cross-connections and additional pumping
have improved the situation and increasing quantities of sewage are now
arriving at the two existing sewage treatment plants, which have been
upgraded.
45.     Institutional arrangements.  The agency made responsible for the
first major production expansion of Karachi's water supply system was the
Karachi Joint Water Board (KJWB), formed in 1953. Project execution was
later entrusted to the Karachi Development Authority (KDA) when this latter
organization was established in 1957. Distribution and retailing of
treated water was the responsibility of the Karachi Metropolitan Corpora-
tion (KMC) and others. Over the years, division of responsibility for
production and distribution proved increasingly difficult to coordinate and
manage, and it was subsequently decided to form a new authoril-y to operate
the entire water supply system and to extend its jurisdiction to include
wastewater management. Accordingly, under the Sind Local Government (Amend-
ment) Ordinance of 1983, the Karachi Water and Sewerage Board (KWSB) was
established on February 1, 1983, to carry out these functions as a separate
entity under YI1C.
46.     KWSB has responsibility for production, treatment and distribution
of water, as well as disposal and treatment of wastewater.  Its Board of
Directors consists of six members--the Mayor, Deputy Mayor, two elected
city counsellors, a representative of the Government of Sind and a
full-time Managing Director. Day-to-day operational matters are conducted
by the Managing Director assisted by a staff of some 6,000 persons trans-
ferred to KWSB from the agencies previously engaged in the sector. KWSB's
annual budget and development plans, as well as any proposals to adjust
tariffs, are subject to KMC's approval.



-13-
47.     Past financial performance.  As noted above (paragraph 45), prior
to the establishment of KWSB, KDA was responsible for the production of
potable water and for its bulk distribution to the various distribution
entities and bulk users in Karachi, of which KM4C was the largest. KDA
billed these various entities for the water supplied to them, utilizing a
rate per thousand gallons that was supposed to cover the costs of KDA's
Water Wing. However, the bulk water rate authorized and used did not
include the costs of servicing all KDA's water related debt, notably
medium-term debentures issued in 1976 to finance the construction of a new
650 MGD canal from the Indus River. The bulk users also challenged the
accuracy of KDA's meters and water billings and withheld payments. The
result was that KDA was unable to collect revenues sufficient to cover its
full costs; its net loss on its water operations in FY81 was Rs 62 million,
which KDA covered from its profits on land and housing development.
48.     In addition, KMC's tariff to consumers was not revised from 1967 to
1981 and the revenues produced by it have been significantly less than
KMC's related costs, including the costs for bulk water supplied by KDA.
KMC's net loss in FY81 on its water operations was Rs 58 million, which KMC
financed from municipal taxation and other activities. Although large
increases in water tariffs and changes in the charging base in 1981 and
1982 have brought about a two-and-a-half times increase in KMC's revenue,
the impact of the tariff increases has been reduced by problems with the
register of consumers and hilling and collection systems. The proposed
project includes an Action Plan to enable KWSB to address these inherited
difficulties and to establish the new entity as an operationally efficient
and financially viable organization (see paragraphs 57-60).
49.     The terms of the debentures (seven years at 12-1/2% interest,
including a two-year grace period) issued in 1976 for canal construction
(paragraph 47) were inappropriate for the financing of such a long lived
asset. Although an expansion of the conveyancing system included under the
proposed project would permit KWSB to start drawing water from this canal,
the full capacity of the canal will not be utilized before 1997.  The cost
of servicing these debentures has never been included in water tariffs, as
it was hoped that the Government might convert this liability into equity,
and payments of interest and principal have not been made. KDA currently
owes a total of Rs 874 million in principal and interest, the legal
liability of which has been transferred, with the assets, to KMC, with the
Government of Sind as guarantor. In a memorandum of understanding with
KMC, the Government of Sind has agreed that, in the event that KMC is
called on to discharge the liability for the debentures under a settlement
of this issue, a solution mutually satisfactory to the Government and KMC
would be worked out. If this solution were to involve KWSB, the terms and
conditions would be required to fall within the debt service limitations
set out in the draft Project Agreement (Section 4.01(b)).



-14-
50.     Bank Group Involvement.  To date the Bank Group has been involved
in two operations in the water and sewerage sector in Pakistan, both in
Lahore. The first operation (Credit 106-PAK), undertaken in conjunction
with the Swedish International Development Authority, assisted minor
rehabilitation of water and sewerage facilities, the preparation of a
development master plan for the city, and institution-building. The
project was completed in 1972. The Project Performance Audit Report 1/
concluded that the project largely attained the objectives of meeting
Lahore's urgent water supply requirements and of improving water and sewer
services.
51.     The ongoing Second Lahore Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage
Project (Credit 630-PAK) is a follow-up to the first project and is
directed at rehabilitating and substantia1ly expanding the water supply and
sewerage facilities in Lahore. The Credit included funds for studies which
helped to prepare the Lahore Urban Development Project (approved by the
Board on April 19, 1983). Credit 630-PAK has experienced delays in execu-
tion, particularly with construction of the sewerage component because of
difficult ground conditions and contractor unfamiliarity with the scope and
type of work. The water supply component, however, has been completed and
through additional tubewells and distribution extensions now provides
Lahore with an uninterrupted supply of safe drinking water.  The Lahore
Water and Sanitation Agency is also receiving technical and management
assistance from the UK for leak detecticn, stores and accounting.  The
current Closing Date is December 1983, an extension of three years from the
original date.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
52.     The project, prepared by KMC and KDA with assistance from consult-
ants, was appraised in January 1982. A mission in November 1982 updated
the appraisal to take account of adjustments to the proposed size and scope
of the project necessitated by local resource constraints. Negotiations
were held in Washington from March 31 to April 6, 1983; the Pak!istan
delegation was led by Mr. I. Haq, Economic Minister, Embassy of Pakistan.
The Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Pakistan: Karachi W4ater Supply
Project" (Report No. 4327-PAK, dated May 2, 1983) is being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors.  A Supplementary Data Sheet is
attached as Annex III.
1/ Report No. 44, dated April 12, 1974 (SecM74-237).



-15-
Project Objectives and Description
53.     The proposed project would assist the expansion of the water supply
system in Karachi and the improvement of service to consumers, and would
strengthen KUSB through technical assistance and training. The project,
which would provide an additional 60 MGD, would represent a major first
step to rectify the serious deficiencies in Karachi's water supply system
and to develop KWSB into an operationally efficient and financially viable
agency. The operational improvements which would result from the project
would make more drinking water available to the poorer segments of the
community. This would be achieved mainly by obtaining a general increase
in system pressure through a leak detection and repair program, added
production, and a reduction in wasteful consumption by larger consumers
through selective metering.
54.     The proposed project would consist of the following components:
(a) enlargement of an existing raw water canal and pipe transmis-
sion system which extracts supplies from the Indus River;
(b) increasing the capacity of a high-level pumping station at
Dhabeii, including a large diameter force main to produce an
additional 60 MGD;
(c) raising the capacity of an existing water treatment plant at
Pipri to its rated output of 50 MGD and adding water clarifying
facilities to provide another 25 MGD;
(d) repair and rehabilitation of trunk mains in various diameters;
(e) provision and installation of about 5,000 domestic meters and
construction of a meter workshop;
(f) provision of vehicles and equipment for operations;
(g) a study to prepare for future expansion of Karachi's water
supply system;
(h) technical support for detailed engineering and supervision of
construction; and
(i) management and training assistance to KWSB.
Project Implementation
55.     The proposed project woould be implemented by KDA and KWSB.  KDA, as
the agency responsible for infrastructural developments in Karachi, has
over the years maintained a Water Wing for design and execution of the



-16--
expansion of the huilk water supply system.  This unit is still in existence
and would provide KWSB with in-house technical assistance for implementa-
tion. However, some consultant back-up may be required to hetlp with design
and execution of the proposed project. In that event, consultants would be
employed for this purpose (Section 2.02 of the draft Project Agreement).
56.     Preliminary plans have been prepared by KDA for the proposed expan-
sion of the Pipri treatment facilities and the modifications to the pumping
station at Dhabeji. Detailed drawings exist for the additional siphons and
the canal enlargement and the mains to be repaired or replaced have been
identified. Work has already started on the preparation of bid documents;
it is expected that the first contracts would be awarded in early 1984.
The rehabilitation works would be completed by December 1985 and the treat-
ment plant and pumping and conveyance facilities between mid-1986 and the
end of 1987.
KWSB Action Plan 1/
57.     A number of inter-related activities would be undertaken by KWSB
under the proposed project with a common aim of improving its operating
efficiency and financial viability. These have been grouped into an Action
Plan, the components of which have been agreed between the Association, the
Province of Sind, KMC and KWSB.  Progress in implementing this plan would
be reported in KWSB's normal quarterly reports and the plan would be
annually reviewed and updated in agreement with the Association (Section
4.04(c) of the draft Project Agreement). The Action Plan focuses on
achieving major improvements, within an agreed time-frame, in such areas as
billing and collection, financial management, increased metering of larger
consumers, and leak detection and repair.
58.     To assist KWSB in carrying out the Action Plan, consultant services
would be provided to:  (a) improve billing and collection procedures; (b)
prepare a register of all consumers; (c) develop an accounting and budget-
ing system; (d) assist in the transfer and revaluation of assets; and (e)
develop a management and reporting system.  As specified in the Action
Plan, KWSB would engage qualified consultants for these purposes by Septem-
ber 30, 1983. The Action Plan also provides that, by December 31, 1983,
KWSB would draw up and start to implement a training program for its staff
to improve technical and management efficiency of the organization.
59.     Financial targets.  With the institutional improvements envisaged
under the Action Plan, a realistic medium-term financial target would be
for KWSB to cover its operation and maintenance expenses and debt service
and contribute towards its future investment needs from internal cash
1/ Covered in a Side Letter to the dralft Project Agreement.



-17-
generation. It is intended that KWSB would move towards this target in
stages. In conjunction with the Action Plan, the Province of Sind, KMC and
KWSB have undertaken to improve efficiency and/or adjust tariffs to enable
KWSB:  (a) to meet its cash expenses (including debt service) in FY86; and
(b) to meet its cash expenses plus 10% of its average investment require-
ments in FY87, 20% in FY88 and 30% in FY89 and thereafter.I/  Under terms
of the Ordinance establishing KWSB (paragraph 45 above), KMC would be
required to fund any cash deficits of KWSB until the financial targets are
met.
60.      Feasibility Study.  The proposed project is designed to alleviate
the immediate water shortage in Karachi within the tight limits imposed by
existing resource constraints, while at the same time initiating measures
to progressively improve KWSB's financial position over the medium term.
In anticipation of this improvement, the Action Plan provides for a
feasibility study for future major development of Karachi's water supply
system. This study will assess various water supply alternatives and
prepare a follow-up project based on the most economic solution. The
Action Plan specifies that KWSB would employ consultants for this study not
later than January 1, 1984, and complete and review the findings of the
study with the Province of Sind and the Association by December 31, 1984.
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
61.      Total project costs, including taxes and duties and contingencies,
are estimated at US$36.5 million. Taxes and duties amount to about US$5.1
million, and the foreign exchange component to US$15 million. Detailed
cost estimates are shown in the Credit and Project Summary. Base costs
have been calculated on estimated June 1983 prices. The average man-month
cost for local consultants is US$3,350; for expatriate consultants the
man-month cost (including travel and al-lowances) is US$9,500. Physical
contingencies have been estimated at just under 13% of base costs. Price
contingencies for internationally procured equipment and materials have
been estimated at 8% for 1983 declining to 6% in 1986 and thereafter; for
civil works and on local costs, a 10% annual increase has been allowed.
62.      The proposed IDA credit of US$25 million would finance about 79% of
project costs (net of taxes and duties) and would cover 100% of estimated
foreign exchange costs (US$15 million) and 61% of local costs. The
proceeds of the IDA credit would be onlent through the Province of Sind to
KMC at an interest rate of not less than 11% p.a. for 25 years including a
1/  Average investment requirements are defined as the average of KWSB's
estimated capital expenditures for the fiscal year in question and the
following fiscal year, as well as actual capital expenditures for the
preceding year.



-18'-
5-year grace period. These funds, together with US$11.5 from the Provin-
cial Government's development budget, would be made available by MC to
KWSB and KDA for carrying out their respective parts of the project (Sec-
tion 3.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement and Schedule 2 to
the draft Project Agreement). The rate of inflation in Pakistan has
recently averaged about 10% p.a. and is expected to remain around or below
this level during the next few years. The execution of a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, satisfactory to the Association, between the Government of Sind
and KMC, together with approval by the Executive Committee of the National
Economic Council (ECNEC) of the PC-1 documents for the project,l/ would be
additional conditions of Credit effectiveness (Section 5.01 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
63.     Contracts for goods and civil works, estimated in the aggregate
at $13 million and $20 million, respectively, would be awarded on the basis
of International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines. The contracts would be grouped to attract wide bidding inter-
est. Local manufacturers participating in the bidding would be accorded a
preference in bid evaluation of 15% or the prevailing import duty,
whichever is lower.
64.     In the interests of efficiency and economy, a selected number of
contracts for small items of equipment and vehicles and locally available
materials, estimated to cost US$50,000 or less each, may be awarded through
local shopping on the basis of at least: three price quotatiorns; the total
value of such contracts would not exceed $0.5 million. Civil works for the
installation of meters and for small components of the rmains rehabilitation
program would be carried out by KWSB through force account; the total value
of force account work, which would build up experience of this type of work
within KWSB, would not exceed $0.5 million.
65.     Disbursements from the proposed IDA credit would be made for:  (a)
75% of civil works; (b) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of directly
imported vehicles, equipment and materials; (c) 100% oE the ex-factory
price of locally manufactured vehicles, equipment and materials; (d) 65% of
the total cost of locally procured goods and materials; and (e) 100% of
total expenditures for consultants' services and training abroad. Disbur-
sements for civil works on force account would be made against certificates
of expenditure, with the supporting documents being retained by KWSB for
review by the Association.
1/ A PC-1 (Planning Commission Proforma No. 1) is an internal government
project appraisal document necessary for the Government of Pakistan's
approval procedures.



-19-
66.     To maintain the momentum of project preparation and to accelerate
improvements in the operational efficiency and financial performance of
KWSB, retroactive financing to November 1, 1982, in an amount not exceeding
US$500,000, is proposed for project related expenditures for consulting
services for: (a) updating the register of consumers, (b) the management
assistance program and (c) final design of project components.
Accounts and Audits
67.     KWSB and KDA would prepare joint quarterly reports covering physi-
cai and administrative progress of the project and submit these reports to
the Association no later than six weeks after the end of each quarter
(Section 2.06(a) of the draft Project Agreement). KWSB and KDA would
maintain separate records for their respective project activities. The
accounts and financial statements of KWSB, and those of KDA relating
specifically to the project, would for each fiscal year be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; certified copies of
these audited financial statements would be submitted to the Association no
later than six months after the end of each fiscal year (Sections 4.01,
4.02 and 4.03 of the draft Project Agreement),
Benefits and Risks
68.     Water is currently available over much of Karachi for only four to
six hours during the day. Distribution mains are intermittently unpres-
surized, allowing polluted groundwater to infiltrate the system. The
proposed project would address the urgent need to make more production
water available as early as possible. The further expansion of the system
to meet longer-term needs would be considered under the proposed
feasibility study (paragraph 60).
69.     The proposed project represents the final phase of development of
an existing supply system and utilizes several existing investments,
including the Indus-Gujjo canal (paragraph 47), which is treated as a sunk
cost. For this reason, the average incremental cost of water provided
under the project (including reduced losses) would be less than the
estimated long-run marginal cost of water supply. Using incremental
revenues based on present water charges as representing consumers' minimum
willingness to pay for services and thus as a proxy for benefits derived
from the proposed project, an incremental economic rate of return of 8.2%
is obtained.  This understates the real economic rate of return, as unquan-
tifiable benefits, such as health benefits, are excluded.
70.     The consumers most affected by the current deficiencies in water
supply in Karachi are the inhabitants living in the low income areas of the
city. The general increase in pressure expected to result from the
proposed project would make more safe water available to perhaps about



-20--
500,000 of the 1.9 million in this category. The improvement in service
coverage should also mean less reliance on obtaining supplies from public
tankers (a burden on the municipality as supplies are given f'ree of charge)
and reduce the need for the poor to buy from private vendors at high cost.
71.     KDA, which would execute the maLjor works under the proposed
project, is experienced in the design, tendering and building of works and
major delays in execution are not anticipated. The main risks to the
project relate to the capacity of KWSB to effectively operate the produc-
tion and distribution facilities, and the timely provision of' funds for
operations. Close monitoring would be undertaken of progress in implement-
ing the Action Plan to improve KWSB's operating efficiency and financial
viability, in order to help ensure that the major institution-building
objectives of the project are achieved.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic Republic
of Pakistan and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and the Province of Sind, KMC, KWSB and KDA, and the Recommen-
dation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the
Articles of Agreement, are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
73.     Special conditions of the proposed project are listed in Section
III of Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness are: (a)
approval by the Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
(ECNEC) of the PC-1 documents for the project; and (b) execution of a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Province of Sind and KMC (Section
5.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
74.     I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOfT4ENDATION
75.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 27, 1983
Washington, D.C.



-21 -                                      ANX I
Page 1
TABLE 3A
PA.KiSTAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFRAENCE Q3OUPS (WEIZHTED AV5RAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. R.)                        PAKISTANDST RECENT                                   C STIDDTE)-
lTTAL.           M0.9OST RLECENT                                             LOW liNCCBE          MIDDLE IICCHE
AGRICULTURAL     249.9               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIKATE /b       ASIA & PACIFIC        ASIA 6 PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   70.0       130.0      300.0              261.4                    £90.1
ENERGY CONSUPITTON PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS UF COAL -EQUIVALENT)     132.4       190.6     209.2               448.7                    701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,  lDI-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 45851.0     60449.0   62153.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.1         24.9      2B.2                17.3                     32.4
POPULATION  ROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (NILLIONS)                       134.5
STATIONABY PoPULATION (NILLIONS)                        308.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION 1S REACHED                  2125
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. Km.                        57.0        75.2      99.2               158.1                    255.9
PER SU1  XM. AGRICULTURAL LANb    200.4       248.9     316.9               355.9                   1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          43.8        46.3       46.5               36.98                    39.9
15-64 YES.                          51.8        5(1.5     50.7                59.7                     56.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    4.4         3.2       2.e                 3.5                      3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.3         2.8       3.1                 2.0                      2.3
URBAN                               4.6         4.0       4.3                 3.3                      3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      51.3        47.4      43.6                29.3                     31.R
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      24.3        19.9       16.0               11.0                      9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.7         3.5        3.0                2.0                      2.0
FAMlLY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..      1908.1    2085.0/c
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOKEN)    ..           ..       6.07c              19.3                     36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           89.0       102.0      101.0              108.1                    115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQURIREENTS)                   87.8         97.1      98.8/d              97.3                    106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           58.1        59.8      62.671              56.9                     54.4
OF WHICH ANlIAL AND PULSE        23.3        20.1      i9.971              20.0                     13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      25.4        21.5       17.8               10.9                      6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   43.3          46.2       49.8               57.8                     59.r
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           161.5       143.0     125.5                89.1                     63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        21.0       29.c               32.9                     32.0
URBAN                                .-        77.0       60.0               70.7                     51.9
RURAL                                ..         4.0       17.0               22.2                     20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *-         3.0        6.0               18.1                     37.7
URBAN                                ..        12.0       21.0               72.7                     65.7
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                4.7                      24.0
POPULAT1ON PER PHYSICIAN           5396.8      4299.1/f  3775.1/ft           3297.8                   8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    16961.8      13306.07  10030.3i7.           4929.3                   4829.4
POPULATION PER IOSPIrAL BED
TOTAL                            1794.5      1860.1    1903.4/a f          1100.4                   1047.5
URBAN                             506.8       648.1     712.97'1            301.3                    651.6
RURAL                                1. 2478.5   11870. 12[                581r5.7                  2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..        ..                 ..                     27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.4         5.3
URBAN                               5.6         5.5
RURAL                               5.4         5.2
AVERAGE NIMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               3.1         2.81
URBAN                               3.1         27          .
RURAL                               3.1         2.
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..        17.          ..
URBAN                                *         54.4- 
RURAL                                ..         4.9         ..



- 22 --
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                               page  2
PAKISTF-10CIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVqxACES
PAKISTAN                             -  MOST RECENT lSTfIMATE).-
MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME           MIDDLEINCO 0
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       ASIA & PACIFIC        ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PR7IARY:     TOTAL                 30.0         44.0      S6.0                97.4                 96.2
MALE                  46.0        62.0       81.0               101.0                 99.8
FEMALE                13.0        24.0       31.0                87.8                 92.1
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  11.0         14.0      16.0                53.0                 37.6
MALE                  18.0        22.0       24.0                63.8                 41.1
FEMALE                 3.0         6.0        8.0                41.3                 34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)   1.0           1.5       1.4                  1.7                20.8
PUPIL-TECUER RATIO
PRIKARY                            38.6         41.5      40.1                37.7                 35.5
SECONDARY                          24.0         19.8      18.7                20.2                 25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        15.0/h       20.7/i    24.0                52.1                 73.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENCER CAUS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.5          2.6       2.8/c               1.5                  9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          6.0         17.1      65.8                35.4                116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..          1.6       9.4                 3.2                 37.6
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCLULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  13.2           ..      13.7                16.4                 53.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.8           3.0/      2.4                 3.6                  2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LAROR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    14447.7       17364.1   22717.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    8.6          9.3      10.2                29.5                 33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              61.0         59.0      57.0                70.0                 52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 18.0         19.0      20.0                15.0                 17.9
PARTICIPATION LATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                31.5         28.7      27.7                 40.0                 38.5
KALE                                 55.2         50.4      47.2                 51.8                50.5
FEMALE                                5.7          5.5       5.9                23.8                 26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5         1.7        1.8                 1.0                  1.1
INCO?M DISTRIBUTION
PEXCENt OF iLIVATE INCOtE
RECEIVED BY
HIIGEEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   20.3/k       17.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  45.37k        41.5
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.47r         8.0
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.57E        20.2
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTLMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOtt
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..        68.0/i   176.0                133.8                194.7
RURAL                                ..         47.07I   122.0               111.5                155.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..        34.01i    86.0                   ..               178.2
RURAL                                 ..        22.07!    58.0                  ..                164.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..         42.0/1    32.0                43.8                 24.4
RURAL                                 ..        43.071    29.0                 51.7                 41.1
Not availeble
.Not applic-able.
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population.'veight6d arithmetic manos.  Covertge of countrios
among the indicators depends on availablllty of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Host Recent Estimate, btweeon 1978 and 1980.
/c   1975; Id 1977; /a 1976; /f Registered, not all practicing in the country; LI 1973;
/h 196T7 /i 197T; LI 1961r /k 1964.
Hey, 1982



- 23 -                                                                        ANNEX I
Page 3
tb.i.-.   -WtCut t.edt *t-.b _tot a ..     -larfoonaaa   1-4d.. t.. ca   ottlA   l   c  tati.l.i  OtCot  510S   ta    httbaa.et                                         sen
oaataalt  asraa          hata.rea at) i t. to    ,? ctoadsad   t.a d,tbltta ..% at    R tonce. anA I  hy Ratttta   oaatato    iohircoe - ao Lthle.%,d  Oc              -ant    Al-0
the  ataraarntraw   ot.(11  bc ae  aatcr   ra  at..   dite etboa.anpn    a             Ao...-   aaaa    sns   cso    srrlc                     b   a-t.. roetata
Ina-ol.rrI    OtaIa..t   l.rtctr   rc   a,sr   orjs.caatta   .tst,ad                                        ?  ..atl ..... t..   Ott  t'OdItta  *5lhVkI4 ahetta, aR,I
ALaIlit, c  -  atlad    . .rt.... ts  a.. rod  -awaarI.c  eesaala                              cl tble  t 0,  tltU  a,d pf.o  taar-l Sod atac-51isad  haalsI d I.-
tartra.,  att-a.  saba  0.1  ktIcet..,    IOf. a   rla13.             W9t Aee..             lectal0rcaa                 rtttl   r  e   btbSt                    I tn,ty c,vtt.4
by  c .t.  cc   t.al. Slc-ttlltatttltatvtdlrtSe
OP0* ott   ltt  alOtaeta  t  oa.  a   satacoIItare.tt                        d,  cr   rtmAJetadt   Iatta.tal.Osote    cla.t,aa
tt.aOd O  a..r.aeaata ahd   a.oc34l.a  ttt  itasdt  atat  tat,oa                    toleEt. l    r.acrOttdb  aPrYalt ls tho  bya
1410. ad  tOtdoct.                                                               05 act  saaoaa.ra.  orta. eleali. *tt-   ottac  ,ttaa aa-pacocc aarata
ar italat fta.    a.  a  l.lAla.la .         e.    ttv    at   qt  a   49to*s-ta.la    artl   a   nlddat   dadd,-total
fta.ta.ttso daldd b  ttS    bat    t      "boSs.    1  .
FOPi)t.t?tdh dOt 01001. t!ollStttt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~64.
IDtLATIOlAlA 1,0.L STAIS-TafICSaaa, daa   at3  aft   t!   Mtt                                     Rtt
1  It;oatt,a1..1;  tS.  11.a    ..0 daIs,                                                       the .   ",f  ..  h-,.tl Rh tt statlelt-t Ita.aW
aclItat1 to  tttl ltsLotatOneta  .rot Ita.tA---Itt.,arhat.  ,  oct                                                                                                      . -...ta. S.-
Ooe1l:1tltE tt teat 2000 - Catta   aarllt  roltIat   t  haS  olftStciarsc   atfc  a, a lt aft. .714, t.tl.cac                                                             ....t.aootA. 
t_a    ttlaafh   l  Sc. n   .rOtarot  tr -alcaad teccIlia  act.                                 d..LlllKga   ,eaprll-tY.    tllO-         aa.  caaavllt.afa
fttjt,t It   assoaOtnta   a   ae   ttl'a   tth.-    .I.  ......oaO                              -toaeet  A5-ca.
fatlte.ldc    t   05.la    o  paaa tOOl lt. ttatat    -atOl    -                     MmIo
cad.. taalay   trftdal   tr- 1e  tta -lt     -"tttaa                                              icafy  ttIll,t tlls
as,,.cla.t-c.    T`.It at      4 5.1..0  a.l, etc.,  th""llY  Ial_  SatlIe  ad                     trlcota        j- `lha I-as  a -oatlros   ttelly  tf las  crIdaf  tAe  t-l
cbs telsreotlac  I! tarn sa-Iyoto  a. rot   At.. ca-rstrtCc ..  a  .41.5505 (-ot  fttt ..   tettlar,. at patata  =dtllta. to
atit tysa   tt  t .I     y    h    ca  osy     tatIcat.ttttt  la  Itststa    dtccIa.                                               ctlftb.taaat   lOtatlt
eseuocdan  tt lhabts.1. them      It.ott         C, l~ l,t.,At  'i he VaclarIto-                 eoaet Pc.il. I aaf   WIc  at atat  th    t  tI)  tar 
Iatt.   cat, I Old  A4 the tot- at d.tat  at  -toaalty  -aaarla-ttnit   trti-a   l5.,ot  t*t       Cle                                                            ho; aratt
I. ...taalfa ctai~itpoeI   tt.s  patla  lataahc
teatttstatt2Z2&aolsl.t10  oataad    tSrtsa   -ao    ltaa,pcc.Ir                         tttt    .ttt   tatti-ettaro   ttaf   _aaaa-lthh. it  p.013
Als   11h   cte.cllta   )e   tpoas  act  aaa..a. dt..                                                                                                     Cos Al.Or oat
FIfclatlOt NtslI,                                                                         atI W10004.0                                    0V-4_
Par  c -10  1,111 ota  l.d  -Caa.,fd a  alo_tttatl.l,s   an                            a  oa  todyacaoeat.-              aatrta Ito            f aa.       .
h-yoa  .  M tall  M..... as  .d ...t.Ot  .t pa-toaS.t  at aId-te.t Vpo-                   tcfaecdt  Isfl..
Ulttoo   lit0.  Ift, dad 1950 dAta.                                                              Atl   Iaarttt  ttfos1-t.etltOct  rd I.    tod ad  -att)
ra    olaotIda lqtt,-il  itto-tO. aM  Itt-O
t.aroil.ttt  lil. 1)0.  rW   541   at.  llittatact .. d                                             otttt
*Cto..   tt  ;lb I- R-21  ar 1-S0 dOlt-i                             i,iddlM., tIa taa.tsl tSIV_    .ar  IttarO0 Y..t ..oltlataaltdt
ha., taadol tSta-Otifdt  tltat. ."tat -ae..a   mae   thta   I -oao   eaeoa It-                                               -eat Od_ -ad V---o.  chet1 rssteae .ta   rt.-da
IttIca  a.t.; cattl  lo  Iataaat   et-tItlt.I. adlt.aotcttaa  Ohtttt   IOn.oc
155l11010  t tott-tcAV_a, Attla) ito.adu) - darara  .Atar  ar  e,Atar-                             TO CaEt_r  tenttbtrasc  mtoabat-T   ec  cr-tnbadcot
PARtI, Plttlfo - damtainolco    t  atldocoI-                    I fal5   artSafla                    It   -,I.oat. sod laaatato   olees  na  TV Otl  tea
tatet at Paad Otodart  n2gt C.ta ltt-7l.Itd) - icte- cItt  sla   at                               CA-as  da-ra  Aeeoada,ttaa1         45Ptts   head  -0 t'M  t               tiar
Ia at tolan., rsst baco.   Cadallaaac.f atta,Y Oarsds  Ra.ataa                            `,bb tle   Lc,,
as-ad a  aset         itlba. dtl   al da   rl-      tn.r.s    -et - a s   -d
to  a.  oa  ad).  Aot.hs.  rdartt   t.trlrtt  1   eu   n                                       dd   0
caprt. aM   bst.I1. ;tatlk.  V.1 ecarplia  ..I"ad   e-tea   tat,J                            F.-I ho. 4 -0cst  - rto..!. lea, tata   .   sost. Abl   ...Irts  Iaa- tt-
eaolc'aaaaInta  ptnt.t. aad I.-aa   tt dlltata.teit-*acoIif  rtr.1 st   toaO0oto.ttor.ht t aId
ad oa.d. fheast   tltn.a ddIlea   I ptoa   tnmo.  tAdslaa_rtltty                                                                        I.e a;e    ta-rat    r ...a.    t... ....e
h-catId Wonet1leS-tO. I'Ot  sat It  4ats.                                                            t960, 1050  Mo  ttd  aO.
cot elypIt. ar  odta-tr    ie   ual c   sr   c  ets   o   tn                     e                              R,tCa-a.tacttot   a.  tea, cla.a-   ass. boat. tartr
oct-ote  far, all.. htco tttt  rsfsitshr  ar, USDA p..oatt  alaIeos                                ealcle           ar-ara.i  -. 00h eal  tae.t)"Pt,aI  Ct s"   I as. R taaaaatl;
aloata  Wt ar cr-   Of t-. I P-.05.   pot dat sod21  tt   hfnsl                    d               aibt. 1902. nO  1040 tac.   fto   t   aa   I  Espnilol   a
Wald  Oda      - caor  12.1-dC   1570i 505i,  .                       teatdas.                        t tteot03 J.1s  taco..
"I Oat raae         -ettI, tea. -00.   M                  - V-Pttta   abpVl, at toad ds-
Ohf.1  attart 1.4 pasta, Ia otlld-tet oc trt. a   aro. tar " cot d...yt.  catA                          acet   ttce   0trtl..trta   0prn..I sad...a..t.atra
'tre .05 A    otta d  to. 1010            i960; ar. 14)0 L.c  1OtI doas                            r  haoed*,
ilAtat                                                                         PatOtY ta~~~~~~~~~~~~~- .hs 5w`-1-.-tI   Osatort                   04-
stSat -1h.12 Iabtil la.; IM,atta  o970                                                                          eraa  tIt0ar dStrbI  trala
W.ae  0    V ..at  tta  rtt...9$.  lVN-tIW    aa                                            - Ilitnlra   aro   lnaO5  laa- pi.. t.e ... a..  es   ...tra       ta
hea at  aarrlar Itatal - cabOc, sod tat.l I .111 ttaaoashto oaroaao) Ilcc                                         Ate  -ttatt bla,
,oftocoooattheIt nIopat-at      _ eaelac.1  10 5R.. atba      A o..         R  .satas        I.at- l   n..  at -a hi aad.a . Oho  tat Ita" daIt.   tat. the  oO
tA.tal a..  atattetat.t ascb01   r    as .0ecr  ls    ao  ny -4    1a*                         r.nl ratlar   dineto    tA btb.   taca Y,t,aotass
tal, tott  tOdt.
tAIto   a   .       Lcoltras  taarItol-Otl   Maa. .4eld 
dod-st1 l-tyra  tItIVfta   iSatIt  un    by Retl  dlaraaal   `
Iaa tans, -sa            AIIto-
taL-oa  acotltedl... 



-  24                                       ANNEX I
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1981/82                                  ANNUAI RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
['S$ billion    %                   1969/70-1974/75  1975/76-1980/81  1981/82
GNP at Market Prices                31.68      100.0                       3.5                6.3             5.0
Gross Domestic Investment            5.14       16.2                      -5.5                5.4            11.9
Gross National Saving                3.70       11.7                      -2.1                8.2             8.0
Current Account Balance             -1.53       -4.8
Resource Gap                        -3.48      -11.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980/81 /a
Value Added           Labor Force         V.A. Per Worker
US$ million    %    US$ milLion    %    TTS$ million    %
Agriculture                         7,825       29         13.5        51          580        58
Industry                            6,827       26          5.2       20         1,313       131
Services                          12,053        45          7.9       29         1,526       152
Total/Average                   26,705       0o0         26.6      100        1,004        100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Goverment                                 Central Government
(Rs billion)             % of GDP                 (Rs billion;)             % of GDP
1981/82       1981/82   1977/78-1981-82           1981/82        1981/82   1977/78-1981/82
Current Recepts                      51.2          15.9            15.8                39.0           12.1             12.4
Current Expenditures                 44.4          13.8            14.1                34.1           10.6             10.6
Current Surplus/Deficit               6.8           2.1             1.7                 4.9            1.5              1.8
Capital Expendtures                  27.0            8.4            9.3                21.2            6.6              7.4
External Assistance (net)             6.3           2.0             2.8                 6.3            2.0              2.8
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82 b/
Money and Ouasi Money                           33.1      41.6      51.7      63.7       76.5      90.7    103.5    114.4
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)              17.5      22.7      29.5      34.3       43.1      48.1      54.1      59.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector (gross)           19.7      23.1      30.1      35.7      42.7       50.6      58.7      70.7
Money and Duasi Money as % GDP                  29.5      31.5      34.6      36.7      39.0       38.3      37.0      35.5
Wholesale Price Index (1969/70=lO)            211.3    229.4    255.3       271.4    289.7    316.7    35R.8    398.6
Annual Percentage Change in:
Wholesale Price Index                           23.6       8.6      11.3        6.3       6.7       9.3      13.3      11.1
Rank Credit to Public Sector (net)              21.2      29.4      18.8      16.6      25.6       11.6      12.5      10.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector (gross)           26.3      17.3      30.3      1R.6      19.6       18.5      16.0      20.4
/a  Labor force data are official figures of the Ministry of Finance and Planning.
Serious underenumeration may exist, especially of women.
/b Provisional
February 1983



ANNEX I
- 25 -
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(US$ million)                                  MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGING 1978/79-1981/82)
1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81 /a  1981/82                                        US$ million           %
Exports of Goods, NFS               1,404    1,651      2,107    2,955    3,461          2,966        Raw Cotton                       260.5          11.5
Imports of Goods, NFS              2,877    3,297    4,485    5,709    6,466             6,613        Cotton Yarn                      181.3           8.0
Cotton Cloth                    230.4           10.2
Resource Gap (deficit = -)        -1,473   -1,646   -2,378   -2,754   -3,005            -3,847        Rice                             382.7          17.4
All Other Commodities        1196.9            52.9
Interest Payments                   -172      -183      -261      -285      -357          -453          Total                       2,261.8          100.0
e Workers' Remittances                578    1,166    1,395    1,748    2,097            2,225
Other Factor Payments (net)            15        62       134       151       274          345                 EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1981
Net Transfers                          ..        ..      _           ..       _             ..
US$ million
Balance on Current Account        -1,052      -601   -1,110   -1,140        -991        -1,530
Public Debt, Including Guaranteed          8,813.9
Direct Foreign Investment              ..        ..        ..        ..        ..            ..       Non-guaranteed Private Debt /e                    ..
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                      961       841       813    1,134        956         1,102          Total Outstanding and Disbursed           8,813.9
Amortization                      -175      -122      -235      -310      -516          -492
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981/82 /f
Sub-Total                          786       719       578       824       440           610                                                  Percentage
Transactions with IMF/b                44        41       -14        78       315          358
Public Debt, Including Guaranteed            12.2
Other Items n.e.i. /c                  24       163       238       600       527          364        Non-guaranteed Private Debt                      ..
Increase in Reserves (-)              198     -322        308     -362      -291           198           Total                                      12.2
Gross Reserves (year end)/d           372       694       386       748    1,039           841        IBRD/IDA LENDING (DECEMBER 1981) (US$ million)
IBRD    IDA
Official Gold (year end;
million ounces)                    1.6        1.7      1.8       1.8        1.8          1.8        Outstanding and Disbursed              310.1   908.8
Undisbursed                             32.1   505.3
Outstanding, Including Undisbursed 342.2 1,414.1
Fuel and Related Materials
Petroleum Imports                     413       497       539    1,237    1,602          1,683
Petroleum Exports                      27        63        61       178       160          185
Rate of Exchange
Through May 11, 1972    May 11, 1972-Feb. 15, 1973    Feb. 15, 1973-Jan. 7, 1982              January 8-Aug. 31, 1982 Average
US$ - Rs 4.7619                US$ = Rs 11.00                    US$ = Rs 9.90                        US$ = Rs 11.46
Rsl - US$0.2100                Rsl = US$0.0909                   Ral = USS0.1010                      Rs  - 0.087
/a Government estimate.
lb Including Trust Fund.
/c Including net short-term borrowing and errors and omissions.
7- Foreign exchange and SDR holdings of the State Bank.
7e Private debt is negligible.
If  Ratio of debt service to exports of goods, non-factor services and worker's remittances;
not including short-term or IMF changes.
/g Since January 8, 1982, value of rupee is being managed with reference to a
weighted basket of currencies.
Not available.



- 26 --
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1983)
(US$ million)
Loan/                                                     (Amount net of cancellations)
Credit    Fiscal                                                                   Undis-
Number      Year    Purpose                                Bank   TW        IDA    bursed
Eighty-eight loans and credits fully disbursed /a    686.7  32.0    851.3/e
620        1976   Seed Project                             --               23.0    6.2
630        1976   Second Lahore Water Supply               --               26.6    3.3
648        1976   Irrigation & Drainage (Khairpur)         --               14.0    6.7
1366T      1977   Punjab Livestock Development             --    10.0      --       8.1
1372)      1977   Railways                                 35.0            --       0.4
684 )      1977   Railways                                 --               25.0    0.2
678        1977   Third Education                          --               15.0    5.8
751        1977   Hill Farming Tech. Development           --                3.0    1.2
754        1978   Salinity Control & Reclamation           --               70.0   68.4
755        1978   Hazara Forestry.                         --                1.7    1.4
813        1978   Punjab Ext. & Agric. Dev.                --               12.5    6.9
867        1979   Toot Oil & Gas Development               --               30.0    0.2
877        1979   Salinity Control & Redl. (Mardan)    --                  60.0   57.9
892        1979   Primary Education                        --               10.0    7.6
922        1979   Sind Agricultural Extension              --                9.0    9.0
957        1979   Agricultural Development (ADBP IV)   --                   30.0    3.7
968        1980   Third WAPDA Power                        --              45.0   30.5
974        1980   Third Highway                            --               50.0   35.8
1019       1980   PICIC Industrial Development             --              40.0   10.1
1109/d    1981   Vocational Training                       --               25.0   24.6
1113/d    1981   Small Industries                          --               30.0   29.2
1157/d    1981   Grain Storage                             --               32.0   31.7
1158/d    1981   Agricultural Research                     --              24.0   24.0
11637T    1981   On-Farm Water Management                  --               41.0   36.2
1186/d    1982   In,lustrial Development (IDBP II)         --               30.0   27.5
2122       1982   Fourth Telecommunication                 40.0                    40.0
2166       1982   Structural Adjustment                    60.0             ---     2.1
2172       1982   Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation   38.5                ---     37.7
1239/b /d 1982   Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation    --                   40.0   40.0
12437- 7R  1982   Baluchistan Minor Irrig. & Agr.          --               14.0   14.0
1256/d    1982   Technical Assistance                      --                7.0    6.4
1278/d    1982   Eleventh Railway Project                  --               50.0   49.9
2218/b    1983   Refinery Engineering Project              12.0             ---    12.0
Total                                                     872.2  42.0  1,609.1  638.7
of which has been repaid                                461.8   0.6      32.8
Total now outstanding                                     410.4  41.4  1,576.3
Amount sold                    23.9
of which has been repaid    23.9                         --      --
Total now held by Bank and IDA/c                          410.4  41.4  1,576.3
Total undisbursed                                          92.3   8.1    538.3  638.7
/a  Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for
projects in the former East Pakistan which have now been taken over by
Bangladesh.
/b  Not yet effective.
7&  Prior to exchange adjustment.
/d  IDA Credits under the 6th Replenishment denominated in SDRs.  The
principal is shown in US$ equivalent at the time of negotiation.
Disbursed amounts are computed at the market rate on dates of
disbursements.
/e  By using the market rate on dates of disbursements, the current principal
for Credit 1066-PAK and Credit 1255-PAK (both fully disbursed) is
$42.5 and $77.5, respectively.



27 v
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1983)
Fiscal                                               Amount  In US$   Million
Year    Obligor                Type of Business      Loan   Equity    Total
1958     Steel Corp of         Rolled Steel
Pakistan Ltd.         Products              0.63      --       0.63
1959     Adamjee Industries
Ltd.                  Textiles              0.75      --        0.75
1962-    Gharibwal Cement
1965     Industries Ltd.       Cement                 5.25    0.42       5.67
1963-    PICIC                 Development
1969-                          Financing               --     0.52       0.52
1975
1965     Crescent Jute
Products              Textiles               1.84    0.11       1.95
1965-
1980     Packages Ltd.         Paper Products        19.58    0.84      20.42
1967-    Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp Ltd.             Paper                  5.38    2.02       7.40
1969     Dawood Hercules
Chemicals Ltd.        Fertilizers            1.00    2.92       3.92
1969     Karnaphuli Paper
Mills Ltd.            Pulp and Paper        5.60    0.63        6.23
1979     Milkpak Ltd.          Food and Food
Processing            2.40    0.38       2.78
1979     Pakistan Oilfields
Ltd. and Attock       Chemicals and
Refinery Ltd.         Petrochemicals       29.00    1.82      30.82
1980     Fauji Foundation      Woven Polypropy-
lene bags             1.78      --       1.78
1980     Premier Board
Mills Ltd.            Particle Board         2.70     --        2.70
1981     Habib Arkady          Food and Food
Processing            3.15    0.17       3.32
1982     Asbestos              Cement                 4.05     --        4.05
1983     Pakistan Petroleum   Chemical and
Ltd.                  Petrochemicals       88.65    1.55       90.20
Total Gross Commitments                   171.76   11.38    183.14
Less:  Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales               123.72    1.02    124.74
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC          48.04   10.36       58.40
Undisbursed (including participants)    103.43    0.34    103.77



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 771         Tarbela Dam:  US$35 Million Credit of March 10,
1978; Effective Date: April 4, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Work to construct a flip-bucket at the outlet of Tunnel No. 4 is in
progress and will be completed in 1983; construction of a second power plant
with four units is in progress. All Credit proceeds have been disbursed;
the Bank continues to administer the Tarbela Development Fund.
Credit No. 620         Seed Project:  US$23 Million Credit oL March 29, 1976;
Effective Date:  November 29, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Of the four processing plants in the project, one has been completed,
one should be operational within a few months, and the remaining two require
reconstruction of defective portions of buildings before equipment can be
installed.  Field activities have been satisfactory in the EPunjab but slow in
Sind.
Credit No. 630         Second Lahore Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage
Project: US$26.6 Million Credit of June 8, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
All major works have been contracted but construction hold-ups have
caused delays in project completion. Detailed action plans to improve
operational and financial performance have recently been agreed.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read :in this sense, ane with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengtlhs and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit No. 648         Khairpur Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming
Development Project: US$14 Million Credit of July 22,
1976; Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date:
July 31, 1984
Overall progress is about three years behind schedule due to initial
delays in employing consultants, procurement problems and difficulties in
installing the subsurface collector drains. Canal remodeling, surveys and
extension services are proceeding satisfactorily. Additional equipment is
being procured to improve the rate of collector and lateral drain
installation.
Loan No. 1366-T        Punjab Livestock Development:  US$10 Million Third
Window Loan of February 18, 1977; Effective Date:
August 3, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Following reformulation of the project in June 1982, project progress
is now encouraging. Work on remodeling and expanding the Lahore Milk Plant
is now on schedule and the contractor's site engineer expects to commission
the plant by September 1983. Construction and equipping the Punjab Livestock
Development Board (PLDB) training center is complete; teaching staff are in
place and training courses for Village Livestock Association members and PLDB
extension staff are scheduled to start soon.
Credit No. 678         Third Education:  US$15 Million Credit of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The project is generally making good progress. Curriculum
improvements have been satisfactorily carried out, the revised staff
development and expert services programs are nearly completed and almost all
civil works and equipment procurement have been completed. Construction of
agricultural training institutes at Quetta and Rahin Yar Klhan) is now
progressing in full swing. At Sind Agricultural University, construction is
behind by about one year due to initial delays in appointment of project
implementation staff. 1However, no problems are foreseen in completing all
civil works before the closing date.
Credit No. 751         Hill Farming Technical Development:  US$3 Million
Credit of December 1, 1977; Effective Date: March 7,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Staff shortages and the lack of a decision on upgrading field
assistants have caused implementation problems. While the vegetable
seed, maize produciion, service laboratory, training and apple production
components are proceeding satisfactorily, there has been little progress
with the fodder/forage component.



v 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit No. 754          SCARP-VI:  US$70 Million Credit of January 19, 1978;
Effective Date: December 28, 1978; Closing Date:
November 30, 1986
Although the project is about three years behind schedule,
significant momentum has now begun in project implementation following the
resolution of budgetary and other initial problems. Contracts have been
awarded for construction of main canals and for supply of electrification
equipment for transmission lines.
Credit No. 755         Hazara Forestry:  US$1.7 Million Credit of January 29,
1978; Effective Date: July 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
There has been significant progress in different prciject activities.
The Guzara socio-economic study, the chir pine forest inventory and the
pulping tests for chir pine have been completed. However, on the basis of a
forest resource assessment study, the immediate development of an
economically sized pulp mill had to be ruled out.
Credit No. 813         Punjab Extension and Agricultural Development:
USS 12.5 Million Credit of June 6, 1978; Effective
Date: September 12, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is behind schedule despite recent progress in staff
recruitment, acquisition of building sites and construction work.
Implementation of the T&V system and the research-extension linkages have
been strengthened and are proceeding well. The project staff has been given
a special allowance, and steps are being taken to recruit consultants.
Credit No. 877          Salinity Control and Reclamation Project (SCARP)
Mardan: US$60 Million Credit of February 7, 1979;
Effective Date: October 16, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
The project has been reduced in scope and initial budgetary and other
problems have been resolved. CIDA (the project co-financier) is assisting
WAPDA in scheduling implementation activities as well as in preparing
sutbsurface drainage design and specifications. Although about two years
behind schedule, work is accelerating on the preparation of the final designs
and tender documents fot the restructured project. Some contracts have been
awarded.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit No. 892         Primary Education:  US$10 Million Credit of April 18,
1979; Effective Date: October 23, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project is progressing steadily. Nearly all of the project
inputs including civil works, equipment, staff appointments and training have
been provided. The evaluation program has been redesigned and a comprehensive
proposal for the improvement of primary education is expected to be completed
shortly.
Credit No. 922         Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research
Project: US$9 Million Credit of June 12, 1979;
Effective Date: June 26, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Critical senior staff has been recruited, implenentation of the T&V
extension system started, and consultants have been appointed to assist in
qualitative improvement of field extension and adaptive research.
Credit No. 957         Fourth Agricultural Development Bank:  US$30 Million
Credit of December 7, 1979; Effective Date: June 5,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Funds for farm mechanization are fully disbursed, and the funds for
diversified lending should be fully disbursed by June 30, 1983.
Implementation of the agricultural engineering training component in the
provinces of the Punjab and NWFP, funded solely by IFAD, has started but is
about 18 months behind schedule. For this component, the IFAD closing date
has been extended to June 30, 1985.
Credit No. 968         Third WAPDA Power:  US$45 Million Credit of January 10,
1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Due to some initial delays, mainly in land acquisition, execution of
the project is one year behind schedule. Procurement and construction
targets for substations and transmission lines are progressing at a good
pace.
Credit No. 974         Third Highway:  US$50 Million Credit of April 9, 1980;
Effective Date: August 21, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Of the five rehabilitation contracts, two are nearing completion, one
has been terminated due to poor performance by the contractor and re-awarded,
and work is progressing slowly on the remaining two contracts. Discussions
are in progress on equipment procurement and provision of technical
assistance to two provincial governments to improve road maintenance.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
Credit No. 1019        PICIC Industrial Development:  US$40 Million Credit of
May 30, 1980; Effective Date: October 29, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
As of April 1983 US$37 million had been authorized for 29
sub-projects, with US$30 million disbursed. PICIC's portfolio problems
continue although rescheduling efforts are underway and collections during
1982 exceeded anticipated targets.
Credit No. 1109        Fifth Education (Vocational Training):  SDR 19.7
Million Credit (US$25 Million equivalent) of April 24,
1981; Effective Date: October 27, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
The project has made good progress in equipment procurement, final
designs for rehabilitation of existing centers and construction of new
centers, especially in the Punjab. A large-scale instructor training
program is underway and skill standards for a number of trades have been
approved by the National Training Board. The National Training Board Fund,
the Provincial Training Boards and the National Training Development
Institute have been established, although staff appointments have been slow.
Credit No. 1113         Small Industries:  SDR 23.6 Million Credit (US$30
Million equivalent) of April 24, 1981; Effective Date:
October 6, 1981, Closing Date: December 31, 1985
To date, some 20% of the Credit has been committed and about 5%
disbursed. Construction of the service centers is nearing completion, with
expected operation in May/June 1983.
Credit No. 1157        Grain Storage:  SDR 26.1 Million Credit (US$32 Million
equivalent) of October 21, 1981; Effective Date:
March 15, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Construction of the storage facilities is progressing satisfactorily
although there have been delays in hiring of consultants and staff, and in
making training arrangements.
Credit No. 1158        Agricultural Research:  SDR 19.7 Mlillion Credit
(US$24 Million equivalent) of August 19, 1981;
Effective Date: April 29, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
The construction of an office/laboratory block and a hostel at the
National Agricultural Research Centre is scheduled for completion in July
1983.  Designs for the provincial headquarters building have been prepared.
The contract for training and technical assistance has been negotiated with
FAO but not finalized.  New research programs have now been started under
the project.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 8
Credit No. 1163        On-Farm lWater Management:  SDR 33.4 Million Credit
(US$41 Million equivalent) of August 19, 1981;
Effective Date: March 31, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project is basically on schedule, with physical achievements
generally in line with appraisal targets.
Credit No. 1186         Second Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
(IDBP II): SDR 26.7 Million Credit (US$30 Million
equivalent) of February 19, 1982; Effective Date:
June 14, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Utilization of funds is progressing satisfactorily. To date, a total
of 47% of the proceeds have been committed and just under 10% disbursed.
Loan No. 2122           Fourth Telecommunications:  US$40 Million Loan of
April 14, 1982; Effective Date:  June 9, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
All cofinancing arrangements have been finalized. The ADB loan was
declared effective in March 1983 and the KfW loan should be signed shortly.
Procurement actions are underway.
Loan No. 2166           Structural Adjustment:  US$60 Million Loan of
June 23, 1982; Effective Date: September 9, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
This Loan is almost fully disbursed.
Loan No. 2172           Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation:  US$38.5 Million
Loan of June 23, 1982; Effective Date: October 21,
1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Progress on most components has been satisfactory. Hiring of
consultants and procurement is generally on schedule. The Multan
rehabilitation component has suffered some delay because of technical
difficulties.
Credit No. 1239         Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation:  SDR 33.5 Million
Credit (US$40 Million equivalent) of June 3, 1982;
Effective Date: May 15, 1983; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective.



D 34
ANNEX II
Page 9
Credit No. 1243         Baluchistan Minor Irrigation and Agricultural
Development Project: SDR 12.5 Million Credit
(US$14 Million equivalent) of June 3, 1982;
Effective Date: January 5, 1983; Closing Date:
December 31, 1988
Four minor irrigation schemes have been prepared to detailed
engineering level and actions are being expedited to tender works and
initiate construction activities. The remaining schemes are
slightly behind schedule. After some initial delays, project staff and
consultants are being mobilized.  Procurement of vehicles and equipment is
also underway.
Credit No. 1256         Technical Assistance:  SDR 6.3 Million Credit (US$7
Million equivalent) of June 23, 1982; Effective Date:
September 9, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Disbursements are proceeding satisfactorily.
Credit No. 1278         Railways XI:  SDR 44.3 Million Credit (US$50 Million
equivalent) of July 13, 1982; Effective Date:
September 13, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Physical implementation of the project has started and is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 2218           Refinery Engineering and Eneray Efficiency Project:
US$12 Million Loan of January 17, 1983; Effective
Date: April 17, 1983; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
This Loan is not yet effective.



- 35 -
ANNEX III
PAKISTAN
KARACHI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:    Timetable of Key Events
f
(a) Time taken to prepare the project:
About four years
(b) Agency which has prepared project:
KDA and KMC with assistance from consultants
(c) Date first presented to Association and date
of first mission to consider project:
July 1977; December 1978
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:
Main mission January 1982
Updating mission November 1982
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
April 6, 1983
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
September 1983
Section II:   Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III:  Special Conditions
(a) KWSB to implement an Action Plan to improve its operating
efficiency and financial viability; such Plan to be
reviewed annually with the Association (paragraph 57); and



- 36 -
ANNEX III
(b) KWSB to meet all its cash expenses (including debt
servicing) in FY36, and in FY87 and thereafter to meet
its cash expenses plus an increasing percentage of its
average annual investment requirements (paragraph 59).
The following would be additional conditions of effectiveness
(paragraph 73):
(i) approval by ECNEC of the PC-1 documents for the project;
and
(ii) the execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Province of Sind and KMC.



___________ __________ __________ __________ ___   ______ __________ __________ __________ _________BRDRD                                            1699 4R
- T                                                         ' (,7"r) 2 ii h7t20' t\ 1'                                                                                       __ 67'30  M7AYO 198R 3&
10vICAS '---'F/, M   |)   .(j                                                 iPAKISTAN
KARACHI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
k5         i     _.=---  <   o                   PROPOSED EXPANSION OF WATER SUPPLY FACILITIES
IDA  PROJECT'                                        EXISTING  WATER
PX-ipig ste- Eo-- Foc  M-                            5UPP y SYSTEM
-d 25MG.D Cl-i,f         t P,pe            -       Tr-1, Moms
4, 87 .2R                                                                                                                                                                           Po'    M - \t    Dhob.i                       Filter   Pl-ts
Inp-ovn-fi / Replcenre   of T-ok M.,.,          d   P-onspn  St.h.-o
sypk-i                                          -1  He-d  Regul.t,r
B. I d                                                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LAND USE          HUB WATER
Re-ideEtWl                                           SUPPLY  SYSTEM
I ridwIt-l / Co   ..eeln...                          (-)g-mog proleoti
Roods                                                T-ok Meo- (Pert TT)
Somlroeds                          U~~~~~~~~~ Flter Plo-t (Propos..d)
-Rivr                                                 Pumping Srtion.
e  (  A' tnHAtI 51Atl   g s smabad e    l  \   {/%; 1? s+z Cur  7  )  t Reservo rs   $,/?   l                                                                     t _ _         <              4             _                                    t            No dresad~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Resevoir
~~~~~~~~REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY ~SYSTEM                                                                                                                                                         kCei
Lg-X>=-;               '0-       Nt ItQ                                               T,,  OO,          ;;                 ,,-,,S                m,,,4,, F                      ,>      ¢ 
Smininirrir              I                                                                                                   I' 67'}5
(i                                                          lsuu Rev, vivi                                                                      0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                         '----2-4'                                                                              -4'
'S_RA_                                                                                                             _ _    _  _    _
A-J                                                      i                         < 4rvA0v/nnmrrOuO                                           2V 6irOTr0m0vrrii   -n40~r~



