Document of
The World ]Bank                                       K>
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4327-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAI. REPORT
PAKISTA1q
KARACHI WATER SUPP?LY PROJECT
May 2, 1983
Urban and Water Supply Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PAKISTAN
KARACHI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Rupee (Rs)
Rs   1.00     = US$0.077
US$  1.00     = RsI3.0
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
mm                     millimeter (1 millimeter = 0.039 inches)
m         =            meter (1 meter = 3.28 feet)
km                     kilometer (1 kilometer =  0.62 miles)
km2                    1 square km (km2 = 0.386 square miles)
ha                     hectare (2.47 acres = 10,000 square meters)
G         =            Imperial gallon (Imperial gallon = 1.2 US gallons = 4.55 liter
MGD       =            Million Gallons Per Day (MGD = 4,545 m3/day)
gcd                    Gallons per capita per day (gcd = 4.55 liters per
capita per day (lcd))
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       =            Asian Development Bank
ADP                    Annual Development Program
ARV       =            Annual Rental Value
GOP                    Government of Pakistan
GOS       =            Government of Sind
IDB                    Islamic Development Bank
KMC                   Karachi Metropolitan Corporation
KWMB      =            Karachi Water Management Board
KJWB      =           Karachi Joint Water Board
KWSB      =            Karachi Water and Sewerage Board
KDA       =            Karachi Development Authority
SIDA      =            Swedish International Development Authority
USAID     =            United States Agency for International Development
UNICEF                 United Nations International Childrens' Emergency Fund
WASA                   Lahore Water and Sanitation Agency
IWAPDA    =            Water and Power Development Authority
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Pakistan in
January 1982 consisting of Messrs. R. MacWilliam (Senior Sanitary Engineer)
R. C. Mitchell (Senior Financial Analyst), and J. Creasor (Financial Analyst)
and a follow-up mission in November 1982 comprising Messrs. R. MacWilliam
and D. Graham (Senior Financial Analyst).



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
KARACHI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR .................................  1
Background ....... ...... .. .......1......... 
Water Resources and Sewerage .................................. .. .  2
Served Population ................................... ...... ..... .3
Constraints to Sector Development ..... ....................... ...  5
Government's Sectoral Approach ....................................  6
Performance in Previous Bank Operations                    ..                 6
IDA's Objectives for the Sector .................................    .        8
II.  PROJECT AREA .................................................  8
General ........................   .   .................   .    . . ......    8
Institutional and Financial Background                   ......               9
Water Supply Sources...... ............ .. ... ...............          ... 10
Hub Development .     ..............................................    12
Production Availability           ...................................... . 13
Water Quality and Treatment..            .  ....  ........................ 13
Distribution                              .....  15
Other Developments                        . .............................................. 16
Svewerage ................................................          . . . .   17
Sewage Treatment ...........................................               . 18
III. DEMAND ASPECTS           ...............................................      19
Population . ...................................................... 19
Demand Forecasts     ......... .........             .............................. 19
IV.    THE  PROJECT ...................................................    22
Project Objectives ... .............               ............................... 22
Project Scope ....................... 22
KWSB Operational Action Plan. .......          ... . . ...... ............ 23
Project Description. ... . .... ............... . .... 26
Cost Estmtst.............................  27
Status of Engineering ............           .. ...........          .....  29
Procurement and Project Implementation........................... 29
Construction Schedule    ..30
Project Financing .............          .     ............... .       .     31
Disbursements ..........  ............... 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
thi i -                                                                     on



- ii-
Page No.
Monitoring Criteria           ....... ...................................       . 32
Land Acquisition and Water Rights .                 ....................... *......  32
V.   KARACHI WATER AND SEWERAGE BOARD                .......      ...............    33
Organization.................................................. 33
Functions and Powers .... ......................................... 33
Assets and Liabilities . ... .......... ............. . 34
Organization and Management ................                ...................... 34
Staffing ...............................          .     .    ................ 34
Training ................................................. 34
Management Assistance              ..     ..       ........................................ 35
Billing and Collection ........................................... 35
Audit ..................... 37
Insurance ...............             ....                   . . ...... 37
VI.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .. ..            ..............      .. ................. . 38
Past Financial Performance                . . ................. .. --._. 38
Present Situation              ..... ................................. . , 40
Debentures ...........................................                  ..        41
Financial and Operational Targets...*.................... ..    .. 42
VII. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ASPECTS              ..................................... 45
Health Benefits and Environmental Impact ................ I ......... 45
Least Cost Solution ....... .                        ..................... 46
Economic Analysis ..................           .    ............... . I ......... 46
Poverty Impact ........ ............ 47
Risks and Safeguards ..        ..................      . ................. . ....   47
VIII.CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS.................................  48
Additional Information in Project File ..             .....      ........................... 50
List of Annexes
1.  Detailed Cost Estimates ............                ..   .    ....  ........ .... 51
2.  Construction Schedule .... .                .       . .         .......................... 52
3.  Estimated Water Demand and PopulatiLon Served ...................... 53
4.  Project Monitoring Indicators             ...... I ... .................... 54-56
5.  Schedule of Disbursements ......... ........ ......... ................    57
6.  Indus Feasibility Study - Outline Terms of Reference .............. 58-60
7.  KWSB Organization Chart             ...*.* .....*.*. ... ......................*. 61
8.  Assumptions for Financial Forecasts ................. ...............  62-63
9.  Financial Statements ......... ..................................... 64-66
10.  Tariff Structure ...........................................                        67
11.  Average Incremental Cost of Water ................................. 68
Map
IBRD Map No. 16904R



CHAPTER I
THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Background
1.01    Pakistan, with an area of about 800,000 km2, had a population of
about 87 million at mid 1982. Some 93% of the population live in the four
main provinces of the Punjab, Sind, North West Frontier and Baluchistan with
20 million in the province of Sind where the proposed project is located.
The general population growth rate during the decade 1971-81 has been some-
what less than 3% per annum while the urban rate of growth has averaged about
4.5% per annum.
1.02    The country terrain includes the western offshoots of the spectacular
Himalaya mountains, the Baluchistan plateau and dry coastal areas with the
densely populated Indus plain forming a central spine made fertile by irriga-
tion water from the Indus River and its tributaries; the climate is semi-arid
and with an average annual rainfall of less than 250 mm. The Indus, one of
the world's great rivers, with a catchment area of 950,000 km2 and a length
of 3,200 km, is dammed in its upper reaches by the huge earth dam at Tarbela
and on the Jhelum River, a branch of the Indus system, by the high dam at
Mangla. These impoundments, in addition to producing energy, are regulating
discharges for the benefit of agriculture, industry and the potable water
supply needs of a large segment of Pakistan's rural and urban population.
1.03    In essence the provision of water supply and sanitation service is
regarded primarily as a local function, administered and controlled through
budgetary provisions determined at the level of the Provincial Governments
within the framework of a central national planning policy. The idea of
planned economic development in Pakistan began with the formulation of a Six
Year Development Program (1951-57) followed by subsequent planning periods;
the current Five Year Plan is for the period 1978-83. To administer, among
other things, the water and sanitation portion of the Plan, institutional
improvements have been made, over a period. of time; these include the estab-
lishment of separate Housing and Physical Planning Departments in the Govern-
ments of the Punjab, Sind, Baluchistan and, North West Frontier Province while
at the Federal level a separate Ministry of Housing and Works was created
with a new division responsible for the EnLvironment and Urban Affairs.
1.04    In each province water supply and sanitation projects are constructed
through the efforts of one or more of the following: (a) Public Health
Engineering Department (PHED); (b) Public Works Department; (c) Local Govern-
ment Work Agencies; (d) Municipal Committees and, in the case of large
cities, by Development Authorities. Completed schemes are handed over to
local governments held responsible for their operation and maintenance except



-2-
in the larger cities such as Karachi, Lahore, Peshawar, Multan, Faisalabad,
Hyderabad and Islamabad where autonomous authorities have overall respon-
sibility for building and operating the systems.
1.05    Development of the water supply and sewerage sector is strongly
influenced by allocations from the provincial annual development program
(ADP). Presently the provincial governments are empowered to sanction local
schemes through their own Provincial Working Parties up to a value of 20
million rupees (about US$1.5 million). Above this figure schemes must be
sent to the Federal Government (GOP) for processing through a Central
Development Working Party (CDWP) and the Executive Committee of the National
Economic Council (ECNEC). The problems of obtaining sufficient support
funding for the sector from federal and provincal levels are compounded by
inadequate user cost recovery to pay for operating the systems, quite apart
from the need to generate funds for necessary expansions. These difficulties
are recognized and were fully discussed at a National Conference on Drinking
Water Supply held in Islamabad in November 1981 in connection with the Inter-
national Water Decade.
Water Resources and Sewerage
1.06    As a semi arid country, Pakistan depends on the Indus River system
for its growth and sustenance. The river provides surface water for direct
abstractions and, through normal infiltration, recharges a large portion of
the underground aquifers from which water is drawn for irrigation and potable
use. In general, the underground sources near natural water courses and
surface irrigation areas are of good quality except in coastal regions where
wells can be brackish and unsuitable for drinking. Lahore, for example,
Pakistan's second largest city, situated on the southeast bank of the Ravi
River, with about three million inhabitants, depends entirely on tubewells
for its supplies; the water table in t-his area is about 15 feet below ground
surface. Throughout the rural areas canals, shallow wells and tubewells are
relied on for drinking water.
1.07    Most of Pakistan's large urban communities, where a comprehensive
water supply system is in operation, are publicly sewered in some fashion, or
else individual properties are served by septic tanks or soakaways. Where
there is no flush system, sanitation is by pit latrines and soakways; in
rural areas the latter or more informal sanitation measures are used. The
installation of sewage plants to treat domestic effluents has lagged the
provision of the sewer networks resulting in many of the receiving rivers
and drainage canals becoming malodorous and foul. Efforts are being made to
deal with the situation in some of the urban centers, planning and design of
projects is continuing in others, but, usually, the problem is one of
priorities and the allocation of funds; understandably the collection and
removal of sewage to some point of discharge is considered more important
than treatment from the health and nuisance point of view.



-3-
1.08    The situation with regard to liquid industrial wastes is also a
problem. Many of these effluents are corrosive or toxic and are not allowed
into the public sewers because of the structural damage they cause; a further
reason for their exclusion is that, without pre-treatment they could inhibit
the normal biological purification process which occurs when domestic sewage
is subjected to even simple forms of treatment. As elsewhere, manufacturers
are reluctant to add to their production costs by treating spent wastes and
therefore dispose of them by the easiest, most convenient method possible
without much regard for the environment.   However, this situation is not
peculiar to Pakistan and is one that must be tackled in a phased coordinated
approach which avoids arbitrarily setting discharge standards unattainable at
reasonable cost. So far as Karachi is concerned, the authorities are aware
of the difficulties, and various proposals have been formulated, the
implementation of which will be governed by availability of funds.
Served Population
1.09    A WHO mission visited Pakistan in November 1981 and prepared a sector
report which was submitted to GOP in late 1982 and is under review. This
report up-dates sector information and reviews possible strategies and objec-
tives. The service coverage is indicated below; coverage proposed for 1990
by WHO in the sector report is indicated in brackets.
1981 Population       Population      Percent
Sub Sector                  (Millions)         Served        Served
Urban Water Supply            24.7              17.3           70  (100)
Rural Water Supply             62.3             12.2           20  ( 66)
Totals/Average            87.0             29.5            34
Urban Sewerage                24.7              10.4           42  (58)
Rural Sanitation               62.3              1.1            2  (13)
Totals/Average            87.0             11.5            13.0
1.10    The level of rural water supply service includes public hand pump
service which accounts for about 50% of the total coverage.  The remainder of
the rural population and, to a much lesser extent, the urban dwellers obtain
supplies from privately installed hand pumps, rivers, canals, dug wells and
ponds, many of which are, to some extent, polluted. However, even between
provinces and other areas there are considerable differences in current
coverage as illustrated below:



-4-
Percentage Covered
Water Supply      Sewerage/Sanitation
Province                           Urban    Rural        Urban     Rural
Sind                                 83        13          49         2
Punjab                               60        18          43          1
North West Frontier                  51        22          10          -
Baluchistan                          87        13           7          -
Kashmir/Northern Areas               48        20          10          -
Federally Administered Areas*        95        25          91          -
* Includes the capital area.
The Pakistan authorities are committed to improving these percentages, par-
ticularly in the rural areas where the water supply coverage has fallen
behind other developing countries. In conjunction with the recent population
census, a housing census was carried out in November 1981 which is expected
to provide more complete information on the type of water supply, sanitation
facilities and the methods of waste disposal.
1.11    Stemming from decisions taken at the Decade Conference, referred to
in para. 1.05, it is proposed by WHO in 1990 to increase water supply
coverage from present levels to 100% in the urban areas and 66% in the rural
areas; for sewerage and sanitation the figures would be increased to 58% and
13%, respectively. These are ambitious targets and if achieved would provide
public water service to an additional 58 million and sanitation to another 29
million inhabitants. This target would imply increasing the water and
sanitation share of the public sector budget to 5% from the current level of
3.4% and assumes about 30% (US$400 million) of the funding requirements will
be available from external sources to cover mainly foreign exchange. The
total investment over the period is estimated at Rs 14,300 million of which
Rs 10,000 million is expected to be generated internally; this would include
resources provided in the federal and provincial development plans and,
increasingly, through cash raised by the local councils and development
authorities. The water supply service level proposed in the urban areas is a
house connection to standpost ratio of 60:40. For the rural areas 70% of the
proposed coverage is to be by 260,000 additional hand pumps and 30% by pumped
tubewells and reservoirs to provide 10-15 gallons per capita/day for con-
sumers with house connections and somewhat less by standposts serving between
60 to 200 persons; rural piped water supplies would be limited to settlements
of 2000-5000 population. These standards are appropriate and reasonable but,
if they are to be achieved, will entail a concentrated technical effort,
together with a determined approach to funding and operating the investments
emphasizing increased community self reliance.



-5.-
Constraints to Sector Development
1.12    Apart from a general scarcity of trained personnel and professional
support staff, the main draw-back to sector development is a shortfall of
funds for new construction coupled with the foreign exchange required for
goods and materials not available in Pakistan; imported components include
construction equipment, pumps, electrical units and controls, steel for
fabrication, jointing materials and a variety of special equipment. A number
of agencies have been providing assistance to the sector including USAID,
UNICEF, WHO, UNDP, the Asian Development Bank and, more recently, help has
been sought from the Islamic Development Bank (IDB). The bulk of the invest-
ment aid goes to the principal urban centers where the problems are acute and
the inhabitants are more vocal and organized in making their demands known.
1.13    As previously stated (para. 1.05), the GOP exercises control of major
expenditure in the sector through a well regulated apprQ-val procedure which
involves the preparation of a Project Conicept docum T-  called a PCI; among
other things, this document provides a description of the project, a detailed
cost estimate, including the need for foreign exchange, its operating costs
and a budgetary justification. The process is time consuming but seen as
necessary because the demands of the public sector far outstrip the resources
available to meet them. In addition, there has been a growing perception
that the urban communities consume a disproportionate share of these resour-
ces at the expense of the rural population and, as a consequence, more stress
is now being placed on the need for full cost recovery beginning with the
beneficiaries of the urban facilities. This will not be easy as operational
control of the systems is sometimes fragmented, financial discipline weak,
billing and collection poor and tariffs low, from which consumers will need
to be weaned. A recent survey showed that the combined deficits of the
cities of Karachi, Lahore, Rawalpindi, Islamabad, Faisalabad and Multan
amounted to about Rs 121 million annually, equal to some 38% of their expen-
ditures.
1.14    The current budget process centrally allocates funds to provincial
governments in plan periods for specific purposes and projects, including
provision for any required foreign exchange which may only later be secured.
Problems in obtaining foreign exchange often delay project implementation
and further exacerbate the water deficit situation. Presently, only the city
of Lahore enjoys a 24 hour per day supply; the others mentioned in para. 1.13
receive water over periods ranging from 4 to 8 hours per day.
1.15    As a result of the Water Decade planning activities in Pakistan, a
number of proposals were framed to help accelerate and improve sector
development viz. (i) local involvement in the project planning stage with a
selection of options according to available resources; (ii) the formulation
of a fully representative action committee to co-ordinate the national
development program; (iii) local authorities to share in the capital funding



-6-
of projects commensurate with their financial condition and not on the basis
of a fixed contribution as at present; (iv) a review of the sales tax and
duties on imported goods with a view to seeking appropriate reductions; (v)
incentives to encourage local manufacture of goods now imported for use in
the sector combined with standardization and quality control measures; (vi)
the establishment of national quality standards for potable water; (vii)
programs to impart training to tradesmen in vocational schools; (viii) promo-
tion of pollution control legislation and, finally, a follow-up Conference
every two years to monitor progress and review plans.
Government's Sectoral Approach
1.16    The GOP is anxious that equitable and effective use be made of all
available funds throughout the sector and is striving for an even handed
approach. In this effort it is encouraging local participation in the deci-
sion making process particularly where there are conflicting priorities
between, and within, sectors and choices must be made against a background of
scarcity. The choices are extremely difficult and while water supply and
sanitation are a high priority, there are equal or more pressing demands for
shelter, food, health care and education. It is for this reason that Govern-
ment looks to the provincial authorities to make the initial judgement on
priorities.
1.17    Until now GOP has been looked upon as the safety net for meeting
financing gaps either for investment or operations but, more and more, it is
seeking to discourage this attitude. Instead this is viewed as work for the
provincial governments who are being encouraged to wield stricter control
over municipal, development authority and local council spending and to
promote full cost recovery for services rendered; water and sewerage opera-
tions are considered candidates for this approach.
1.18    This approach was started with the IDA assisted project in Lahore,
which will be referred to later, and in the approval of the on-going exten-
sions of the water supply system in Karachi made conditional on the respon-
sible authority accepting an operating goal of "no profit, no loss" which
required, as a first step, the acceptance of measures to improve operational
efficiency and a tariff revision. The GOP takes the view that the urban
systems must be operated efficiently and ultimately sustain their own financ-
ing requirements leaving subsidy for those least able to pay.
Performance in Previous Bank Operations
1.19    To date there have been two operations in the sector both in Lahore.
The first was Credit 106-PAK which in conjunction with the Swedish Interna-
tional Development Authority (SIDA) made a start on institution building,
some minor rehabilitation of water and sewerage facilities and prepared a
development Master Plan for the city. The credit amounting to US$1.75 mil-
lion was closed in July 1972, with its objectives met.



-7--
1.20    The on-going project in Lahore under Credit 630-PAK totalling US$26.6
million is a follow-up to the first credit and is directed at rehabilitating
and substantially expanding the water supply and sewerage facilities in
Lahore; the Credit included US$1.6 million for studies which helped prepare
an urban project. This latter project, (total cost US$24 million) is being
assisted by an IDA credit of US$16.0 million (approved by the Executive
Directors on April 19, 1983) to finance 51% of the cost of urban improvements
including upgrading the old city, sites and services, solid waste collection
and disposal, training and studies.
1.21    Credit 630-PAK, signed June 8, 1976 and declared effective September
26, 1976 is about 80% disbursed.  There has been a delay of up to three years
in project execution, particularly with construction of the sewerage com-
ponent because of difficult ground conditions and contractor unfamiliarity
with the scope and type of work. The water supply component, however, was
completed earlier and through additional tubewells and distribution exten-
sions now provides Lahore with an uninterrupted supply of safe drinking
water. A lesser factor also contributing to delays has been the time taken
for the Water Supply and Sewerage Agency (WASA) to adjust and become familiar
with the Bank's bidding and evaluation procedures. In the initial stages of
the project WASA was heavily supported by consultant assistance to help with
its execution through funding made available by UNDP but, because of delays
in execution, this consultant effort was reduced to construction supervision.
WASA is still receiving technical and management assistance from the UK
Overseas Development Agency (ODA) fcr leak detection, stores and accounting.
The current closing date of the project is December 1983, an extension of
three years from the original date. Resulting from these delays, project
costs are expected to be about 45% above the original estimates in current
terms.
1.22    Two other important project objectives partially achieved are the
institution building goal and the effort to make WASA's operations finan-
cially viable. An action plan was prepared by WASA, and reviewed by IDA, in
1982 to improve financial performance. I'his calls for greater emphasis on
efficiency of operation including leak detection, increased domestic meter-
ing, follow-up on billing and illegal connections, automation of the tubewell
operations, and a stepped series of tariff increases starting in July 1983
to achieve a 3.5% rate of return on revalued net fixed assets by 1986. This
plan is now being implemented satisfactorily.
1.23    The Lahore water supply and sewerage project has been valuable in
identifying problems and opportunities in the sector and the experience, both
for the GOP and the Bank, will be applied in the Karachi project. Despite
delays and some minor disappointments, the project is producing positive
results both in institutional development and improved service to consumers
and has set the framework for future sector operations in Pakistan.



-8-
IDA's Obiectives for the Sector
1.24    A major objective of the proposed project is to further help the GOP
in its efforts to establish in the sector viable, well operated, urban public
water supply systems with the possibility of extending this effort to the
rural areas. The thrust is to encourage long term planning for future needs
and to implement and operate projects on a sound financial basis incorporat-
ing increased efficiency of operations and appropriate cost recovery prin-
ciples. As the largest, and possibly the most prosperous city in Pakistan,
Karachi should have been able to operate its public facilities efficiently
and profitably to demonstrate to other municipalities the advantages of
responsible prudent management but because of divided responsibilities for
operations, in the past, this has not been possible. To overcome these
difficulties, a new organization, the Karachi Water and Sewerage Board
(KWSB), was created to combine operational responsibility for water and
sewerage operations (see para 2.06).
1.25    The KWSB's responsiblity for sewerage and sewage disposal in Karachi,
in addition to the water supply operation, will take time to absorb and
control, and it is expected that this will provide IDA the opportunity for
supporting Government's objectives in this subsector through the ongoing
association with the water supply project. Until now there is no direct or
adequate cost recovery for sewerage service anywhere in Pakistan, a situation
which cannot continue indefinitely. In the long run, the cost of providing
potable water and disposing of the resulting wastewater must be covered by
adequate payment for these services and the KWSB, as the single operator of
the facilities, will be able to consolidate billing and establish appropriate
levels of cost recovery.
CHAPTER II
PROJECT AREA
General
2.01    Beginning two centuries ago as a small fishing village endowed with
a fine natural harbor, Karachi today has grown to a bustling city of about
5.7 million inhabitants. It has excellent port facilities serving Pakistan
and the sub-continent and it plays an important role in the East/West ship-
ping trade link. The climate is generally moderate but with periods of high
humidity; temperatures can reach 110 F degrees in May and June while in
January may drop to 40 F degrees. The city lies in the monsoon belt and
generally receives its main rainfall in July and August, with a mean of about
180 mm annually (see Map IBRD 16904R).
2.02    Karachi was the capital of Pakistan until 1959 when the seat of
Government was transferred to Islamabad; since that time the population has
tripled and continues to grow at about 5% per annum, somewhat greater than



-9--
the 4.5% national urban average. The city remains the capital of Sind
Province and contains about 29% of the entire provincial population in one
million dwellings covering a metropolitan area of 3530 km2-
2.03    The economy of Karachi is mainly based on trade, industry and com-
merce.  There are over 1800 formal industrial units producing a wide range of
goods namely, textiles, paper and cardboard, leather, glass, rubber and
plastics, garments, pharmaceuticals, soap, food and beverages, etc; the heavy
industry is in shipbuilding, ship wrecking and repairs, steel making, vehicle
assembly, electrical goods and machine tools. The city is also a center of
learning with two universities (one engineering), five polytechnics, over
fifty colleges and more than 2300 primary, middle and high schools. Health
care is delivered by some nine hospitals, 56 clinics and about 450 dispen-
saries.
2.04    The physical characteristic of the area on which the city is built
is one of flat topped parallel hills devoid of vegetation, with wide inter-
vening plains between the two dry river beds of the Malir and Lyari rivers;
these only flow for short periods of the year and act year round as
recipients for the city's wastewater. The highest elevation of the greater
city area barely exceeds 80 m above sea level (ASL).
2.05    The predominant impression of the city is of a mixture of fine civic
buildings, modern office blocks and hotels, high rise apartments, spacious
villas, medium to high density housing developments randomly interspersed
with low income or slum type dwellings. It is estimated that about one-third
of Karachi's population live in such slum areas known locally as "katchi
abadis"; efforts are constantly being made by KDA and KMC to upgrade and
regularize these areas and some control is beginning to emerge.
Institutional and Financial Background
2.06    The supply and distribution of water to Karachi has been undertaken
by a variety of agencies in the past. The agency made responsible for the
first major production expansion of Karachi's water supply system from the
Indus river source was the Karachi Joint Water Board (KJWB), formed in 1953.
Project execution was later entrusted to the Karachi Development Authority
(KDA) and work on the system commenced when this organization was established
in 1957 (para 2.12). Distribution and retailing of the treated water was,
however, the responsibility of Karachi Metropolitan Corporation (KMC) and
some 22 other independent agencies and bulk users (para 6.01). Over the
years, division of responsibility for production and distribution proved
increasingly difficult to integrate and manage, and it was subsequently
decided to form a new authority to operate the entire water supply system and
to extend its jurisdiction to include wastewater management. Accordingly,
the Karachi Water and Sewerage Board was established on February 1, 1983 to
carry out this function (see para 5.02).



-10-
2.07    The financial viability of the water supply and distribution entities
has for long been precarious, due principally to the reluctance to establish
a pricing system that reflected the costs of service provision. Between 1967
and 1981, water tariffs were not revised, being based on outdated annual
rental values of properties, and there !has never been any cost recovery for
sewerage. The agencies concerned were only able to continue operations by
means of cross subsidies from municipal taxation and other activities. Since
1981 there have, however, been more concerted efforts to address financial
issues, with changes in the tariff structure (para 5.11), increases in
tariffs (para 6.13) and, more recently, improvements in billing and collec-
tion procedures which are starting to be implemented (paras 5.12-5.15).
Water Supply Sources
2.08    The water supply system of Karachi goes back over many years.  It
began with the development of wells at Dumlotti, then 20 miles from the city.
This source was developed over a period and by 1923 delivered water to three
reservoirs at elevations between 20m - 30m ASL, for house to house distribu-
tion. Today the yield from this source, still in use, is between 1-3 MGD
but improvements are in hand to bring its capacity back to 5 MGD.
2.09    When demand outstripped the Dumlotti availability it became necessary
to develop a source from further afield. Thus, a scheme was developed in
1941 to bring potable water to Karachi from a point on the Indus river over
100 miles away. This involved the construction of an artifical lake at
Haleji with a capacity, at that time, of 3000 MG to be filled by what was
called an inundation canal from the Indus river.  From Haleji a 20 MGD con-
duit and pumping system was built to deliver water to a treatment plant at
Gharo from where it was conveyed by gravity to the city in a concrete conduit
34 miles long. At the termination of the conduit the portion of this supply
not used en-route is pumped twice to a 10 million gallon (MG) capacity serv-
ice reservoir at an elevation of 46 m ASL. This system is still in use with
the exception of the Haleji lake connection which is virtually abandoned but
used about two weeks in the year during maintenance; the lake is now badly
silted up and has become a bird sanctuary, although plans are being con-
sidered to dredge the accumulated silt and reactivate the reservoir.
Presently, Gharo treatment plant receives water from another canal source
developed later from Gujjo.
2.10    The phenomenal growth of Karachi since independence in 1947 and its
infrastructural demands called for further action and, accordingly, the
Government commissioned a consultant study to prepare a Master Plan for the
city and a separate study by other consultants to look Into and plan for its
long-term water supply and sewerage needs. Based on this work a Central
Engineering Authority in 1951 prepared a scheme for water supply source
development and distribution called the Karachi Bulk Water Supply Scheme.
This involved abstraction of 280 MGD in a separate canal system from the



-1 1-
Indus river supplied through the Jam Branch Canal including main line pump-
ing, new filtration capacity and trunk distribution, to be constructed in
four phases of 70 MGD each. Today three phases of the main conveyance system
are in operation delivering 210 MGD; a substantial portion of the fourth
phase conveyance system is also in place and can be readily brought into full
operation by duplication of certain pipeworks, pumping and filtration
capacity.
2.11    The Karachi water supply system draw-off at Gujjo headworks no longer
depends on the general purpose Jam Branch canal but now off-takes from a
specially built independent canal with a total capacity of 650 MGD. From
this point water is conveyed through a lined canal 10.9 miles long (from
which Gharo now draws) to Dhabeji, from where it is pumped in three 72 inch
diameter pipes through a combined head of 220 feet to a high level 36 mile
long conduit (including siphons) gravitating supplies to filter stations at
Pipri, and COD Hills. Just beyond Pipri a tunnel, 7000 feet long driven
through the hills, was designed and built for the full development of 280
MGD. After the tunnel the carrying capacity of the system reduces to 140
MGD. From Gujjo to Pipri 14 triple 84 inch diameter siphons were built to
carry 210 MGD; the completion of the fourth line of siphons would bring the
system to its full capacity of 280 MGD. Recently, a new filtration plant,
also drawing on this system through pumping, was commissioned at North East
Karachi. Karachi's water supply facilities are illustrated on IBRD Map
16904R.
2.12    It was soon realized that the Indus scheme was a major undertaking
requiring a new organizational structure and this led to the creation of the
KDA (para 2.06) to execute the project, to plan city growth and to generally
regulate and aid orderly development of the city. Several of the Indus
project components (filtration, pumping plants, etc.) were supported by
substantial amounts of external assistance provided by USAID and the Govern-
ments of France and the Federal Republic of Germany. Under Colombo Plan Aid
the Australian Government helped set up a pre-stressed concrete pipe factory
for the manufacture of pressure pipes used in the system and this continues
to make a significant contribution to on-going water supply projects.
2.13    The combined design capacity of the four existing treatment plants is
210 MCD but, due to bottlenecks in the conveyance system and current demands
from the recently opened Pasmic steel mill of 10 MGD, their current combined
output is about 190 MGD; the ultimate requirement of the steel mill is 22
MGD. Allowing for transmission losses the total available water from the
Indus Scheme and Dumlotti is 206 MGD but recently additional supplies of
untreated, but disinfected supplies, are being injected into supplies from
the new Hub source (described below) by temporary pumping in amounts of up to
24 MGD.



-12-
Hub Development
2.14    The rapid growth of north.west Karachi made it necessary for the
authorities to consider whether the Indus system was the most economic method
of supplying water to this area within the context of a proposed dam develop-
ment on the Hub River for irrigation and potable water use. Using an
appropriate discount rate and considering all costs related to chemical use,
pumping and capital works, a comparison was made between an expansion of the
Pipri treatment facility or a new facility at Mangho Pir supplied from the
Hub dam (see IBRD Map 16904R). The consultant established the latter as the
most economic solution and of first priority.
2.15    The first phase of this work is about 70% completed with construction
of a 100 MCD maximum capacity pumping station from the end of a main supply
canal to the site of an 89 MGD treatment plant for which funds are yet to be
budgeted. In addition to a twin 66 inch diameter rising main, (the first
line is laid), a 15 MG reservoir is being constructed together with trunk
mains to connect with existing distribution. A later second phase will
include a 6 MG reservoir at Baldia and 15 miles of trunk mains of up to 48
inch diameter. Temporary pumping by 20 submersible pumps will continue until
such time as the permanent pumping station is completed. Because of the
severe shortage of potable water, the system is delivering only chlorinated
water into the Karachi system from this source until such time as local funds
can be budgeted for building the treatment plant associated with this system.
Water from the Hub source has been tested and found suitable for potable
purposes and is now being regularly monitored.
2.16    The Hub dam was completed in 1978/79 and has a "live" capacity of
760,000 acre/ft (207,000 MG). In addition to Karachi (for which 60% of the
annual yield is reserved) it reserves water for downstream irrigation on the
right and left banks of the river, and for domestic use in Baluchistan. The
reservoir has been filling over the past two years and presently holds about
30% of its full capacity filled during a period of poor rainfall. A prob-
ability analysis used in conjunction with mass-inflow calculations showed
that the possibility of failure to provide the 89 MGD for Karachi would occur
once every 75 years, whereas for all water use the return period could be
every four years; in such instances domestic water for Karachi would be given
priority.
2.17    The Hub is a 46 m high earthen dam 6.5 km long with a catchment area
of 8,830 km2 designed and built solely by Pakistani engineers. The dam, has
also been inspected by several international experts who made some recommen-
dations with regard to safety, particularly on monitoring pore pressures and
measures to avoid the possibility of shear slippage at certain elevations.
Additional gravel is to be placed on the downstream toe and extra monitoring
devices have already been installed. As well as the regular inspection of
the dam by the responsible project staff, an inspection by a team of top



-13--
Pakistani dam engineers from the National Water and Power Development
Authority (WAPDA) takes place annually.
Production Availability
2.18    The disposition of the supply sources is indicated below:
MCD
Rated         Actual
Location                                      Capacity    Production
Gharo Treatment Plant                             20           20
Pipri Treatment Plant                             50           37.5
North East Karachi Treatment Pla,nt               25           17
COD Hills Treatment Plant                        115          116
Dumlotti Wells                                     5*           3
Hub source (partly constructed)                   89           24
Total                                   304          217.5
*  When upgraded.
In addition to the above actuals, about 12.5 MGD+ of untreated Indus water,
when turbidity is low, is injected into parts of the trunk system, after
Pipri, for a total availability of 230 MGD. The current availability repre-
sents a 30% deficit on the estimated maximum daily demand of 327 MGD.
Water Quality and Treatment
2.19    The water drawn from the Indus and Dumlotti sources is of good
quality and amenable to treatment; the small amount of well water used from
Dumlotti is generally higher in total solids and of lower turbidity than the
river water and, with mixing, is suitable for distribution without treatment.
The main characteristics of the sources are given below with the overall
quality, after treatment, given. The raw water quality of the Hub source is
similar to the Indus with low turbidity.



-14-
Quality
Parameter                Dumlotti          Indus Sources         Of Supply
Color (Hazen Scale)       2-6               35-75                Clear
pH                        7.9-8.6           7.9-9.1              7.5-8.4
Turbidity                  1-5              3.5-100              5
Chlorides (ppm)            146-320         26-78                 20-60
Alkalinity (ppm)           100-560          113-148              78-150
Total Solids (ppm)        270-560           140-340              130-250
Coliforms (MPN/100 ml)   150-1800          250-1800              0-3
* ppm: parts per million.
ml:  milliliters.
MPN: most probable number.
The treated water put into supply is thus of good drinking water quality free
from excessive levels of iron, zinc, lead, manganese, copper or other poten-
tially harmful substances, properly disinfected with residual chlorine levels
varying from 1-2 ppm.  Treatment is carrjied out in conventional plants i.e.,
primary sedimentation, chemically assisted, followed by rapid gravity filtra-
tion with pH adjustment and chlorination:; the plants are of different
designs, depending on the period constructed, but operate on similar prin-
ciples.
2.20    For about ten months of the year, outside the main monsoons, little
or no chemicals are used in the primary clarification process as the river
supply is less turbid and further settlemrent of suspended material occurs in
the long supply canals which require regular desilting. The standard of
maintenance and operation of all treatment plants is excellent, including the
first units built at Gharo about 40 years ago. Fully equipped laboratories
are installed at each plant and quality control is exercised by trained
qualified staff maintaining a continuous record of the results. Unfor-
tunately, because daily demand generally exceeds productive capacity many
of the secondary distribution mains are unpressurized over periods of the
supply cycle and contamination frequently occurs by the ingress of polluted
groundwater into the system. While no direct correlation can be established
between contaminated water and health statistics, the increase in reported
cases of dysentary and enteric fever in Karachi from 13.7 per thousand in
1979 to 27.2 per thousand in 1980 (about the same for 1981) may have some
significance in this regard.
2.21    Responsibility for water production is now under the control of the
KWSB which continues to receive advice and assistance from senior staff of
the KDA, the previous operator. The KDA, as a general development agency



-15--
operating in the public housing market, appears to have been always able to
allocate adequate funds and manpower for effective operation of the filtra-
tion plants, main pumping stations and conveyance system, and this is
reflected in the high standard of maintenance at the treatment plants. It is
also engaged in completing the new supply source from the Hub River and would
be entrusted with executing the production enlargement works to be executed
under the IDA project on behalf of KWSB.
Distribution
2.22    Karachi's primary distribution system consists of about 150 miles of
trunk mains in diameters up to 72 inch, 27 miles of large diameter force
mains, six main pumping stations with an installed capacity (including
standby) of 330 MGD and 14 boosters. The combined length of the source water
transmission canals and conduits used exlusively for Karachi is about 80
miles. It was from this system that KDA acted as the bulk supplier to KMC
and other agencies. KDA's billing of metered amounts of bulk supplies were
often in dispute and it only received partial payments; out of the total of
116 bulk meters 28, or more, are not working. It may also be noted that of
82 main meters provided through earlier Dutch aid to help overcome this
problem only 18 have so far been installed. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that KWSB will undertake a program to check repair and
recalibrate existing meters on bulk consumers with faulty meters by June 30,
1984 (see Action Plan para 4.09).
2.23    The secondary distribution consists of over 1920 miles of mains in
varying diameters, 42 pumping stations and boosters, house connections num-
bering about 350,000 and 11,335 community standposts. As mentioned earlier,
because demand exceeds production large portions of this system are regularly
unpressurized and supplies become polluted. The difficulty of pressurizing
mains is aggravated by the fact that nearly all consumers have invested in
lion premise" storage both at ground and elevated level, to take advantage of
all available water and to regulate their own supplies over each 24 hour
period; many have even installed suction devices to draw from the mains when
gravity flow conditions persist. This pattern of consumption is not con-
ducive to equitable or economic use of water in a situation of scarcity and,
furthermore, individual underground storage units are aiso a potential source
of pollution.
2.24    The city, divided into three main pressure zones - high, medium and
low - for management of water delivery, is provided with 78 MG of service
reservoir storage and 46 MG of storage at the filter plants which are all
close to the supply areas. The adequacy of the total storage of 124 MG and
its disposition was examined by the Dutch Consultants, Haskoning, in a study
they completed in 1978 and it was concluded that there was some redundancy
certainly exacerbated by the present pattern of consumption; this, however,
will eventually rectify itself when the gap is narrowed between production
and demand. Adopting the consultant's estimate of storing 25% of the maximum



-16-
daily demand the existing storage is sufficient until about 1990 when further
augmentation might be required. The entire hydraulic balance of the system,
using peaking factors of 1.38 and 2 was analyzed by a computer which helped
identify the areas where strengthening was necessary, and, more particularly,
sections of the system in need of repair or replacement. A component
included in this project is for essential repairs or replacement on about 21
km. of the system as part of a long term effort by KWSB to reduce losses and
generally improve pressure throughtout the city. In furtherance of this
effort, assurances were obtained during. negotiations on the implementation of
a comprehensive leak detection and repair program on an agreed schedule.
KWSB was also asked to agree to the formation of a leak detection cell, which
has now been established (see Action Plan para 4.09).
2.25    Some preliminary work on leak detection was done by consultants in
1979 which suggested an average distribution leakage factor of about 20% and
somewhat less on the primary system. This percentage seems low compared with
similarly sized utility operations and may be explained by the current supply
and demand pattern which prevents any significant build up in system pres-
sure; on the other hand, consumers who have acquired regular supplies may
have little interest in preventing waste since their premises are unmetered;
the consultants put household waste, irn some instances, at over 50%, a con-
tributing factor being a non-volume related water tariff.
2.26    It was found that most leaks in the large diameter locally manufac-
tured pre-stressed concrete pipes are at joints where the rubber rings have
become misplaced and worn or where concrete has been subject to attack by
corrosive soil which exposes the reinforcing steel. With the problem high-
lighted the KDA and its pipe making section have reviewed with the suppliers
of the pipe making equipment what precautions, improvements and modifications
to its manufacturing and laying procedures are necessary and are understood
to have applied to the GOP for aid to upgrade the factory (see para 2.12).
Other Developments
2.27    Even while plans for expansion of the Hub system continued it was
felt necessary to proceed with further measures to bring more water to
Karachi from the Indus, the only source from which supplies are available in
any quantity. An application was made by KDA to the GOP in 1974 to allocate
Karachi 1620 MGD for potable use, based on availability from the Tarbela dam
regulation, but never formally agreed to although the request is under study
by a Commission. Anticipating the obvious need for more water, and approval
to an increase in its current allocation from the Indus, the KDA obtained
funds and proceeded with the construction of a new independent Canal of 650
MGD capacity from Lake Kinjher to Gujjo. The financing of this canal and the
repayment of the associated debentures is referred to in more detail in para
6.07 of this report. This canal is completed but cannot be fully utilized
until a new conveyance system is installed from Gujjo and additional water
treatment capacity built. It presently delivers about 35% of its capacity to



-17-
Gujjo and under the expansion proposed in this project would operate at 50%
of capacity.
2.28    Further development of the next tranche of production from the Indus,
however, is now at the stage where it requires comprehensive study to ensure
that the most economic solution is found to meet Karachi's long-term water
supply needs. Such a study of the water supply alternatives will be carried
out to help prepare a suitable development program which may attract external
financing. This study has been included as a component in this project. In
the past the Dutch Government has provided technical assistance to Pakistan
for similar activities and may be willing to do so again; should the GOP
obtain such external technical assistance it would be proposed that the
allowance for this component be re-allocated to provide additional equipment.
Outline terms of reference for the water supply study have been discussed
with the authorities and are given in Annex 6.   During negotiations, KWSB
agreed to recruit consultants for this study by not later than January 31,
1984, to have the study completed within a year and to review the findings
with GOS and IDA (see Action Plan para 4.09).
Sewerage
2.29    Karachi is sewered by some 1,025 miles of lateral and secondary
sewers with about 130 miles of trunk and rising mains. There are over
160,000 sewer connections, only part of which drain to a system terminating
in treatment; much of Karachi's domestic sewage thus finds its way untreated
to the most convenient water course. It is estimated that 29% of properties
are connected to the main system, 4% to a local system or septic tanks, 25%
served by non-effective systems and some 42% completely unserved.
2.30    Before the establishment of the KWSB, the KMC was responsible for
sewerage and sewage disposal but other agencies, such as KDA, built sewer
systems to service their housing developments and then handed them over to
KMC for maintenance. The costs of operating the system were met from the
general revenues of KMC, from which Rs 27 million is provided for operations
and Rs 124 million for improvement and development in FY 82/83.
2.31    A serious problem with the operation of the sewerage system is the
lack of sufficient quantities of water for flushing purposes, resulting in
numerous blockages. The system was designed on a conventional hydraulic
approach assuming self-cleansing velocities which in many instances are
difficult to obtain because of the overall water shortage. However, recent
KMC improvements to the system through cross-connections and additional
pumping have improved the situation and increasing quantities of sewage are
now arriving at the two existing sewage treatment plants, which have recently
been upgraded.
2.32    No industrial liquid waste is permitted into the public sewers for
reasons already referred to (para 1.08). The unregulated discharge of



-18-
industrial pollutants is a problem which must eventually be tackled in con-
junction with the domestic sewage discharges, once industry can be induced to
pretreat its wastewater. KMC has been considering framing discharge regula-
tions and conditions which would make it a practical proposition for industry
to have their discharges accepted in the public areas. The chief chemist
of KMC already possesses a set of model regulations which need review and
possibly modification to make them workable in Karachi. The objective would
be to achieve a gradual clean-up, over a reasonable period of time, without
disrupting the level of industrial activity, and through IDA's links with
KWSB, this aspect will be reviewed during project implementation (see para
6.14).
Sewage Treatment
2.33    A consultant report, prepared as far back as 1962, proposed the
division of Karachi into four sewerage districts, each with a trunk system
leading to a sewage treatment plant. At that time, Karachi's population was
forecast to reach three million by 1980 but actually topped five million the
same year. The continuing growth rate called for a reappraisal of the whole
treatment capacity and the KDA master plan department in 1974 began to envi-
sion a need for eight sewage works to cope with a population of seven mil-
lion. This is the plan which was tentatively reviewed in 1978 when consult-
ants began to look at the costs of alternative systems of disposal. For the
moment, however, a severe local funding restraint precludes any major expan-
sion of the sewerage facilities.
2.34    There are two existing 20 MGD sewage treatment plants in Karachi, No.
1 commissioned in 1963 and No. 2 commissioned in 1967, both built, with
assistance from USAID, to conventional designs which include screening,
primary settlement, biological filtration and final clarifiers. Although the
combined design capacity of both plants is 40 MGD, during 1981 they treated
only 31 MGD on average. Efforts are under way, and some success is being
achieved, by KMC in bringing more sewage to these plants through improving
links in the connecting sewers and the pumping arrangements; also the No. 2
plant has undergone extensive repairs on its scraper equipment and filter
beds. Similar work is on-going at the No. 1 plant for which a total alloca-
tion of Rs 100 million was approved in 1981 by the GOS.
2.35    The wastewater in Karachi has a valuable potential for reuse.  The
treated effluent from the No. 1 plant is already being used for irrigating
about 25 ha of land which, with the sale of sludge, yields an annual revenue
of nearly Rs 1 million; there is potential for irrigating another 810 ha on
adjacent land.



-19-
CHAPTER III
DEMAND ASPECTS
Population
3.01    Based on the results of the 1981 census it can be projected that
Karachi's population will grow from a current 5.7 million to over 14 million
by year 2,000; even by the time this project is completed another million
inhabitants will have been added to the population. Considering Karachi's
role in Pakistan's economy and its strategic position as a communications
center on the Arabian Coast it is likely that the city will continue to grow
and prosper.
3.02    The KDA is the principal agency preparing sites and services for the
public and private housing sectors. To help sustain this growth, KDA
prepares plots for housing to the extent of 60,000 - 75,000 per annum for
income brackets as follows: 10% high, 50% medium and 40% low income families
(see para 3.05). In addition the KMC has an annual development program to
expand roads and other services and is also responsible for operation and
maintenance of these facilities. The KMC is also involved in providing
services and making improvements in the "'katchi abadi" areas where some 1.9
million of Karachi's inhabitants live. There are about 312 "katchi abadis"
in eleven main districts, the largest of which are at Lyari, Gulbahar, Bal-
dia, Gulshan-e-Igbal, City, Orangi and Landhi Korangi accounting for 1.65
million of the total slum population. About 12% of KMC's annual budget is
devoted to improvements in the slum areas and, city-wide, 31% for water and
sewerage services which includes the provision of standposts and water
delivered by tanker to those areas completely without water supply.
Demand Forecasts
3.03    Projections of water demand are best derived from historical patterns
of consumption but this approach is difficult in Karachi because (i) domestic
supplies are unmetered and (ii) the suppressed water demand created by the
overall water shortage cannot be adequately measured without a proper pricing
policy related to volumetric use. The only broad reference to adequacy is
the relationship of production at the tre!atment plants to the population
served. Leaving aside system losses, non-domestic and industrial use, less
than 20 gallons per day is available to each head of population; even when
variable patterns of use by different social classes are taken into account
the overall domestic availability is low for a metropolis the size of
Karachi.
3.04    In preparing the project a consumer attitude survey was undertaken
in 1981, which looked at, among other things, consumptive use by household



-20-
categories; this confirmed that many households were receiving between 10 -
15 gallons per capita/day (gcd) equivalent to 45-68 liters/caput/day (lcd).
While about 33% of the 920 households interviewed received water from tankers
as an alternative supply, another 15% relied on water carriers with water
delivered in 4 gallons containers costing the equivalent of between 125 - 375
rupees per 1,000 gallons (equivalent $9-29/1000 gallons). The total survey
sample of 1,010 premises, which included commercial and industrial users,
revealed much about consumers' attitude to the present levels of service and
the need for improvements but produced ambivalent responses on their willing-
ness to pay more for water because of a basic skepticism about the expecta-
tion of any changes in the supply situation. However, the general appeal was
more equitable distribution of available water and qualified acceptance of
higher charges on some tangible proof of service improvements.
3.05    An earlier project identification report reviewed population trends
by household income groups and consultants, in 1978, used this as the basis
for projecting water demand as a surrogate for housing categories. The
overall per capita allowances applied then were higher than might be con-
sidered justified in a situation of water scarcity but this was offset, to
some extent, by generally lower estimates of losses if a pressurized system
is assumed. Para 2.25 suggests reasons for the current level of loss in the
distribution system. An updated estimate of demand has been prepared,
adjusting income groups for inflation which projects progressive levels of
consumption in lcd's as indicated below.
Monthly Household                     Year
Category         Income, (Rs)              1980    1985    1990    2000
------------lcd------------
I            (up to 600                 50       60       65      75
II    Low    (601   - 1,000               75      80       90     100
III            (1,001 - 2,000             100     110      120     150
IV    Medium (2,001 - 4,000             150      160      170     200
V    High    above 4,000               200      225      250     300
3.06    To arrive at an overall estimate of demand the non-domestic demand
has been taken as a percentage of the domestic consumption and the large
consumers are based generally on known metered amounts. Implicit in the
projections is the assumption of a transfer of the expanding population from
lower to higher income groups. Categories I-III, inclusive, currently repre-
senting about 90% of the total population, demand 80% of domestic
availability; the population/demand ratio for these categories will change in



-21-
future years as follows 1985: 88%/77%, 1990: 85%/74%, 1995: 82%/71%, and
2000: 79%/68%. The estimated demand in MGD is indicated below.
Demand (MGD)                                  Years
1980  1982  1985    1990    1995    2000
Estimated Daily Average           231   272   329       419      548      750
Estimated Daily Maximum           277   327   395       503      657      900
(20% above average)
In addition to the above, the Pasmic Steel mill will ultimately demand 22 MCD
of raw water and this amount is reflected in the overall estimate of demand
indicated in Annex 3.
3.07    These projections assume an overall distribution loss of 30% of total
production in 1982 reducing to 26% in 1985 and 20% in 1995 as a result of the
leak detection measures (para 2.24) and improvements proposed to be carried
out by the KWSB and also that KWSB will have some measure of success in
carrying out a proposed 'pilot' metering program of its larger consumers and
in the high income areas of the city to rmonitor household consumption with a
view to setting tariffs related to volumetric consumption. For this purpose,
5,000 domestic water meters have been included as a project component. The
'pilot' metering program was available for review during negotiations and the
KWSB agreed to an implementation schedule at negotiations and will report on
the results of the program and its application for improved cost recovery and
the regulation of consumer demands (see Action Plan para 4.09). The KWSB
already has about 8,500 domestic meters of different country origins in store
which can be used to initiate the program, once they have been tested and
calibrated in new facilities to be provided as a component of the project.
3.08    Annex 3 also illustrates the projected water demand against produc-
tion availability, together with population growth. The net effect of the
works to be implemented under this projec:t will be merely to reduce the
accelerating gap between production and demand; as will be seen, additional
production capacity will be required in the immediate future to meet demand
for which the study referred to in para 2.28 will be undertaken.



-9 22
CiA-PTER IV
THE PROjECT
Project Objectives
4.01    The aim of the project is to assist the KIWSB in improving water
supply service to all its consumers through a net 60 MGD increment of produc-
tion, better control of its distribution through loss reductiorn and by intro-
ducirig system and household metering to *nonitor patterns of demand with a
view to ultimately achieving more rational water use through proper pricing.
The project w;il also support and strengthen the new water supply entity in
its effort to become operationally and financially viable by providing it
management assistance to improve management information systems, accounting
procedures and billing and collection and provides funds for studying and
engineering needed system expansionc
4.02    The operational improve-aments w'hich It is hoped will result from the
project should make more drinking water available to the poorer segments of
the community, especially the large number of inhabitants living in "katchi
abadis". This will be achieved mainly by obtaining a gerneral increase in
system pressure through the leak detection and repair program, added produc-
tion and by reducing wasteful consumption by the larger consumers through
selective metering. The project, which will provide additional drinking
water, should encourage the authorities to focus on the complementary ques-
tion of wastewater collection and disposal and to examine the possibility
or need for phasing in direct charges for sewerage as part of the long term
development of KWSB as an efficient public utility operator.
Project Scope
4,03    The project will augment the supply of raw water from the Indus
source starting at the Gujjo intake where supply is now delivered from the
new independent canal referred to in para. 2.27.  The capacity of the Gujjo
canal, over a length of 17 krnm will be increased from 280 MGD to 315 MCD by
raising its embankments.  This increased capacity will- allow up to 280 MGD
capacity to be delivered through t'he existing covered conduit to Dhabaji
pumping station after allowing for losses in transmission in the open canal
and the 20 MGD abstraction required for the Gharo water treaLtment plant. In
the covered conveyance section, after the Gharo off-take, turo additional 84"
diameter siphons will be constructed to complete a fourth line of siphons to
give an additional carrying capacity of about 70 MGD.
4.04    Dhabe4i pumping station presently has a total of 15 pumps installed
with a rated output of 370 MGD but restricted because of limitations in the
power supply and the need for another 7/2" diameter force main; both items
will be provided under the nrc<ecc.  With 12 of the 15 pumps in operation (3



-23-
acting as standby), the output of Dhabeji wll be raised to about 272 MGD, or
more, from a current output of 210 MGD.
4.05    Twelve 84" diameter siphons will be provided to add to the existing
triple line of siphons on the conveyance between the header discharge from
Dhabeji pumping station and the Pipri water treatment plant. The increased
available water in the Pipri conduit will be 62 MGD out of which the steel
mill demands 22 MGD of raw water.
4.06    The additional water provided by the project will enable the existing
Pipri water treatment plant to again operate at its design capacity of 50 MGD
and includes the possibility for some limited overloading. In a consultant
study of this plant it was suggested that, with modifications in the
hydraulics, up to 5% overloading might be possible without loss of finished
water quality. Meanwhile, this project will provide an extension to the
treatment plant to include a 25 MGD clarifier, pumping and auxiliary
facilities; the provision of full treatment is not immediately possible
because of local funding restrictions. Thus the 62 MGD made available by the
project is allocated as follows: (i) raising existing plant to full capacity
and overload (15 MCD); (ii) the new clarifier (25 MGD); and (iii) the steel
mill raw water demand (22 MGD).
4.07    The project provides for about 21 km of mains replacement in
diameters ranging from 18" to 54". The faulty sections were identified by
an extensive consultant study of the distribution system. In the event that
repairs of some of the mains can be satisfactorily effected without complete
replacement, then the KWSB will utilize any resulting savings to extend the
repair program up to the amount allocated for this purpose.
4.08    As already mentioned in para 3.07, 5000 domestic meters are provided
in the project funds to start a "pilot" metering program which will be aug-
mented by meters already in store; these stock meters require to be checked,
serviced and calibrated and funds are therefore also included for estab-
lishing and equipping a new meter workshop at the authority's C.O.D. Hills
water treatment plant where limited facilities are already in place.
KWSB Operational Action Plan
4.09    There are a number of interrelated project activities to be under-
taken by KWSB with a common aim of improving its operating efficiency and
financial viability. These are discussed elsewhere in this Report and,
because of their importance,have been grouped into an Action Plan. The
components of this plan were discussed during appraisal and the timing of
their implementation was reviewed and agreed during negotiations. Progress
on this plan would also be reported in KWSB's normal quarterly reports and
annually reviewed and updated in a manner satisfactory to IDA. Assurances to
this effect were obtained during negotiations. The plan contains the follow-
ing elements:



-24-
OPERATIONAL ACTION PLAN
A.  Operational Improvements                              Due Date
1.  (a)  Establish leak detection cell
(para 2.24);                                    Completed
(b)  Prepare a leak detection program and
submit to the Association for review.
(para 2.24);                                    By March 31, 1984
(c)  Commence leak detection program                 By June 30, 1984
(para 2.24);
2.  Prepare and start implementing a meter
recalibration program (para 2.22)                    By June 30, 1984
3.  (a)  Prepare pilot metering program                  Completed
(para 3.07);
(b)  Commence agreed pilot metering program
(para 3.07);                                    By January 1, 1984
4.  (a)  Appoint consultants to study further
system expansion; (para 2.28)                   By January 1, 1984
(b)  Complete study and review findings
with the Association (para 2.28);               By December 31, 1984
B. Institutional Improvements
1.  (a)  Employ consultants to provide financial
management assistance to KWSB including
revaluing KWSB's fixed assets.
(paras 5.08 and 5.09);                          By September 30, 1983
(b)  Review consultants' recommendations
with the Association and agree on
implementation schedule.
(paras 5.08 and 5.09);                          By March 31, 1984
(c)  Implement recommendations including
double entry bookkeeping system and
management information systern
(paras 5.08 and 5.09);                          By December 31, 1984



-2 5-
2. Prepare and implement staff training program
(para 5.07);                                          By December 31, 1983
C. Financial Improvements
1.  (a)  Prepare plan for register of                     Partially completed;
consumers and improved billing                  50,000 completed
and collection systems (para 5.13-5.15);        at February 1983
(b) Implement first phase of plan
including extension of register                 By June 30, 1983
of consumers and partial                        About 40% of billings
computerized billing                            projected by this
and collection (para 5.15);                     date.
(c)  Implement second phase of plan,
including completion of register
of consumers, fully computerized
billing and collection system
(para 5.15);                                    By June 30, 1984
(d)  Review financial performance and revise
tariffs and/or take other measures as
necessary to achieve following financial
targets for KWSB water supply operation         March 31, 1984 and
(para 6.13);                                    annually thereafter.
(i) produce gross revenues sufficient to
cover operating expenses and debt service
requirements in each of the fiscal years
beginning on July 1, 1985.
(ii) produce internal funds equivalent to not
less than 10% of KWSB's estimalted capital
expenditures for the fiscal year beginning
on July 1, 1986, not less than 20% for the
fiscal year beginning July 1, 1987 and not
less than 30% thereafter 1/.
1/  Estimated capital expenditures shalL be the average of KWSB's estimated
capital expenditures for the fiscal year in question, the preceding
fiscal year and the following year.



-26-
Project Description
4.10    The project elements are listed in Annex 1 and the principal
features are shown on IBRD Map 16904. The components are summarized below:
(i) Raw Water Conveyance:
(a)  Increasing capacity of open canal offtake by
raising enbankments; length about 17 km;
(b)  Providing about 3.7 km 84" diameter pipes in
fourteen siphons to raise carrying capacity
of existing conduits to a total of up to 280 MGD;
(c)  Providing an additional force main from Dhabeji
pumping station about 4.5 km long, 72"
diameter, to deliver raw water to Pipri high
level conduit.
(ii) Pumping:
(a) Modification to Dhabeji pumping station
piping arrangement to increase capacity;
(b) Provision of about 3.2 km 11 KV. electrical connection to
increase power supply to Dhabeji.
(iii) Treatment Capacity:
(a) Provision of additional 25 MGD clarifier at Pipri
to interconnect with existing station capacity;
(b)  Provision of two stage pumping at Pipri including
buildings, electrical cornections and ancillary works;
(iv) Trunk Main Rehabilitation:
(a)  North University block main 48" diameter  -  6.46 km
(b)  Federal T main 48" diameter                  -  0.92 km
(c)  Karachi main 33" diameter                    -  2.74 km
(d)  Karachi main 48" diameter                    -  2.56 km
(e)  Mauripur main 18" diameter                   -  3.84 km



-27-
(f)  Pipri/Landhi main 48" diameter               -  3.12 km
(g)  Pipri/Landhi main 54" diameter               -  1.04 km
(v)   Metering, Vehicles and Equipment:
(a)  Provision and installation of about 5000
water meters in the following sizes: 3/4" (3000)
1" (1700) 2" (200) 3" (70) 4" (30);
(b)  Provision of meter store and workshop at COD Hills
and equipment for testing and calibration;
(c)  A total of twelve vehicles and equipment for operations;
(vi) Services:
Consultant Services for:
(a)  Assisting with project implementation, including design
and supervision of construction;
(b)  Preparing a Feasibility Study for future water supply
expansion from the Indus source;
(c)  Management assistance to KWSB to improve accounting
procedures and improve billing and collection
procedures; and
(d)  Training.
Cost Estimates
4.11    Cost estimates (base cost at June 1983) for the project are sum-
marized below. Cost details and the proposed IDA financing share are
detailed in Annex 1.



-28-
Item                         Rs Million             US$Million       % of total
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Project Cost
Canal enlargement        8.41   3.12   11.53    0.65   0.24   0.89        2.4
Siphons No. 14         33.08  11.18   44.26    2.54   0.86   3.40          9.3
Dhabeji pumping
stn. alterations      3.11   4.42    7.53    0.24   0.34   0.58          1.6
Dhabeji force mains   33.83   23.40  57.23    2.60   1.80   4.40    12.1
Pipri pumping
station              31.02   34.32  65.34    2.39   2.64   5.03    13.8
Pipri 25 MGD
clarifier            19.76   10.40  30.16    1.52   0.80   2.32         6.3
Pipri force main         6.57    3.90  10.47    0.50   0.30   0.80        2.2
Electrical conn.         3.79    9.10  12.89    0.29   0.70   0.99         2.7
Distribution
rehabilitation       33.03   28.60  61.63    2.54   2.20   4.74    13.0
Domestic metering        3.09    3.90   6.99    0.24   0.30   0.54         1.5
Meter repair workshop  2.30    2.08   4.38    0.18   0.16   0.34           0.9
Miscellaneous
services              6.70    5.20  11.90    0.52   0.40   0.92         2.5
Base Cost Subtotal   184.69  139.62 324.31   14.21  10.74  24.95    68.3
Physical
contingencies        23.71   17.94  41.65    1.82   1.38   3.20         8.8
Final design and
supervision          22.94    2.60  25.54    1.77   0.20   1.97         5.4
Vehicles and
equipment              1.00    3.38   4.38    0.08   0.26   0.34        0.9
Management assistance  2.00       -      2.00    0.15      -    0.15       0.4
Preparation of
billing record        3.00      -      3.00    0.23      -    0.23      0.6
Manpower training        0.78    0.52   1.30    0.06   0.04   0.10         0.1
Indus Stage V Study    3.90    1.30   5.20    0.30   0.10   0.40           1.1
Subtotal              242.02  165.36 407.38   18.62  12.72  3,1.34    85.6
Price Conting.         37.98   29.64  67.62    2.92   2.28   5.20    14.4
Total Cost            280.00  195.00 475.00   21.54  15.00  36.54   100
4.12    The overall cost estimates of US$36.54 million, including US$5.14
million equivalent in duties and taxes, are considered reasonable and are
based on construction costs and equipment prices established by KDA from its
current construction program which includes the on-going development of the
Hub water supply scheme. Base costs have been adjusted to reflect costs at
the end of June 1983. The execution of the conveyance expansion will entail
some degree of difficulty and it will also be necessary to ensure the exist-
ing facilities continue to operate while construction proceeds. Accordingly,
15% has been added as physical contingencies for civil works and 10% for



-29--
equipment supply for a weighted average of 12.8% on the base cost. To
provide for inflation through the expected dates of project completion, the
following price escalation rates have been used; for civil works expected to
be undertaken by local consortia, 10% from 1983 through 1987; and for
imported equipment 8% for 1983, 7.5% for 1984, 7% for 1985 and 6% for 1986
and onwards.
Status of Engineering
4.13    As executing agency for KWSB, preliminary plans have been prepared by
KDA for the expansion of the Pipri treatment facilities and the modifications
to the pumping station at Dhabeji. Detailed drawings exist from previous
completed contracts for the additional siphons and the canal enlargement to
be provided under the project and these bid documents can be quickly updated
to comply with IDA's ICB requirements. The mains to be repaired or replaced
have been identified and will be executed by KWSB. However, the executing
agencies may require to augment their design and supervisory capacity for
implementing the major works and, accordingly, provision has been made in the
project for the employment of consultants. KWSB confirmed that the KDA will
be responsible for execution, on its behalf, of the components itemized in
para 4.10 (i) to (iii) inclusive, KWSB will execute all other components in
para 4.10, except that KWSB and KDA wil:L jointly execute the feasibility
study in para 4.10 (vi)(b). During negotiations, agreement was reached that
consultants would be employed for project implementation on terms and condi-
tions acceptable to the Association.
Procurement and Project Implementation
4.14    All major equipment supply and civil works would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank Group
guidelines, the only exception being the minor contracts referred to in para
4.17. Local manufacturers participating in international bidding would be
accorded a preference in bid evaluation of 15% or the prevailing import duty,
whichever is lower. KDA and KWSB will coordinate the procurement of consult-
ant services for which they will seek proposals; outline terms of reference
for the Indus feasibility study, referred to in para 2.28, will be used as
the basis for inviting proposals. A total of 200 man months of local con-
sultancy and 23 man months of foreign consultant support is provided under
the project at a total cost of Rs 11.55 million. The average man month cost
for the local consultants is Rs 43,000 (US$3,350), while the average man
month cost for expatriate consultants, including salary costs, fees, interna-
tional travel and subsistence is Rs 124,000 (US$9,500). For the civil
engineering and building work to be executed under the project, it is
expected that experienced and highly competitive Pakistani contractors will
participate in the bidding; local contractors have been and are still engaged
in contracting similar works in Karachi in connection with the city's expan-
sion program. The estimated total value of the civil works contracts is



-30-
equivalent to US$20 million and the equipment supply about US$13 million to
be let under ICB.
4.15    The contracts to be bid under the project, suitably grouped, include
the supply of pumps, pipes and fittings, water meters, water treatment plant
equipment and vehicles. For the 84" diameter siphons, it is the intention to
prepare the bidding documents as a supply and lay contract. Pressure pipes
in this diameter are locally available from the KDA's pipe factory but con-
tractors will also be able to seek an alternative competitive source of
supply if such can be located.
4.16    The Pipri treatment plant addition is likely to be bid against a
performance specification combining thLe evaluation of the equipment supply
with the civil works to determine the least cost; for this purpose the
operating costs would be capitalized for the purposes of comparison. The
KDA is completely familiar with water treatment plant bidding and evaluation
procedures having previously bid plants on the basis of "turnkey" and perfor-
mance specifications when, in the. latter case, the equipment supply and civil
works are evaluated and constructed separately. All major contracts will be
bid among experienced pre-qualified contractors. Prior review by the
Association of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts
would be required for all civil works and goods contracts over US$500,000.
This would cover about 80% of total contract value.
4.17    In the interests of efficiency and economy, a selected number of
minor contracts may be awarded after inviting local bids from at least three
reliable contractors or suppliers or carried out by the KWSB through force
account. This would apply to meter installations, the construction of the
meter workshop and parts of the rehabilitation work; the individual value
of such contracts would not exceed US$200,000 and be restricted to US$0.5
million for equipment, vehicles and materials and US$0.5 million on force
account. To maintain the momentum of project preparation, and to accelerate
improvements in operational efficiency and financial performance of KWSB,
retroactive financing from November 1, 1982, not exceeding US$500,000 is
recommended for project related expenditures for the following consulting
services (a) updating the register of consumers, (b) the marnagement assis-
tance program and (c) final design of project components.
Construction Schedule
4.18    The schedule for design, procurement and construction is shown in
Annex 2. The rehabilitation works would be completed by December 1985 and
the treatment plant, pumping and conveyance between mid-1986 and the end of
1987. The entire project, including the meter installation, would be com-
pleted by the end of 1987 in a four arnd one-half year period starting in July
1983. Preliminary work has already started on the preparation of bid docu-
ments and it is expected the first contracts-could be awarded early 1984;
bidding for the rehabilitation work could take place by December 1983.



-31-
Project Financing
4.19    A credit of US$25 million is proposed to finance US$15 million (100%)
of foreign exchange and US$10 million (61%) of local costs. Net of taxes
and duties, the credit would finance about 79% of the project cost or 69% of
the total. The credit would be made available to the Government on standard
IDA terms. GOP would bear the foreign exchange risk and would pass the
credit on to GOS. GOS would onlend to the KMC at a lending rate of not less
than 11% for a period of 25 years, including five years' grace, through a
subsidiary loan agreement to be concluded between GOS and KMC. The execution
of a subsidiary loan agreement between GOS and KMC satisfactory to IDA, would
be an additional condition of credit effectiveness. The KMC would pass on
the proceeds of the credit to KWSB and KDA-for the implementation of the
project.
Disbursements
4.20    The proposed IDA Credit of US$25 million would be disbursed over
approximately five years in the following categories:
(1)  Civil works for transmission canal, pipelines            75% of total
treatment plant, pumping, mains rehabilitation          expenditure
and meter installation
(2)  Equipment and materials including pumps,                 100% of foreign
electrical goods, meters and vehicles                    expenditures.
100% of local
expenditures ex
factory and 65%
of goods
procured locally.
(3)  Consultant Services for project implementation           100%
and a feasibility study to prepare for future
expansion of the water supply system, installing
management systems, billing and collection
systems and training abroad.
Disbursements will be fully documented except civil works performed under
force account which will be disbursed against Statements of Expenditure (SOE)
certified by the General Manager of KWSB. The documents will not be sub-
mitted to the Association but retained by the KWSB and made available to the
Association's representatives for review. Disbursements under SOE will be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Association.



-32-
4.21    The proceeds of the proposed credit (para 4.19) is allocated as
follows against three main components: (i) civil works Rs 172 million
(US$13.23 million); (ii) equipment and supplies Rs 130 million (US$10.00
million); and (iii) consultant services Rs 23 million (US$1.77 million). The
estimated disbursements of the IDA Credit are shown in Annex 5. The known
capability of the KDA - the agency which will implement major works on behalf
of KWSB - for executing this type of construction is expected to lead to more
rapid execution and disbursement than occurred on the more complex water
supply and sewerage project in Lahore (para 1.21). The major reason for
delays in Lahore was the difficulty in executing the sewerage component as
previously described; the water supply component was completed much earlier.
Since there are only water supply components on this project, and some of the
work forms part of a repeater contract, complete disbursement is expected in
a little over five years instead of about seven years for Lahore. These
periods may be compared with eight years for the Bank wide profile for the
sector and six years for the urban projects in the region.
Monitoring Criteria
4.22    The project will be monitored by performance and program indicators
which will be useful to KWSB in controlling and developing the efficiency of
its operations. The monitoring criteria, set out in Annex 4, were discussed
during negotiations and agreement was reached that such information as is to
be reported will be sent to IDA for review within six months of the end of
each quarter. The KWSB would continue to report for about five years after
project completion. KWSB would be responsible for preparation of the project
completion report. KWSB and KDA would report jointly and maintain records on
the execution of the project and KWSB will report on its overall operations.
Land Acquisition and Water Rights
4.23    The land required for the addiLtion to the Pipri water treatment plant
is already in the possession of the KDA, together with the sites of the water
facilities to be expanded or augmented under the project. The currently
approved abstraction from the Indus source of up to 280 MGD will be increased
by about 12% to allow for transmission losses. As ample supplies are avail-
able from the regulated Indus River, no difficulties are expected in obtain-
ing approval of this fractional increase. The KWSB however will need to
reactivate the application made by KDA for a much larger abstraction (para
2.27) in anticipation of its future needs.



-33-
CHAPTER V
KARACHI WATER AND SEWERAGE BOARD
Organization
5.01    It had for long been recognized that the separation of respon-
sibilities for water supply and distribution between KDA and KMC was not
working satisfactorily (para 2.06). Apart from the difficulties raised by
this arrangement for coordinating investment programming in the water supply
sector, it had serious repercussions on the financial viability of the whole
water supply operation, since neither institution was willing to accept
responsibility for full cost recovery from the ultimate consumer. The KDA,
with a monopoly on the sale of bulk water supplies, had little incentive to
reduce costs and improve efficiency, while KMC had little incentive to attack
the real problem of improving service to, and cost recovery from, consumers
when it could readily blame its own service deficiencies on disputes with KDA
over quantities of water delivered and refuse to pay the full cost of water.
The formation of an elected municipal council in 1979 exacerbated the dif-
ferences between the two institutions and intensified the search for a solu-
tion.
5.02    In 1981, the Karachi Water Manag,ement Board, KWMB, was created to
redress the situation, with responsibility for distribution throughout the
metropolitan area and with enhanced powers of cost recovery.  KWMB, however,
never really got off the ground - its staff was seconded from KMC and KDA,
although their salaries continued to be paid by their parent organizations,
and it had no independent source of income, relying on KMC to collect on its
behalf. Despite these weaknesses, some improvements were made, particularly
a change in tariff structure and doubling of tariffs. But the means of
imposing these tariffs was still not available (see para 5.08-5.10 below)
and KWMB was not able to pay KDA the full cost of water supplied. Thus the
establishment and growth of KWMB was hindered by funding problems as it had
no revenue base of its own on which to draw and was reliant on KMC for sup-
port. It was therefore decided that an authority should be established to
operate under the wing of KMC with source to tap responsibility. A new
authority, the KWSB, was established on February 1, 1983 under a revision of
the Sind Local Government Ordinance of 1979.
Functions and Powers
5.03    Under its charter, the KWSB is responsible for production, treatment
and distribution of water as well as disposal and treatment of wastewater.
It thus takes over functions that were performed previously by the KDA (water
production), the KWMB (water distribution) and the KMC (sewerage and sewage
treatment). As well as enabling it to operate and maintain the system and
engage in new capital works, its powers also provide for the establishment



-34-
and adjustment of tariffs for water sufpply and sewerage, subject to approval
by KMC.
Assets and Liabilities
5.04    GOS has set up a committee comprising senior officials of KDA and KMC
to value the assets and liabilities to be taken over by KWSB. The committee
will appoint external auditors to prepare a report on the transfer and the
transfer arrangements. Meanwhile, interim funding of Rs 30 million has been
approved by KMC for the current financial year and revised budgets for the
current and next financial years are under preparation.
Organization and Management
5.05    The organization structure of KWSB is shown in Annex 7.  The Board,
consisting of six members - the Mayor (Chairman), Deputy Mayor, two elected
councillors, a GOS appointee and the Managing Director - is very much smaller
than the previous KWMB Board of 26 members. This should make for a much more
streamlined decision making process and resolve one of the problems that
plagued KWMB - the conflicting views of its many Board members. The KWSB
Board would meet monthly to resolve major issues, but the Managing Director
would be the Chief Executive and would have full power to carry out the
regular operations of the authority. The Authority's budget requires
approval each year by the Council of K01C in full session.
Staffing
5.06    The new authority will take over the staff of the entities it
replaces; that is about 3,000 personnel from KWMB, a further 2,000 from KDA
and about 1.000 from the sewage department of KKC. All staff retain their
previous ranks and entitlements and there are expected to be few refusals
to transfer. In effect, the operation and maintenance of the system and
installations will be undertaken by the same personnel. The Managing Direc-
tor of KWSB has been appointed.
Training
5.07    Studies carried out during project preparation included assessment
of the technical training needs of individuals employed in the water and
sewage sector in Karachi. The project provides for a training program to be
drawn up and implemented by KWSB during project execution. The program would
include:
(a)  technical training on leak detection, equipment
and preventive maintenance, metering and operational
management procedures. The Lahore Water and SaLnitation
Authority is already equipped with a leak
detection training yard and can offer other basic



-35-
facilities for training. Overseas training for
senior staff, as appropriate, will also be followed up;
and
(b)  management training for senior officers in modern management
techniques, both within Pakistan and overseas. The
management assistance program (para 5.08) would also
provide on-the-job training.
Management Assistance
5.08    The KWSB, as a newly established entity, will need to install a
comprehensive accounting and management information system. A preliminary
review had already been carried out by its predecessors from which terms of
reference have been prepared for consultants to carry a management assistance
program including design and installation of a double entry bookkeeping
system in the KWSB; the date by which this system is expected to be installed
will be discussed at negotiations.. This would bring KWSB into line with its
associated organization, the KMC, which is in the process of changing from a
single entry to a double entry system. It should also enable management to
receive meaningful financial data on a timely basis and enable an independent
audit to be undertaken. The program of management assistance would include
the following components:
(a)  development of accounting, budgeting, billing and
collection procedures and financial and management
reporting systems;
(b)  assistance in the implementation of systems, procedures and
manuals through a detailed phased program;
(c)  review of the financial organization of KWSB, job
descriptions and training programs in the accounting
and management information fields; and
(d)  assistance with recording the transfer of assets to
KWSB, the preparation of opening balances and the
valuation of fixed assets on a replacement cost basis.
5.09    During negotiations, assurances were obtained that suitably qualified
consultants would be employed not later than June 30, 1983, to carry out the
management assistance (see Action Plan para 4.09).
Billing and Collection
5.10    The billing and collection system used by the previous water supply
entities has been the weakest part of the whole operation and has resulted in
gross underrecovery of costs. On the bulk water sale side, representing



-36-
about 30% of all water consumed, the biggest problem has been faulty bulk
meters (see para 2.22) leading to disputes between supplier and consumer over
quantity delivered. Frequently, bills are based on meter readings taken
several years previously and do not reflect growth in consumption. Under the
project, priority would be given to repair and maintenance of bulk supply
meters.
5.11    Unmetered supplies to individul consumers account for about 70% of
total consumption. Until recently, these customers were billed for water
on the basis of the annual rental value (ARV) of the property occupied. The
register of consumers' properties and the valuation were based on records
compiled by the KMC taxation department, which in turn based its data on
information derived from the GOS Department of Excise and Taxation, the
authority responsible for valuation of properties for tax purposes. KMC
collected taxes on property for conservancy (5% of ARV), Water Rate (6-1/2%
of ARV) and Fire Rate (2% of ARV), there being one bill for all three serv-
ices, while GOS collects the property tax (20% of ARV) and transfers 85% of
its receipts to KMC. Apart from representing a wasteful duplication of
effort by GOS and KMC, the yield from the system falls far short of its
potential as property values have not been revalued for the past fifteen
years. It was largely to counteract this last problem that the water tariff
was changed in FY1981/82 to one based on floor area and plot sizes, thus
delinking the water tariff from property values and opening up the pos-
sibility of making regular revisions to the tariff.
5.12    The register of consumers and the method of billing and collection,
however, remained unchanged. The bills were still handwritten, delivered
by hand by KMC collectors and collected by the same staff. The bills were
inaccurate, many never reached their proper destination and of those that
did, many were never collected.  There was no system of accounting for
arrears and the receipts could not be balanced with billings. Moreover,
surveys carried out by KWMB in the latter half of 1982 revealed that only
about half of all consumers in a specific area were included on the register
of consumers.
5.13    The KWSB is energetically taclkling the problems of the consumers'
register and its billing and collection procedures as a matter of the highest
priority. Prior to negotiations, KWSB prepared a detailed action plan for
implementation by June 30, 1984 to cover the following activities:
(a) field surveys of every building in Karachi to assess
their tariff categories and compile a complete register;
(b) conversion of manual billing procedues to a fully
computerized system; and
(c) overhaul of the collection system operated by KMC,
including incentives for billing and collection.



-37-
5.14    The surveys of buildings in Karachi will cover the whole city,
including "katchi abadis" and will provide information on the occupant, the
floor area of the building, and whether or not there is a water connection
and/or a sewer connection. The information will then be placed on a computer
for calculation of billable values and preparation of bills. A separate bill
will be prepared for water charges in future, which should enhance the
prospects of payment as it will no longer be associated with conservancy and
fire rates, items which appear to have a relatively low priority for payment
amongst the citizens of Karachi. It will also open up the possibility of
billing more than once a year, which is planned for the later stages of
program implementation. At present, computerized data is being stored on one
of the commercial banks' computers, but this may be switched to the KMC's
recently installed computer system, when it becomes fully operational in July
1983. The intention is that KWSB should have its own independent billing and
collection system which will keep a record of arrears and reduce bad debts.
5.15    The first phase of the action plan (para 4.09) should be ready for
implementation by July 1983; this would consist of extending the register of
consumers in part of the city. During the following year, the second phase
would involve completion of a new register covering the entire city and
computerization of the billing system. Consultants are already engaged in
the survey of buildings and funds are provided under the project for comple-
tion of the surveys The management assistance program (para 5.08) will
assist in the computerization of billing and collection procedures and the
objective is to have the new system fully operational by July 1984. This
is a tight schedule which will require the full cooperation of all concerned,
but should substantially alleviate the losses currently being sustained in
the water supply operation and lessen the need for future tariff increases
(see chapter 6 below).
Audit
5.16    The accounts of KWSB and of KDA will be subject to audit by independ-
ent auditors acceptable to IDA. The auditors will submit a commercial audit
report including financial statements (Income Statement, Fund Flow Statement
and Balance Sheet) together with certifications as to fairness of these
statements. The first year to be audited will be the fiscal year 1983/84.
The audit reports will be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of
the fiscal year under audit.
Insurance
5.17    KDA and WMB have in the past restricted the coverage of risks by
external insurance agencies to those related to vehicles, and KWSB will
follow the same practice. As the remainder of the water supply properties
are the types which are not normally subject to damage other than by major



--38-
disaster, KWSB will adopt the practice, followed in most government undertak-
ings, of self insurance with government providing funds for major losses from
general funds if, and when, major losses occur. This concept appears
reasonable in these circumstances and is acceptable.
CHAPTER VI
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Past Financial Performance
6.01    Prior to the reorganization of the water supply sector in Karachi
(see para 5.02), KDA was responsible for the production of potable water and
for its bulk distribution to the various distribution entities and bulk users
in Karachi. KMC was the largest of these entities. 1/
6.02    KDA billed these various entities for the water supplied to them
utilizing a rate per thousand gallons that was supposed to cover the costs of
KDA's Water Wing. The quantity of water supplied was determined by bulk
water meters installed on the distribution mains. However, the bulk water
rate authorized and used did not include the costs of servicing all KDA's
water related debt (see para 6.07). The bulk users also challenged the
accuracy of KDA's meters and water billings and withheld their payments. The
result, as summarized below, was that KDA in the past was unable to collect
revenues sufficient to cover its full costs.
1/ There were twenty-three water distribution entities and bulk users in
Karachi of which KMC was the largest, distributing about 75 to 80% of the
water volume to its final consumers. The other distribution entities
included, to name a few; Civil Aviiation Department, Defense Ministry,
Karachi Port Trust, Pakistan Railways, Pakistan Steel Mills, Public Works
Department, Sind Industrial Trading Estate, Varika Mills and various
cantonment boards and housing societies.



-39-
KDA (Water Wing) - Summary Income and Expenditure Statements
Fiscal Year                        1980                   1981
(Rs Millions)
Operating Revenues                 84.91                 130.28
Operating Expenses - exclusive
of depreciation                  65.40                  98.87
Estimated Depreciation             13.09                  14.73
Total Operating Expenses         78.49                 113.60
Operating Income (Loss)             6.42                  16.68
Interest Expense /1                78.27                  79.24
Net Loss                          (71.85)                (62.56)
/1  Mainly interest on debentures which was not in fact paid after 1979,
see para 6.07.
6.03    KMC had not revised its tariff since 1967 (prior to July 1, 1981)
and the revenues produced by it have been significantly less than KMC's
related costs including the costs for bulk water supplied by KDA.  Proforma
income statements have been prepared reflecting the past operating results
of the retail distribution, the function which was assumed by KWMB in FY1982
and which now falls under KWSB. These results are summarized as follows:
KRC Water Distribution Department - Summary Income and
Expenditure Statements
Fiscal Year                        1980                   1981
(Rs millions)
Operating Revenues                 57.98                  55.62
Operating Expenses - exclusive
of depreciation                  90.42                 106.30
Depreciation                        2.60                   4.32
Total Operating Expenses         93.02                 110.62
Operating Loss                    (35.04)                (55.00)
Interest Expense                    2.75                   2.63
Net Loss                          (37.79)                (57.63)



-40-
6.04    KWMB after assuming resDonsibility for water distribution for
Karachi, revised the structure of the retail tariff from an Annual Rental
Value (ARV) Computation Base to a Covered Area Computation Base in 1981/82
(see para 5.11). This revision, although aproximately doubling the revenues
in the old KMC distribution area, still did not cover the costs of providing
these services. Estimated results of operations of KWMB for FY1982 were as
follows:
Fiscal Year                                                  1982
(Rs Millions)
Operating Revenues                                         115.86
Operating Expenses - exclusive of depreciation             236.68 *
Depreciation                                                 5.28
Total Operating Expenses                                 241.96
Operating Loss                                            (126.10)
Interest Expense                                             3.70
Net Loss                                                  (129.80)
* Operating expenses include the cost of purchased water which increased
mainly due to an increase in KDA's bulk tariff.
Present Situation
6.05    The merging of these two loss making operations presents the new
operating entity, KWSB, with a serious financial problem, but one that it is
better equipped than its predecessors to deal with through its unified
management structure, the backing of KMC and an action oriented recovery plan
(see para 4.09). The combined income and expenditure statements for the
water supply and distribution operation (sewerage is excluded) are shown in
Annex 9 and can be summarized as follows:



-41-
1980/81    1981/82    1982/83    1982/83
Sales of Water
Quantities MGD                 144.20       144.20      179.28       -
Rs per 1000
----------Rs Million---------   ---gallons--
Operating Revenues              7.1.33      115.86      181.54      2.77
Production Cost                113.60       166.22     242.02       3.70
Distribution Cost               59.72        65.11       78.14       1.19
Total Cost                  173.32      231.34      320.17       4.89
Operating Loss                 101.99       115.48      138.63      2.12
6.06    The overall operating loss has increased steadily over the past two
years, despite large increases in tariffs and changes in the charging base in
1981 and 1982 which have brought about a two and a half times increase in
revenue. As described in para 5.12, the impact of the tariff increases was
reduced by the problems with the register of consumers and billing and col-
lection systems, and will only become fuLly effective as these systems are
improved in future. Meanwhile, production costs have escalated sharply, with
a threefold increase in pumping costs resulting from KESC having to switch
from low price natural gas to imported oil. The staffing of a new division
for operating the Hub water facility has also increased costs, although the
Hub source will not reach full capacity until FY84.
Debentures
6.07    An issue that has proved to be even more financialy embarrassing to
KDA than recovery of its operating expenses, has been the repayment, or
non-repayment, of short-term debentures issued by KDA from 1976 to 1981 for
loans from commercial banks in Pakistan. These debentures were issued to
finance the construction of a new 650 MGD independent supply canal from the
Indus River to Gujjo at a cost of Rs 785 million. The terms of the deben-
tures, seven years at 12 1/2% interest including a two-year grace period,
were totally inappropriate for the financing of such a long lived asset. To
make matters worse, the canal itself has not yet provided any additional
water to Karachi (it requires an expansion of the conveyancing system between
Gujjo and Karachi to do that, as proposed under the present project) and the
principal beneficiaries are farmers who are receiving increased water for
irrigation from the Jam Branch canal which formerly conveyed both irrigation



-42-
and drinking water. The full capacity of the canal will not be fully util-
ized for Karachi before 1997 (para 2.27). The cost of servicing these deben-
tures has never been included in KDA's tariffs as it was hoped that GOP might
convert this liability into equity.   The settlement of the debenture issue
has been a subject of considerable debate between the various parties in
Pakistan for some considerable time.
6.08    The current position regarding the debentures can be summarized as
follows:
(a) KDA owes a total of Rs 874 million in principa:L and
interest, the legal liability for which
has been transferrd with the assets to KMC,
with GOS as guarantor; and
(b) The commercial banks which lent the funds expect to
be reimbursed and had taken preliminary
steps to press KDA for repayment of the obligation;
6.09    Since no clear resolution of the matter is in sight,, it is proposed
to leave the debenture issue meanwhile in abeyance. During negotiations it
was explained to the Association that, in a memorandum of understanding
between the GOS and KMC dealing with the take-over of the water supply assets
it was agreed that, in the event of any part of the debt related to the
Greater Karachi Water Supply, Phase III (of which the canal is a part) becom-
ing a liability, suitable arrangements would be made for its resolution. At
negotiations it was noted and agreed that if the KMC is required to discharge
any part of the liability on behalf of KWSB, it would be considered new debt,
the servicing of which, together with servicing of other debt, would be
subject to a ceiling of 1.5 times KWSB's net revenues.
Financial and Operational Targets
6.10    The problems facing the newly established KWSB call for an immediate
action plan to cut losses and reduce the financial drain on KMC and in the
medium and long term to provide resources to plan and develop water supplies
for the future. The objectives of such an action plan need definition in
terms of financial and operational targets. One of the targets put forward
by the KMC is that the KWSB should operate on a "no profit-no loss" basis, to
include provision for maintenance and expansion of the system. This is a
very ambitious target, reflecting as it does 100% self financing. On the
other hand, given the scarcity of funds in the ADP and the reluctance of GOS
to lend for water supply to Karachi, it may be realistic to assume that in
future the system will have to be increasingly self sufficient. An addi-
tional constraint is that there is at present no capital market in Pakistan
for provision of long term loans to municipalities, which are unable to
borrow from sources other than the ADP, despite the fact that many are
creditworthy. Nevertheless, in the case of KWSB, it should be possible to



-43-
rely on the resources of KMC to finance part of its expansion program. KMC
currently spends 55% of its Rs 1,028 million budget (1982/83) in development
expenditures and should be in a strong position to provide loans to KWSB in
future for part of the expansion of the water supply and distribution
facilities. A realistic medium term financial target for KWSB would there-
fore be to meet its cash operating, maintenance and debt service expenses and
to contribute towards its investment needs.
6.11    The attainment of the overall financial target will depend upon the
effective implementation of the Operational Action Plan referred to in para
4.09, including:
(a)  The leak detection and loss reduction program (para 2.24
which is expected to reduce wastage from the current
level of 30% to 22% by 1990. The water thus saved will
provide additional revenue to the extent that it is sold
to metered consumers and postpone the need for further
investments by two to three years.
(b)  The metering and meter repair program (paras 2.22 and 3.07)
will have an immediate impact on improving revenue
collection from bulk consumers (para 5.10) and will
provide a basis for developing a more equitable, use
oriented, tariff in future.
(c)  The billing and collection program (para 5.10-5.15) should
increase receipts from the i.loor area tariff category
by about 70% over the two years 1983/84 and 1984/85.
6.12    Further savings should arise from the more efficient use of existing
resources, particularly labor, though the integration of the whole system
and consolidation of services, e.g. billing, that were duplicated under KDA
and KWMB.  Improved management techniques resulting from the training ele-
ments included under the project and the management assistance program (para
5.07) would also play a role in cost saving.
6.13    Additionally, tariff adjustments will be needed to ensure the finan-
cial viability of KWSB, although the extent of increases can be reduced by
successful implementation of the programs outlined above. The current
tariffs imposed by KWSB are shown in Annex 10. The unmetered tariff basis
was changed from ARV to floor area during 1981/82, which more than doubled
receipts from this source, while the metered rates were increased from
Rs 1.96 to Rs 4.50 per 000 gallons (domestic) and from Rs 4.50 to 6.00
(industrial and commercial) in July 1982. It would not be feasible to
increase tariffs again so shortly after these large increases; nor would it
be very effective until the new billing and collection system is in place.
On the other hand, there is a need to stop the financial drain on KMC, which
has to fund the deficits, as soon as possible. For this last reason, an



-44-
interim target of meeting cash expenses (including debt servicing) in 1985/86
was agreed during negotiations. To meet this target, KWSB will have to
improve its annual revenue flow by about Rs 325 million in current terms. It
is expected that the actions described above (para 6.11) will generate about
55% of the necessary cash flow, leaving about Rs 140 million to be provided
through tariff increases, which would require a tariff increase of about 40%
in July 1985 (See Annex 8 and 9). Thereafter, it was agreed at negotiations
that KWSB will gradually start to contribute towards its investment needs, to
the extent of 10% in 1986/87, 20% in 1987/88 and 30% in 1988/89 and following
years. To meet these financial targets, tariff increases equivalent to about
7% per annum in current terms will be necessary. The measures required to
meet these targets, including those outlined in the action plan and tariff
increases, would be reviewed annually and, if appropriate, the financial
objectives themselves may be adjusted to reflect changes in KWSB's operating
environment and, in particular, to incorporate the revaluation of KWSB's
fixed assets and additional information on long term investment requirements
to be derived from the study of further system expansion (para 2.28).
6.14    The above actions and financiail targets relate to the water supply
and distribution operations of KWSB. KWSB has also taken over responsibility
for operation and maintenance of the sewerage system in Karachi. IQMC has for
some time been studying the question of sewerage tariffs to recover the cost
of operating, maintaining and developing the service. It should therefore be
feasible for KWSB to develop sewerage tariffs over a period of time and this
aspect of KWSB's operations was discussed at negotiations. Because of the
linkage of KWSB's sewerage and water operations, IDA would wish to monitor
its overall performance and targets. KWSB has confirmed that separate
accounts would be kept for each part of its operations and that there would
be no transfer of funds from the water supply operations to support its
sewerage activities; any support required for the latter would come from KMC.
During project implementation, KWSB will exchange views with. the Association
on the practicality of its proposals for implementing sewerage tariffs,
particularly on timing and the initial levels at which they will be set.
6.15    Financial projections for the water supply and distribution opera-
tions of KWSB are shown in Annex 9 and the assumptions on which they are
based in Annex 8. These estimates, which are based on pro forma financial
statements prepared by consultants for the KWMB and water wing of KDA, indi-
cate that, in addition to the efficiency improvements described above and
summarized in the action plan (para 4.09), tariff increases of about 40% in
July 1985, and about 7% per annum thereafter will be needed to reach the
financial targets. Asset values in the projections are on a historic cost
basis; the actual assets and liabilities to be taken over by KWSB are to be
assessed by external auditors (para 5.04) and consultants to be appointed
under the project (paras 5.08 and 5.09) will assist in the revaluation of
these assets. The rate of return on net fixed assets by project completion



-45-
(FY1987/88) is tentatively estimated at between 2 and 3% on a replacement
cost basis (6.3% on a historic cost basis).
CHAPTER VII
ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ASPECTS
Health Benefits and Environmental Impact
7.01    The present level of public water supply service in Karachi is
unsatisfactory as, over much of the city, water is available for only four to
six hours during the day. The inability of the production capacity to meet
demand has led to a situation where distribution mains are intermittently
unpressurized allowing polluted groundwater to infiltrate the system; this in
effect nullifies the treatment process, particularly the disinfection which
is carried out prior to distribution. The authorities are aware of this
phenomenon and regularly test the distribution water but reports of public
ill health usually provide the first indication of when pollution has
occurred.
7.02    For the above reasons, the first priority for the supply authority
is to make more production water available and this is an important part of
this project through the expansion being provided on the Indus system; the
development on the Hub (para 2.14) is also part of the overall expansion
program. In the longer term, the study of the Indus (para 2.28) is intended
to provide the basis for a regular expansion program to meet future needs.
Important ingredients in the project are the leak repair program and the
beginnings of a domestic meter program to limit excess consumption (para
3.07). All of these measures are aimed at providing a continuously pres-
surized delivery system.
7.03    The additional water supplies will add to Karachi's wastewater dis-
posal problems; these have recently been receiving increasing attention (para
2.31) and plans are being made for further expansion of the sewage treatment
capacity (para 2.33). It is IDA's intention to work closely with KWSB and
KMC in the development of a wastewater action plan and be ready to help
support this activity once the local funding constraints moderate.



-46-
Least Cost Solution
7.04    Karachi's water problems have been studied in depth and the conclu-
sion was come to that surface supplies from the Indus and an impoundment on
the Hub River were the only feasible sources; groundwater sources are
unsuitable both as to quality and quantity. The decision to ful'y develop
the on-going Hub project, before the fourth stage of the Indus, was taken at
a time when an engineering evaluation indicated this to be the least cost
solution for the next tranche of production related to the location of the
growth areas in the north and northwest of the city; this was again confirmed
in the 1978 (para 2.24 and 3.05) study. As demand has continued to outstrip
supply, the fourth stage Indus expansion, which this project consists of, is
the next logical extension and is the least-cost in terms of raw water
supply, treatment, bulk distribution and tertiary distribution. Further
abstractions from the Indus (para 2.28) will be the subject of economic
evaluation as earlier discussed.
Economic Analysis
7.05    The average incremental cost (AIC) of water provided under the
project is calculated in Annex 11 on the basis of the additional water sup-
plies resulting from the project. This additional water includes not only
the extra water produced as a result of the project's investment in produc-
tion facilities, but also the additional water available for consumption as a
result of the project financed mains rehabilitation and leak detection
activities, which will reduce losses. The AIC of Rs 3.90 per thousand gal-
lons is less than the tariff for domestic bulk consumers (Rs 4.50) and con-
siderably less than the present tariff for industrial bulk consumers of
Rs 6.00 per thousand gallons. It is however substantially more than the
average receipt per thousand gallons of about Rs 2.00 from consumers on the
floor area tariffs, reflecting the need described earlier (para 5.08-5.13) to
improve billing and collection and also to further increase the tariff level.
The AIC is also higher than the overall average revenue per 1000 gallons of
Rs 2.85.
7.06    The AIC derived from the project is estimated to be less than the
long run marginal cost of water supply. This is because:
(a)  loss reductions to be achieved under the project may be
more difficult to achieve in future as the level of
losses gets progressively lower;
(b)  the project represents the final phase of an existing
supply system and utilizes several existing
investments, which may have to be duplicated or
expanded in future projects;



-47-
(c) the cost of the 650 MGD independent canal from the
Indus to Gujjo, which has sufficient capacity
to supply Karachi up to the year 1997 is treated
as a sunk cost.
The least cost method of augmenting suppLy in future will be studied (para
2.28) by consultants financed under the project, but indications are that
long run marginal costs are likely to rise rather than fall and that real
tariffs should follow this trend.
7.07    Using incremental revenues, based on present water charges, as repre-
senting consumers' minimum willingness to pay for services and thus as a
proxy for benefits derived from the project, an incremental economic rate of
return of 8.2% is obtained (or 14.6% if shadow prices of 70% and 80% of cost
are applied to labor and foreign exchange items). This tends to understate
the real economic rate of return, as unquantifiable benefits, such as health
benefits described above, are excluded. Even so, the rate of return for this
project is relatively high compared with other projects in the water supply
sector. As mentioned in para 7.06 above, this is due to the existence of
facilities that do not have to be duplicated under this project, which are
treated as sunk costs, and also to the inclusion of the costs and benefits of
the mains rehabilitation and leak detection programs, which are expected to
achieve a significant reduction in losses.
Poverty Impact
7.08    The consumers most affected by the current deficiencies in supply
are the inhabitants living in the low irLcome areas of the city. The general
increase in pressure expected ultimately to result from the project, will
make more safe water available to perhaps about a half million of the 1.9
million in this category. The improvement in service coverage should also
mean less reliance on obtaining supplies from public tankers (a burden on the
municipality as supplies are given free of charge) and reduce the incidence
of the poor having to buy from private vendors at high cost (para 3.04). The
tariffs referred to in para 6.13 are considered affordable. The current
tariffs represent 0.7% of household income for the lowest income group and
less than 2% for the middle income group. Future tariff increases, in real
terms, are expected to fall mainly on the medium and high income groups and
the 'pilot' metering program, referred to in paras 3.07 and 4.09, will
provide the information for making such tariff adjustments as are necessary.
Risks and Safeguards
7.09    The main risks in the project will be the capacity of the KWSB to
take over and effectively operate the production and distribution facilities
from the former operators and the timely provision of funds for operations.
The KWSB has had transferred to it almost all the trained staff and labor
formerly employed by the KDA and the KMC on water service and the role and



-48-
development of the new authority was addressed in an institutional study
completed in 1981 and its recommendations accepted for implementation. In
the meantime, the KWSB has moved very rapidly on the instal:Lation of its
computerized billing system and has identified areas where t:he 'pilot' meter-
ing program will be installed. For the present, the KMC is acting as revenue
collection agency for KWSB and providing it the necessary financial support
until such time as it can bill its own customers. The assistance provided by
IDA on billing and collection will help accelerate this process.
7.10    The KDA will act as agency for KWSB for the execution of the major
works under the project. The KDA is experienced in the design, tendering and
building of works similar to those included in the project and delays in
execution are not anticipated. The KWSB is now responsible for the entire
water supply operation for which it has the financial backing of KMC. A
project risk is that the target dates in the Action Plan, referred to in para
4.09, may slip resulting in the financial objectives not being met as
projected. The review process is directed at minimizing this risk and the
financial support KMC has agreed to provide KWSB will ensure that the new
entity is operationally viable. The provision of consultant: services to
prepare and implement the project, and to assist with the billing and train-
ing of KWSB staff will minimize risk and ensure the objectives are met;
accordingly the risks are rated as medium.
CHAPTER VIII
CONCLUSIONS AND) RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01    During negotiations, agreement was reached with the GOP, the GOS, KMC
and KWSB that:
(a)  KWSB will discuss and review progress
on the implementation of an agreed Action Plan
satisfactory to IDA to improve
operational, institutional and financial
performance and enable KWSB to comply with, inter
alia, the agreed financial targets, said Action
Plan to be reviewed and updated annually between
KWSB and IDA (para 4.09);
(b)  KWSB will produce gross revenues sufficient to cover
operating expenses and debt service requirements
in each of the fiscal years beginning July 1, 1985
(paras 4.09 and 6.12);
(c)  KWSB will produce internal funds equivalent to not
less than 10% of KWSB's estimated capital expenditures
for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 1986, not less



-49-
than 20% for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 1987
and not less than 30% thereafter (paras 4.09 and 6.12);
(d)  KWSB will appoint consultants for project
implementation as necessary (para 4.13);
(e)  The subsidiary loan agreement will include terms
and conditions as described (para 4.19);
(f)  KWSB and KDA will report jointly on the project
and KWSB will maintain records on progress with
its operations (para 4.22); and
(g)  KWSB and KDA will submit within six months from the
end of each fiscal year, starting in fiscal year
1983/84, audited financial statements (para 5.16);
8.02    An additional condition of Credit effectiveness will be the signing
of a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to IDA, between the Government
of Sind and the Karachi Metropolitan Corporation (para 4.19).
8.03    The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit
of to the Government of Pakistan of US$25.00 million.



-50-
PAKISTAN
KARACHI WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Additional Information in Project File
Al      Statistical Pocketbook of Pakistan
A2      Statistical Pocketbook of Sind
A3      National Conference on Drinking Water Supply, Islamabad
16-19 December 1981. Papers (10 volumes) on aspects of water supply
and sanitation in Pakistan and conference recommendations.
A4      Pakistan Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Study (2 volumes)
Karachi Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Study (Bl-B8):  1978
Consultants' Reports plus four volumes of drawings.
B1      Final Report:  Text Part 1, Sources, Demand and Transportation
B2      Final Report:  Text Part 2, Pumping, Filter Plants and Primary
Distributiot
B3      Final Report:  Test Part 3, Secondary Distribution and Pipe Factory
B4      Final Report:  Text Part 4, Cost Estmates, Sewerage and Procurement
B5      Final Report:  Annexes Part 1 to Text Part 1
B6      Final Report:  Annexes Part 2 to Text Part 2
B7      Final Report:  Annexes Part 3 to Text Part 3
B8      Final Report:  Annexes Part 4 to Text Part 4
B9      Special Report:  Investigations for Mains Replacement
B9A     Special Report:  Investigations for Mains Replacement (Annexes)
B10     Detailed Report for Rehabilitation of No. 1 Sewage Treatment Plant
311     Karachi Metropolitan Corporation:  Explanatory Memorandum 1981-82
B12     Karachi Metropolitan Corporation:  Finance Facts and Figures 1981-82
B13     Karachi Consumer Water Supply Attitude Survey 1981
B14     Urban Water Systems:  Karachi -- A Case Study
B15     Karachi Water M1anagement Board:  Institutional Study, Volume 1
B16     Karachi Water Management Board::  Institutional Study, Volume 2
B17     Hub Dam:  Planning Report 1977
B18     KDA - Review Financial Performance Water Supply Operations
B19     KDA - Review Financial Performance Prestressed Pipe Factory
B20     Karachi - Review Financial Performance Municipal Operations
B21     KDA - Forecast of Revenue Requirements February 1978
B22     KDA - Report on Demand Estimates and Tariffs
B23     KDA - Review of Accounting and Financial Control Systems
B24     KDA - Report on a Review of Data Processing Requirements
B25     Appendices to B24
B26     Appendices to B22
B27     KDA - Review of Project and Monitoring Control System
B28     Appendices to B27
B29     KDA - Water Tariff Study 1979



-51--
PAKISTAN
kNNEX 1
KARACHI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Estimates and IDA Allocation
Local   Foreign   Total       Local   F'oreign  Total   Percentage         Proposed Allocation of Credit
--------Rs Million -----      -----US$ Million-------   Basis                   Rs            US$
Item I - Civil Works
Water Production (A)
Canal Improvements              2.88     8.65      11.53    0.222        .665   0.887       75%               8.65            .665
Siphons (No. 14)               10.94    32.83      43.77    0.842      2.525   3.367        75%              32.83           2.525
Dhabeji Rising Main 72" dia.  5.75    17.26        23.01    0.442      1.328   1.770        75%              17.26           1.328
Dhabeji Pumping Station
Alterations                   0.10     0.29       0.39    0.007      0.023   0.030        75%               0.29           0.023
Dhabeji Electrical Conn.        1.19     3.54       4.73    0.091      0.272   0.363        75%               3.54           0.272
Pipri 25 MGD Clarifier          5.52    16.55      22.07    0.424      1.273   1.697        75%              16.55           1.273
Pipri Pumping Station           3.86    11.61      15.47    0.297      0.893   1.190        75%              11.61           0.893
Pipri Rising Main               1.80     5.41       7.21    0.139      0.416   0.555        75%               5.41           0.416
Pipri Electrical Connection   2.04       6.12       8.16    0.157      0.471   0.628        75%               6.12           0.471
Miscellaneous roads/services  1.66       4.98       6.64    0.128       0.383   0.511       75%               4.98           0.383
Subtotal (A)                 35.74   107.24    142.98    2.749       8.249  10.998        75%             107.24           8.249
Distribution (B)
Rehabilitation of Trunk
Mains                        10.94    32.76      43.70    0.841      2.520   3.361        75%              32.76           2.520
Meter Repair Workshop           0.51     1.53       2.04    0.039      0.118   0.157        75%               1.53           0.118
Installation Domestic Meters  0.19       0.60       0.79    0.015      0.046   0.061        75%               0.60           0.046
Subtotal (B)                11.64    34.89       46.53    0.895      2.684   3.579        75%              34.89           2.684
Subtotal I                  47.38   142.13    189.51    3.644    1.0.933  14.577          75%             142.13          10.933
Item II - Equipment
Water Production (A)
Siphons (No. 14)                0.21     0.28       0.49    0.016      0.022   0.038         1/               0.28           0.022
Dhabeji Rising Main            16.63    17.59      34.22    1.279      1.353   2.632         1/              17.59           1.353
Dhabeji Pumping Station
Alterations                   2.78     4.36       7.14    0.214      0.335   0.549         1/'              4.36           0.335
Pipri 25 MGD Clarifier          3.16     4.93       8.09    0.243      0.379   0.622         1/               4.93           0.379
Pipri Pumping Station          19.46    30.41      49.87    1.497       2.339   3.836        1/              30.41           2.339
Pipri Rising Main               1.27     1.99       3.26    0.098      0.153   0.251         1/               1.99           0.153
Miscellaneous Services          2.05      3.21      5.26    0.158       0.247   0.405        1/               3.21           0.247
Subtotal (A)                45.56    62.77    108.33    3.505        4.828   8.333         1/              62.77           4.828
Distribution (B)
Rehabilitation of Trunk
Mains                         1.00    16.93      17.93    0.077       1.302   1.379        1/              16.93           1.302
Meter Repair & Calibration    0.72       1.62       2.34    0.055      0.125   0.180         1/               1.62           0.125
Domestic Meters (5000)          2.48     3.72       6.20    0.191      0.286   0.477         1/               3.72           0.286
Subtotal (B)                 4.20    22.27       26.47    0.323      1.713   2.036         1/              22.27           1.713
Subtotal II                 49.76    85.04    134.80    3.828        6.541  10.369         1/              85.04           6.541
Subtotal I & II (Base
Cost at June 1983)           97.14   227.17    324.31    7.472    17.474  24.946           1/             227.17          17.474
Item III - Physical Contin.  13.50    28.15        41.65    1.039      2.165   3.204         1/              28.15           2.165
Item IV - Final design,
Supervision, Admin.          13.99    11.55      25.54    1.076      0.889*  1.965         2/              11.55           0.889
Item V   - Vehicles             1.09     3.29       4.38    0.084      0.253   0.337         1/               3.29           0.253
Item VI - Management &
Organization Assistance       2.00      -         2.00    0.154       -       0.154        2/               2.00           0.154
Item VII - Preparation of
Billing Record                3.00      -         3.00    0.231       -       0.231        2/               3.00           0.231
Item VIII- Manpower Training  0.80       0.50       1.30    0.062      0.038   0.100         2/               1.30           0.100
Item IX - Indus 5th Stage
Feasibility Study             3.90     1.30       5.20    0.300      0.100   0.400         2/               5.20           0.400
Subtotal I-IX               141.42   271.96    407.38   10.418    20.919' 31.337           -              281.66          21.666
Item X   - Price Conting.    14.57    53.05        68.62    1.120      4.081   5.201         -               43.352          3.334
TOTAL                         149.99   325.01    475.00   11.538    25.000  36.538           -              325.01          25.000
1/  100% of c.i.f. foreign expenditure, 100% ex-factory, and 65% of goods procured locally.
2/ 100% of local and foreign consultancy expenditures.
-   Not Applicable.
*   Includes Local.



-52-
ANNEX 2
PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF KARACHI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Construction Schedule
PROJECT COMPONENTS                  1983                1984               _985                   1986                 1987
Gujjo Canal Enlargementf--                                       .miiinnim i                   i
84" Dia. Siphons Nos. 1-15                .  . _                        - =    . _ _    I
Dhabeji/Pipri Force Mains                     _1,                                           -  -__I__
Alternations/AddItions DhabeJ/Plprl                                        Steel Plate Supply
Pumping Stations                          !                 -       -    | mm -
Dhobej!/Plprl Electrical Connections                       ....
Pipr 25 MGD Clarifier (Civil Works)                                     .. .. ..      * |       -  **      -  -  -  -  -               _
Trunk Mains Rehabilitation &
Replacement                                           --*                                         
Supply & installation of
Water Meters                                          -      .   ----------                           -
MeterWorkshop                     _  _V                                        E      t _Suppl
- * _ * -  Prequallficatlon
. . . . . . . . . . .  .Fi n a l   D e s ig n
Bidding
,____ Evaluation & Award
.M........ Nobilization
_mw ~ w Construction/Supply
- --~ -Equiprnent Erection                                                                                   Wold Bank-24603



-53--                                              ANNEX 3
PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF THE KARACHI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Population, Production and Demand Projections
MILLION GALLONS
PER DAY
MGD
POPULATION
MGD x 106                                                                                                     MILLONS
900                                                                                                                  1
800                                                                                                      113
600                                                                          -                                       11
Future                    Ft ret|        />
500              Increments                                                                                         10
400-                                       1-9
367 h-'               Available Production
-               ~~~~~~4th
30c)"                        ~~~~~~~~~Stage IndusX -.
200@                                                                                                               - 8
1006..  00000010  Available
100        L    .*+-                Production                                                                       6
YR  I                     115
YEAR1`1980                      1985                        1990                        1995                       2000
END
Deficit
-  -  -   MAXIMUM DAILY DEMAND 1.2 x AVERAGE
.........  POPLJLATION PROJECTION
ESTIMATED AVERAGE DAILY DEMAND                                                       January 1983
Word Bank-24602



ANNEX 4
-54-                            Page 1 of 3 pages
PAKISTAN
KARACHI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Monitoring Indicators
1.    The following indicators will be monitored, on a quarterly basis,
during and after the execution of the project to measure the achievement of
the technical, financial and administrative goals set for this project.
The beneficiary will be requested to include the required data in its
Quarterly Progress Reports to IDA. In each case, figures will be shown for
the quarter and the corresponding quarter one year earlier.
Physical Criteria
2.    (a)  Water Production
(i) average daily production from all sources for each
month of the quarter;
(ii) total production during the quarter and a cumulative total
production for the year;
(b) Water Quality
(i)  chlorine residual leaving treatment plant.  Daily/hourly
frequency;
(ii) chlorine residual in the distribution area.  Sampling
pattern and frequency in accordance with WHO recommendations.
(iii) raw and finished water quality at each of the production
facilities;
(c) Water Consumption
(i)  metered consumption for each month of the quarter;
(ii) total metered consumption during the quarter and a
cumulative total consumption for the year;
(iii) same as for (i) and (ii) except indicating volumes sold
detailed as per consumer categories (domestic, standpipes,
industry, trade and instiitutions).
(iv) estimate of unmetered consumption.



5ANYNEX 4
Page 2 of 3 pages
(d) Connections
(i)   number of new connections (metered or unmetered) for
the quarter;
(ii) cumulative total connections as above at end of quarter.
(e)  Public Standpipes
(i)   number of public standpipes in operation for the
quarter;
(ii) cumulative total number of standpipes at end of quarter.
(f)  Meters
(i)   number of new meters installed during quarter and to
end of quarter since beginning of installation program;
(ii)  number of meters identified for repair or replacement
during quarter and to end of quarter since beginning of
repair program;
(iii) number of meters repaired or replaced during quarter and
to end of quarter since beginning of repair program.
(g)  Leaks
(i)   number of major leaks investigated for repair during
quarter and to end of quarter since beginning of repair
program;
(ii)  number of major leaks repaired during quarter and to end
of quarter since beginning of repair program;
(iii) lengths and diameters of mains repaired or replaced
during the quarter since beginning of repair program.
Staffing
3.    The number of permanent employees at end of quarter detailed as
follows:
(a) headquarters (top management, engineers, accountants and others);
(b) operational districts (management, engineers, accountants,
operation and maintenance, metering and collection and others).



-56-                           ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3 pages
Financial Indicators
4.   (a)  average cost/1000 gals  delivered;
(b) average water revenue per 1000 gals of water sold to connected
consumers;
(c) estimated income per 1000 gals for water supplied to unmetered
consumers;
(d) operating ratio;
(e) debt service ratio;
(f) value of accounts receivable at the end of quarter as a percentage
of billing.
General Indicators
The following indicators relating to population and service level
will be monitored on a yearly basis:
(a) total population of served area in Greater Karachi;
(b) population in urban areas;
(c) population in outlying supply areas;
(d)  total population served by private connections in both urban
and outlying areas;
(e) estimated total population served by public standlpipes in total
area.



-57-
ANNEX 5
PAKISTAN
KARACHI WATER SUIPPLY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
US$ '000
IDA Fiscal Year               Quarter Endin&             Cumulative Disbursements
1984                         September 30, 1983                     -
December 31, 1983                   250
March 31, 1984                      700
June 30, 1984                     1,500
.1985                        September 30, 1984                 2,500
December 31, 1984                 3,750
March 31, 1985                    4,800
June 30, 1985                     6,000
1986                         September 30, 1985                 7,200
December 31, 1985                 9,000
March 31, 1986                   11,250
June 30, 1986                    13,000
.1987                        September 30, 1986                15,000
December 31  1986                16,850
March 31, 1987                   18,500
.June 30, 1987                   20,500
.1988                        September 30, 1987                21,000
December 31, 1987                22,000
March 31, 1988                   23,000
June 30, 1988                    24,500
1989                          September 30, 1988               24,800
December 31, 1988                25,000



ANNEX 6
-58-                         Page 1 of 3 pages
PAKISTAN
KARACHI WATE:R SUPPLY PROJECT
Feasibility Study for Fifth Stage
Development of the Indus Source
Outline Terms of Reference
Background
1.    A diversion from the Indus River is Karachi's principal source of
domestic water. This has been developed in stages and with the completion
of Indus stage IV transmission, supplies will be met until about 1987;
the total available water includes a supply from the Hub source, which
became operational in 1982, and a few wells.
2.    In anticipation of future demand, a new independent drinking water
canal was completed in 1982. This makes available a considerable quantity
of additional water at Gujjo a point about 45 miles east of Karachi. The
transmission of this water (and its treatment) to the supply area constitutes
the 5th stage of Indus development.
The Study
3.    The study is proposed in two parts (i) an evaluation of the alternative
methods of bringing the additional water to the growth points where it is
needed and (ii) the preparation of preliminary designs and estimates and a
phased program for its execution taking account of known budgetary constraints.
4.    The study would be completed within 12 to 15 months and the result
should enable the authorities to frame proposals suitable for attracting
external financial assistance for orderly project implementation.
Part One
5.    The new canal, referred in para 2, will make available a 335 MGD
balance at Gujjo from where the current supply arrangements involve a raw
water canal and conduit, with a high lift to three existing water treatment
plants, a gravity line and secondary pumping. This part of the study will
examine in detail the following matters:
(a)  Growth in metropolitan Karachi and the probable futue
demand patterns on a district by district basis, including
industry.
(b) The alternative methods of bringing supplies to the areas
identified in (a) and an identification of the least cost
solution using an appropriate discount rate.



ANNEX 6
_59_                            Page 2 of 3 pages
(c)  Solutions investigated should include low level transmission
and high level pumping and the effect of each on the location
of new treatment facilities and on existing and proposed
pressure zones.
(d) Detailed analyses of the type of conduit to be used, evaluating
the losses in an open, lined canal or enclosed conduit as
factors in the capital and oper,ating costs.
(e) Economic evaluation of proposed methods of water treatment
using available information on current practices and the
possibilities for installing processes amenable to treating
water of generally low turbidity.
(f) A topographic survey of the proposed routing of the conveyance
system to prove its viability including sufficient and adequate
soils investigation.
(g) A review of the alternatives in both conveyance system and
treatment facilities to enable staged development and
construction.
(h) A comparison of the present value of the recommended system with
the effect on the internal pumping and storage arrangements
for effective operation of the entire distribution system.
(i) The need for, or the desirability of, physically integrating
the proposals with the existing conveyance and water production
treatment facilities.
This phase should result in a comprehensive report accompanied by drawings
and other relevant information to enable the water supply authority to
decide on the adoption of a project which will meet the future demand
of its consumers.
Part Two
6.    The preparation of the study in part one will be subject to periodic
review. This will ensure that the final recommendations of the consultant
are closely aligned with the client's requirements and will enable the
consultant to proceed to preliminary final designs which will include the
following as Part Two:
(a) Preliminary engineering designs of the agreed
components to be included in the project.
(b) Structural and hydraulic design of the components
and drawings and diagrams sufficiently detailed as
to allow quantities to be taken off and estimates prepared.



ANNEX 6
-60-                      Page 3 of 3 pages
(c) A detailed estimate of the project with allowances
for physical contingencies and price escalation
over the period of construction; arnd
(d) An implementation plan together with a conception
report to be used as the basis for approaching external
agencies for financial assistance and would include
an appropriate presentation on the financial aspects
of the project.



-61-
PAKISTAN
ANNEX 7
KARACHI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Karachi Water Supply and Sewerage Board
Managing Director
Karachi Water and Sewerage Board
Grade-21
Director (Planning. Admin.                              Personal Section
and Coordination) Grade-19                              Private Secretary
Grade-16/17
Chief Englneert                                                                                                Chief Engineer/
General Manager                                                                                                General Manager
Bulk Water Supply                                                                                              (Water Distribution &
Grade- 20                                                                                                    Sewerage) Grade-20
Controller Billing and Recovery
Water and Sewerage
Grade-19________________
Accounts Officer   Manager B&R         Managlr B&R       Managler B&R    Audit Officer
Grade-18          (East)              (West)         (South)         Grade-16/17
Grade-18           Grade-lB        Grade-18
E. (BWS)   S.EI       Dy. it.           Dy. C.E.      Dy. 'C.E,      ManJger           S.B4DGM   S.EJ/DGM    S.Ej/DGM   S.E.)DGM
(Filter)  (Mech/Pumping)   (IV Phase)   (Hub Water    PP Factory           East       (West)       (South)    (MTS)
Supply)                          Grade-19  Grade-19    Grade-19   Grade-19
(Meter Work-
shop & Leak
Detection)



-62-
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 4 pages
PAKISTAN
KARACHI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Projections
Financial projections for KWSB have been prepared on the basis of
estimated consolidated proforma balance sheets and income and expenditure
statements of two of the entities whose activities will be transferred to
KWSB, namely KWMB and the water wing of KDA. Sewerage is excluded.
A- INCOME STATEMENTS
1. Production
(a) Hub supply starts: 1982/83 with 43 MGD; i.e. 5 months at
50 MGD plus 3 months at 89 MGD. In all following years
89 MGD would be supplied.
(b) The final phase of Indus 4 starts supply in 1984/85 with
an additional 12 MGD, in 1985/86 a futher 37 MGD and in
1986/87 a further 11 MGD. An additional 12 MGD is
provided from Dumlotti wells and other sources in 1986/87.
2. Losses
Decrease by 2% in 1982/83 and by about 1% per annum thereafter.
By 1990 loss savings are providing an additional 28 MGD.
3. Consumption
Additional water goes mainly to metered consumers, whose share of
consumption increases as repair of bulk meters and the pilot metering
program increases the share of water being metered, which by
1990 will be about 50%.
4. Revenue
Revenue from floor area tariffs increases by 5% per annum as a
result of additional connections (population growth). In 1983/84
and 1984/85 revenue from this cateigory increases by a further 30%
per annum due to improved billing and collections.
(a) On July 1, 1985, all tariffs increase by 40%.
(b) Thereafter, all tariffs increase by 7% per annum.



ANNEX 8
-63-                         Page 2 of 4 pages
5. Production-Costs
(a) Variable production costs consist of (i) operating staff
pay, (ii) fuel and power and (iii) chemicals. These vary
directly with the volume of water produced, while the unit
cost is assumed to increase by 8% per annum due to inflation.
(b) Hub water cost varies directly with the volume purchased
from WAPDA at Rs 1.75 per 000 gals.
(c) Fixed establishment costs include repairs and maintenance
and are assumed to increase by 8% pe-r annum.
(d) Depreciation is based on asset lives.
6. Distribution Costs
(a) Variable distribution costs consist of repair and maintenance
and fuel and power, these vary directly with the volume of
water consumed, while the unit cost is assumed to increase by
8% per annum due to inflation.
(b) Fixed establishment costs include all personnel and are assumed
to increase by 8% per annum due to inflation. Implicitly,
efficiency is assumed to- improve, as there is no increase in
staff as a result of increased consumption.
(c) Depreciation is based on asset lives.
B. SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS STATEMENTS
1. Sources
(a) Loans, which include financing of interest during grace periods,
represent borrowings from the Provincial Government for the IDA
project, the Hub Phase I project and part of the Hub Phase II
and Indus V projects.
(b) Grants from KMC will be necessary in FYs 83 to 85 to cover part of
the deficits arising from operating and debt service requirements
and to maintain a minimum cash balance equivalent to approximately
one month's operating expenses.



-64-
ANNEX 8
2.  Applications                                                     Page 3 of 4 pages
(c) Investments represent the planned phasing of the IDA and Hub Phase I
projects, with more tentative estimates of the Hub Phase II and
Indus V projects.
(d) Interest during construction is capitalized.
(e) Debt service represents interest and principal repayments on existing
debt and on new debt to be incurred for planned projects.
(f) Increase/(Decrease) in working capital represents the change
in net current assets other than cash (see Balance Sheet).
C. BALANCE SHEETS
1. Opening Balance Sheet
Balance sheets were prepared by consultants for the previous operating
entities and consolidated balance sheets have been prepared on the basis
of the consultants' estimates. These estimates are considered as
being indicative only while the actual opening balance sheet of the
newly formed KWSB is being prepared by an independent firm of chartered
accountants.
2. Fixed Assets
Fixed assets used in the water supply operations are valued at cost plus
additions at cost including capitalized interest during construction.
Plant is transferred from work in progress to fixed assets in operation
when commissioned.
3. Curent Assets and Liabilities
(a) Cash is maintained at a minimum level of approximately one month's
operating expenses, which requires subsidies from KMC in
FYs 83 to 85.
(b) Accounts receivable increase in absolute terms but as a proportion
of gross revenues decrease gradually from the present level of
about six months' billings to two and one-half months' billings
by FY 1990 as billing and collection procedures are improved under
the action plan.
(c) Inventories increase by 10% per annum.
(d) Other current assets, which represent mainly receivables from the
Urban Development wing of KDA, remain unchanged pending settlement
of these items.



ANNEX 8
-65-                            Page 4 of 4 pages
(e) Current liabilities are assumed to increase in absolute terms but as
a proportion of external expenses decrease gradually from their present
level as the time lag in payments to suppliers is reduced.
4. Equity and Liabilities
(a) Equity includes debentures in FY 83 and thereafter and also grants
from KMC.
(b) Long term debt consists of existing borowings plus future borrowings
less principal repayments.



PAKISTAN
KFIN6                 KARACHI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
M175                  KARACHI WATER AND SEWERAGE BOARD
APRIL13               INCOME AND EXPENDITURE STATEMENTS (RS.MN.)
--ACTUAL----  -EST-  ---FORECAST------
1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987  1988   1989   1990
INDUS PRODUCTION MGD  206.00 206.00 206.00 206.00 218.00 255.00 278.00 278.00 278.00 278.00
HUB MGD                  0.00   0.00  43.00  89.00  89.00  89.00  89.00  89.00  89.00  89.00
TOTAL PRODUCTION MGD  206.00 206.00 249.00 295.00 307.00 344.00 367.00 367.00 367.00 367.00
LOSS %                  30.00  30.00  28.00  27.00  26.00  25.00  24.00  24.00  23.00  22.00
CONSUMPTION   MGD      144.20 144.20 179.28 215.35 227.18 258.00 278.92 278.92 282.59 286.26
OF WHICH:
DOMESTIC METERED %A    16.00  17.00  18.00  23.00  24.00  25.00  26.00  27.00  28.00  29.00
INDUSTRIAL METERED %L  11.00  12.00  13.00  16.00  17.00  18.00  19.00  20.00  21.00  22.00
FLOOR AREA TARIFF %    73.00  71.00  69.00  61.00  59.00  57.00  55.00  53.00  51.00  49.00
ANNUAL CONSUMPTION:
DOMESTIC METERED.BGY    8.42   8.95  11.78  18.08  19.90  23.54  26.47  27.49  28.88  30.30
INDUSTRIAL.BGY           5.79   6.32   8.51  12.58  14.10  16.95  19.34  20.36  21.66  22.99
FLOOR AREA,BGY          38.42  37.37  45.15  47.95  48.92  53.68  55.Y9  53.96  52.60  51.20
TOTAL CONSUMPTION.BGY  52.63  52.63  65.44  78.60  82.92  94.17 101.81 101.81 103.15 104.48
METERED TARIFFS:
DOMESTIC PER   OOOGAL   1.96   1.96   4.50   4.50   4.50   6.50   6.90   7.40   8.00   8.50
INDUSTRIAL PER OOOGAL   4.50   4.50   6.00   6.00   6.00   8.50   9.10   9.70  10.50  11.10
DOMESTIC METRD REVENU  15.68  16.66  50.35  78.91  86.87 148.44 177.16 197.31 228.74 254.98
INDUSTRIAL    REVENUE  24.75  27.00  48.49  73.19  82.04 139.76 170.65 191.58 225.16 252.60
FLOOR AREA TARIFF REV  30.90  72.20  82.70 1I2.87 154.09 226.5i1 254.4  285.91 321.22 360.89
TOTAL REVENUE           71.33 115.86 181.54 264.99 323.00 514.70 602.29 674.80 775.12 868.47
PRODUCTION COST:
VARIABLE COST  OOOGAL   0.65   1.12   1.24   1.25   1.35   1.46.  1.57   1.70   1.84   1.98
VARIABLE COST           48.87  84.21 112.70 134.59 151.27 183.07 210.93 227.81 246.03 265.71
HUB WATER COST                         27.47  56.85  56.85  56.85  56.85  56.85  56.85  56.85
FIXED ESTABLISHMENT   50       62.12  74.23  75.5    81.54  88.06  95.11 102.72 110.93 119.81
DEPRECIATION            14.73  19.89  27.63  31.13  32.43  36.13  40.13  42.13  44.13  47.13
TOTAL PRODUCTION COST 113.60 166.22 242.02 298.08 322.10 364.11 403.02 429.50 457.95 489.50
DISTRIBUTION COST:
VARIABLE COST  OOOGAL   0.38   0.41   0.44   0.48   0.52   0.56   0.60   0.65   0.70   0.76
VARIABLE COST           20.00  21.60  29.00  37.63  42.87  52.58  61.39  66.30  72.55  79.37   F-
FIXED EESTABLISHMENT   35.40  38.23  41.29  44.59  48.16  52.01  56.18  60.67  65.52  70.76    C 
DEPRECIATION             4.32   5.28 7.85   10.85  11.31  13.33  15.36  15.36  17.15  18.95
TOTAL DISTRIBUTION      59.72  65.11  78.14  93.07 102.34 117.92 132.93 142.33 155.22 169.08
TOTAL OPERATING COST  173.32 231 34 320.17 391.15 424.44 482.04 535.95 571.83 613.17 658.59
SURPLUS "DEFICIT         -102   -115   -139   -126 -101.4  32.67  66.35 102.96 .161.95 209.89
INTEREST                15.13  15.76  28.94  27.68  26.30  51.60  54.27  80.68 110.89 117.78
NET INCOME             -117.1 -131.2 -167.6 -153.8 -127.7 -18.93 12.074 22.284 51.062 92.109
Rate of Return '       --11.85 -11.89 -13.25 -11.01  -8.01   2.34   4.31   6.31   9.41  11.46



KARACHI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
___________________________
KARACHI WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE BOARD
SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS STATEMENTS (RS.MN.)
:---ACTUAL--!ESTIMATEDF------------------OFRECAST-------------------:
YEARS ENDING JUNE 30   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
SOURCES:
OPERATING SURPLUS    -102.0 -115.5 -138.6 -126.2 -101.4 32.668 66.346 102.96 161.95 209.89
DEPRECIATION          19.05  25.17  35.48  41.98  43.74  49.46  55.49  57.49  61.28  66.08
INTERNAL CASH FLOW   -82.94 -90.30 -103.1 -84.17 -57.69  82.13 121.84 160.46 223.24 275.97
LOANS                       539.43 110.27 141.89 163.62 176.87 167.32 131.98 101.35 137.40
GRANTS FROM KMC                      50.00 130.00 100.00
TOTAL SOURCES         -82.94 449.13  57.12 187.72 205.92 259.00 289.16 292.43 324.58 413.37
APPLICATIONS:
IDA PROJECT                                 77.00 131.50 153.00  94.00  19.50
HUB PHASE 1                         110.27  50.00
HUB PHASE 2                                                       70.00 100.00  90.00  63.00
INDUS 5                                                                         50.00 100.00
OTHER PROJECTS               135.00
TOTAL INVESTMENT            135.00 110.27 127.00 131.50 153.00 164.00 119.50 140.00 163.00
INTEREST DURING CONS                        14.89  32.12  23.87  38.32  28.48  11.35  14.40
DEBT SERVICE:
INTEREST              15.13  15.76  28.94  27.68  26.30  51.60  54.27  80.68 110.89 117.78
PRINCIPAL             25.00  28.13  13.95  15.21  16.59  22.85  25.18  26.12  38.40  38.46
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE   40.13  43.89  42.89  42.89  42.89  74.45  79.45 106.80 149.29 156.24
INCREASE/(DECREASE)
IN WORKING CAPITAL          197.10   3.51   1.27   319   7.12   9.89   5.98   6.83   2.70
TOTAL APPLICATIONS     40.13 375.99 156.67 186.05 209.70 258.43 291.66 260.76 307.47 336.34  
NET CASH FLOW         -123. 1 73.136 -99.54   1.67  -3.78   0.56  -2.50  31.68  17.11  77.03   o
Debt Service Cover     -2.07  -2.06  -2.40  -1.96  -1.35   1.10   1.53   1.50   1.50   1.77   m
Internal Funds Flow   -123.1 -331.3 -149.5 -128.3 -103.8   0.56  32.50  47.68  67.11 117.03   m
Contrib to Invest .                         -92.60 -64.54   0.31  18.49  28.51  42.23  71.20



KARACHI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
KARACHI WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE BOARD
BALANCE SHEETS (RS.MN.)
---ACTUAL--!ESTIMATED------------------FORECAST-------------------
AS AT JUNE 30           1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
ASSETS:
FIXED ASSETS          1099.1 1234.1 1234.1 1409.3 1474.3 1659.3 1859.3 1959.3 2059.3 2209.3
LESS DEPRECIATION   23B.41 262.69 298.17 340.15 383.90 433.36 488.85 546.35 607.63 673.71
NET PLANT IN OPERATN 860.69 971.41 935.93 31069.1 1090.4 1225.9 1370.4 1412.9 1451.6 1535.5
W.I.P.                  0.00   0.00 110.27  77.00 175.62 167.48 169.80 217.78 269.13 296.53
NET FIXED ASSETS    860.69 971.41 1046.2 1146= 1 1266.0 1393.4 1540.2 1630.7 1720.8 1832.1
CURRENT ASSETS:
CASH                 61.65 134.79  35.24  36.91  33.14  33.70  31 . 20  62. 87  79.99 157.02
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE  29.88  84.53  90.77 106.00 113.05 133.82 150.57 161.95 174.40 182.38
INVENTORIES          26.59  24.65  27.12  29. 83  32.81  36.09  39.70  43.67  48.04  52.84
OTHER               694.03 390.03 390.03 390.03 390.03 390.03 390.03 390.03 390.03 390.03
TOTAL CURRENT AS'SET  81' 2.5 634.{0)0 543.16 5627I7 569.02 593.64 6i.50 658.52 692.46 782.27
LESS:
CURRENT LIABILITIES 577.07 222. 55 227.75 244.41 251.26 268.19 278.66 288.03 298.02 308.10            ON
NET CURRENT ASSETS   235.08 411.45 315.41 318.35 317.77 325.45 332.84 370.49 394.44 474.17             1
TOTAL NET ASSETS       1095-8 1382.8 1361.6 1464.4 1583.7 1718.8 1873.0 2001.2 2115.2 2306.2
EQUITY & LIABILITIES:
EQUITY \1            392.77 393.67 1298.9 1428.9 1528.9 1528. 9 1528. 9 1528.9 1528.9 15288. 9
SURPLUS                 0.00 -131.22 -29 8.8 -452.6 -580.4 -599.3 -587.2 -564.9 -513.9 -421 s.8
TOTAL               392.77 2621.44 1000.0 976.21 948.48 929.54 941.620 963.90 1015.0 1107.1
LONG TERM DEBT       703.00 1120.4 361. 53 488.21 635.23 789.25 931.40 1037.3 1100.2 1199.1
TOTAL EQUITY & DEBT   1095.8 13829. 8 1361.6 1464.4 1583.7 1718.8 1873.0 2001.2 2115.2 2306.2       ID
0
Debt           7.      64.16  81.02  26.55  33.34  40.11  45.92  49.73  51.83  52.01  52.00
/Equity Ratio .       35.84  18.98  73.45  66.66  59.89  54.08  50.27  48.17  47.99  48.00          t
Note: \1 Equity includes Debentures in FY 83 and after and also grants from KMC.                     I
\2 Fi>ed Assets include capitalised interest during construction



-69-                              ANNEX 10
PAKISTAN
KARACHI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Present Retail Tariff Structure - KWSB
I.   Unmetered                                        Rs Per Month
A.   Residential - Covered Area TariI.f
1. Property With Water Connection
Ground Floor Square Yards:
Up to   60                                6.00
61 to  120                                8.25
121 to  200                               12.00
201 to  300                               18.00
301 to  400                               25.00
401 to  600                                35.00
601 to 1000                               50.00
1001 to 1500                              100.00
1501 to 2000                              125.00
2001 to above                             150.00
Each Additional Floor                           50% of ground floor
4.00
2. Property Without Water Connection
3.  Flats - with water connection
Up to  500 square feet                    8.25
501 to  800                               12.00
801 to 1000                               15.00
1001 to 1200                                20.00
1201 to 1500                                30.00
1500 to 1800                                50.00
1801 and above                              60.00
B.   Commercial and Industrial
1.  Property Without Water Connection               6 1/2% ARV
2.  Property With Water Connection                  9% ARV
II. Metered
A.   Industrial, commercial and agricultural
per 1,000 gallons                                     6.00
B.   Domestic, per 1,000 gallons                            4.50



PAKISTAN
LRMCOW        KARACHI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
N30          AVERAGE INCREMENTAL COST OF WATER
----------------------------_.-----
CAPITAL OPCOST REHAB TOTAL   NEW        WATER      OLD WATER(295) TOTAL  TOTAL ADDTNL NETCASH
YEAR    COST  RS.1.75 &DISTR RS.MN. WATER   AVAILABLE   LOSS REDUCTION ADDTL  ADDTL REVENUE  FLOW
RS.MN.PER 000 RS.MN.          MGD     %    MGD      %      MGD   MGD      MGY   RS.MN. RS.MN.
GALLONS                                                295
1983                                         72
1984    125            25    150             73              1  2.95   2.95 1076.8 3.9301 -146.1
1985    125      8     50    183      12     74   8.88       2    5.9  14.78 5394.7 19.691 -163.3
1986     28     3 1    25      84     49     75  36.75       3   8.85   45.6  16644 60.751 -23.25
1987            38      5      43     60     76   45.6       4   11.8   57.4  20951 76.471 33.471
1988            38      5      43            76   45.6       4   11.8   57.4  20951 76.471 33.471
1989            38      5      43            77   46.2       5  14.75  60.95  22247 81.201 38.201
1990            38      5      43            78   46.8       6   17.7   64.5  23543 85.930 42.930
991   38  5   43             78   4O.r      t   i7.7   64.5  23543 85.930 42.930
1991            38      S      43            78   46.8       6   17.7   64.5. 23543 85.930 42.930
19?92           18      5     43             78   46.8       6   17.7   64.5  23543 85.930 42.930
1993           3.8      5      43            79   47.4       7  20.65  68.05  24838 90.660 47.660
1994            38      5      43            80     48       8   23.6   71.6  26134 95.389 52.389
1995            38      5      43            80     48       8   23.6   71.6  26134 95.389 52.389
1996            38      5     43           80.4  48.24    8.4  24.78  73. 02  26652 97.281 54.281
1997            o8      5      43            81   48.6       9  26.55  75.15  27430 100.12 57.119
1998            38      5      43          81.2  48.72    9.2  27.14  75.86  27689 101.06 58.064
1999            38      5     43           81.6  48.96    9.6  28.32  77.28  28207 102.96 59.956
2000 138                5      43            82   49.2      1C  29.5   78.7  28726 104.85 61.848
0
DISCOUNT RATE                     .1                                                 .1     .1      .1
NET PRESENT VALUE             647.58                                             166456 607.56 -40.01
AVERAGE INCREMENTAL COSTOCOG 3.8904
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN '                                                                      8.2049
H



_____________________                                                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 16904R
n- -O \ /                                                   67'l0' ,                                                                                                             t72<e' 0r 67370                                              TO7O0                                            moo 3E0
-    Ovlj;t>'                                            $     /                                              fff        (h!                          f           f[                                                         PAKIS T AN
25-cU                \         _  _ )98                     /    v~~~~~~~oRrslfEs56 6AAcM    )         t                                                                       KARACHI  WATER    SUPPLY    PROJECT
_25-  <   _  11             <                                       .-=- ,-=                    f  -    /  1|  o.PROPOSED  EXPANSION  OF WATER  SUPPLY  FACILITIES                                                                                                           25-00'
Mongh.                                                                                                                                                                           IDA  PROJECT~                                       EXISTING  WATER
' p PninSoio    tesoPoeMinSUPPLY SSE
-r  2 MG gD  Clrf,,,a   n  it pce                 Trunk Mains
72  Pooc  Mon or- Dhobei,                       U   pilM   PI-nO
Inpro--net , Ropl--eeo  of Tr-nk Mos-              Pumping station
\             iEnlgement of Gullo Canal        *   Reservo-rs
Syphons                                               -d Welo
_     LAND USE                                            HUB WATER
I U                                                       . S t.                      ,,zjX gH-4S Re-INal   SUPPLY SYSTEM
Iroti~Conm-- l                                ongong prareot)
Dronk Moms
V-                                                                   R  1,                                               T,cwe~k M7i- (P.  / nodronk M   Port E[)
4 |7 AM;HAt] 5^6bl /1$/jQ to gr I ) / thtb COM J 2 - Heod Rlu    d D                                                       FilterPlont t-= (P_poehd)
Rivers                                              P-mPing Stat-o
Pyt                                                                                                         Rese-o-
0  '   J , I  s  u "  /     >      <              -                               )             t24^O       tlevwSa*deec'a tM2*; erm$-  -                     - -in ' '-                                                                                                                            2440 
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ hnlvi
U;                            61                          REGIONAL  WATER SUPPLY   SYSTEM                    <>Oi~)                                                                                                                                           f<5iOrt>aonnv
/4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    
,FG Q__ 7 1 r <t 2 0 ; e r J vf/*)) _  lhi  67-pr ' 67                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 24'40 -
0'vnOSit
00 Dnv           AvnuR~nk,
P  4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



