OFFICIAL
DOCUMFNT       CREDIT NUMBER 1374 PAK
Development Credit Agreement
(Karachi Water Supply Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated         tu,u    3 O          1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1374 PAK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                50"u  5o    , 1983, between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN cting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by Karachi Water and
Sewerage Board, eatablished under Sind Local Government (Amend-
ment) Ordinance of 1983 (hereinafter called KWSB) and Karachi
Development Authority established under the President's Order
No. 5 of 1957 (hereinafter called KDA) assisted by Province of
Sind (hereinafter called the Provincial Government) and the
Karachi Metropolitan Corporation (hereinafter called KMC) with
the Borrower's assistance and, es part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to KWSB and KDA the proceeds of the
Credit as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in a project
agreement of even date herewith between the Association, the
Provincial Government, KMC, KWSB and KDA (hereinafter called the
Project Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the


﻿- 2 -
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement between
the Provincial Government and KMC pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time and
such  term  includes  all  schedules  to  the   Subsidiary  Loan
Agreement; and
(b) "Rupees" or "Rs" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty-three million Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 23,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the
provisions set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the
Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1988, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from


﻿-3-
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the   Association  shall  reasonably  request;  (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 1
and September 1 commencing September 1, 1993 and ending March 1,
2033, each installment to and including the installment payable
on March 1, 2003, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.10. The Managing Director of KWSB is designated as
the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause the Provincial Government, KMC,


﻿KWSB and KDA to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the
obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken
all action, including    the provision   of  funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
the Provincial Government, KMC, KWSB and KDA to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to the Provincial Government for on-lending to KMC
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Pr)vincial Government and KMC under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association including those set
forth in Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall cause the Provincial Government to
exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall ensure that the Provincial Government shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the Provincial Government, KMC, KWSB or KDA shall have
failed to perform any of their respective covenants, agreements
or obligations under the Project Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that the Provincial Government, KMC,
KWSB or KDA will be able to perform their respective obligations
under the Project Agreement;
(c) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall, without prior agreement with the Association, have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of KMC, KWSB
or KDA or for the suspension of their respective operations; and


﻿-5-
(d) Sind Local Government Ordinance of 1979, Sind Local
Government (Amendment) Ordinance of 1983 or President's Order
No. 5 of 1957 shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and adversely
affect the ability of KMC, KWSB or KDA to carry out its
covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in the Project
Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower, the Provincial Government, KMC, KWSB and KDA; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Executive Committee of the National Economic
Council shall have approved the PC-l documents with respect to
the Project; and
(b) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Provincial Government and KMC.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Provincial Government, KMC, KWSB and KDA, and is
legally binding upon the Provincial Government, KMC, KWSB and
KDA, respectively, in accordance with its terms; and


﻿-6-
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Provincial Government and KMC and
is legally binding upon the Provincial Government and KMC,
respectively, in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The dateIfo4;4-60,72/ 09)  /9f 3   is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs Division is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad
Pakistan
Cable address:                        Telex:
ECONOMIC                            ECDIV-05-634
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-7-
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By (s       '  '   ' "
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By IS/ tj                  c,a~
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 8 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of ths Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated       % of
(Expressed in     Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works
(a) by contracts          10,400,000      75%
(b) by force account         460,000
(2) Vehicles, equip-
ment and materials         8,300,000      100% of foreign
expenditures;
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost); 65% of
local expendi-
tures for items
procured locally
(3) Consultants'                1,650,000      100%
services and
training abroad
(4) Unallocated                 2,190,000
TOTAL            23,00i,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and


﻿- 9 -
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such Category as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate
amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 460,000, may be made
in respect of Category (3) on account of expenditures made before
that date but after November 1, 1982.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, Ly notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in the Project Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limviting any other right, power or remedy of the


﻿- 10 -
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ciation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financ-
ing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to assist the Borrower in the
expansion of the water supply system in Karachi, the improvement
of service to consumers, and the strengthening of KWSB through
technical assistance and training.
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   Expansion  of the Water    Supply  Conveyance  System,
Pumping and Treatment Capacity
1.   Expansion of the raw water conveyance system through:
(a) increase in the capacity of an existing raw water canal
along about 17 km between Gujjo and Dhabeji;
(b) provision of about 4 km of pipes in about 14 siphons to
raise capacity of existing conduits; and
(c) provision of an additional force main from Dhabeji
pumping station to deliver raw water to Pipri high
level conduit.
2.   Expansion of pumping capacity, through:
(a) modification   to   Dhabeji   pumping   station  piping
arrangement; and
(b) provision of an additional electrical connection to
increase power supply to Dhabeji.
3.   Expansion of treatment capacity, through:
(a) provision of an additional clarifier at Pipri; and
(b) provision of two stage pumping at Pipri, including
buildings, electrical connections and auxilliary works.
Part B:   Trunk main Rehabilitation
Repair, rehabilitation or replacement of trunk mains of
various diameters.


﻿- 12 -
Part C:   Metering, Vehicles and Equipment
1.   Provision and installation of about 5,000 water meters.
2.   Provision of a meter store and workshop and equipment for
testing and calibration of water meters.
3.   Provision  of  about  twelve  vehicles  and  equipment  for
operations.
Part D:   Institutional Development of KWSB, Technical Assistance
and Studies
1.   (a) Management assistance to KWSB to improve accounting
procedures   and   improve   billing   and   collection
procedures.
(b) Training of staff of KWSB.
2.   Preparation of a feasibility study for future expansion of
water supply from the Indus.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1987.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  30        day of   -V'4--,
198 3
FOR SECRETARY


