OFFIIL      REDIT NUMBER 1374 PAK
DOCUMENTS
Project Agreement
(Karachi Water Supply Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
PROVINCE OF SIND
and
KARACHI METROPOLITAN CORPORATION
and
KARACHI WATER AND SEWERAGE BOARD
and
KARACHI DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
Dated                             , 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1374 PAK
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        9v"     SO                 , 1983,
between  INTERNATIONAL   DEVEIPMENT   ASSOCIATION   (hereinaft,!!r
called the Association) and PROVINCE OF SIND acting by its
Governor (hereinafter called the Provincial Government) and
KARACHI METROPOLITAN CORPORATION (hereinafter called KMC) and
KARACHI WATER AND SEWERAGE BOARD (hereinafter called KWSB) and
KARACHI DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (hereinafter called KDA).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Islamic Republic of Pakistan (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty-three million Special Drawing Rights (SDR
23,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the
Provincial Government, KMC, KWSB and KDA agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS the Borrower will make available the proceeds of the
Credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement to the
Provincial Government to be relent to KMC in order to make such
proceeds available to KWSB and KDA for the implementation of the
Project; and
WHEREAS the Provincial Government, KMC, KWSB and KDA, in
consideration of the Association's entering into the Development
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. KWSB shall carry out Parts B, C and D of the
Project, and KDA shall carry out Parts A and D 2 of the Project,
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices,
and the Provincial Government and KMC shall provide, or cause to
be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. In order to assist KWSB and KDA in carrying
out the Project, KWSB and KDA shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association, such employment to be
made in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to
the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for Use of Con-
sultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the World Bank in August 1981.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the
provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) KWSB and KDA undertake to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to KMC by the
Provincial Government to be made available to KWSB and KDA,
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by KWSB and KDA to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
relent to KMC by the Provincial Government to be made available
to KWSB and KDA shall be used exclusively for the Project until
its completion.
Section 2.05. (a) KWSB and KDA shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
contract documents, training programs and construction and pro-
curement schedules for the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.


﻿- 3 -
(b) KWSB P.id KDA: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by KWSB and KDA of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) KWSB and KDA shall enable the Association's
representatives to examine all plants, installations, sites,
works, buildings, property and equipment of KWSB and KDA relating
to the Project and any relevant records and documents.
(e) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between KWSB and the
Association, KWSB shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of
the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived
from it, the performance by the Provincial Government, KMC, KWSB,
KDA and the Association of their re3pective obligations under the
Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 2.06. (a) KWSB and KDA shall, not later than six
weeks after the end of each quarter, furnish to the Association
joint quarterly reports on the progress of the Project; such
reports shall be of such scope and in such detail as the
Association may reasonably request.


﻿-4-
(b) The Provincial Government, KMC, KWSB and KDA shall at
the request of the Association, exchange views with the Associa-
tion with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance
of their obligations under this Agreement and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(c) The Provincial Government, KMC, KWSB and KDA shall
promptly inform the Association of any condition which interferes
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance
by the Provincial Government, KMC, KWSB and KDA of their respec-
tive obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.07. KWSB and KDA shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all land and
rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying out
the Project and shall furnish to the Association promptly after
such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that
such land and rights in respect of land are available for
purposes of the Project.
Section 2.08. The Provincial Government and KRC shall duly
perform all their respective obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Provincial Government and KMC shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.09. In carrying out Parts A and D 2 of the
Project, KDA shall: (a) from time to time exchange views with
KWSB with regard to the progress of the implementation of such
Parts; and (b) furnish to KWSB all such information as KWSB shall
reasonably request concerning such Parts.
Section 2.10. KDA shall transfer to KWSB the equipment and
facilities to be provided or constructed under Part A of the
Project, upon completion of such provision or construction.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of KWSB and KDA
Section 3.01. KWSB and KDA shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to


﻿- 5 -
the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. With respect to the activities related to the
Project, KWSB shall at all times operate and maintain its plants,
facilities, equipment, machinery and other property, and promptly
as required make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, in
accordance with appropriate engineering and management practices.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) KWSB shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b) KDA shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition in respect of
Parts A and D 2 of the Project.
(c) KWSB and KDA shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
certificates  of  expenditure, and    enable  the  Association's
accredited representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. KWSB shall: (i) have its accounts and finan-
cial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested including a separate opinion by said
auditors in respect of certificates of expenditure showing
whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit
Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure have been
used for the purpose for which they were provided; (iii) furnish
to the Association quarterly financial statements not later than


﻿- 6 -
six weeks after the end of each quarter; and (iv) furnish to the
Association such other information concerning the accounts and
financial statements of KWSB and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. In respect of Parts A and D 2 of the Project
KDA shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing  principles   consistently  applied,   by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested including a separate opinion by said
auditors in respect of certificates of expenditure showing
whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit
Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure have been
used for the purpose for which they were provided; (iii) furnish
to the Association quarterly financial statements not later than
six weeks after the end of each quarter; and (iv) furnish to the
Association such other information concerning the accounts and
financial statements of KDA and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association may otherwise
agree, KWSB and KMC shall take such measures as shall be required
on their part to enable KWSB to produce from its water supply
operation:
(i) gross   revenues  sufficient  to  cover  operating
expenses and debt service requirements; and
(ii) internal funds sufficient to cover a reasonable
portion of capital expenditures.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, KMC
shall not incur any debt on behalf of KWSB for its water supply
operation unless KWSB's net revenues from such operation for the
fiscal year next preceding such incurrence or for a later
twelve month period ended prior to such incurrence, whichever
amount is greater, shall be not less than 1.5 times the maximum
debt service requirements for any succeeding fiscal year on all
debt, including the debt to be incurred.


﻿-7-
(c) (i) From time to time, at the request of the Borrower,
the  Provincial  Government, KHC, KWSB    or  the
Association, but not less than once each year,
meetings shall be held between their respective
representatives to review the progress of an
Action Plan which shall be satisfactory to the
Association, in order to implement the objectives
set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(ii) Not less than     one month  prior  to each   such
meeting, KWSB shall submit, to all the parties,
financial   statements  and   forecasts   of  its
operations, suitable in form and in sufficient
detail for the purposes of the meeting.
(d) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term    "gro:s revenues" means the revenues
earned and received from the water supply
operation of KWSB.
(ii) The term "operating expenses" means the sum of all
expenses of operation and administration of water
supply system (including adequate maintenance and
taxes, if any, but excluding provision for depre-
ciation).
(iii) For the purposes of paragraph (b) above the term
"net revenues" shall mean gross revenues adjusted
to take account of KWSB's tariffs in effect at the
time of the incurrence of debt even though such
tariffs were not in effect during the fiscal year
or twelve-month period to which such revenues
related, less operating expenses, but before pro-
vision covering depreciation and debt service
requirements.
(iv) The term "internal funds" means gross revenues
less operating expenses but before provision
covering depreciation, less provision covering
debt service requirements and increase in net
working capital other than cash.
(v) The term "capital expenditures" means all expendi-
tures incurred on account of fixed or capital


﻿- 8 -
assets, including interest charged to construction
related to the water supply operation of KWSB.
(vi) The term "debt" means all indebtedness of KMC on
behalf of KWSB, and all guarantees issued by KMC
on behalf of KWSB in, respect of indebtedness,
for KWSB's water supply operation, maturing by its
terms more than one year after the date on which
it is originally incurred.
(vii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of
execution and delivery of a contract, loan
agreement, guarantee agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt.
(viii) The term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate   amount  of   amortization   (including
sinking fund payments, if any), interest and other
charges on debt.
(ix) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Borrower, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt
or, in the absence of such rate of exchange, on
the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the
Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of the Provincial Government, KMC, KWSB and KDA
thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two
dates:


﻿- 9 -
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date twenty-five years after the date of this
Agreement; and
(b)   if  the  Development  Credit Agreement    terminates  in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
the Provincial Government, IMC, KWSB and KDA of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
For the Provincial Government:
Additional Chief Secretary (Development)
Planning and Development Department
Government of Sind
Karachi, Pakistan
Cable address:
DEVELOPMENT SIND
Karachi
For KMC:
Karachi Metropolitan Corporation
M.A. Jinnah Road
Karachi, Pakistan
Cable address:
CORPORATION KARACHI
For KWSB:
Karachi Water and Sewerage Board
Water House
M.R. Kayani Road
Karachi, Pakistan
Cable address:                    Telex:
WATERHOUSE KARACHI                25744 KDA PK
For KDA:
Karachi Development Authority
Sharai Kamal Ataturk
Karachi, Pakistan
Cable address:                    Telex:
KEYDA KARACHI                     25744 KDA PK


﻿- 11 -
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the Provincial Government, KMC, KWSB and
KDA may be taken or executed by the Additional Chief Secretary
(Development),  Planning  and   Development  Department,  Mayor,
Managing Director or Director General, respectively or such other
person or persons as they shall designate in writing, and they
shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
South Asia
PROVINCE OF SIND
By  &/ 0-
Authorized Representative
KARACHI METROPOLITAN CORPORATION
By
Authorized Representative
KARACHI WATER AND SEWERAGE BOARD
By (61
Authorized Representative
KARACHI DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
By e/
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurenent
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts C and E hereof, goods and civil
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in the current
edition of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and civil works to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding, in addition to the require-
ments of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, KWSB and KDA shall
prepare and forward to the Association as soon as possible, and
in any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of avail-
ability to the public of the first tender or prequalification
documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a general
procurement notice, in such form and detail and containing such
information as the Association shall reasonably request; the
Association will arrange for the publication of such notice in
order to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of
the opportunity to bid for the goods and civil works in ques-
tion. KWSB and KDA shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or civil works
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   To the extent possible, contracts for goods shall be grouped
into single bid packages of an appropriate amount which shall be
acceptable to the Association.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids.


﻿- 13 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Pakistan may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured       in
Pakistan if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of Pakistan and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Pakistan equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in


﻿- 14 -
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for equipment and vehicles estimated to cost
$50,000 equivalent or less each may be procured through local
shopping on the basis of at least 3 responsive quotations,
provided, however, that such contracts shall not in the aggregate
exceed $500,000 equivalent.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works and goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more each:
(a) Before bids are invited, KWSB and KDA shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, KWSB and
KDA shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform KWSB or KDA as the case may be and state the reasons for
such determination.


﻿- 15 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, KWSB and KDA shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the con-
tract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform KWSB or KDA as the case may be and state the
reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, KWSB and KDA shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform KWSB or KDA
as the case may be and state the reasons for its determination.
E.   Procurement without Contracting
Civil works may be carried out through force account,
provided, however, that the amount of such civil works shall not
in the aggregate exceed $500,000 equivalent.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Subsidiary Loan Agreement
1.   The Provincial Government shall on-lend the proceeds of the
Credit to KMC under the following terms:
interest rate:         not less than 11% per annum.
repayment period:      25 years including 5 years of grace.
2.   KMC shall make available to KWSB and KDA the proceeds of the
credit for carrying out the respective Parts of the Project.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of TK   ML ,
198 3.
FOR SECRETARY


