Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5636 
Operation Name 
Ghana Agriculture DPL 2 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (29%);Agricultural 
marketing and trade (29%);Agricultural extension and research 
(14%);Irrigation and drainage (14%);Animal production (14%) 
Project ID 
P110147 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF GHANA 
Implementing Agency 
INISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 
Date PID Prepared 
April 1, 2010 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 25, 2010 
Date of Board Approval 
May 25, 2010 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Ghana is at a critical juncture in its development path. Recent domestic and exogenous shocks as 
well as structural weaknesses have presented setbacks to an otherwise impressive record of 
macroeconomic achievements. The Government has embarked on an aggressive program to 
restore macroeconomic stability; important not only to address immediate challenges but also 
critical if Ghana is to develop the robust policy and institutional landscape to effectively manage 
its oil economy. Macroeconomic balance is essential if the recent gains in poverty reduction 
wellbeing are to be maintained. Moreover, the consequences of macroeconomic instability will 
be keenly felt by the agricultural sector which has been a driver of overall GDP growth in recent 
years. 
 
Agriculture has driven Ghana’s aggregate economic growth in recent years, and remains the 
economy’s backbone and the primary livelihood for the majority of the population, especially the 
poorest.
 
Agricultural GDP, which accounts for almost 40 percent of the economy, grew by 4.3 
percent in 2007 and 5.1percent in 2008, with the provisional outlook for 2009 indicating an 
increase of 5.7 percent. Continued liberalization of the sector has been the main driver of growth. 
In the early 1980s nominal rates of assistance were estimated to be -21percent (i.e. net taxation 
of the sector) but by the early 2000’s average taxation across all commodities had fallen to 1.4 
percent. While cocoa, the main exportable sector, continued to be heavily taxed (implicit rates of 
-20 percent) import-competing and other important food crops benefitted from substantial 
protection. (Rice and maize benefit from a nominal assistance of +31 percent and +39 percent 
respectively).  Thus, although the aggregate rate of taxation had fallen between the 1980s and 
mid 2000s, significant differences in treatment of exportable and import substitutes remained. 
 
Ghana recorded very significant poverty reduction between 1999 and 2006 with the estimated 
proportion of the poor in the total population declining from 39% in 1999 to 29% in 2006. While 
all major regions recorded reductions in poverty, some achieved them much more rapidly than 
others with the result that 86% of Ghana’s poor now reside in rural areas. Poverty remains 
stubbornly high in areas where the production of food staples dominates in particular the lagging 
Page  2
regions of Northern Ghana which accounts for more than half the poor and which is 
characterized by Guinea Savannah agro-ecological conditions. Poverty rates in the Northern 
Region, Upper East and Upper West regions are 52%, 70% and 88% respectively. Farming is the 
primary economic activity in these locations. The poverty rate of 46% among food crop farmers 
(nationally) is the highest among all occupational economic groups, compared, for instance, to a 
rate of 8% among public sector workers. Other locations in central and southern Ghana enjoy 
greater potential for diversification into export crops (e.g. horticulture and cocoa). Poverty rates 
among export crop farmers have fallen from 64% in 1991/92 to 24% in 2004/05, illustrating that 
opportunities for improved livelihoods are available. Taking advantage of these opportunities, 
however, requires a set of household attributes and environmental factors (e.g. the availability of 
services) that are not always available to all smallholders. 
 
Ghana recently concluded the Round Table under the Comprehensive African Agriculture 
Development Program (CAADP). The World Bank signed the CAADP Compact on behalf of 
development partners. The Government are now finalizing the national investment framework. 
 
2. Operation Objectives 
 
The objective remains
 
to increase the contribution of agriculture to growth and poverty reduction 
while improving the management of soil and water resources. The operation will build on the 
measures supported under the first operation in the six themes of the Agricultural Policy. 
Broadening the sources of agricultural growth beyond the cocoa subsector into critical food 
crops and high-value export crops, while shifting from area expansion to enhanced (land and 
labor) productivity is vital to further accelerating the 5.7 percent growth rate observed in 2009. 
Further, Ghana’s competiveness in the non-oil sectors has to be strengthened, given the threats of 
Dutch Disease associated with the advent of revenues from oil. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The operation remains consistent with the Bank’s Country Strategy as well as the Ghana Joint 
Assistance Strategy, and supports the Bank’s commitment to harmonization, as stated in the 
Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness and, more recently, the Accra Agenda for Action. 
Similarly, the operation helps to implement the Africa Action Plan in four of the eight focus 
areas:
 
(i) strengthening the African private sector; (ii) increasing the economic empowerment of 
women; (iii) building skills for competitiveness in the global economy; and (iv) raising 
agricultural productivity. The operation is part of the Bank’s action plan to scale up agriculture in 
Africa and support the Government’s efforts to establish policies to drive agricultural growth. 
 
The proposed operation (for $25 million) is larger than anticipated in the Country Strategy
.
The 
first operation was augmented in response to global events not foreseen in the Strategy – i.e. the 
dramatic increase in food and fertilizer prices. Although prices have eased since their peaks of 
mid-2008, overall global conditions are likely to remain challenging, with medium-term food 
prices expected to remain above their historic trends, and certain fertilizer prices expected to 
remain high. The rationale for scaling-up remains applicable to the current operation. 
 
4. Financing 
Page  3
The proposed second agricultural development policy operation is a single tranche credit for $25 
million equivalent intended to help the Government of Ghana implement the revised Food and 
Agriculture Sector Development Policy (FASDEP II). 
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The proposed credit is for $25million equivalent. The operation will be implemented by the 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning and the Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MoFA).
 
Their functions will be consistent with their normal mandates. 
 
6.  Benefits and Risks 
 
The expected benefits of the operation are sustained progress
 towards the Government’s national 
development objectives in the agricultural sector, as articulated in the sector monitoring 
framework. The program focuses on policy issues in the following areas: (i) agricultural 
technology, (ii) irrigation, (iii) farmer organizations, (iv) marine fisheries, (v) land management; 
and (vii) budget formulation and execution. Expected benefits are identified according to the 
program’s results framework in the following areas: (respectively, according to main policy 
areas above): (i) the rate of technology adoption, the ratio of post-harvest losses in key crops, and 
performance of irrigation schemes; (ii) the value of non-traditional agricultural exports; (iii) the 
number of functioning farmer organizations accessing different types of services; (iv) lodged 
revenues from fisheries sector (licenses etc); (v) the number of farmers adopting soil and water 
conservation technologies; and (vi) the budget execution ratio. 
 
The main risks are: (i) change in policy direction in response to continued shocks in global food 
markets; (ii) a challenging fiscal and macroeconomic context; (iii) burgeoning costs of the 
fertilizer voucher scheme; (iv) continued weakness in public financial management; and (v) 
delays in completion of the sector wide approach and further advances in harmonization and 
alignment. Mitigation strategies to address these risks are as follows: confirmation of the 
Government of their continued commitment to prevailing agricultural policy framework; intense 
engagement with the IMF on macroeconomic stabilization programs; immediate preparation of 
the proposed follow-on series and inclusion of fertilizer voucher program in the policy matrix; 
technical assistance to improved financial management; and active engagement post-CAADP. 
 
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The operation supports continued integration of environmental management into the national 
agricultural policy thereby strengthening environment-related outcomes. It proposes to 
strengthen land and water management and environmental impact assessments will be carried out 
on MoFA’s programs. Improved food hygiene and good agricultural practices are embedded 
within the program and are integral to progress under CAADP. Moreover Ghana’s institutional 
framework continues to provide an effective and robust oversight of environmental matters. The 
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is being strengthened to be more effective in its role. 
The specific measures relating to sustainable land management and environmental assessments 
contained in the current program will further strengthen environmental aspects. The Advisory 
Page  4
Notes produced by EPA to guide the implementation of FASDEP II provide concrete advice on 
the environmental risks and opportunities from the key strategies. This will also be reflected in 
the Sector Plan. EPA is also supporting a framework for environmental and social management 
plan and these are being integrated into MoFA’s sector monitoring and evaluation arrangements 
to ensure they are continually monitored. 
 
The higher profitability from the increase in food prices could encourage rapid expansion of 
cultivated area which is typically a quick way of increasing production compared to (land) 
productivity improvements. A potential influx of large-scale commercial investments without 
due environmental safeguards is a particular concern. However, as already mentioned, the 
prevailing regulatory regime is reasonably robust giving confidence that such practices will be 
properly managed. The environmental impact from fertilizer use resulting from the voucher 
program is not expected to be adverse because levels of use are low and the subsidy is more 
likely to avoid reduction in use than to stimulate significantly increased use.  Nonetheless the 
impact of fertilizer use will be monitored under the environmental assessments.  Finally, rapid 
expansion of export-sector agriculture could potentially lead to land degradation, deforestation, 
and reduction of biodiversity. Ghana’s horticulture sector is driven by the demands of European 
consumers who seek confirmation of good agricultural practices. Formal standards such as 
GlobalGAP are conveyed to out-growers with links to large suppliers through technical 
assistance – certification procedures not only improve their market access but also convey 
substantive environmental (and social) benefits. Formalized arrangements require traceability 
and these are currently being deployed among pineapple farmers. 
 
8. Contact point 
Contact: Christopher Paul Jackson 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-4371 
Fax: (202) 473-8229 
Email: cjackson1@worldbank.org 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
