                                           CONFORMED COPY




                                     CREDIT NUMBER 4747-GH




Financing Agreement
 (Second Agriculture Development Policy Operation)


                     between


             REPUBLIC OF GHANA


                       and


INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




             Dated September 8, 2010
                                                                  CREDIT NUMBER 4747-GH

                                 FINANCING AGREEMENT

         AGREEMENT dated September 8, 2010, entered into between the REPUBLIC OF
GHANA (“Recipient”) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in
the Appendix to this Agreement). The Association has decided to provide this financing on the
basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and
which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and (b) the Recipient’s
maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy framework. The Recipient and the
Association therefore hereby agree as follows:

                ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
        integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
        the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
        Agreement.

                                ARTICLE II — FINANCING

2.01.   The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth
        or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to sixteen million five
        hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 16,500,000) (variously, “Credit” and
        “Financing”).

2.02.   The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in
        accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn
        Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.

2.04.   The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance shall be
        equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.

2.05.   The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.

2.06.   The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the repayment
        schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.07.   The Payment Currency is Dollar.
                                               -2-



                                 ARTICLE III — PROGRAM

3.01    The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this
        end:

        (a)     the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
                party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;

        (b)     prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the
                Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
                carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
                request; and

        (c)     without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section,
                the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any situation that would
                have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any
                action taken under the Program, including any action specified in Section I of
                Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

                   ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION

4.01.   The Additional Event of Suspension shall be that a situation has arisen which shall make
        it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be carried out.

                    ARTICLE V —EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.   The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that the
        Association is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Recipient in carrying out the
        Program and with the adequacy of the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy framework.

5.02.   The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
                                               -3-



                    ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   The Recipient’s Representative is its Minister responsible for finance.

6.02.   The Recipient’s Address is:

        Minister for Finance and Economic Planning
        Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
        P.O. Box MB40
        Accra, Ghana

        Cable address:          Telex:                   Facsimile:

        ECONOMICON              2205 MIFAEP GH           233-21-667069
        Accra                                            233-21-663854

6.03.   The Association’s Address is:

        International Development Association
        1818 H Street, N.W.
        Washington, D.C. 20433
        United States of America

        Cable address:          Telex:                   Facsimile:

        INDEVAS                 248423(MCI)              1-202-477-6391
        Washington, D.C.
                                     -4-



AGREED at Accra, Republic of Ghana, as of the day and year first above written.



                       REPUBLIC OF GHANA




                       By /s/ Kwabena Duffuor

                                                           Authorized Representative




                       INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                       By /s/ Ishac Diwan

                                                           Authorized Representative
                                               -5-



                                         SCHEDULE 1

                     Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds

Section I.      Actions Taken under the Program

The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:

The Recipient has:

1.      ensured that the recommendations for reducing post-harvest losses (made in the post
        harvest loss study, dated April 2008, undertaken by the University of Ghana), have been
        incorporated into MOFA’s sector plan for FY 2010-2015, in form and substance
        satisfactory to the Association, thereby ensuring that these actions will be funded;

2.      taken actions to implement its irrigation policy including: (a) the conduct of a survey of
        irrigation facilities to establish a baseline directory of existing irrigation schemes; and
        (b) the adoption by MOFA of an action plan for increasing the management of irrigation
        facilities by water user associations, all in form and substance satisfactory to the
        Association;

3.      adopted an action plan for improving access to agricultural credit, in form and substance
        satisfactory to the Association;

4.      prepared, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, a fisheries and
        aquaculture policy, following consultations with stakeholders;

5.      demonstrated a continued commitment to increasing private sector participation in
        agriculture through: (a) competitive recruitment of the management of “Shed 9
        Multipurpose Fruit Terminal” at Tema, with the facility being utilized on a commercial
        basis; and (b) facilitation of contractual arrangements between small holders and the
        private sector by maintaining and using a web-based database on out-growers, all in form
        and substance satisfactory to the Association;

6.      ensured that MOFA has adopted a sustainable agricultural land management strategy, in
        form and substance satisfactory to the Association;

7.      prepared a strategic environmental assessment, in form and substance satisfactory to the
        Association, to identify actions needed for the implementation of the Recipient’s revised
        food and agriculture sector development policy;

8.      ensured that MOFA has completed a public expenditure and institutional review to
        inform its institutional performance and reforms, including the identification of areas for
        improvements in the short and medium term, in form and substance satisfactory to the
        Association; and

9.      released at least 80 percent of the committed national budget for FY 2008 to Items 3 and
        4 (respectively, Services and Investment, in accordance with the Recipient’s expenditure
        classification systems) and released at least 60 percent of FY 2009 allocation for the said
        items 3 and 4 by the third quarter of FY 2009.
                                               -6-



Section II.     Availability of Financing Proceeds

A.      General. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with
        the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may
        specify by notice to the Recipient.

B.      Allocation of Financing Amounts. The Financing shall be withdrawn in a single
        tranche. The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table
        below:

                     Allocation                      Amount of the Financing Allocated
                                                           (expressed in SDR)
         Single Tranche                                         16,500,000
         TOTAL AMOUNT                                             16,500,000

C.      Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.

        1.      No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the
                Association is satisfied (a) with the Program being carried out by the Recipient,
                and (b) with the appropriateness of the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy
                framework.

D.      Deposits of Financing Amounts. Except as the Association may otherwise agree:

        1.      all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the
                Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the
                Association; and

        2.      the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing
                into    this    account,    an    equivalent  amount      is   accounted    for
                in the Recipient’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable
                to the Association.

E.      Audit. Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall:

        1.      have the account referred to in Part D.1 of this Section II audited by independent
                auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance with consistently applied
                auditing standards acceptable to the Association, such audit to cover the
                accounting of the amount referred to in Part D.2 of this Section II;

        2.      furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
                months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy
                of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
                shall reasonably request; and

        3.      furnish to the Association such other information concerning the said account,
                and audit, as the Association shall reasonably request.
                                          -7-



F.   Excluded Expenditures. The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing
     shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any
     time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded
     Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
     an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded
     to the Association upon such request shall be cancelled.

G.   Closing Date. The Closing Date is June 30, 2011.
                                             -8-



                                       SCHEDULE 2

                                    Repayment Schedule

                                                                  Principal Amount of the
                     Date Payment Due                                Credit repayable
                                                                (expressed as a percentage)*

On each May 15 and November 15:

Commencing November 15, 2020 to and                                        1.25%
     including May 15, 2030

Commencing November 15, 2030 to and                                         2.5%
I    ncluding May 15, 2045

* The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid,
except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of the General
Conditions.
                                             -9-



                                         APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

1.      “Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure:

        (a)     for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
                international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the
                Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has
                financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or loan;

        (b)     for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
                International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the
                United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC),
                or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as
                designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient:

                         Group         Sub-group       Description of Item

                         112                           Alcoholic beverages

                         121                           Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco
                                                       refuse

                         122                           Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
                                                       containing tobacco substitutes)

                         525                           Radioactive and associated materials

                         667                           Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones,
                                                       unworked or worked

                         718             718.7         Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel
                                                       elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for
                                                       nuclear reactors

                         728             728.43        Tobacco processing machinery

                         897             897.3         Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group
                                                       metals (except watches and watch cases)
                                                       and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ wares
                                                       (including set gems)

                         971                           Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores
                                                       and concentrates)
                                            - 10 -



       (c)     for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
               consumption;

       (d)     for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is
               prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which
               the Recipient is a party;

       (e)     on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
               Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations;
               and

       (f)     with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
               collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
               Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the Recipient
               (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory
               to the Association to address such practices when they occur.

2.     “Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the fiscal year of the Recipient commencing on January
       1and ending on December 31 of the following year.

3.     “General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General
       Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through
       October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

4.     “MOFA” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Food and Agriculture.

5.     “Program” means the Recipient’s program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
       promote agriculture led growth and poverty reduction and set forth or referred to in the
       letter dated June 22, 2009, as updated through a letter dated April 26, 2010, from the
       Recipient to the Association, declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of
       the Program and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program
       during its execution.

6.     “Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category entitled
       “Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this
       Agreement.

Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for Credits
and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as follows:

1.     The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
       Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

2.     Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their
       entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
                                            - 11 -



3.   Sections 4.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 4.09 (Financial Management;
     Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in
     Article IV are renumbered accordingly.

4.   Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and
     relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

5.   Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is
     modified to read as follows:

             “Section 4.06. Plans; Documents; Records

             …         (c)     The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
             bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing
             until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the
             Association’s representatives to examine such records.”

6.   Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as
     follows:

             Section 4.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

             …       (c)     The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish
             to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of
             such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the
             execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association
             of their respective obligations under the Financing Agreement and the
             accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing.

7.   The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as
     follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to
     the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly:

     (a)     The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:

             “‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in support
             of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the
             Financing Agreement.”

     (b)     The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix
             are deleted in their entirety.

     (c)     The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified
             to read as follows:

             “‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support
             of which the Financing is made.” All references to “Project” throughout these
             General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”.
