Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-5446-GH
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 10.7 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOR AN
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
MARCH 1, 1991
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of December 31, 1990)
Currency Unit = Cedi
US$1          -  0345 (Auction Rate)
¢1            =  US$0.0027
ABBREVIATIONS
ASYCUDA -   Automatic System of Customs Data Entry,
Control and Management
CAG     -   Controller-Accountant General
CEPS    -   Customs, Excise and Preventive Service
CFTC    -   Commonwealth Fund for Technical Cooperation
DRMS    -   Debt Recording and Management System
GSS     -   Ghana Statistical Service
IERD    -   International Economic Relations Division (MFEP)
IPA     -   Investment and Project Analysis Division (MFEP)
IRS     -   Internal Revenue Service
MFEP    -   Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MSD     -   Management Services Division (OHCS)
NDPC    -   National Development Planning Commission
NRS     -   National Revenue Secretariat
ODA     -   Overseas Development Administration
OHCS    -   Office of the Head of the Civil Service
PAD     -   Policy Analysis Division (MFEP)
PIP     -   Public Investment Program
PPMD    -   Personnel Policy and Management Division (OHCS)
RMC     -   Redeployment Management Committee
SAIS    -   Structural Adjustment Institutional Support Project
UNCTAD  -   United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICtAL USE ONLY
GHANA
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Government of Ghana
Beneficiaries:           Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
National Revenue Secretariat
Office of the Controller-Accountant General
Office of the Head of Civil Service
Redeployment Management Committee
Prices and Incomes Board
Public Services Commission
Ghana Statistical Service
Audit Service
Amount:                   SDR 10.7 million (US$ 15 million)
Terms:                   Standard, with 40 years maturity
Onlending Terms:         Not applicable
Financing Plan:          Government           US$  4.10 million
UK ODA              US$  3.93 million
IDA                 US$ 15.00 million
TOTAL               US$ 23.03 million
Economic Rate
of Return:               Not applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report:                  None
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by re ip.enis *tly in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed 'uthouw World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOR AN ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
1.        The following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Ghana for SDR 10.7 million (US$15.0
million equivalent) is submitted for approval. The proposed credit would
be on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity and would help finance
technical assistance to strengthen the capacity for economic policy-making
and management in Ghana. The project would be cofinanced by the Overseas
Development Administration (ODA) of the United Kingdom for £2.0 million
(US$3.9 million equivalent).
2.        Background.  The long period of economic decline in Ghana led to
a deterioration in the effectiveness of the public sector. The impact was
particularly severe in the agencies responsible for managing the economy
and public resources. From the beginning of the Economic Recovery Program
(ERP) in 1983, the Government recognized the problem and has taken remedial
actions. Under the Structural Adjustment Institutional Support (SAIS)
Project and the first and second Structural Adjustment Credits, progress
h1as been made in several areass external debt management; public
- 'estment programming; tax administration; and reforms of the civil
service. In addition, analytical capacity has improved in the tax agencies
and annual surveys have tracked the impact of the adjustment program on the
population, particularly the poor. As a result, the management of public
resources, particularly capital expenditures, has improved. Tax revenue
has grown and its structure is more conducive to economic growth.
Nevertheless, administrative capacity remains weak. And it is increasingly
becoming a binding constraint as the Government moves from the initial
focus on macroeconomic reforms and stabilization to structural adjustment
and the design and implementation of strategies to sustain growth.
Stronger public sector implementation capacity is central to the success
and sustainability of the reform program and to the achievement of the
Government's economic and social objectives.
3.        The Economic Management Support (EMS) Project would assist in
strengthening the capacity of the Government to formulate and implement
economic policies and reforms associated with the Structural Adjustment
Program. This, in turn, requires improvements in the generation and
dissemination of economic statistics. Wider access to data would also
improve public understanding of the reform program and facilitate a
speedier supply response in a more market-oriented economy. In order to
assist the Government to better manage domestic and external resources and
to execute programs and projects more efficiently, the project would
support improvements in fiscal management, including budgeting, accounting,
and auditing. The project would contribute to domestic resource
mobilization by supporting a program to strengthen tax administration and
would help increase the contribution of the tax system to growth by
assisting with implementation of tax reforms. Public administration would
be made more effective by continuing support to the civil service reform



- 2 -
progran.  Dcmest,ic skills lr. economic policy-making and management would be
enhanced by supporting local and selective external training and assisting
some Government agencies to improve their own training capacity.
4.        Rationale for IDA Involvement.  As was the case for the SAIS
project, the EMS project would facilitate implementation by the Governmen:
of the structural adjustment program, which has been supported by two
Structural Adjustment Credits from IDA as well 8S financing from donors. A
central objective of the Bank's country strategy is to assist the
Government to sustain the macroeconomic program and to improve economic and
social infrastructure. Improved management and administrative capacity
will be essential in order for the Government to utilize effectively the
resources which have been mobilized to support this effort as well as to
ensure that the benefits of reform measures are fully realized. Civil
service reform is fundamental to the institutional development strategy for
Ghana.
5.        Project Objectives.  The main objective of the project would be
to improve analytical an;d administrative capacity in the core economic
management agencies (Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, National
Revenue Service, the Controller-Accountant General, the Office of the Head
of the Civil Service, the Audit Service, and the Ghana Statistical
Service).
6.        Project Description.  The project would support: (a) the
strengthening of analytical capacity within the Policy Analysis Division of
MFEP; (b) greater and more tumely availability of economic statistics,
including the Ghana Living Standards Survey and other activities relating
to the Social Dimensions of Adjustment (SDA) project; (c) expansion and
integration of budget coverage to include development expenditures and
external resources through the installation of a computerized system for
budget preparation; (d) other improvements in budget practices, expenditure
controls and monitoring, record keeping, accounting, and auditing of
Central Government operations; (e) extension of computerized systems for
tax administration; (f) programs and facilities to improve in-house
training by the tax agencies, the Controller-Accountant General, and the
Audit Service; (g) installation of an integrated personnel/payroll
management system; and (h) further civil service reforms relating to salary
and grade structure, performance appraisal, functional and management
teviews, equipping of office space for the Management Services Division,
and improvements in records management. A Budget Improvement Working Group
would direct and manage the program to strengthen the budget process.
7.        The project, to be carried out over five years, would provide
funds for technical assistance; local and external training; equipment,
supplies, materials and vehicles; and operating costs. The total cost of
the project, including taxes and duties, is estimated at US$23.03 million,
with a foreign exchange component of US$13.71 million (59.5 percent).
Financing would be mainly provided by the proposed credit, a grant of $3.93
million equivalent from the UK-ODA mainly for the integrated
personnel/payroll management system, civil service reform and training



- 3 -
components, and a consultancy for the Policy Analysis Division of MFEP.
The Government's contribution is estimated at $4.1 million. The project
would complement the technical assistance provided by the Comnonwealth Fund
for Technical Cooperation. In the area of economic management, the UNDP
has focused on support to the National Development Planning Commission. A
breakdown of costs and the financing plan is shown in Schedule A. Amounts
and methods of procurement and of disbursements, and the disbursement
schedule are shown in Schedule B. A timetable of key project processing
events and the status of Bank Group operations in Ghana are given in
Schedules C and D, respectively. A Technical Annex is attached with more
detailed information on the project.
8.        The use of annual work programs under the SAIS project
effectively focused support on activities crucial to implementation of the
structural adjustment program. This mechanism for project administration
would be continued. In addition, the discussion of the 1994 work programs
would include a mid-term review of the progress and status of major project
components such as computerization of the budget and the operations of the
International Revenue Service. and the installation of the integrated
personnel/payroll management system. Government review and supervision of
the work programs would be strengthened by locating management
responsibility for the project in the unit in the MFEP responsible for
monitoring the structural adjustment program, the World Bank Desk in the
International Economic Relations Division of MFEP. This unit also is
responsible for facilitating anu monitoring other projects in Ghana
financed by the World Bank. Its staff would be supplemented by two
additional people to handle project records and accounting, as well as
other administrative matters.
9.        It has proven very difficult for the Government to hire
Ghanaians from the private sector or those returning from overseas at
higher than civil service salaries because it created morale difficulties
among civil servants. The EMS project would take a different approach to
enhancing capacity by encouraging and financing the use of local
consultants, in areas identified by the Government, and supporting local
training. Local consultancy services have been financed under the SAIS
project with generally good results.
10.       Agreed Actions.  The Government has agreed that activities
financed under the project would be based on annually prepared work
programs to be reviewed by IDA. Agreement has been reached with the
Government on the terms of reference for the requirements study for the
integrated personnel and payroll management system, *:.d on the terms of
reference for computerization of preparatior and hinting of a consolidated
central government budget and for computerization of the Internal Revenue
Service. Agreement has also been reached with the Government on the
composition and chairmanship of the Budget Improvement Working Group and on
the terms of reference for a UK-ODA financed consultancy study to identify
a program to strengthen capacity in the Policy Analysis Division. In
addition, assurance has been received that timely information on external
debt would be exchanged between MFEP, the Bank of Ghana, the Controller-



4-
Accountant General, and the Auditor General. Administrative arrangements
for project implementation have been agreed upon and are in place.
11.       Benefits.  The proposed project would: (a) contribute to
stronger implementation capacity in the Government; (b) help ensure that
public expenditures effectively support the country's growth strategy; and
(c) help sustain the reforms being undertaken by the Government under the
structural adjustment program.
12.       Risks.  The main risk is limited implementation capacity.  The
project will minimize this risk by: (a) using the Budget Improvement
Working Group to build further consensus and support for reform; (b) by
providing training and other support to improve capacity within the
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning and related agencies; and (c)
combining project management with supervision of the structural adjustment
program to ensure that emphasis is placed on the activities most critical
to implementation of the reform program.
13.       Recommendation.  I am satisfied that the proposed credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that
the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Washington, D.C.
March 6, 1991
Attachments



-5.
Schedule A
GHANA
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
ESTIMATED COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
Estimated Costs                                      Local         Foreign         Total
(USS milin)
A.  Economic Policy Analysis
Policy Analysis Division, MFEP                     0.37          0.31            0.68
Ghana Statistical Service                          0.70           1.04           1.74
Debt Management (CAGtBOG)                          0.05          0.26            0.31
B.  Fiscal Management
Budget Division, MFEP                              0.53          0.55            1.08
Int. Economics Relations Division, MFEP            0.16          0.21            0.37
Inv. Projects & Analysis Division, MFEP            0.12          0.45            0.57
Office of the Controller-Accountant General        0.53           1.09           1.62
Integrated Personnel/Payroll System (CAGtOHCS)     0.28          2.08            2.36
Audit Service                                      0.67          0.73            1.40
C.  Domestic Resource Mobilization
National Revenue Secretariat                       0.78          0.35            1.13
Customs & Excise                                   0.16           1.00           1.16
Internal Revenue                                   0.20          0.67            0.87
D.  Civil Service Reform
Office of the Head of Civil Service                1.36          2.77            4.13
Public Services Commission                         0.07          0.17            0.24
Prices & Incomes Board                             0.12          0.19            0.31
Redeployment Management Committee                  0.18          0.26            0.44
Base Cost                                     6.28          12.13          18.41
Physical Contingencies                             0.16          0.36            0.52
Price Contingencies                                0.93           1.22           2.15
Total Project Costs                           7.37          13.71          21.08
Taxes and Duties                                   1.95          -               1.95
Total Project Costs (incl. Taxes & Duties)    9.32          13.71          23.03
Financine Plsn:                                      Loca          Foreign         Total
(US$ mUio)
Government                                         4.10          0.00            4.10
UK ODA                                             0.00          3.93            3.93
IDA                                                5.22          9.78           15.00
Total                                         9.32          13.71          23.03



- 6-
GHANA                                            Schedule B
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
PROCUREMENT METHOD AND DISBURSEMENTS
Procurement Method
Project Element                                                                                 Total
ICB             LIB              LCB             Other         Cost
Advisory services and                                                               5.57         5.57
studies                                                                         (  3.05)   (   3.05
Training                                                                            3.77          3.77
(  2.36)   (   2.36
Equipment, supplies,             4.10             2.40               1.20           1.91         9.61
materials, and vehicles       ( 4.10 )       (  2.40 )       (    0.96  )       (  1.78 )   (   9.24
Operating and maintenance costs                                                     2.13         2.13
0.35 )   (   0.35
TOTAL *                          4.10             2.40               1.20           13.38       21.08
(4.10)         (2.40)          (    0.96)         (7.54)   (15.00
* Net of taxes and duties
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts flnanced by IDA.
DISBURSEMENTS
Catezorv                          Amount                          Percent
(USS million)
Consultant services & studies           2.75              100% of expenditures
Training                                2.12              100% of expenditures
Equipment, supplies, and materials      8.26              100% of foreign and 80% of local
Operating and maintenance costs         0.32              50% of expenditures
Refunding of SPPF                       0.05              100% of expenditures
Unallocated                             1.50
15.00
Estimated IDA Disbursements                  IDA Fiscal Year
1L92     1993     1994     1995      1996
(US$ million)
Annual                                4.1      3.9       3.2      2.5     1.30
Cumulative                            4.1      8.0      11.2    13.7    15.00



-7-
Schedule C
GHANA
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
(a)   Time taken to prepare:                    8 months
(b)   Prepared by:                              Government, with
IDA assistance
(c)   First IDA mission:                        September 1989
(d)   Appraisal mission departure:             June 1990
(e)   Negotiations:                             January 1991
(f)   Planned date of effectiveness:            July 1991
(g)   List of relevant PCRs and
PPARs:                                   None



Schedule 0
Pago 1 of 2
A. THE STATUS OF BANK CROUP OPEiRATIONS IN GHAFA
STATEMENT OF SANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of December 81, 1990)
Amount in USf Million
Loan or                                                                                (fees cancelation)
Credit         Flscal                                                               --
Number          Year    Borrower                Purpose                 Sank            IDA     Undisbursed
10 loans and 31 credits fully disbursed                                 189.72        813.21
Of which SALe and Program Loans a>
Cr. 1398         83      Chan*       Recon. Imports                                    40.00           0.00
F-0090         84      Ghana       Export Rehob.                                     3S.89           0.00
Cr. 1435         84      Ghnna       Export Rehab.                                     40.10           0.00
Cr. 1673         85      Ghano       Recons. Import                                    60.00           0.00
A-0030         8B      Ghana       Recons. Import                                    28.97           6.00
Cr. 1777         87      Chana       SAC 1                                             34.00           0.00
A-0260         87      Ghana       SAC I                                             81.00           0.00
A-0130         88      Ghana       Industrial Sector Adjust.                        21.00            0.00
A-0261         88      Ghana       SAC I                                             16 ea           0.00
Cr. 1911-1       89      Ghans       Financial Sector Adjust.                            6.e7          0.o0
Cr. 2006-1       90      Ghana       SAC II                                             S70            0.40
Sub-Total                                                                         370.k8           0.00
Cr. 1342         83      Ghana       Water Supply TA                                    13.00          0.32
Cr. 1373         83      Ghana       Energy Project                                    11.00           4.69
C-. 1498         84      Ghana       Second Oil Palm                                   26.00          10.34
Cr. 1684         85      Ghann       Accra District Rehab.                             22.00           6.93
Cr. 1801         8s      Ghana       Road Rohab. A Maintenance                         40.00           5.40
A-0010         86      Ghana       Rood Rehab. A Maintenonce                         10.00           1.30
Cr. 1828         88      Ghana       Power System Rehab.                               28.00           0.53
Cr. 1863         8e       Ghan       Health I Education Rehab.                         16.00           4.26
* Cr. 1672         88       Ghan:      Industrial Sector Adjust.                         28.50           3.25
Cr. 1674         88      Ghana       Ports Rehabilitation                              24.60           1.19
e Cr. 1744         87       Ghana      Education Sector Adjust.                          34.50           7.00
Cr. 1769         87      Ghana       Northern Grid Extension                            8.30           0.43
Cr. 1778         87       Ghana      Struc. Adjust. Inst. Support                       10.80          3.12
Cr. 1801         87      Ghan:       Agricultural Sves. Rhabe                          17.00          11.47
Cr. 1819         87      Chan        Petroleum Ref. & Dist.                             16.00         13.02
Cr. 1847         87      Ghana       Public Enterprise TA                               10.60          8.71
Cr. 1864         88      Ghana       Cocoa Rehabilitation                              40.00          40.81
Cr. 1868         68      Chana       Transport Rehabilitation I                        60.00          46.56
Cr. 1874         88      Ghan        Priority Works                                     10.80          5.16
Cr. 1921         88      Ghana       Mining Sector Rehab.                              40.00          27.67
* Cr. 1911         88       Chana      Financial Sector Adjust.                          100.00         16.68
Cr. 1948         89      Ghana       TelecomunIcatlons II                               19.00         14.82
Cr. 1978         89       Ghana      Forest Ros. Management                            39.40          33.43
Cr. 1998         89      Ghana       Private SME Dev.                                  30.00          27.97
Cr. 2039         89      Ghana       Water Sector Rehab.                               26.00          26.85
Cr. 2040         89      Ghana       Rural Finance                                     20.00          19.66
o Cr. 2006         89       Ghana      SAC II                                            120.00         10.00
Cr. 2081         90      Ghan*       Fifth Power (ECO)                                 40.00          37.68
Cr. 2109         90      Ghana       VRA/Sixth Power                                   20.00          21.34
* Cr. 2140         90      Ghana       Education Sector Adjust. II                       50.00          63.21
Cr. 2157 b>      90      Ghana       Urban II                                          70.00          76.39
o Cr. 2006-2 b>    91       Ghana      SAC II                                             8.30           8.42
Cr. 2180 b>      91      Ghana       Agric. Diversification (Tree)                     1860           17.55
Cr. 2192 b>      91      Ghan        Transport Rehabilltation II                       96.00          98.87
Cr. 2193 b>      91      Ghana       Health i    Population II                         27.00          27.38
TOTAL                                                     189.72        1765.11        e88.07
of which has been repaid                                 108.89          11.59
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA                             80.83        1744.52
Amount sold       0.38
of which repaid  0.38
TOTAL undisbursed                                           0.00         888.07         888.07
a> Approved during or after FYS0.
6> Not yet offective.
-   CAL ICtAl



Schedule D
Page 2 of 2
GHANA
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of Dcember 31, SON)
Amount In US$ million
Date               Borreuer               Type of Businos           Lon    Equity      otal
1984          Ashanti Goldfilde*           Mining                   65.0      -        t6.0 1>
Corp.
1988          Kota Basin Oil              Oil                        -        4.6       4.6 2>
Exploration
1988          Canadian Bogosu             Mining                     -        0.8       0.8
Rosources Ltd.
1989          Canadian Bogosu             Mining                     -        0.4       0.4
Resources II
1989          Wahome Steel Ltd.           Steel Mfg.                 8.2      -         3.2
1989          Canadian Bogosu             Mining                    47.6      0.6      48.0 8>
Rosources III
1989          Continental                 Merchant B^anking          -        0.9       0.9
Acceptances Ltd.
1990          Ashanti Goldfields          Mining                    70.0      -        70.0 4>
Corp. II
1990          Iduapriem                   Mining                     -        3.0       3.0
Total Gross Commitment                                              176.7      9.9     186.8
Less repayments and write-offs                                        6.8      1.8       7.9
Total Commitments Now Hold by IFC                                   169.4      8.3     177.7
Total Undisbursod                                                    88.5      8.9      70.4
1> Includes a USS27.S million participation.
2> USS1.8 million was written off.
8> Includes a US829.0 millior participation.
4> Includes a USS36.0 million participation.



- 10 -
TECHNI(A!. ANNEX TO THE MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
FOR AN ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
Section A: Detailed Project Description
Background
}.        When the Government of Ghana began to implement the Economic
Recovery Program in 1983, economic management capacity in key public
agencies was weak as a result of the previous economic decline. Measures
to strengthen capacity have been an important component of the structural
adjustment program for which IDA has provided financing through two
Structural Adjustment Credits. These measures were supported by the first
technical assistance project, the Structural Adjustment Institutional
Support (SAIS) project. The Government has made substantial progress in
improving economic management. An external debt management system has been
installed. For the past three years the Government has produced a rolling
3-year public investment program. The budget is announced on a more timely
basis and improvements have been made in the preparation and publishing of
estimates. Domestic resource mobilization has increased and the tax
structure has been made more efficient in order to promote growth and
improve incentives for efficient production. Overstaffing in the civil
service has been reduced and a mechanism for continuous functional reviews
was established. The civil service salary structure has been decompressed.
The Government is committed to further improvements in economic management
as stronger public sector implementation capacity is central to the success
and sustainability of the reform program and to the achievement of the
ERP's economic and social objectives. The Government's decentralization
program will put more demands on streamlined and effective systems at the
center and enhanced capacity in regions and districts.
Project Components
Economic Policy Analysis
2.        In late 1989 the Government created a Policy Analysis Division
(PAD) within the MFEP (see Schedule 4) in order to rebuild the Ministry's
capacity to analyze policy issues. The division is responsible for
monitoring and analyzing economic data; making recommendations in the areas
of monetary, fiscal, agricultural and industrial policies, social issues
and poverty alleviation; preparing the Government's contribution to the
Policy Framewu.k Paper and documentation for Consultative Group meetings;
and coordinating with other agencies. Nine staff, including local
consultants, are currently at post with responsibility for financial
analysis, public finance, money and credit, agriculture, legal issues,
social issues, and maintenance of a data bank. With a view to
strengthening the PAD, the Government has requested UK-ODA to finance a
short-term consultancy during the first half of 1991 which would review
responsibilities, work program and staffing, and make recommendations for
improvements. A final decision on the details of the program to strengthen
capacity would be based on the results of the consultancy. The project
would finance local consultancy contracts, as well as equipment and
logistical support., and training costs.  Funds would also be provided to



enable PAD to contract studies to assist in formulating policy, address
private sector development issues including the revision ot varlious laws
and regulations, and to evaluate the impact (f the strurtural adjustment
program.
3.         Ghana Statistical Service.  The Ghana Statistical Service Law
(1985) established the GSS and its Board. This enabled the Service to
carry out measures to improve its capability for data collection, analysi'
and dissemination. However, serious weaknesses remain, although the
structural adjustment program has increased the demand for timely
information on the economy. Even basic statistics are often published late
and in insufficient quantities. Thus, the ability of companies to adjust
to changing economic conditions is hampered and the economic program is
misunderstood with adverse consequences on the investment climate. The
capacity of GSS would be enhanced by: (a) making its work program more
responsive to the needs of policy-makers and the private sector; (b)
providing technical assistance to improve methodologies; (c) expanding and
speeding up printing; and (d) broadening dissemination channels. The
activities of the National Committee of Producers and Users of Statistics
would be intensified to address the concerns of users of statistics in
Ghana. The annual work program for GSS would include a timetable for
publication of key economic statistics which would be monitored under the
project. Technical assistance to the GSS is being financed by UK-ODA and
UNDP. Priority would be given to development of labor and employment
statistics as well as establishment surveys. IDA would provide support to
the GSS to improve the availability of economic statistics.  Computers and
appropriate sc.tware would be provided to link with customs information.
Printing equipment, including desk top publishing, would be provided. GSS
has formulated a plan to expand dissemination channels to the public.
4.        The GSS and the Policy Analysis Division (MFEP) are implementing
agencies for the Social Dimensions of Adjustment (SDA) project. The SDA
Project is designed to assist the Government to formulate and implement a
strategy to reduce poverty within the context of the Economic Recovery
Program. To achieve this objective, the project provides support in three
areas: development of capability for carrying out studies on the social
dimensions of adjustment; extension of whe Ghana Living Standards Survey
(GLSS) for four years; and strengthening the design and follow-up of
poverty reduction programs and projects. IDA's contribution to the
financing package for the SDA project was provided through the SAIS
project. Under the EMS project, IDA support would be exter'ed to cover the
period 1992-96. It would finance a portion of the costs of the GLSS,
including fees for contractual personnel, training e-.enses, equipment
costs, and local travel allowances.
5.        Debt.  The Debt Management Unit, located within the
International Economics Relations Division (IERD) of MFEP, is responsible
for monitoring and projecting data on external debt and for advising the
Government on debt strategy. In 1988 the Government requested the
assistance of the Commonwealth Fund for Technical Cooperation (CFTC) to
inbtall a debt management system. Installation of the Debt Recording and
Management System (DRMS) was completed in late 1989. An inter-agency
working group comprised of staff from MFEP, the Bank of Ghana, and the



- 12 -
Office of the Controller-Accountant General supervised the process. In
order for the full benefits of the new system to be realized, it will be
made accessible to the Office of the Controller-Accountant General, the
Bank of Ghana, and the Office of the Auditor General. The information
genetated by the system is especially critical to support Bank of Ghana
efforts to improve the management of financial resources, including
international reserves. The project would finance necessary equipment as
well as associated local and overseas training. The CFTC would provide
additional copies of the system software. The project would also support
the extension of the system to cover domestic debt.
Fiscal Management
6.        Responsibility for budget preparation and implementation is
shared by several agencies. The Budget Division in MFEP reviews and
decides on recurrent spending requests, assisted by the Office of the Head
of the Civil Service on personal emoluments in the context of manpower
hearings. The Investment Projects and Analysis Division (IPA) of MFEP
prepares the rolling 3-year public investment program (PIP), the first year
of which is essentially the development budget, and determines most budget
transfers to public enterprises. The Office of the Controller-Accountant
General (CAG) controls actual recurrent spending, while the Budget Division
approves releases under the development budget for payments over a
specified minimum level. The CAG is responsible for preparing the final
accounts and the Audit Service for auditing them. The organization chart
in Schedule 4 shows the linkages between the units in MFEP. Recently the
Government has begun to give greater responsibility to district and
regional administration in the preparation of estimates and in approving
and effecting payments on small contracts.
7.        Stronger fiscal performance has been a notable feature of the
Economic Recovery Program and this has enabled some improvements to be made
in the budget process. For example, guidelines for determining recurrent
expenditures for health, education, and agriculture have been developed.
In 1989-90, some computerization of the budget process was accomplished
with the aim to facilitate more analysis, better integrate information, and
speed up preparation and publication. The work was guided by a
requirements study carried out by external consultants financed by UK-ODA.
8.        In spite of this progress, several weaknesses in the budget
process persist. The information presented is not complete. Data on the
PIP is not incorporated into the budget document, in part because a
different classification system is used. External assistance is not
captured, even though it is a major source of financing. The published
estimates are not widely available until late in the budget year. Analysis
and control of personal emoluments is inadequate. In the case of non-wage
recurrent expenditure, the cash drawing limits set by the CAG frequently
conflict with budget allocations. Monitoring of recurrent expenditures is
minimal. Government accounts are in arrears and consequently final audits
cannot be completed. There is little evaluation of the effectiveness of
spending on programs.



- 13 -
9.        The proposed project would support a program to strengthen
fiscal matnagement. The program would be managed by a Budget Improvement
Working Group, comprising staff from the Budget and Investment Projects and
Analvsis Divisions of MFEP, the Office of the Controller-Accountant
General, the Office of the Head of the Civil Service, and representatives
of spending ministries. The project would finance short-term consultancy
inputs, both external and local, to assist the Group. Several aspects of
budget preparation and execution would be improved and the capacity to
evaluate the effectiveness of Government expenditures would be increased.
First, budget documents would be made comprehensive and published on time
and widely. In order to facilitate the integration of data on the
development budget and external assistance and to speed up preparation and
printing of the budget, a more refined computerized system would be
developed and installed during 1991. The project would finance consultancy
support for system design, staff training, and equipment.
10.       Second, in order to include information on external assistance
in the budget, supporting improvements in aid management are required. The
International Economic Relations Division (IERD) of the MFEP is organized
into six units covering: bilateral donors, multilateral donors (other than
the World Bank), the World Bank, aid/debt management, EEC/ACP ECOWAS, and
PAMSCAD (Schedule 4). The World Bank unit monitors all projects financed
by IDA, including adjustment credits. Recognizing the close relationship
between debt and aid management, the Government has requested the CFTC to
provide a technical advisor for a period of one year. The advisor is
expected to take up the post in early 1991. The CFTC has done a
preliminary requirements study for aid management. The advisor would
complete this work, recommend changes in organization and procedures as
necessary, and design a computerized system, building on the DRMS, which
would link with the system to prepare the budget. The project would
finance consultancy services, particularly for software development, which
would be supervised by the CFTC advisor, as well as equipment and training.
11.       Third, the main improvements to be made in the formulation of
the Public Investment Program (PIP) are the incorporation of the data into
the budget (discussed above) and devoting more attention to the recurrent
cost implications of new investments. The Investment Projects and Analysis
Division (IPA) of the MFEP is organized by sector (agriculture,
infrastructure, industry and social). Staff are responsible for preparing
the rolling 3-year Public Investment Program each year and for advising on
budget transfers to state enterprises, including financial institutions,
and for generally monitoring and reviewing the Government's relationship
with state-owned enterprises. The head of IPA is assisted by two deputies.
One is responsible for the PIP and the other for financial institutions.
The capacity of IPA to prepare and monitor implementation of the PIP and to
utilize computerized systems will be increased through staff training. In
addition, it is anticipated that consultancy services, mostly local, will
be required in order to continue to improve and to expand the coverage of
the PIP (on recurrent cost implications, for example) and to integrate it
into the budget document. Support also will be available to strengthen the
ability of IPA to analyze requests for budget support from state
enterprises.



- 14 -
12.       Fourth. budget implementation would be made more effective by
improving the availability of information on actual expenditures and by
rationalizing the mechanism of cash controls. Government accounts will be
brought up-to-date and audited more completely. The Office of the
Controller-Accountant General is responsible for ensuring that financial
obligations are incurred only for authorized expenditures. Salary payments
to staff of both the Civil Service and the Ghana Education Service are
centralized there. The work is carried out by a wide network of treasuries
located throughout the country. At the beginning of the ERP cash control
was stressed, reflecting the overriding need to meet fiscal targets and the
near collapse of the budget system. Expenditure monitoring and the
preparation of final accounts fell behind. As the budget process is
rebuilt, the focus of the Office of the CAG is likely to shift to other
priorities. Improvements are being made in payroll information, in
preparation for the proposed integrated personnel/payroll management
system, and to strengthen control in the short-run. The backlog of
accounts is being cleared and the proposed installation of financial
management software should improve the collection of data on actual
expenditures. Better accounting methods are being introduced in order to
improve the accuracy of financial data. The project would provide support
to enhance and expand the computer system to enable the work program
described above to be carried out and to streamline data collection by
regional treasuries.
13.       Staff training is critical.  According to a recent survey of the
accounting profession in Ghana, the shortage of personnel was most evident
and acute at the government level. A 5-year training program for staff,
including courses in accounting, auditing, public sector finance and
administration, and computer management has been drawn up with the
assistance of a technical cooperation officer financed by the UK-ODA. It
is intended to meet most requirements through departmental in-service
courses. For more general courses, officers will draw upon the facilities
of existing management training institutes in Ghana. In addition, short-
term overseas training courses will be organized for about 14 officers over
a 3-year period. Most costs are expected to be financed by the UK-ODA.
The proposed project will finance materials, supplies and equipment,
including furnishings, for the renovation of a residential training
facility located in Accra, as well as limited external training fees. The
training facility would also be used by the Audit Service.
14.       In May 1990, the Government decided to implement an integrated
personnel/payroll management system. The database would form an integral
part of the civil service reform program. It would give managers in the
Civil Service and the Ghana Education Service access to accurate, timely,
comprehensive and reliable personnel and payroll information and it would
greatly strengthen their ability to manage and control manpower resources
effectively. It would support the achievement of key Government obiectives
in areas such as decentralization and control of staff numbers. It would
improve the efficiency, responsiveness and timeliness of personnel
administration, enable the use of manual personnel records to be minimized
and allow for a substantial rationalization of personnel registries. Based
on a preliminary feasibility study completed in 1989, the Government has
prepared the terms of reference for a user requirements study.



- l15 -
Implementation of the study, together with design and installation of the
system is expected to take about 18 months and would commence in early
1991. UK-ODA will finance external consultancy inputs (estimated at 60
man-months). IDA would finance local consultancy inputs (35 man-months),
hardware and software.
15.       According to the Financial Administration Decree of 1979, the
Auditor-General is responsible for examining the public accounts of Ghana
including central and local government administration, universities, and
statutory corporations. In the performance of these duties, the Auditor-
General is to ensure that resources are economically, efficiently and
effectively utilized. However, the execution of these responsibilities is
constrained. Audits of accounts are carried out manually and are in
substantial arrears. Due to the paucity of funding and other limitations.
staff training has slackened, while audit coverage has been inadequate. At
the same time, more demands are being placed on the Audit Service as
attention is focused on improving the efficiency and "value for money, of
Government services. In a desire to guard against corruption and waste,
payments and procurement procedures in the public sector are lengthy and
cumbersome. If the Audit Service were more effective and able to undertake
reviews of public agencies on a timely basis, this approach could be
obviated. The project would finance computer equipment, logistical
support, and some local costs of in-service training. In order for staff
to update their auditing techniques, a small number of external training
courses will be financed by the project.
Domestic Resource Mobilization
16.       The National Revenue Secretariat (NRS), set up in 1985 under a
Cabinet-level Secretary, formulates tax policy and supervises revenue
collection by the Internal Revenue (IRS) and Customs (CEPS) Services.
Implementation of the ERP, most importantly the move to a more realistic
exchange rate, but also stronger administration, has improved revenue
performance. As a result, tax revenue has risen to 13 percent of GDP in
1989, compared to only 5.5 percent of GDP in 1983.   Also, as an integral
part of the adjustment program, the Government has restructured the tax
system. Reforms have included personal taxation relief, rationalization of
indirect taxes and expansion of the role of consumption taxes, reduction of
the implicit tax on cocoa, higher taxes on petroleum and motor vehicles,
and lower corporate tax rates. In the future, the emphasis is expected to
shift from revenue generation to an even greater focus on ensuring that
taxes are raised in a manner which promotes economic growth through a more
favorable climate for investment, and creates incentives for activities
making the most efficient use of Ghana's resources and factors of
production. Several reviews of tax policy and administration have been
carried out. Most recently, the IMF assisted the Government to analyze the
impact of the structure of taxes on incentives to save and invest. Over
the next few years, attention will be placed on implementing these
recommendations and on further strengthening administration.
17.       The project would strengthen tax administration and support the
continued implementation of tax reform. First, the CEPS, assisted by
UNCTAD, is installing the ASYCUDA system for collection and monitoring of



- 16 -
customs data, beginning with facilities at Tema port. The system aims at
facilitating international trade by speeding up customs clearance,
maximizing customs revenues through more accurate accounting, and producing
reliable trade statistics. The project will finance the acquisition of
equipment required to extend the system to other points of entry. Also, a
local consultancy firm is preparing a proposal to link ASYCUDA with the
domestic sales tax and excise duties. The project would support further
development and installation of this system. Second, an important action
which the Government is considering in order to encourage greater
compliance and to facilitate a broadening of the tax base is introduction
of a credit system into the sales tax to replace the present ring system.
CEPS is testing the new system in one sector and a proposal recommending
full implementation is being prepared. The project would support the
training (see below) and public education campaign associated with the
change to the credit system. The Internal Revenue Service plans to upgrade
and better integrate its current computer facilities. A draft terms of
reference for a feasibility study has been prepared and agreed with IDA.
The project would finance consultancy services, installation of the system,
and equipment acquisition.
18.       Third, substantial training will be required to facilitate
reforms in tax structure and policy, to strengthen tax administration, and
to ensure effective utilization of computerized systems. With the
assistance of external consultants, the National Revenue Secretariat is
developing a program to enhance in-country training. The aim is to achieve
some immediate improvements in the quality of instruction along with
institutional support designed to strengthen local capacity over the longer
term. Courses would focus on supporting the efforts of the NRS to increase
revenue (particularly the introduction of the credit system), strengthening
tax administration, and using computer systems. Five trainers each from
IRS and CEPS would be trained in taxation skills and training and a
continuous program of training and manpower development for IRS and CEPS
would be established. Those trainers would in turn train local officers,
creating a pool of expertise within the country. The program would be
coordinated by two advisors (one for 18 months and the other for 12
months). About 10 man-months of external consultancy would be required for
short-term inputs. Training in general management would be handled by
local institutions. There would continue to be a need for some external
training in specialized areas. The project would finance the costs of the
training program, including the external consultancy, as well as equipment
needs for the training divisions of CEPS and IRS. Some of the costs of
external consultancy and training would be financed by UK-ODA.
Civil Service Reform
19.       The main objectives of the civil service reform program are to
reform the pay and grading structure, to strengthen personnel management,
to reduce staff numbers and establish capacity for continued staff review
and other management services, and to improve staff training and
development. Since 1987 UK-ODA has provided consultant support to the
Government of Ghana in designing and implementing the reforms. Agreement
on a second phase of assistance was reached in early 1989, extending
support until mid-1992. The program is managed by the Oversight Committee



- l1/ -
for Civil Service Reform (OCCSR) under the chairmanship of the Head of the
Civil Service and Member Secretary of the Committee of Secretaries, and
including representatives of the divisions of the OHCS, the Prices and
Incomes Board, the Public Services Commission, and local management
training institutions. The EMS project would continue support to civil
service reform, mainly by financing local consultancy services, equipment
and logistics, and some local costs over the period 1992-1996. The
Government and the external consultants agreed on a 3-year detailed action
program in September 1989.  The main components are described below.
20.       Incomes Policy and Salary Administration.  There are three main
objectives in this area. First, the Prices and Incomes Board would
formulate and establish incomes policy and guidelines, with particular
reference to the civil service. The work would be carried out in close
consultation with the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning and the
Office of the Head of the Civil Service. Specific tasks would include
studies of fringe benefits, of cost of living, and of comparative wage
levels. Recommendations for changes in salary levels for the civil service
would be made each year with a view to continuing the progress achieved
during 1989-90 in reducing the compression of the salary structure.
Second, all civil service posts would be regraded into a fewer number of
occupational classes. Grading reform aims to achieve: greater flexibility
in allocating manpower, better career development possibilities, better
external and internal pay consistency, and simplification. Regrading of
senior posts is nearly complete. The process of regrading junior posts was
completed at the end of 1990. During 1991 recommendations on a new
structure would be reviewed by the Government and salary ranges assigned.
It is expected that 4 new structure would be approved by the Government
before the end of 1991 for implementation in 1992. Three, related to the
introduction of a revised performance appraisal system (para 21), a merit
pay system would be designed, for application possibly in 1992.
21.       Personnel Policy and Management.  The efficiency and
effectiveness of the Personnel Policy and Management Division (PPMD) of the
OHCS in developing, revising, updating and monitoring the implementation of
personnel policies, regulations and procedures would be strengthened. The
unit would be reorganized and additional personnel hired during 1991. In
particular, a salary administration unit would be established during 1991.
PPMD is designing and testing a revised performance appraisal system for
the Civil Service with implementation scheduled for 1991. Pending the
establishment of an integrated personnel/payroll management system, PPMD
has established a data base on manpower levels to support improvements in
management of staffing numbers in the near term (see below).
22.       Management Services.  The Management Services Division of the
OHCS has established a capacity to undertake functional reviews of the
Civil Service through an annual program of job inspections. Since the
beginning of the program, MSD has carried out some 250 job inspections
covering 24,000 posts and recommended reductions of 4,900, or 20 percent.
MSD is now inspecting about 10,000 posts/year and is beginning to develop
staffing norms for the Ministries of Health and Education. Job inspection
units also have been set up in those ministries. Recommendations are
discussed with the units concerned and specific changes in manpower levels



- 18 -
agreed. The Government has issued guidelines to enforce the implementation
of the results of the job inspection reports. Continuous functional
reviews should assist in achieving greater efficiency in the civil service.
In addition, the MSD has begun to undertake evaluations of specific
Government services in order to suggest improvements in delivery and cost
effectiveness. One area where substantial work has been done relates to
registry practices. The project would support the implementation of better
practices in the atea of document storage and retrieval, including the
expansion of space at the Government archives. Currently the work of the
MSD is seriously handicapped by the lack of office accommodation. The
project would finance logistical support for MSD and the new job inspection
units at the Ministries of Health and Education, and furnishings and other
equipment for a proposed annex to the present OHCS building.
23.       Training.  The Government recently has prepared a draft training
strategy for the civil service which is now being reviewed. The strategy
includes an expansion of in-service courses for critical groups, the use of
manpower development officers to guide training needs assessment and
training plans in ministries and other central government agencies, and
design of a program to promote career development for those officers who
perform well.
24.       Redeployment and Manpower Control.  The Government has made
progress in reducing overstaffing at the lower levels of the civil service.
Between 1987 and March 1990, about 48,466 civil servants were retrenched.
The program has been carried out through annually determined percentage
targets by Ministry, increasingly guided by findings of job inspections
carried out by the MSD. Payments for compensation for those laid off were
covered by the budget. The program is managed by the Redeployment
Management Committee, located in the Ministry of Mobilization and
Productivity, and by the Prices and Incomes Board. The RMC is responsible
for processing applications sent by ministries, keeping records on those
redeployed, monitoring the program, providing counseling services,
arranging for training, provision of basic tool kits, and assisting with
placement of redeployees into other activities. Training has included
placement in local vocational training institutes, apprenticeships to local
craftsmen, and entrepreneurship development. Using lists provided by RMC,
PIB calculates the compensation payments due which are then paid by the
Controller-Accountant General. Within the Civil Service, the redeployment
program appears to be meeting with increased acceptance at higher levels,
but as evidenced by cases of continued overrecruitment at the lower levels,
is not as well understood and implemented at middle management levels.
With the availability of better information from PPMD on manpower levels,
the Government became concerned lest the objectives of the redeployment
program erode. As a result, in mid-1990 guidelines centralizing
recruitment for junior level posts and subjecting requests to greater
review were issued by OHCS. The budget circular for 1991 incorporated
instructions and procedures to improve control over manpower levels. It is
likely that the redeployment program would continue in the short-term. The
project would continue to provide support to the RMC in areas such as local
consultancy services, logistics, and costs associated with counseling and
some training activities. The project also would finance studies of the
impact of redeployment.



-19-
25.       Project Costs and Financing.  Total project Costs are estimated
at US$23.03 equivalent, including taxes and duties, with a foreign exchange
component of US$13.71 million or 59.5 percent of total costs. Cost
estimates are based on January 1991 prices. The credit would finance
65 percent of total project costs, covering approximately US$9.8 million of
foreign costs and US$5.2 million of local costs. IDA's share of local
costs reflects the anticipated wide use of local expertise for
consultancies and studies and, in line with Government policy, a shift in
emphasis from external to internal training. The ODA cofinancing of
US$3.93 million would finance mainly overseas training and advisory
services for specific components.
Section B: Project Administration and Im2lementation
26.       Responsibility for implementation of project subcomponents would
rest with the implementing agencies. Overall guidance and coordination
would be provided by the World Bank Desk in the International Economic
Relations Division of MFEP which is responsible for monitoring IDA-assisted
activities, including the structural adjustment program. This unit would
monitor progress of project implementation and would be the focal point for
liaison with IDA. Two senior staff of the unit, the head of the World Bank
Unit and the head of monitoring and evaluation of the structural adjustment
program, would be responsible for the coordination and monitoring of the
project's various components.
27.       As was the case under the first project, annual work programs
would be prepared by the implementing agencies for review by the SAP
coordination unit of IERD prior to submission to IDA for approval. Each
work program would include an evaluation of the previous year's
performance, a statement of objectives and a description of planned
activities to achieve those objectives, staffing and training plans, and
details of logistic support (goods and services) needed for effective
execution of the program. The third annual review of the work program
would include a mid-term assessment of project performance on major
components (budget and IRS computerization and installation of an
integrated personnel/payroll management system).
28.       Management of project accounts would be assigned to a middle
level officer to be attached to the coordinating unit. In addition to
project accounts, this officer would be responsible for authorizing
disbursements against the credit account and preparing requests for
replenishment of the special account; aggregating the annual procurement
plan based on the work programs, for review and approval by IDA; and for
approving payments to implementing agencies for expenditures already
incurred. The project accounts manager would be assisted by a junior level
person whose responsibilities would include maintaining project records,
updating of accounts on the computerized accounting system set up for the
first project, and generating status reports as required by the Government
and IDA. The individuals intended to fulfill these functions have been
recruited externally and appointed to the staff of the MFEP. The
coordinating unit would ensure smooth transition of responsibility for the



- 20 -
accounting function from the SAIS project unit staff to the accounting
personnel for the proposed project.
Procurement
29.       Procurement of goods and services would be in accordance with
procedures acceptable to IDA. The aggregated annual procurement plan would
be the basis for the procurement of major equipment items such as vehicles,
computers and other office equipment, and of materials, fittings and
supplies that are suitable for packaging. These items would be designated
for procurement by the Ghana Supply Commission (GSC). Experience with GSC
under the first project has been satisfactory. Minor and small-volume,
non-standard items such as office supplies and training aids would be
purchased by the user agency based on a budget approved by the coordinating
unit, and employing procurement arrangements that are in accc;dance with
Bank and Government guidelines. Requirements for the first year have
already been identified; requirements for the succeeding years would be
vetted annually on the basis of agreed work programs, and specific
procurement arrangements agreed upon and cleared with the appropriate staff
in the Bank. The current ailocations shown under the procurement
arrangements for each item are therefore estimates based on projections of
annual requirements needed to implement work program activities.
30.       Contracts expected to exceed US$250,000 would be procured
through international competitive bidding. Based on the 1991 procurement
plan, it is estimated that ICB packages would be used for large volume
procurement of computers and peripheral equipment, printing and office
equipment, vehicles, and materials and supplies, with aggregate values of
US$2.0, US$1.1, US$0.5 and US$0.5 million respectively. Consolidation of
agency requirements for ICB packaging would be possible mostly during the
first two years of the project when the greatest concentration of logistic
requirements is expected. Contracts below US$250,000 are unlikely to
attract international competition. Therefore, small-volume contracts for
computers and peripherals (US$1.3 million aggregate), and printing and
office equipment (US$1.1 million aggregate), estimated to cost between
US$100,000 and US$250,000 would be procured through limited international
bidding, in accordance with the World Bank's Guidelines for Procurement.
For vehicles (US$0.7 million aggregate), materials and supplies (US$0.3
million aggregate), and office furnishings (US$0.2 million aggregate), also
estimated to cost between US$100,000 and US$250,000, local competitive
bidding procedures acceptable to IDA would be employed. International
shopping procedures may be used for small volume procurement of goods
valued between US$10,000 and US$100,000 and local shopping procedures for
purchases valued under UtS$10,000, based on price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers. Contracts in excess of $100,000 would be subject
to IDA's prior approval. For contracts valued at $100,000 or less, IDA
would review the first three such contracts to ensure that procurement
procedures are consistent with xDA guidelines and, if found acceptable,
would agree to the coordinating unit reviewing all subsequent contracts.
The share of the IDA credit subject to prior review is estimated at about
75 percent. Consultants would be employed for studies, advisory services
and technical assistance, staff training, system design, and software
development. Their selection, qualifications, experience, and terms and



- 21 -
conditions of employment would be subject to normal IDA review proceduL4a
as set out in the World Bank's Guidelines for Use of Consultants. It is
anticipated that long-term consultancies would be required for the Audit
Service and NRS training programs, and for the economic policy analysis,
budget improvement, integrated personnel/payroll management, and IRS
computerization components of the project. Training would be procured on
the basis of prior consultation and in accordance with procedures agreed
with the Bank.
31.       Disbursements.- The proposed credit is projected to be disbursed
in five years. Disbursements would be made against 100 percent of the cost
of consultants, training, and foreign expenditures for materials, equipment
and supplies, and vehicles; 80 percent of local expenditures for materials,
equipment and supplies, and vehicles; 50 percent of operating and
maintenance costs for vehicles and computer equipment, including costs of
office supplies and consummables and local travel allowances; and 100
percent of repayment of SPPF G047 for a study of budgetary reform.
Disbursements against operating and maintenance costs would be limited to a
maximum of US$350,000. A Special Accoun: with an authorized allocation of
US$900,000 would be opened in a commercial bank and would be operated
according to standard IDA procedures. This amount would cover estimated
eligible expenditures for a 4-month period. To the extent possible, all
eligible payments would be made from this account. The account would be
replenished by IDA on the basis of eligible aggregated withdrawal requests;
minimum replenishment application size would be US$100,000. All withdrawal
applications will be fully documented, except for contracts below US$20,000
equivalent for which disbursements will be on the basis of Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs). In such cases the relevant documentation will be
retained by MFEP for review by IDA supervision missions and the external
auditors.
32.       Proiect Implementation Schedule.   Some components of the
proposed project are already being implemented with funding provided under
the first project; others are planned for startup within one year. Of the
approximately $3 million remaining in the SAIS account as at December 31,
1990, approximately $2 million have been committed against CY1990
requirements, mainly for activities covered by the EMS project. The
uncommitted balance of about $1 million is expected to finance 1991
expenditures to continue these activities through effectiveness of the EMS
credit. The proposed project would be implemented over a 5-year period.
The timing of key project activities and a summary implementation schedule
are shown in Schedules 1 and 2. The proposed credit is expected to become
effective no later than July 1991, thus allowing continuation of activities
begun under the first project without interruption.
33.       Accounts and Audit.  Separate accounts for all expenditures
funded under th.e credit would be maintained. The project accounts would be
audited annually by independent auditors satisfactory to the Auditor-
General and IDA and the report on findings, including a long form report,
prepared as described in the Bank Guidelines on Financial Reporting and
Auditing. Audit reports would include a separate opinion with regard to
the claims submitted to IDA on the basis of statements of expenditures.
Audited accounts would be submitted to IDA within six months of the close



- 22 -
of the fiscal year. The coordinating unit would submit semi-annual
progress reports on project implementation and expenditures to the
Government and IDA and would prepare a Project Completion Report within six
months after the closing date of the credit.



- 23 -
GHANA                                                 3CHEDULE I
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
KEY PROJECT ACTIVITIES
Maior ActivitY                        Timetable         Responsible A,eency       Expected Output
Econmc Poly
Strengthten staffing of Policy        1991              Min. of Finance &         Improvement of Ministry-s capacity to analyze
Analysis Division                                       Economic Plamning         policy iswes, review eonomic ttends and per-
formance, and provide advicc on economic policy
Upgradec office technology to         1991-92           ¢hana Statistical         Improvement in quality, timeliness and
improvc access to sources of data                       Service                   avaIlability of reperts, and increase in
and specd up production of                                                        production quantities
reports
Fiscal Management
Effect further improvements in the    Ongoing;          Min. of Finance &         Installation of a data base rmnagement system;
budget process through automation     Completion 1992    Economic Planning        integration into budget of information on aid,
investment projects and actual expenditures;
switchover to a boad-based budgeting system.
Extension of current debt             1991-92           Min. of Finance &         Strengthened aid management in IERD
managemcnt system to aid management                     Economic Planning
Support staff training in             1991-92           Controller-Accountant     Completion of residential training faciity and
accounting procedures                                   General                   expansion of in-house training courses.
Expand computerization of functions   1991-92           Controller-Accountan      Enbance    of computer main framo systm at
both at CAG Headquarters and in the                     General                   Headquarters and installation of computer work
field                                                                             stations in regions.
InstaU of an integrated personnell    1991-92           Offlce of the Head        Establish coordination between manpower and
payroll management system which would                   of Civil Servicel         expenditure cotrols
improve management of the payroll                       Controler-Accounta
General
Support modernization of mcthods      1991-92           Audit Service             Elimination of backlog in submission of
for the examination and reporting                                                 Auditor's annual reports and timely production
of public accounts                                                                thereafter.
Improve facilities and access         1991-94           Audit Service             Resumption of regularly scheduled training
to in-service training programs                                                   programs to upgrade skills of senior and
junior level staff
Domestic Resource Mobilization
Computerize operations at CEPS        CEPS: ongoing;   National Revenue           Higher tax revenues, streamlining of customs
and IRS                               Completion 1993   Secretariat               procedures, and lower costs of revenue collection
CEPS: Extend Asycuda network
to Kotoka Int. Airport, Takoradi Port,    IRS: 1991-93
Head Office and border points.
IRS: Implement recommendations of
computerization requirements study
to link Asycuda system to tax
collection.
Support training aimed at improving   1991-93           National Revenue          Development of an In-country training program
staff skills relating to tax                            Secretariat               tailored to the needs of CEPS and IRS.
collection, management and
manpower development
Civil Service Reform
Continue support to civil service     Ongoing;          Office of the Head        Improvements in civil service pay and grading
reform program                        Completion        of Civil Service!         sructure; increased efficiency and effectiveness
mid-1992         Prices & bIcomes         of personal management system and services.
Board/Redeployment
Mgt Committee



*1    *I*    t         ,,1        1                     I.        . , *                 H                                                  7.          * ll * fl** §S 
I                                               ,"ftaa I                                                                       a   I ::
_  __     __       __     __      __-   - - - - - - -        t- - -  - - - - -   w- -  - - -t                              ;: - - -t - -
t~~~~~I                            x                                   M M                                                           
:~~ t     ~iIa X  t~~1 at              :  |                                                                                                                               : t 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- - - - - --I - - - -   -  X- - - ---2------------- - ' :- - -1         
:"~           ~                                                Iri "I~                                      _____:_______________                                              i 
SC                      M6M   =t                                                                                               P  =,    =_ 
30  S t #  J' X   "  I    |   X                t                                  I  X          :             I          | X               * _             s  3
I                                          1:                                                               5 :          :at                                           s              t 
i                                                                                     i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
:  1:   :      :      :                                                                                                   N w   I  t   I   t   :      's  t I
- ~   ~~~~~~              ~~~~ -~- :-- -:1 - -- -- ------- t- - - ------ ---- - --- - - - -                                                                    p t           e
I   ~         ~~~~ N:    :I :                                                                                                                       a                    :
-:                                 -          - I- :  :  -   -   -      -   -   -   -   -I
* .  a   .                   a  ~~~~~~~~~~~~-   --- -                                         a                 -                           ~
,|,_~~~~~~~~~~ -    -   -    -   -    -   -        _______ _______________________--    -     -  -  - : -     -    -  .-    -     -   -    -    -    -     -  -  -     -   -  -     -   -     -   -   -    -  to
,----                                                                        -            -                                           -   -   -   -   -   -   -
______ _       - _      __   _ -          -         -  ---- -  -  - --------                          -          -                                   - - - - -
*  ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~   ~    ~   ~    - - ----      -      -                                              *                                                     -  - ~  
Ii       I            I   I            I                                                                                            I  ft             '.'I
,:       :     :      :               N:                                                                                            *                  'K:
II    I               I     I                                                                                                                         'K t1:
:I     :      :      I    5      N                      N-  t
I-    ------------t--  --s--r-----,t 
1:       :     ,      :    I                                                                 I:            t                                            N1  :                 r
jI       :     :      :    5   N                                                                                                    I                  "                       t
--I_   __                         i __   - :----- ----- ---                                                            :             :                               : 
I*                                                                                    .                                      .1  *  *



- 25 -
SCHEDULE 3
page 1
GHANA
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
1.          Bank supervision input into key activities.  The staff input
indicated in the attached table is in addition to regular supervision
needs for the review of progress reports, procurement actions,
correspondence, etc. (estimated for this project to require 6 staff-
weeks during the first project year and 4 staff-weeks per year during
the years thereafter).
2.          Borrower's contribution to supervision.
a)    The coordinating unit in the Ministry of Finance and
Economic Planning will prepare semi-annual progress reports
on project implementation and expenditures in June and
December of each year for review by IDA.
b)    Project monitoring and coordination will be the
responsibility of the coordinating unit. Review meetings
with the implementing agencies will be held normally in May
and November prior to the preparation of the progress
reports.
c)    The coordinating unit will also be responsible for
coordinating arrangements for Bank supervision missions, and
for providing information required by missions. Missions
will normally be accompanied by the head of the World Bank
Unit and the head of monitoring and evaluation of the
structural adjustment program.
d)    Mission briefing meetings on arrival will normally be
chaired by the head of the World Bank Desk, who will also
arrange appropriate wrap-up meetings.



- 26 -
SCHEDULE 3
page 2
Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities
Approximate
Dates                                          Expected Skill             Staff Input
(mo/yr)         Activity                        Requirements             (staff-weeks)
June 91           Supervision Mission            Economics                      7
(To review start-up of new,    Civil Service
and progress of ongoing        Procurement/Disbursement
activities, and arrangements  Information Technology
for project administration.)
lan/Feb 92        Work Program Review            Economics                      7
Procurement Plan               Civil Service
Procurement
July 92           Supervision Mission            Economics                      3
Procurement/Disbursement
Jan/Feb 93        Work Program Review            Economics                      6
Procurement Plan               Civil Service
Procurement
July 93           Supervision Mission            Economics                      3
Procurement/Disbursement
Jan/Feb 94        Work Program/Mid-term Review   Economics                      6
Procurement Plan               Civil Service
Procurement
July 94           Supervision Mission            Ecou. iics                     3
Procurement/Disbursement
Jan/Feb 95        Work Program Review            Economics                      5
Procurement Plan               Civil Service
Procurement
July 95           Supervision Mission            Economics                      3
Procurement/Disbursement
Jan/Feb 96        Work Program Review            Economics                      2
July 96           Project Completion Review      Economics                      2



MINISTRY OF FINANCE
|PNDC SECRETARY|
|PNDC DEPUTY   ||LEGAL & PRIVATE SECTOR                                                            PNDC DEPUTY|
|SECRETARY (1) ||DESK                                                                   |      |SECRETARY (2)|
ACTING CHIEF                                  ACTING CHIEF
DIRECTOR (TECH)                               DIRECTOR (ADM)
DIRECTOR
_POLICY ANALYSIS 
DIVISION 
DIRECTOR -DIRECTOR -DRECTOR -                             DIRECTOR -        DIRECTOR -DIRECTOR
CONTROL            BtDGET               I.P.A.                              BANKING AND               GENERAL
REGULATION &                                                                FIDUCIARY              ADMINISTRATION
MONITORING                                                                  INSTITUTIONS
- ACCT. GEN.        - REVENUE        - PIP (DEV. BUDGET) - EEC/ACP ECOWAS - BANKING INSTITUTIONS  - PERSONNEL
- AUDIT             - EXPENDITURE    - SECTORS            - AIDIDEBT       - NON BANK              - ADMIN. MATTERS      - C
- STORES & SUPPLIES                      AGRIC            - BILATERALS       FIN. INSTITUTIONS     - FINANCIAL CONTROL    m
- INSURANCE                              INDUSTRY         - MULTILATERALS    GENERAL                                       I
- EMU                                  . INFRASTRUCTURE   - WORLD BANK       FINANCIAL
SOCIAL           - PAMSCAD          SECTOR ISSUES
SERVICES



- 28 -
SCHEDULE 4
page Z
THE STRUCTURE OF THE REFORM
OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE FOR CIVIL SERVICE REFORM
Responsible for overall co-ordination and direction
SUB-COMMITTEES                                   RELATED BODIES
INCOMES POLICY AND SALARY
ADMINISTRATION                                       PRICES AND INCOMES
_  <    >                 BOARD
MANAGDMENT SERVICES
REDEPLOYMENT
MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
TRAINING AND MANPOWER
DEVELOPMENT                                                  GIMPA
j                                   <       >        SCHOOL OF ADMINISTRATION
PERSONNEL POLICY AND
EUNAGEKMEN                                       PUBLIC SERVICES COMMISSION
CONSULTANCY & TECHNICAL SUPPORT
. Consultancy inputs from Coopers & Lybrand Deloitte in
association with the Royal Institute of Public Administration
- A Resident Co-ordinator
- Other technical inputs
F Funding from the Overseas Development Administration (UK)
. Training scholarships provided through the British Council
. Logistics Support provided by the World Bank



