Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 18794
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2224-GH)
January 13, 1999
Macroeconomics 4
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



BOG                 Bank of Ghana
BIWG                Budget Improvement Working Group
CAG                 Office of the Controller-Accountant General
CEPS                Customs, Excise and Preventive Services
CPI                 Consumer Price Index
CSPIP               Civil Service Performance Improvement Programme
CWIQ                Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire
DFID                Department for Intemational Development (UK)
EMS                 Economic Management Support Project
ERP                 Economic Recovery Program
FIMTAP              Financial Management Technical Assistance Project
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
GLSS                Ghana Living Standards Survey
GSS                 Ghana Statistical Service
IDA                 International Development Association
IDF                 Institutional Development Fund
IPPD                Integrated Personnel Payroll Database
IRS                 Internal Revenue Service
MOF                 Ministry of Finance
MOP                 Memorandum and Recommendation of the President
MTEF                Medium Termn Expenditure Framework
NIRP                National Institutional Renewal Programme
NRS                 National Revenue Service
ODA                 Office of Development Assistance (UK)
OHCS                Office of the Head of the Civil Service
PAD                 Policy Analysis Division, Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning
PUFMARP             Public Financial Management Reform Programme
SAC III             Private Investment and Sustained Development Promotion
Credit
SAIS                Structural Adjustment Institutional Support Project
VAT                 Value Added Tax
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS:
Currency Unit            =           Cedi
IJS1.00                  =           2,323.00 (June 30, 1998)
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER:
January I - December 31
Vice President:        :Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:      :Peter Harrold
Sector Manager:        :Charles Hurmphreys
Cluster Leader:        :Rocio Castro
Task Manager:           :Douglas Addison



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Preface
Evaluation Summary ..........................................................i
PART I - Project Implementation Assessment .......................................................... I
A. Project Objectives                      .I
B.    Achievement of Project Objectives           .I
C.    Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project  7
D. Project Sustainability                   .9
E. Bank Performance .10
F. Borrower Perforance .12
0. Assessment of Outcome .13
H. Future Operations .13
I.  Key Lessons Learned .14
PART II Statistical Annex .........................................................  16
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments .16
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans/Credits .17
Table 3:  Project Timetable .17
Table 4:     Loan/Credit Disbursements .18
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation .18
Table 6:     Key Indicators for Project Operation .20
Table 7:     Studies Included in Project .22
Table 8A: Project Costs .23
Table 8B:  Project Financing .23
Table 9:     Economic Costs and Benefits .23
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants .24
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .24
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .24
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions .25
APPENDICES:
Appendix A. Borrower's Assessment of Implementation
Appendix B. Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2224-GH)
PREFACE
1.    The Economic Management Support Project in Ghana (Credit 2224-GH) in the
amount of SDR 10.7 million (US$15 million equivalent) was approved on March 28,
1991, made effective on July 19, 1991, and closed on June 30, 1998. The credit was
extended three times from June 1996 to December 1996, then to December 1997 and
again to June 30, 1998. An undisbursed balance of SDR 31,006.02 was canceled.
2.    Preparation of this completion report was undertaken by the Resident Mission
staff. Accordingly, there is no aide-memoire associated with a mission mounted from
Washington. The report is based on materials in the project files, on discussions with
Government officials associated with the project, and on information provided by the
project coordinators. Additionally, excerpts from the Borrower's own Implementation
Completion Report are included as Appendix A.
3.    This Implementation Completion Report was prepared in November and
December 1998 by Camille Lampart (AFMGH), and reviewed on December 22, 1998 in
a meeting chaired by Peter Harrold, Country Director (AFC 10).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2224-GH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.   Introduction. The Government of Ghana embarked on a deep program of
structural adjustment in 1983. In 1986 the need to strengthen the institutional capacity
was recognized and the Bank initiated the Structural Adjustment Institutional Support
Project (SAIS). By 1990, most of the first generation reforrns were complete, and the
government was about to embark on more complex second generation adjustments such
as rationalization of the public sector and civil service, and financial sector reform. The
Economic Management Support Project (EMS) was designed primarily as a continuation
of these efforts and specifically to support the reforms of the third Structural Adjustment
Credit (SAC III)'.
2.    Project Objectives. The project was expected to build analytical and
administrative capacity in four substantive areas: economic policy analysis, fiscal
management, domestic resource mobilization, and civil service reform.
3.    Achievement of Objectives. The project, itself, was not successful in achieving
improved analytical capacity in core economic management agencies. It did support the
restoration of some administrative finctions, such as tax administration, accounting and
audit. On fiscal management only very rudimentary steps were taken and the civil service
reform remains largely uncompleted. Therefore the project cannot be said to have
achieved its intended development goals. It did maintain the impetus, if not the capacity
for later reform.
4.   Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project. Spending
on most components was completed on schedule by June 1996. The credit was extended
three times from June 1996 to December 1996, then to December 1997 and again to June
30,1998-mainly to finance the Ghana Living Standards Survey (GLSS4). Most of the
project outputs were eventually attained but the project did not achieve its developmental
objectives. This disconnect can be attributed mainly to the complexity of the project
(evidence by the wide breadth and lack of depth of its components); weak ownership of
these developmental objectives; poor preparation and supervision; the implementing
ministry's lack of capacity to manage such a complex project; and to the changing
political and economic climate during the life of the project.
5.    Sustainability. The government's analytical capacity should continue to improve
in the medium-term because of continued reform efforts and external support. The long-
term sustainability of any achievements will depend on the ability to retain skilled staff
SAC III was formally named Private Investment and Sustained Development Promotion Credit (No. 2682-GH).



ii
which, in turn, depends on the successful implementation of public service pay and
grading reforms.
6.    Bank and Borrower Performance. The overall performance of the Bank was
unsatisfactory with the exception of project identification. Given the maturity of the
structural adjustment program, and the fact that capacity building and institutional
development are relatively slow processes, a more appropriate project sequencing would
have aimed at improving implementation capacities even earlier2. Yet, the pressure for
rapid preparation was significant and resulted in the project becoming a collection of
somewhat unintegrated components, most of which were not comprehensive enough to
achieve the stated outcomes. There was no project appraisal. In retrospect a full appraisal
was necessary in light of the fact that there was not much experience with this type of
project and that several of the reforms depended heavily on continued strong political
commitment. The project was insufficiently supervised with a new task manager and one
mission each year on average and an inadequate mix of skills. The Borrower's
performance is rated as satisfactory mainly because preparation and compliance with
legal covenants was adequate. Implementation was unsatisfactory mainly because of
weak project management and flagging government commitment to project objectives.
Between 1991 and 1998 the structural adjustment program was interrupted by two major
lapses in fiscal discipline which severely undermined both the civil service reform and
fiscal management components.
7.      Assessment of Outcome. The overall assessment is rated as unsatisfactory
because the project did not achieve the intended developmental impact. Although the
government is now able to perform some functions better than at the onset (namely
accounting, auditing, records management and tax collection), the major objectives of
civil service reform and improvements in financial management were not achieved by the
EMS project. The project did, however, safeguard the impetus for future and more
comprehensive reform efforts. The challenge will be to maintain the momentum and
political commitment for the difficult changes.
8.     Lessons. Institutional development and capacity-building projects should be
underpinned by comprehensive long-term strategies and implementation plans. These are
slow processes that need to be closely supervised by the appropriate professionals. They
require commitment and ownership not only of the project activities, but of the intended
outcomes, and not only at the policy making level, but down the line in the executing
agencies. Up-front assessments of political commitment and full stakeholder analyses are
strongly recommended.
9.    The project was also too broad, with insufficient depth in individual components.
This had dual effects. On the one hand, the project was a complex management task that
exceeded the capacity of the implementing agency and the Bank's supervision teams. On
the other hand, the lack of depth made it difficult to fully address and resolve the
fundamental issues of capacity building in a difficult environment characterized by
structural adjustment and fluctuating political support.
2Ghana Country Assistance Review, 1996, p.50.



iii
10.   Some of the predominantly policy issues in this EMS, namely civil service
reform, public financial management and expenditure control, may have been more
appropriately addressed through policy reform instruments than technical assistance.
Although the EMS did have strong and deliberate links with the SAC III, a policy
instrument, necessary reforms and conditionalities were not sufficiently defined up-front.
When the structural adjustment program went off-track it was precisely this lack of
definition that allowed needed reforms to be discounted and postponed further.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2224-GH)
PART I: - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    The broad objectives of the Economic Management Support Project (EMS)
project were to assist the Government of Ghana in strengthening its capacity to
implement economic refonns and sectoral programs and to promote a more efficient use
of public resources. This was to be accomplished by improving the analytical and
administrative capacity in core economic management agencies.
2.    The broad objectives of the project were appropriate and timely. The government
had embarked on a deep Economic Recovery Program (ERP) in 1983. By 1990, the
majority of the first generation structural adjustment reforms had been completed. The
ERP was about to shift to more complicated second generation reforms such as the
rationalization of state-owned enterprises, revision of investment regulations, civil
service and tax reforms. These activities would require greater public sector capacity for
economic analysis and administration. In addition, the 1990 Country Strategy Paper
identified the need to improve public sector management and implementation capacity as
a major priority. The EMS was therefore designed to support the third structural
adjustment credit (SAC III)3 and to continue the technical assistance started under the
previous Structural Adjustment Institutional Support Project (SAIS).
3.    The specific objectives of the EMS were to build administrative and analytical
capacity in four key economic management areas: (a) economic policy analysis; (b) fiscal
management; (c) domestic resource mobilization and (d) civil service reform. A schedule
of key project activities and expected outputs was attached to the Memorandum and
Recommendation of the President (MOP). The total cost of the project was estimated at
US $21 million equivalent with US$15 million financing from International Development
Agency (IDA) and US$4 million from the Office of Development Assistance (ODA).
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1. Broad Objectives
4.    The project, itself, was not successful in achieving improved analytical capacity
in core economic management agencies. It did, however, support the development of
subsequent initiatives and operations which appear to be making some progress. The
Research Division of the Ministry of Finance (MOF), responsible for economic policy
analysis, has only recently received strong political ownership.  There are still
SAC III was formally named Private Investment and Sustained Development Promotion Credit (No. 2682-GH).



2
weaknesses in the capacity for effective aid and debt management and deficiencies in the
analytical capacities of Ghana Statistical Service (GSS).  There were strong and
continued efforts to improve the capacity for analyzing human resource needs, but these
were specific to the now concluded redeployment efforts and were concentrated at a
central agency, rather than being spread more widely across the public service. The civil
service reform program remains largely uncompleted.
5.    The project did successfully restore and improve some administrative functions,
viz tax administration, accounting and audit through the clearance of backlogs, very basic
computerization, and the resumption of regular training programs.   On fiscal
management, i.e. budget preparation, expenditure control and cash management, only
very rudimentary steps were taken through the EMS. More recent efforts through the
Public Financial Management Reform Programme (PUFMARP), which was partially
funded in its design stage under EMS, have made progress in this area.
6.    Overall, the project cannot be said to have achieved its intended development
goals. However, it did enable several agencies to rebuild their capacity for day-to-day
functioning by financing the acquisition of necessary inputs. It also maintained the
impetus, if not the capacity for later reform.
2. Specific Objectives
7.    Economic Policy Analysis. The objective of this component was to strengthen
the Policy Analysis Division (PAD) in the Ministry of Finance; to improve the quality,
timeliness and dissemination of economic statistics; and to improve the capacity for aid
and debt analysis. The project was also to provide continued support to poverty
monitoring through the development of the capability for carrying out studies on the
social dimensions of adjustment; the extension of the Ghana Living Standards Survey
(GLSS) for four years; and by strengthening the design and follow-up of poverty
reduction programs and projects.
8.    Policy analysis.  Most of the recommendations of the initial study on
strengthening the Policy Analysis Division of the Ministry of Finance (now renamed the
Research Division) were not implemented. There were long delays in the appointment of
the director and then frequent turnover of personnel. Computers were purchased, but the
commensurate training in even basic spreadsheet skills was not acquired. The unit still
lacks a strong base in macroeconomic analysis even though a number of staff members
were given post-graduate training both locally and overseas. Attrition among trained
staff remains a grave problem.
9.    Since 1997, there have been several improvements. The Division has expanded its
work to involvement in the policy dialogue and negotiations with donors, including the
IMF and the Bank, and to monitoring the implementation and impact of reforms. A
Macroeconomic Coordinating Group with representatives from the revenue services, the
Bank of Ghana (BOG) and the National Development Planning Commission meets
regularly to guide the work of the macroeconomic modeling unit. There are plans to
produce a new macroeconomic model in April 1999.  The Agriculture Unit is



3
coordinating the formulation of the government's new cocoa sector strategy. In addition,
a computer skills training program is underway.
10.   Quality of economic statistics. A social accounting matrix was designed with
ODA support in 1993 and has been used to rebase the national accounts and Consumer
Price Index (CPI). The GSS is quite advanced in its preparation of a producer price index.
Data on private economic activities is still rudimentary. Although the GSS continues to
conduct enterprise surveys, the poor response by firms (endemic in Africa) has rendered
the results non-representational and they have not been published since the early 1 990s.
11.   Timeliness. The GSS produces only two regular economic statistics publications -
the Quarterly Digest of Statistics and a monthly newsletter on the CPI. The publication
lag for the CPI monthly newsletter was reduced from 4 to between 2 and 3 weeks.
Provisional national accounts estimates are available within 9 months and official
accounts within 21 months. The latter compares with the IMF target of 10-14 months.
National accounts for 1996 were published initially in the July 1997 Quarterly Digest of
Statistics produced in late September 19984. Although the printing equipment purchased
by the project in earlier years did accelerate the publication of data, the technology is now
outmoded and has been replaced by newer methods.  Publication of other periodic
economic reports, e.g. quarterly and annual external trade statistics, is at most sporadic
and reflects some skepticism about their demand.
12.   Dissemination. The dissemination of reports is done by mass mailing, radio
announcements and by a number of periodic seminars around the country. The National
Committee of Producers and Users of Statistics was not revived as mentioned in the
MOP, mainly because it was not provided for in the budget, but the GSS regularly holds
subsector meetings for government users.
13.   Poverty monitoring. There were long delays in the production of social and
poverty monitoring statistics. The Bank postponed the planned 1994 implementation of
the GLSS4 because it was felt that not enough had been done to disseminate and analyze
the results of the first three rounds. In 1995, a number of studies financed by ODA were
published to accomplish this. The GLSS4 was further delayed by a decision to combine
it with a labour force study being designed under another Bank project and the need to
seek commitments for additional funding. To fill the long lapse in social statistics, a Core
Welfare Indicators Questionnaire was implemented in Ghana between July and
September 1997 and a report published and disseminated. The GLSS4 is now being
implemented.
14.   Debt and aid management. The planned extension of the debt management
system to aid management was partially achieved. The project financed the extension of
the Debt Recording and Management System to the Bank of Ghana and the Office of the
Controller-Accountant General (CAG). However, the system was never networked and
broke down at the CAG in November 1997 and at the Bank of Ghana in May 1997. In
The current Quarterly Digest of Statistics takes the reference date of the latest industrial production data rather than
the date of publication. If other series that are included in the publication have more recently available data than
industrial production series, these data are not published and reserved for later issues.



4
May 1998, they were still not functioning. The Aid Information Management System
was only installed in 1998, but at the time of writing, data was still to be entered and it
was not fully operational because of insufficient staffing. For external debt service
payments, the coordinating mechanisms are excellent. For debt analysis and strategy
formulation, inter-agency coordination and capacity are still weak.
15.   Fiscal Management. The fiscal management component of the project was
aimed at supporting improvements in budget preparation, expenditure monitoring and
cash management and in the coordination of manpower and financial resource
management in the civil service.
16.   Budget preparation. The EMS project established the Budget Improvement
Working Group (BIWG) and provided assistance to several units in the Ministry of
Finance responsible for budget preparation. The main objective was the production of an
integrated budget, which would include aid flows in order to encourage better
programming of counterpart funds, and development expenditures and their recurrent
costs implications.
17.   A "broad-based" budget summary was published annually between 1992-1995 as
a substitute for an integrated budget. It contained independent but not integrated
summaries of recurrent expenditures, development expenditures, aid flows, debt flows
and manpower ceilings for each ministry. The project clearly underestimated the
requirements, both in capacity and time, for integrating the budget components. Very
little was accomplished by the project on the computerization of the budget. At the time
of writing, the budget was still being stored on stand-alone computers.
18.   Expenditure monitoring and cash management. The project greatly improved
the flow of information on government expenditures and the operations of the CAG and
the Audit Service. A long backlog of audited government accounts was cleared and
regular training programs for the two offices re-established. Since 1993, the government
has been publishing annual public expenditure reviews, although these are not widely
available except to the donor community. On cash management, very little has been
accomplished. CAG utilizes a custom-built computer system to obtain total government
cash position and has been assisted by the recent transfer of all government bank
accounts to the Bank of Ghana. Improvements in cash management will depend partly
on current efforts to strengthen expenditure control.
19.   Coordination of manpower and financial budgeting. More effort and less
progress has been achieved on the coordination of manpower and financial budgets. This
component was to have been supported by -BIWG, the Office of the Head of the Civil
Service (OHCS) and the installation of an integrated personnel payroll database (IPPD).
20.   Until the 1999 budget exercise, personnel ceilings were established at manpower
hearings at OHCS, while financial clearance for personnel changes was required from the
Ministry of Finance. Although Ministry of Finance officials were required to participate
in the manpower hearings, it is widely acknowledged that there was little connection
between the establishment numbers approved and the financial resources provided for
personnel expenses.



5
21.    The new reform programs, Civil Service Performance Improvement Programme
(CSPIP) and PUFMARP, appear to recommend the devolution of more authority on
personnel and establishment to line managers while retaining control over personnel
expenses. This eliminates one of the inconsistent constraints, but does not provide a
mechanism for linking the remaining expenditure to operational targets. Little has been
done to implement this change beyond abolishing the manpower hearings. The new
expenditure control rules will allow virements into, but not out of, the line item for
personnel expenses. Given the problem with controlling recruitment5 in the past, the
management of this expenditure item will depend heavily on aligning personnel
expenditures with operational targets and establishing effective performance sanctions for
line managers.
22.    The installation of IPPD was to have assisted in the coordination of manpower
and financial budgets. It contains all civil service and Ghana Educational Service
personnel records with the exception of the Fire Service, Highways Department and
pension payments and has been utilized since 1995. The system has yet to achieve
adequate operating standards. As a result, very few line ministries and agencies utilize it
for other than record keeping purposes. There is a widespread impression that, even with
the controls on data input and payroll output from the system, the ghost-worker problem
has not been completely eliminated.
23.    Domestic Resource Mobilization. The objective of this component was to
increase tax revenues and lower costs of collection by strengthening tax administration
and supporting the continued implementation of tax reform. These reforms were to be
coordinated by the National Revenue Service (NRS) which had oversight of the two
revenue collection agencies: Customs, Excise and Preventive Service (CEPS) and the
Intemal Revenue Service (IRS). Specific outputs included the extension of the customs
data computer system, ASYCUDA, to various ports and border points, computerization
of IRS, training and public education associated with the reforms to the sales tax system
and a program to enhance in-country training through the NRS.
24.    Tax reform. Ghana had already undertaken extensive tax reforms under the ERP,
which resulted in an increase in tax revenue from 5 percent of the Gross Domestic
Product (GDP) in 1983 to 13 percent in 1991. Tax revenues increased from an average
of 12 percent GDP in 1989-92 to 16 percent of GDP over the period 1993-98. The
majority of this component was spent on studies for NRS, some of which were
implemented as tax reforms, and for the initial preparation of the Value Added Tax
(VAT) between 1993 and 1995. A study on the taxation on investment resulted in a
The problem of recruitment was two fold. Firstly, the budget line for personnel expenses was based on current
personnel numbers and rarely included provisions for recruitment to new posts. (This has now changed with the
MTEF). Secondly, it is reported that many line agencies may simply fill posts allowed for in their establishment
ceilings and engage the staff. Usually, the Ministry of Finance would eventually authorize payment of an
employee who had already worked for a reasonable period, albeit without initial financial clearance. It is also
reported that a policy of automatic engagement of graduates from several public training institutions often
superseded, albeit after the fact, the voted budget allocations for personnel emoluments. It is not clear whether the
second problem has been corrected with new expenditure and personnel rules.



6
reduction of dividend tax from 15 tolO percent and the establishment of a capital gains
tax of 5 percent in 1992.
25.   The implementation of the VAT began with a pilot credit system for the sales tax
on paper, which was initiated in March 1991. By mid-1992, the Government committed
itself to implementing a full-fledged VAT and much of the supervision efforts of the
Bank revolved around an International Development Fund (IDF) grant to support these
efforts. The later withdrawal of the tax was mainly due to three factors: (a) weak
government capacity to implement such a complex reform, (b) a very tight
implementation schedule and (c) poor timing of the launch of the tax. The capacity needs
were clearly underestimated by the government, the Bank and the IMF.
26.   Modernization of tax administration. The ASYCUDA system was extended to
the Takoradi and Tema ports in 1993. Plans to install the system at Aflao and Elubo
border points were shelved because of delays in procuring electricity generators for those
sites. An untenable situation exists with regard to the data provided by the system.
Although CEPS supervises the data entry staff at the ports, it neither relies on nor reports
data from the ASYCUDA system. Instead it re-tabulates the hard data collated by hand
from hard copies of customs documentation. Not surprisingly, there are large and
unsystematic discrepancies between the data reported by CEPS and the ASYCUDA data
used by the Ghana Statistical Service.
27.   The proposed training strategy was implemented at the IRS and the CEPS
between 1991-1993. As a result both agencies have been able to reactivate their
traditional training programs for entering staff.  The feasibility study for the IRS
computerization was completed in early 1993 and revealed that the project had severely
under-budgeted this component. Some efforts were made to secure additional financing,
but eventually this component was suspended.
28.   Civil Service Reform. The main objective of this component was to support the
Government's Civil Service Reform Program in continuing the civil service
redeployment (retrenchment) program, reforming the pay and grading structure,
strengthening personnel management practices, and improving staff development and
training programs. In reality, the EMS extensively supported the downsizing program
within the core ministries but left largely unfinished the more critical objectives of
improved manpower control and pay and grading reforms.
29.   Redeployment and manpower control. The EMS supported the redeployment
program through job inspections, management reviews, improved monitoring of line
agencies' establishment and better records management.  However, lax control of
recruitment across most of the government service has reduced the overall effect, leaving
public service, including subvented agencies, with even greater manpower numbers than
in the past.
30.   Human resource management.  The project underwrote many activities to
strengthen personnel management practices, including the establishment of merit pay and
performance appraisals systems, which were required under the accompanying
adjustment credit. These efforts did not yield any effective changes because of an



7
inconsistency between increasing manpower control which centralized key human
resource authority in the OHCS, and improving human resource management in the line
agencies which would have required delegating powers to line ministries to institute new
practices. CSPIP will attempt to introduce performance contracting and devolve more
human resource authorities to the line ministries and agencies. However, it still lacks
appropriate instruments for linking personnel resources to operational targets. While
there is a substantial capacity-building component in the CSPIP, the test will be in the
enforcement of contracts and expenditure rules.
31.   Pay and grading reforms. The government has yet to implement the major pay
and grading reform that has been pending since before the EMS project. The original
plan was to execute the redeployment program aimed mainly at reducing the staff
numbers in lower levels of civil service and then to decompress the salary structure. The
Redeployment Program was closed in 1998. However almost 70% of the retrenchments
were completed before the EMS. Interim steps were taken to decompress the civil
service salary structure from 1:4 to approximately 1:14 and to reconcile the grading
systems between the Ghana Education Service and the Civil Service. A comprehensive
reclassification exercise was canceled in 1994 because of the cost implications. In 1996,
the government commissioned the latest study on establishing a uniform pay and grading
structure for the entire public service. The grading exercise is now underway and the
incomes policy is currently under consideration by the National Institutional Renewal
Programme (NIRP).
32.   Staff development and training. There were several achievements on the training
front including the merger and refurbishing of several institutions. Alongside the
training given to staff in the economic analysis, audit and accounting divisions, and the
revenue services the extensive training of human resource professionals throughout the
service, constitutes a major achievement. In 1995, a comprehensive training policy for
the civil service was completed. It is not clear whether this has been implemented.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE
PROJECT
33.   There are a number of factors which contributed to the unsuccessful outcome of
this project. They are listed below in order of importance.
34.   The project had too many components. The project suffered from too broad an
array of components, none of which were sufficiently deep to effectively address their
respective problems. In addition, there was no coherent strategy linking the various
components together, even though some of their outputs were interdependent, e.g. civil
service reform and fiscal management. Other components were basically independent
from the core objectives, e.g. improvement in economic statistics, and contributed to
diluting core efforts.
35.   Ownership of project objectives was weak. Although some components were
overseen by high level coordinating committees (viz civil service reform and budget
improvement) the approval of detailed annual work programs was limited simply to
approval by the Deputy Minister of Finance and by the Bank. In turn, this made the



8
project outcomes very vulnerable to changes in the political climate. Indeed, there were
significant delays in the accompanying SAC III, and the government did not complete the
civil service and public expenditure reforms that were included both as conditionalities in
the credit and as activities in the EMS project.
36.   The project was inadequately prepared. The pressure for rapid preparation was
significant to the point that the project was deemed sufficiently appraised at the pre-
appraisal review meeting. This was not the case. Given the poor implementation
experience of the SAIS, more attention should have been given to the design of
implementation arrangements, the breadth and depth of the various components and the
risks of declining political commitment6. Indeed, several of the issues raised during the
pre-appraisal review meeting were to later plague the project: (i) the ineffectiveness of
the governnent procurement agency; (ii) the need for information technology skills in the
supervision team; and (iii) a concern about the tight implementation schedule. The
project would have also benefited from the institutional, stakeholder and leadership
assessments that are currently recommended. (This is further discussed in Section E.)
37.   Although the project linked its technical assistance to the conditionalities of the
accompanying SAC III, most of these reforms were not sufficiently defined up-front.
When the structural adjustment program went off-track, it was precisely this lack of
definition that allowed the more loosely defined reforms of the civil service and public
financial management to be discounted.
38.   Bank supervision was inadequate. The resources spent on supervision were
insufficient. There were only 9 supervision missions and there were too many changes in
task managers over the life of the project (on average one per year). There were also
inadequate skills for managing the many different components. As a result, supervision
concentrated more on procurement and supplier performance issues, and less on assessing
the progress toward improved capacity. (This is further discussed in Section E.)
39.   Implementation capacity was weak. Because of the poor project management
of the SAIS, there were significant changes in the implementation arrangements for the
EMS. The original project management unit was dissolved and the responsibility placed
under the World Bank Desk in the Ministry of Finance. Although this brought remarkable
improvements in the administration of project records and accounts, there was not
sufficient capacity to supervise such a wide range of activities. The latter would have
required significant institutional and capacity building efforts for this unit. (This is
further discussed in Section F.)
40.   Neither the Government's nor the Bank's project management teams had the
broad range of skills to manage this project with its myriad components. In particular
they lacked the skills to effectively assess the work programs of individual agencies and
to manage the many computerization programs in the project.   Much of the
6 One of the key lessons cited by the SAIS completion report is that the environment for institutional development is
more important than the choice of instruments applied in technical assistance operations and that governance-
related constraints to institutional development are fundamental and binding.



9
computerization was done in a piecemeal fashion with the results that the majority of
these systems are today underutilized or only partially operational.
41.   Economic and political factors. At several periods in the project, economic and
political imperatives ran contrary to several of the objectives of the project. In particular,
the lapses in fiscal discipline in 1992 and 1995 were partly the result of large wage
increases given to the civil service in the run up to national elections. These increases
along with the surrounding political climate severely undermined both the civil service
reform and retrenchment programs and were indicative of the government's fluctuating
commitment to expenditure control.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
42.   Improvements in Analytical Capacity. The capacity to analyze data in GSS,
OHCS and the Ministry of Finance should continue to grow in the medium term because
of stronger reform efforts (NIRP, CSPIP, PUFMARP) and continued external support.
However, the sustainability of any achievements will depend on two key conditions
which are far from secure - the ability to train and retain staff, and the political and
institutional demand for objective analysis.
43.   Recent developments at the Research Division of the Ministry of Finance augur
well for continued improvements in analytical capacity. The unit is now the direct
responsibility of the Deputy Minister of Finance and is supported by PUFMARP.
Training is underway in econometric analysis and macroeconomic modeling. CSPIP
continues to build capacity in human resource management through OHCS, but the
impact and sustainability will depend on the resolution of the manpower and financial
controls, and establishing the mechanisms for linking human resources with line
agencies' operational goals. GSS is the recipient of a number of externally-funded
projects aimed at raising its analytical capacity to a level at least commensurate with its
capacity for data collection. The recently formed Debt Strategy Working Group hosted an
intensive training workshop in October 1998 to formulate a comprehensive debt
reduction strategy.
44.   Through PUFMARP, the 1999 budget was prepared using a 3-year Medium Term
Expenditure Framework (MTEF) and has fully integrated recurrent and development
expenditures and includes external project flows. The MTEF exercise has improved
budget planning methods across the public service.  However, without adequate
expenditure management and control, the budget will revert to its usual status as an
indicative target rather than a binding target.
45.   The reform of expenditure control has not yet been tackled and current delays in
the implementation of a computer system for budget and public expenditure management
are not encouraging.  The fact that effective expenditure control has eluded the
government for so long is an indication of the complex political economy of this reform
and supports the earlier-stated notion that it may require a policy instrument (to create
more demand for good fiscal management) in addition to technical assistance. It is also
important to acknowledge that the reforms taken to date are partly due to pressure from
external donors.



10
46.    Improvements in Administrative Capacity. The maintenance of the various
skills bases and training programs established through the project will depend on the
ability to retain skilled staff. The implementation of pay and grading reforms are
necessary but not sufficient to secure this and the capacity to manage these programs in
the face of budgetary constraints and performance criteria remains to be seen7.
47.   All of the major computer systems installed or extended by the project are
dependent on continued external support for their effective operation. Although there are
sufficient programmers for the IPPD, none of these persons have received formal training
on the software. They were all hired after the training from the supplier had been
completed, without any handover from their predecessors, and have leamed to manage
the system through trial and error. There are current problems in accessing technical
support from the supplier, with delays of up to three months for in-country service. The
Department for International Development (DFID) is currently supporting the necessary
improvement to the system through a follow-on project. The present situation concerning
the ASYCUDA system at CEPS and GSS is untenable because only a handful of people
have effective technical understanding of the system. CEPS still does not have a
dedicated IT unit, even though it is planning to embark on a new computerization
program.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
48.    The overall performance of the Bank was unsatisfactory with the exception of
project identification.
49.    Identification.  The Bank's role in project identification was satisfactory.  In
1990, improvements in public sector management and implementation capacity were
priority objectives for Ghana. The choice to target the implementation capacity for
adjustment programs rather than investment projects8 was appropriate given the primacy
of adjustment programs in the portfolio. The need to reinvigorate civil service reform, to
make human resource management more effective, to strengthen expenditure
management and to improve tax collection were all identified as relevant activities.
50.   The breadth of the EMS was guided by a need to make headway on multiple
fronts to support the reforms in the accompanying structural adjustment credit and to
complete existing technical assistance activities. Later insights about the complex process
and slow pace of building capacity would have suggested a smaller project with fewer
components and more depth in each of the components. Indeed, any one of the four
components could have been a project in itself.
7The following anecdotal evidence is not promising. The beneficiary which spent the largest share of its
disbursements on training recently commented that while project resources allowed them to pay for the retraining
of candidates who had not successfully completed their training courses, one of the difficulties that they are
facing, now that the project is over, is the need to rescind this policy.
8The latter would have entailed more activities to build project management skills and improve procurement systems.



11
51.   Preparation. The Bank's performance in project preparation was unsatisfactory.
The pressure for rapid preparation was significant. The result was that many of the
components were not sufficiently far-reaching. The project became a collection of often
unintegrated components most of which were not comprehensive enough to achieve the
stated outcomes. Although, the project objectives were correctly stated as the capacity
'to do what"9 for many of them priorities and implementation details were unclear.
52.   The choice of annual work program reviews as an implementation arrangement
allowed a lot of flexibility to reformulate project activities. This design relied heavily on
high level advocacy of the BIWG, the oversight committee for civil service reform, and
the NRS to select and secure outputs, making the project vulnerable to shifts in
commitment and ownership. In retrospect, it would have benefited from the institutional,
stakeholder and leadership assessments that are currently recommended by the Bank. In
addition, the SAIS project unit was wound up and responsibility for the EMS transferred
to the World Bank Desk where capacity and experience in managing the implementation
of a complex project was limited. After the poor implementation experience of the SAIS,
more attention to the design of these arrangements was warranted.
53.   There was no project appraisal. This was because the country team felt that the
results of the pre-appraisal sufficed. However, the identical issues raised during the pre-
appraisal review meeting were to later plague the project: (i) the ineffectiveness of the
government procurement agency; (ii) the need for information technology skills in the
supervision team; and (iii) a concern about the tight implementation schedule. In
retrospect, a full appraisal was necessary in light of the fact that there was not much
experience with this type of project in Ghana, and that several of the objectives (viz, civil
service pay and grading changes, tax reform, and the strengthening of expenditure
controls), depended heavily on strong continued political commitment. More ownership
and involvement of the line staff in the beneficiary agencies may have mitigated the risk
of changing political priorities.
54.   Supervision. The Bank's performance in project supervision was insufficient and
unsatisfactory. There were seven task managers over the life of the project, on average
one per year. There were only 10 supervision missions over the life of the project and
most of these were shared with other projects and preparation of adjustment credits. At
the time, the choice to share supervision of the EMS with that of the adjustment program
was justified. In retrospect however, the skills were not appropriate for a capacity
building project with such a broad array of components. In addition, supervision was
concentrated heavily on the binding legal issues of procurement and supplier
performance, and less on assessing the progress toward improved capacity. Even so,
procurement problems persisted throughout the life of the project and were only
addressed in a constructive manner towards the end, with the by-passing of Ghana Supply
Commission for UN procurement arrangements. These problems had persisted through
the SAIS and were identified during the preparation of the project. However, because of
9The current wisdom on capacity building and institutional development is that, rather than concentrate on the creation
of necessary conditions and generic inputs like information technologies, revision of procedures, and the
establishment of new institutional arrangements, projects should define their objectives as the capacity "to do
what".



12
a tight preparation schedule, the Ghana Supply Commission was not included as a
beneficiary in anticipation that it could be added later. This was not done. It is also
noted that the supervision missions' assessments of performance in the Form 590s did not
accurately reflect project performance of development objectives - hence the disconnect
between this ICR and the ratings in table 13.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
55.   Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory. Preparation and compliance with
legal covenants were satisfactory. Although implementation was unsatisfactory, the
reasons for this have to do mainly with the design of the project, implementation
arrangements and the borrower's lack of capacity and experience with a project of this
type and complexity.
56.   Preparation.   The borrower's performance in project preparation was
satisfactory.  The majority of the project components were related to ongoing efforts in
which the government was actively involved and had support from other donors. A
number of action plans, e.g. for tax reform, for improving dissemination of government
statistics, and for civil service reform had already been prepared and formed the basis of
the borrower's implementation plans.
57.   Implementation and covenant compliance. The major weaknesses in the
borrower's implementation concern project management and fluctuations in commitment
to the project objectives. The World Bank Desk made remarkable improvements in
accounting for project expenditures and administration of project activities, as well as
strong efforts to pass on this learning to beneficiary agencies. As a result, covenant
compliance was satisfactory.
58.   The management of the project was limited to an annual presentation of work
programs and procurement plans to the World Bank Desk, which obtained direct
approval from the Minister of Finance, the Chief Director of the Ministry and the Bank.
The weakness in this arrangement was that the supervision of a project with myriad but
connected components required stronger evaluation mechanisms. This single line of
command did not allow for broader involvement by the relevant professionals in
overseeing the progress toward the specific project developmental objectives. This
created the impression at many beneficiary agencies that the project was a financial
support facility secured and managed by the Ministry of Finance, rather than as a
program of activities aimed at specified outcomes and objectives.
59.   Beneficiary agencies eventually achieved the capacity to access the project
resources, without being held accountable for the achievement of project objectives.
One result was that apart from the required share of certain categories of expenditure, it is
not possible to quantify the govermnent's in-kind contributions to the project because
these were never targeted nor accounted for in a formal way. Another result can be seen
in the use of consultants. While the shift to local consultants was a welcome change
from previous projects, they were used too often in a shortsighted fashion to perform
functions that should have been the responsibility of permanent staff. As a result, the
expertise gained was quickly lost to the public service. Delays in the recruitment of staff



13
for the IPPD led to a loss of valuable training and information when there was no
handover period. The almost continuous attrition of trained staff from a number of
agencies was not addressed, even with the renewed emphasis on civil service reform.
Very few attempts were made to bond staff who received overseas training.
60.   Wavering political commitment  Between 1991 and 1998 the structural
adjustment program was interrupted by two major lapses in fiscal discipline. The
government's commitment to civil service reform flagged during the run-up to the two
elections. As a result, very little progress was made on the pay and grading reforms and
on the control of manpower expenditures. There were also a number of changes in the
locus of economic decision making which resulted in the long deferral in the
strengthening of the economic policy analysis functions. This led to the dissipation of
resources on a consultant who produced four macroeconomic models that have been
subsequently lost. In addition, the downgrading of the NRS over the life of the project
represented a lack of consensus or commitment within the government to the concept of
strong independent revenue management. This severely affected the uptake of resources
for the component on domestic resource mobilization.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
61.   The overall assessment is rated as unsatisfactory because the project did not
achieve the intended developmental impact. Although the government is now able to
perform some functions better than at the onset (viz, accounting, auditing, records
management and tax collection), the major objectives of civil service reform and
improvements in financial management were not achieved by the EMS project.
62.   The project did, however, safeguard the impetus for future and more
comprehensive reform efforts. Institutional development is now at the forefront of public
sector reform in various manifestations: the government's "Vision 2020" strategy, NIRP,
CSPIP and PUFMARP. The lesson about the need for high-level policy oversight seems
to have been internalized, even though coordination problems remain. There is clearly
improvement in the capacity to formulate policies. The challenge will be to maintain the
momentum and political commitment for the difficult changes.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
63.   There are two subsequent operations in public sector reform in Ghana. The
Financial Management Technical Assistance Project (FIMTAP) aims to complete many
of the objectives of the SAIS and EMS, by supporting PUFMARP. It emphasizes the
need for longer term budget planning and has articulated in more detail the necessary
elements of successful institutional change in public finance. However the project had
been suffering from a limited capacity to manage the large number of components and
from implementation delays. The Bank and government are moving to address this.
64.   The Government and the Bank are currently preparing a Public Sector
Management Reform Program to support the NIRP. The main objective is to extend
many of the civil service reform objectives to the wider public service. It will support a
comprehensive overhaul of the government's central administrative systems and



14
procedures and a complete restructuring of the public sector. An initial adaptable
program loan will target the Ministry of Finance and core government functions as a pilot
for the restructuring exercise. The preparation of this program has involved important
actions to resolve coordination mechanisms up front.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
Breadth versus Depth
65.   The project was too broad with insufficient depth in any one component. This
had dual effects. On the one hand, the project was a complex management task that
exceeded the capacity of the implementing agency and the Bank's supervision teams. On
the other hand, the lack of depth made it difficult to fully address and resolve the
fundamental issues of capacity building in a difficult environment characterized by
structural adjustment and fluctuating political support.
Ownership
66.   Commitment and ownership of the project objectives, and not just project
activities, are essential for effective technical assistance.  This commitment and
ownership should exist, not only at the policy-making level, but also down the line to
staff in executing and beneficiary agencies.  Their involvement, especially at the
preparation stage, can deepen and secure the stimulus for change. In addition, their
involvement and ownership may mitigate the risk of wavering political commitment
during project implementation.
67.   A formal procedure for accounting for the government's own in-kind and
financial contributions to project objectives can help to build ownership. Without
explicit arrangements for this task, the project may be perceived as synonymous with the
credit, and may be utilized only as a financial facility for the purchase of inputs, rather
than as a program of integrated and purposeful activities.
Preparation
68.   The possibility that some issues might be more appropriately addressed through
policy reform instruments (e.g. changes in institutional incentives) rather than technical
assistance should be explored in the project design stage. Such a possibility was
especially evident in the civil service reform activities supported by the EMS. For
example, training in improved human resource management practices was not effective
without an accompanying policy decision to give trainees the commensurate authority
and appropriate rules to manage their human resources. Likewise, the improved training
programs have not created a sustainable increase in public sector efficiency because the
public sector incomes policy still does not facilitate the retention of skilled staff. Finally,
the design and preparation of performance contracts, while a useful capacity-building
exercise, is likely to be ineffective without the policy decision to enforce performance
sanctions.



15
Supervision
69.   Capacity building is a slow complex process and requires close and in-depth
supervision by the appropriately skilled professionals. Neither the government nor the
Bank recognized and planned for this.
70.  Implementation progress in capacity building projects should be judged against
outcomes or incremental capacity targets, e.g. the ability to complete specified tasks,
rather than against schedules for the provision of outputs/inputs, like civil works,
completion of training programs or procurement.
Capacity
71.   A formal institutional assessment should be required when a follow-on project
makes significant changes to the implementation arrangements from a predecessor
project. This assessment is necessary to verify that the new arrangements are adequate.
In the EMS, it was a mistake to assume that the World Bank Desk had the capacity to
manage and coordinate an elaborate project with multiple objectives and beneficiaries
because it had previously demonstrated the ability to monitor and evaluate structural
adjustment programs.
72.  Information technology skills should be a required component of government and
Bank project management or supervision teams when computerization is involved. It is
important to note, however, that the provision of information technology infrastructure
cannot substitute for well-designed, explicit and effective rules and the political
commitment to implement them.
Political and Economic Climate
73.   Fluctuating government commitment to key reforms, in the face of difficult
economic conditions, adversely affected project performance-notably in the civil
service component. These risks were not well assessed during project design. Future
projects should assess such risks, build in compensating design elements and include exit
strategies.



16
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2224-GH)
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A  Achievement of Objectives                  & bslanfial   PaorJi    Negligiblek   NotApplikl
Macroeconomic policies'                     |            | _          |     X
Sector policies2                                               X
Financial objectives                                                        X
Institutional development                                      X
Physical objectives                               X
Poverty reduction                                                                          X
Gender issues                                                                              X
Environmental objectives                                                                   X
Public sector management                                     X
Private sector development                   _                                             X
1. Macroeconomic policies include fiscal management. domestic resource mobilization.
2. Sector policies include civil service reform and economic policy analysis.
B. Project Sustanability                 Likev            nluikely      Uncertain
x
C. Bank Performance               High(y Satisfactory   Saftsfactory   DeflieNt
Summary Assessment                                                        X
Identification                                          X
Preparation assistance                                                 X
Appraisal                                        r                     x
Supervision                   _                    _                   X
D. Borrower Performance                 Highly        Satisfacdory      Deficient
_______________________               Satisfadory
Summary Assessment                                         X
Preparation                            _               X
Implementation                                                         X
Covenant compliance                                    X
E Assessment of Outcome    High44   I                              I Ul d  I
.u y AssessmenSatf "                   SXWWor    U sF adoy   U&W&dM
Summary Assessment                                                        X



17
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Preceding operations
1. Second Phase of      2nd phase of structural adjustment program:  1989            closed
Structural Adjustment   trade, exchange rate and tax reforms, public
Prograrn                expenditure management, statc enterprise
and civil service reforms.
2. Structural Adjustment   Capacity building to support structural   1987            closed
Institutional Support   adjustment reforms.
Project -                             .
Following operations
1. Private Investment and   Improve regulatory framework for private  1991            closed
Sustained Development    investment, state enterprise reform, tax
Promotion (SAC 111)     reform, public expenditure.
2. Private Sector       Accelerated privatization program,           1995             closed
Adjustment Credit       improved public expenditure management.
3. Public Enterprise and    Divestiture of public enterprises and    1996            ongoing
Privatization Technical    rationalization of subvented organizations.
Assistance Project               _
4. Financial Management  Improvements in public financial            1997            ongoing
Technical Assistance    management.
Project
5. Public Sector        Institutional development                    n.a.           appraisal
Management Reform       Improved efficiency and effectiveness of
Program - APL           public services.
Table 3: Project Timetable
tes In projet cycle                Dafe,p9awted      Dae 491Dactc*
____ ____ ____ Latest  esdsite
Identification (Executive Project Summary)     February 5, 1990   May 28,1990
Preparation                                                       October 1989
Appraisal'                                        June 1990       June 5,1990/a
Negotiations                                     January 1991    January 21,1991
Board presentation                                March 1991      March 28, 1991
Signing                                                           June 20, 1991
Effectiveness                                     July 1991       July 19, 1991
Project completion                                June 1996       June 30, 1998
Loan closing                                                      June 30, 1998
a. There was no formal appraisal. The decision, taken at the pre-appraisal review meeting,
was that the project was sufficiently appraised during the pre-appraisal mission.



18
Table 4: Cumulative Credit Disbursements
(USS millions)
r __ __ __  _    FY92   FY93   F794    FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98
Appraisal estimate                  4.1      8.0      11.2    13.7    15.0
as percent of total              27       53      75       91       100
Actual                              2.0      3.7      5.1      9.0     12.3    13.9   15.3'
as percent of total              13       24      33       59       80       91      100
Actual as percent of estimate        49      46       46       66       82
I. Increase due to changes in SDR/US$ exchange rate.
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Acll|   Appr                                    Acual              Comments
Esimate
Economic Policy
Policy Analysis Division
Carry out consultancy study.                        1991           1991     Study financed by DFID and
completed before start of
project.
Ghana Statistical Service
Set targets for publications.                   January 1991     Ongoing   No targets were set.
Expand and improve printing facilities.        December 1991                New printing equipment
Agree on plan to broaden dissemination.         January 1991                purchased but now outmoded.
Improve dissemination channels.               December 1991                 Dissemination improved
through regular country-wide
seminars.
Debt Management
Install machines and software and train staff at  December 1991    1993     Machines installed.
BOG and CAG.
Expand system to cover domestic debt.         December 1992
Fiscal Management
Establish Budget Improvement Working Group      January 1991       1991
Agree on TORs for requirements study for       January 1991                 Study completed, but
computerized budget information system.                                     computerization managed
Carry out budget requirements study.             May 1991                   internally at MOF Budget
Design system.                                  August 1991                 Division, resulting in
Install systems.                              September 1991       1994    installation of stand-alone
computers.
Finalize recommendations to improve aid          April 1991     1993-1995  Review completed in 1995.
management.
Implement recommendations.                       June 1991         1995
Renovate/equip residential training school for   June 1992         1995     Completed and in use.
CAG.
Contract with consulting firm. designate Project  February 1991             Major cost overruns in
Manager. appoint Steering Group, Technical and                              software.
Users Committees for integrated                                             Poor timing of consultant
personnel/payroll management system.                                        services.
Finalize user requirements.                      May 1991                   Delays in resolving
Select software and hardware.                  October 1991                 procurement issues for
Install hardware and software.                November 1992                 hardware.
System design and development.                  March 1992                  Current problems with
Data conversion, parallel runs and system test.  June 1992                  maintenance agreement.
New system.                                   September 1992
Post-implementation review.                     March 1993       mid 1995



19
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation (continued)
Acl                       |   Appraa            Acual   |           Conimats
Domestic Resource Mobilization
Extend ASYCUDA system.                         December 1993       partial    Extension to airport and ports
extension:   only. Border points delayed
1993     because of lack of stable
electricity supply.
Finalize proposal to link ASYCUDA with         December 1991     not done    Canceled because of
domestic sales and excise taxes.                                             preparations for VAT.
Install system.                                December 1993      not done
Decision to implement a credit system of sales  January 1992    Early 1991.  Pilot ran from 1991-1993.
tax.                                                                         Replaced by VAT
Implementation of credit system of sales tax.  December 1993                 preparations in 1993
Resumed after VAT
withdrawal in 1995.
Undertake requirements study for               December 1991      August    Study completed.
computerization of IRS.                                            1993      Computerization not done
Install system.                                December 1993                 because of underestimation of
not done    cost.
Civil Service Reform
Prepare implementation program for introduction  March 1991                  Interim regrading
of new grading system.                                                       implemented for civil and
Implement new grading structure.               January 1992        1992      education services.
Establish Salary Administration Unit in the     August 1991        1992      Done.
Payroll and Personnel Management Division.
Implement revised performance appraisal       December 1991        1992      Done.
system.
Equip accommodation for Management Services      July 1992         1996      Construction 1992-1996.
Division of OHCS.                                                            Furnishing and equipment
1996.



20
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
MajorAcdvty                   Expected Oitput                     Actual Oulcome
Economic Policy
Strengthen staffing of Policy    Improvement of Ministry's capacity   Division strengthened. but staff still lacks
Analysis Division.          to analyze policy issues, review  basic computer skills and a strong base in
economic trends and performance.    macroeconomic analysis. Work program
and provide advice on economic   includes involvement in policy dialogues
policy.                          and negotiations.
Upgrade office technology to   Improvement in quality, timeliness    Timeliness of CPI improved. other data still
improve access to sources of    and availability of reports. and  have long publication lags which exceed the
data and speed up production   increase in production quantities.    IMF targets.
of reports.
Fiscal Management
Effect further improvements   Installation of a database      Budget currently stored on 10 stand-alone
in the budget process through   management systems: integration  PCs. Budget preparation on new computer
automation.                 into budget of information on aid.    system. Budget and Public Expenditure
investment projects and actual   Management System being developed by
expenditures; switch over to a   later operation.
broad-based budgeting system.
Extension of current debt   Strengthened aid management in    Computerization needs further training and
management system to aid    International Economic Relations  equipment to be effectively operational.
management.                 Division in MOF.                 Debt Strategy Working Group formed for
coordination on aid and debt analysis
between BOG. MOF and CAG.
Expand computerization of   Enhancement of computer main     Not done.
functions both at CAG       frame systems at Headquarters and
Headquarters and in the field.  installation of computer works
stations in regions.
Support staff training in   Completion of residential training  Residential training facility in use and
accounting procedures.      facility and expansion of in-house    resumption of regular training courses at
training courses.                CAG.
Install an integrated       Establish coordination between   IPPD installed, but not yet effectively
personnel/payroll management  manpower and expenditure controls.  operational. Coordination between
system which would improve                                   manpower and expenditure control not yet
management of payroll.                                       achieved. Current efforts in NIRP and
PUFMARP to address this.
Support modernization of    Elimination of backlog in         Backlog in annual audited public accounts
methods for the examination    submission of Auditor's annual  eliminated. Timely production ongoing.
and reporting of public     reports and timely production
accounts.                  thereafter.
Improve facilities and access    Resumption of regularly scheduled    Resumption of regular training courses at
to in-service training      training programs to v'grade skills    Audit Service.
programs.                   of senior and junior level staff.



21
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation (cont.)
Domestic Resource Mobilization
Higher tax revenues.        Tax revenues increased from 12% GDP in 1989-92 to 16% GDP in 1993-1998.
Streamlining of customs     CEPS: Extend ASYCUDA network  ASYCUDA extended to Kotoka. Takoradi
procedures and lower costs of  to Kotoka, Takoradi, Head Office  and Tema only. Data used by GSS. but not
revenue collection.         and border points.                by CEPS.
IRS: link ASYCUDA systems to      Not done, partly because IRS
tax collection systems.          computerization not completed.
Support training aimed at   NRS, CEPS and IRS: Development  In-country training program developed and
improving staff skills relating   of an in-country training program  ongoing.
to tax collection, management  tailored to the needs of CEPS and
and manpower development.   IRS.
Civil Service Reform
Continue support to civil   Improvements in civil service pay  New pay and grading structure designed,
service reform program.     and grading structure; increased  but not implemented. IPPD installed, but
efficiency and effectiveness of  only partly operational. Few achievements
personnel management systems and   in improved personnel management.
services.                        Redeployment completed, but control of
recruitments and manpower numbers weak.



22
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Computerization of Budget Implementation plan.     Completed      Recommendations not implemented and
preparation.                                                      computerization of budget preparation
handled in-house at Ministry of Finance.
Revenue Service          Information systems       Completed     Not implemented due to cost overruns and
Computerization.         feasibility study for IRS.              change of priorities.
Four macroeconomic       Economic policy analysis.  Completed    None of the four models are currently in
models.                                                           use.
Aid Management           Implementation plan for    Completed    Software system installed in 1995.
Information System.      aid management
information system.
Core Welfare Indicators    Interim living standards  Completed   First national CWIQ in the world
Questionnaire (CWIQ).    survey.                                 completed in 1997. which ended a lapse
since 1993 in social data and allowed time
to prepare GLSS4 for implementation in
1998.
Various Management       Job inspections and human  Completed    Completed redeployment program. The
Services Division reviews   resource needs assessments           outsourcing of many of these studies and
of civil service divisions,   to inform redeployment             the concentration of technical assistance
departments and agencies'  program and manpower                  on OHCS limited the building of
hearings.                               widespread capacity in HR analysis.
Broad Based Budget       Guidelines for the       Completed      Ministry of Finance produced annual
Summary.                 production of a "broad-                 budget summaries from 1992 to 1995
based" budget summary.                  when they were in anticipation of a fully
integrated budget.
1. The Credit financed most of the work done at the Management Services Division of the Office of the Head of the
Civil Service during the life of the project. This work comprised studies to evaluate the human resource needs of
agencies in the civil service.



23
Table 8A.1: Project Costs by Category
Category                  Apprisal     E   Actual
Esdimate (USSM)      (USSM)
I.Consultant services & studies          2.75            3.63
2.Training                               2.12             2.51
3.Equipment. supplies and materials      8.26             8.65
4.Operating & maintenance costs          0.32             0.45
Refund of SPPF                           0.05             0.05
Contingencies                            1.50             0.00
TOTAL (excluding taxes)                15.00            15.27'
1. Increase due to changes in SDR/US$ exchange rate.
Table 8A.2: Project Costs by Component
Appraisal estimate (SSM)    IDA disbursements (US$M)
Compnents                Local  Foreign      Total    Local   Foreign    Total
costs    costs                costs     costs
1. Economic Policy Analysis         1.12      1.61      2.73       n.a.      n.a.      2.85
2. Fiscal Management                2.29      5.11       7.40      n.a.      n.a.      9.49
3. Domestic Resource Mobilization    1.14     2.02       3.16      n.a.      n.a.      0.70
4. Civil Service Reform              1.73     3.39       5.12      n.a.      n.a.      2.18
Contingencies                        1.09     1.58       2.67      n.a.      n.a.      0.05
TOTAL (excluding taxes)            7.37      13.71     21.08      3.02      12.27     15.27
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal0;0x :f  etme T ,, p i(UtSS( I     Adual (USSM)  __dl_
Local costs  Foregn costs    Total    Loca costs  Foreign costs    Total
IDA                   5:22          9.78         15.00        3.02         12.27        15.29
UK ODA/DFID'          0.00          3.93         3.93         0.00          n.a.         n.a.
Government            4.10          0.00         4.10         2.42          0.00        2.42)
TOTAL               9.32         13.71         23.03        n.a.          n.a.         n.a.
1. Despite efforts by the project team to coordinate ODA inputs, few government records are available on ODA
contributions because these disbursements were made directly to suppliers.
2. Estimated cost for govemment counterpart funds and taxes. Records not available for in-kind contributions.
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
It is not possible to do any empirical analysis of cost effectiveness because most of the
developmental objectives were not achieved and because there are no consolidated
records of the government's in-kind and financial contributions to the project activities
(other than the required counterpart funds for certain categories of expenditure). The
original project document does not include cost/benefit or cost effectiveness analyses.



24
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original    Actual              Description
Covenaw        Present   fuiffllment  fulrilment                Of
Section        type          status       Date          date              covenant
4.01 (a)   Accounts/audit    Complied                             Borroxwer shall maintain
adequate records and
accounts.
4.01 (b)   Accounts/audit    Complied    06/30/92      annual    Requires annual audit of
special accounts.
4.01 (c)   Accounts/audit    Complied                  annual    Requires periodic statements
of expenditure and
supporting documentation.
3.03      Monitoring &     Complied      03/01/92      annual    Requires the Borrower and
report                                                 the Association to exchange
views annually on work
program and progress.
Source: OIS and Legal Agreements Library
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title                   Describe and comment on lack of conpliance
1. OP 10.02
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing   Reports received with minor delays.
2. BP 12.20
Special Accounts                           Reports received with minor delays.
3. BP 12.30
Statements of Erpenditure                  Reports received with minor delays.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned               Actual
Stage ofproject cycle    Weeks  US$'OOO        Weeks      USS'OOO
Preparation to approval     7                   51.4       114.7
Supervision                38            L     123.5       361.2
Completion                  3                   11.1       23.2
TOTAL                      48                 1 176.0      499.1



25
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
_________    _________0X -___                  I_              __     IPerfenm        RaIinI
Number  Days  Spedalized
Prejee Cycle<; :  : . Dat              ef       In   StaffSkilL    InlMea'n     Develpment  1T)esof
_________  ____________0R:            Persons  Fidd  Rep reweted       Satus        Objives   Probm
Identification    January 23, 1990                                       n/a           n/a         n/a
Pre-appraisal      June 2-12, 1990       2       8    EC.OA              n/a           n/a         n/a
Appraisala             None                                              n/a           n/a         n/a
Negotiation      January 14-25, 1991     2       11   PO. OA             n/a           n/a         n/a
Supervision I    June 19 - July 5, 1991  3       16   EC. OA. IT         NR            NR
Supervision 2      July 2-15. 1992       2       13   EC. OA              2             2          PW
Supervision 3    November 8-20. 1992     2       12   EC. OA              2             2          PW
Supervision 4    March 31- 9 April 9.    2       9    EC. PO. OA          2             2          PW
1993
Mid-Term        January 31 - February    3       9    EC. CO. OA          2             2          PW
Review                9,1994                                                       _
Supervision 6     March 1-8, 1995        2       7    CO. IT              S             S
Supervision 7     September 10-15.       2       5    CO. EC              S             S
1995                     _
Supervision 8      June 14. 19966        2       10   CO. PO              5             S           IC
Supervision 9       July 8. 1997t        2       5    EC. PO              S             S           IC
Supervision 10    March 27. 1998    I   2             EC. OA              S             S
Completion                          I   I        c    EC                 U              U
a. No appraisal mission, the project was deemed sufficiently appraised at the pre-appraisal review meeting.
b. Form 590 date, only.
c. Implementation completion work was done by resident mission staff.
Specialization                                              Types of Problems
CO = Country Officer                                        IC = Implementation Capacity
EC  Economist                                               PW=         Procurement
IT = Information Technology Specialist
OA = Operations Assistant
PO = Project Officer



26
Appendix A
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2224-GH)
The following pages are an excerpt from the Government of Ghana's evaluation report on
the EMS project prepared by the Minister of Finance and received on December 21,
1998. The entire report is available in the project files in AFC 10.



In cam of repJy the
namber ad daze of this                                                    MINISTRY  OF FINANCE
eDer? shouid bequotei. O. Box M 40
ot*gwO .r..ef.iE;.D  a 4A                            !                                 f  >  ........ ACCRA.
Your Ref No.............
Tel. NO ....s.c OP. GHA..      WC.k....S  1Cj O
.......... .. .    ...... . .... ........ ..........
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT SUPPORT (EMS) PROJECT
(CR. 2224 GH).
As vou are aware the EMS Project formnally closed on June 30. 1998.
2.    The Implementation  Completion Report for the project has been completed
and is herewith forwarded for your review and records.
3.    You mav wish to  peruse the document and let us have your comments
please.
(MR. M.A. QUIST THERSON)
HEAD WORLD BANK DESK
For: MINISTER FINANCE
THE COUNTRY DIRECTOR
WORLD BANK MISSION
ACCRA



Document ot
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
IMPLMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT SUPPORT( EMS) PROJECT
(Cr. 2224-GH)
November 1998
Prepared by the World Bank Desk Ministry of
Ftnance.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
(CR. 2224 GH)
PREFACE
The Govemment. through the Ministry of Finance and other agencies initiated discussion
with the World Bank in 1990 for the Economic Management Support (EMS) Project, - the
successor credit to the Structural Adjustment Institutional Support (SAIS) project. to support
the logistical requirements needed for the implementation of the third Structural Adjustment
Programme.
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Economic Management Support
Project ( EMSP) in Ghana for which Credit 224-GH in the amount SDR10.7 million
(US $15 million equivalent) was negotiated in Accra on January 21,1991. received IDA
Board approval on the 28"' of March 1991 and declared effective in Mid-July 1991. The
project was originally expected to close 30th June 1996 but was extended three times, from
June 1996 to December 31' 1996. It received a further extension to December 1997, and
finally the closing date established for 30'h June 1998.
Preparation of this ICR is based on the Project Memorandum, the Credit Agreement,
Supervision Reports. Mid-Term Review, progress reports, project audits. correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower.



IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
A.      ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT'S SUCCESS AND SUSTAINABILITY
5.0   The Project was implemented on the basis of annual work programmes prepared by
each beneficiary. The work programmes which were prepared at the beginning of each year
focused on requisite activities aimed at strengthening the capacitv of the beneficiary agencies
as well as its quality of delivery of services. In addition to the expected output there was also
a focus on the process of implementation. These work programmes served as a combination
of planning. implementation and monitoring tool which provided the flexibility to ensure
adjustment of project activities to changing circumstances. In this regard various requests
relating to funding of Consultancies. studies, purchase of equipment operating and
maintenance allocations and training were readily accommodated. The status reports of these
beneficiaries which were regularly collated confirmed not onlv the successes chalked, but
also that desired output were achieved. This by implication was a demonstration that the
positive/qualitative changes recorded translated into improvement of administrative and
analytical capacity of these agencies. In addition the reports confirmed that administrative
capacitv was being developed in the right direction. The various improvements confirmed the
fact that the intended developmental impact was attained .
5.1.  A Mid- Term Review of the Project was conducted in January- February 1994.
Following a request from the GOG to the Bank, the balances on the Project were reallocated
(as per Aide Memoire of 8h February 1994, Column B Table 2 - See excerpts overleaf.) to
three core areas as the priorities for the Government: Policy Analysis Division (PAD) of the
Ministry of Finance. Ghana Statistical Service; (GSS) and Expenditure Management. The
reallocations modified the original budget for the beneficiaries.(See column C Table 3-
Analysis of Disbursements page 17, which incorporated the re-allocations and reflected the
new operational budget after the mid- term review).
12



TABLE 2.
Economic Management Support Project (cr. 2224-GH)
Status of Actual disbursements and proposed Commitments/Reallocation as per
Excerpts of Aide Memoire dated 8'h Feb 1994.
(US S'000 1
Indicative  Actual -  Current   FY.94    Avail.fo  Proposed
Budget    Disburs  Uncommi  Budget   r            Reallocat-
Planned Focus                    ement   t. Funds   Request  Realloc  ion
ation
Policy Anaivsis(PAD I/      310       42        268       268                       200
GSS                        1040       269       771        55      716
Debt Mlgt.                  260       45        215       171       44
Sub-total               1610      356       1254       494      760              200
Fiscal Management
Budget/ BWIG                550       121       429       429                      1100
IERD                        210      252        -42                 -42
IPAD                        450       84        366       276       90
C&AG                       1090       368       722                 722            -600
IPPD/CAG/OHCS 2/           2080      1031      1048      3500    -2452             2452
Audit 3/                   1400      1139       261       261        0
Sub-total               5780     2995       2785      4466    -1682             2952
Domes. Res.
Mobilization.
NRS                         350       106       244       253       -9                0
Customs & Excise           1000       165       835       109      726             -S00
IRS                         670       65        605       176      492                0
Sub-total                  2020      336       1684       538     1146             -500
Combined CSRP 4/           2960      517       2156      1000     1156             -452
Public Services Corn.       170        16       154       154
Redeplovment Mgt            260       117       143       143
..CoU
Others.
Phvsical & Price Cont.     1580                1580               1580            -IS80
UNALLOCATED                 620                 620                620             -620
TOTAL                  15000      4337      10376     6795      3580               0
Note Source of actual disbursements and current uncommitted funds by Implementing
Agencies as of December 31, 1993 was provided by World Bank Desk, MFEP.
1/     If Professor Hashimoto's visit does not materialize, or if there are savings from
the current allocation in this account, then the excess allocation should be used for
funding equipment costs of the restructured PAD.
2/     FY94 Includes $2.Om for IPPD Hardware, $ . Sm for training, $ .Sm for post-
completion operation, and $ .5m for contingencies.
3/     Includes foreign & local allocation as per Memorandum of the President (MOP).
4/     FY94 includes capital expenditure S 700,000 and training $ 300,000
Status 11
08-Feb-94
13



5.2. The September 1995. supervision mission. helped to reallocate the uncommitted and
free funds amounting to about $1.5m as per EMS Project disbursement status as at 30'h
June 1995. to the following strategic users: (See Column G Table 3 - Analysis of
Disbursements below which incorporated the adjustments .)
* Project preparation for Public Financial Management Reform Programme (PUFMARP)-$
500.000
* Ghana Living Standard Survey (GLSS4) with labour force module) -5100,000
* National Institutional Renewal Programme (NWP) immediate needs for program take off
-5 50.000.
* Maintenance and other completion costs for Integrated Personnel Payroll and database
(IPPD) Project -5350.000
* Management Services Division (MSD) of the Office of the Head of Civil Service.-
51 50,000
5.3   The Project was originally extended from 30th June 1996. to 3 15' December 1996, and
to allow for disbursement of the uncommitted amount of $1.5m. the Project was further
extended to 31 5' December 1997. A further extension was obtained to 30th June 1998, for a
foreseen un-disbursed balance of about $775,442.57 and this was mainly to be applied to the
preparatory activities of the Ghana Living Standard Survey (GLSS4). This survey was for
the continuation of the program to monitor the socio-economic impact of Ghana's structural
adjustment program. and to assist the Government in formulating its anti-poverty program.
5.4   The extension of the EMS Project to 30th June 1998 enabled the GSS complete the
preparatory work for the take off GLSS 4.
The Work Programme which were successfully pursued by the GSS for the GLSS4
preparatory activities. included the following:
I Finalizing Questionaire with the Bank
i Finalizing Manual for Supervisors and Interviewers
* Rewriting Data Entry and Editing Systems
* Placing order for Equipment
* Household listing Updating
* Printing of Manuals
* Pretest of Questionnaires
* Analysis of Pre-test Results
* Recruitment of field personnel
* Training of Data entry Personnel
* Printing of Questionnaire for the Field Data collection expected to start by
the end of 1998.
For these preparatory work activities, US$500,000 was allocated. While the balance was to
have been utilized for the project management institutional support and for off-setting of
commitments.
14



5.5  It must be emphasised that though funds were reallocated in the course of project
implementation. the reallocation occurred for the attainment of priorities determined within
the same core Economic Management Agencies. This inbuilt flexibilitv augured well for full
and meaningful utilisation of the resources. which resulted in giving the beneficiaries
strengthened foundation for the continuation of its developmental activities. Measurable
output and outcome of these beneficiaries were their ability to undertake increased activities
which originally they would not have been able to undertake. This in effect resulted in the
strengthening of the institutional foundation and removal of the bottlenecks in the operations
of these beneficiary institutions.
5.6   Generally the EMS project activities progressed successfully. Most of the components
under the fiscal component and resource mobilization are sustainable and are currently
receiving further enhancement through funding under the current Financial Management
Technical Assistance Project Cr. 2925 FIMTAP.'PUFMARP as well as the on-going
assistance from the DFID for the further improvement in the preparation of the Medium Term
Expenditure Framework (MTEF). It must however be mentioned that in some instances
activities moved slowly given the reluctance of some beneficiaries to comply with required
procedures like timely submission of work programmes, for timely preparation of
Aggregated Procurement Plan, which also meant that deliveries of logistics/equipment
ordered on aggregated basis, often tended to prolong.
However there were remarkable improvement in Institutional Capacity Building, Skills
Development, and remarkable efficiency in the operating capacity of the beneficiary
agencies.
The firm foundation now built under the Civil Service Reform Component (CSRP) is
currently being entrenched, intemalised and sustained through the funding support from the
Department for Intemational Development (DflD) and the Govemment, under its new
programme. Civil Service Performance Improvement Programme (CSPIP) under the Office
of the Head of the Civil Service (OHCS). The assistance ensures future complete
sustainability and complete success for strengthened institutions.
5.7   To ensure permanency, entrenchment and sustainability of capacity building effort
started, a national programme called National Institutional Renewal Programme (NIRP)was
created in 1994. During the mid-term review of the EMS Project, National Institutional
Renewal Programme (NIRP) was provided $50,000 for immediate needs for program take
off. NIRP was created in order to focus and give strategic direction to the many reform
activities taking place within the public sector, in line with improving the capacity of the
nation to hold together all the reform initiatives embarked on. The inbuilt flexibility in the
EMS Project allowed for allocating some resources for this programme take off. The
resources provided was fully utilised for the NIRP's preparatory activities which among
other things included foundation studies of the various Public Institutions. The NIRP effort
has been sustained through the Government commitment and further assistance under an
initial PPF 984 GH. of US$400,000 from IDA and a PHRP grant of US$385,000. For this
initial support from the EMS Project and other subsequent support NIRP can now boast of a
strategic document " Public Sector re-invention and Modemization Strategy" - which
provides a framework for integrating, sequencing and monitoring the reforms and which
15



addressed the kev weaknesses. in terms of the analytical capacity of the public sector. The
NIRP is currently expected to receive further assistance from the IDA which would sustain it
to move towards integration of the various activities at the different levels of government.
B. SUMMARY OF COSTS AND FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS
6.0 The total costs were estimated at US$ 23.03 equivalent. including taxes and duties, out of
which IDA was to fund US$15 million. The ODA was to provide a co-financing mainly
for overseas training and advisory services for specific components estimated to cost US$
3.93 million. The Ghana Government provided the rest of the support which was estimated
at US$ 4.10 million. (The ODA portion was administered fully by the ODA and was not
channeled through the World Bank Desk which coordinated the IDA portion. as such, this
Implementation Completion Report covers only the IDA portion of the funding.)
Table 2.
Finascine Plan
Local     Foreign   Total
Government                               4.10        0.00    4.10
UK ODA                                    0.00       3.93    3.93
IDA                                       5.22        9.78    15.00
9.32       13.71    23.03
6.1  For the analysis of the IDA disbursement see table 3 below. Column A represented
the original budgetary estimates. As the project progressed with the various reallocations and
adjustments in the cause of implementation Column G was established as the actual budget
approvals as per aide memoires submitted by the Bank task managers.
16



Table 3
ANANLYSIS OF DISBURSEMENTS
Indicative   Re-       Biudre        BalanCe     Proposed    Re-alloc.    New Budpet   Total           Total disburs.
Bud.et      alloCation    Aide       for re-    re-alloc. at  after Sept.  after       disbursement    As at 30191 98.
Planned Focus               Mid-Term    Memoire    allo0. at      30-6 95    95          Sept.'95      as at 31/12-97   (CR.2224.GH.
Review      Feb 1994.   30-6-95                  Mission.    Mission.                      Final closing
Aide                                                                                       date)
Memoire
Feb.1994
A               B        C- A+B          D           E       F.          G.            H               I
A. Econ. Policy
Ansivsis
Policy          310.000        200,000      510,000     278,160   (286282)  0.00         223,718.04    223,718.04      223,718.04
Analysis(PAD)
GSS             1040,000          0.00    1.040,000      52.105      47.895  100,000     1,087,894.96   IA55,516.72    2,114,314.99'
Debt MgL        260.000           0.00      260,000   (275.355)     275,355              535S355       492902.92       514,337.92
B. Fiscal
Manaaement
Budgev BIWIG   550.000        1,100,000    1,650.000   1,037,657   (295355)  600,000     1,358,320     1397,222.83     1,381,55.58
IERD            210.000           0.00      210,000   (647,869)     965,984  250,000     1.175,984     1,085.737.73    1,057,730.89
IPAD            450,000           0.00      450,000     250,677   (226.635)  0.00        223,364.93    223,354.93      223,364.93
C&AG            1090.000      (600,000)     490.000    (68,278)      55,196  0.00        541,520.99    541,520.99      541,520.99
IPPDICAG/       2080,000     2,452,000    4,532,000    (722.632)   1.066,208  350.000    5,598.208     4,976,567.18    4,976,567.18
OHCS
Audit           730.000        670,000    1.400.000      53,807    (85.993)  0.00        1,314,116.85   1,314,116.85    1_14,116.85
C. Domes. Res.
Mobilization.
NRS   (  incl,  350.000           0.00      350,000       4,336      12,357  0.00        362,357.45    353357.45       353,357.45
RGD)
Customs &       1,000,000      500.000      500,000     301.074   (222.418)  0.00        277.581.73    277,581.73      277,581.73
Excise
IRS             670.000           0.00      670,000     596,447   (596,447)  0.00        73.552.59     65,194.86       65,194.86
D. Ci-il Strvice
Reform
Combined        2,960.000      452,000     2508,000     700,396   (678,948)  200.000     1,829,053.14   1,782,450.87   1.782,450.87
CSRP '/
Public Services   170.000         0.00      170,000    (49,536)      26,991  0.00        196,990.47    196.90.A7       196.990.47
Corm.
Prices &                          0.00                     0.00        0.00  0.00        0.00          0.00            0.00
Incomes
Board.'
Re-deployment   260.000                     260,000      37.126    (58.018)              201,981.85    201.981.85      201,981.85
Mgt. COnL
E. Others.
Phvsical &      1,580,000    (1,580,000)       0.00                                                    (50.000)"       (50,000)
Price Cont.
VNALLOCA-    1;290,000    (1,290,000)          0.00                                                    0.00            0.00
TED
TOTAL         15.000.000               15.000.000    1.548,115             1,500.000    15.000.000   14.743.917.91    15.274.784.41"
Note 1/  OHCS Incl. MSD . PiB & NIRP
Note 2/  By end 1997 almost all foreseen uncommined resources was made available for GSS I GLSS 4
actkities.
Note 31  Excess disbursement over the S IS m EDA funding for this credit, may be attributable to the eschange differences between the SDR and the US Dollar
rate.
Note 41   This represents the PPF drawn directly by the Bank.



C   IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE.
7.0 The Economic Management Support (EMS) was to have been implemented over a Syear
period . The timing of the key project activities and a summarv implementation schedule
as shown in schedule 2 of the Project document- the Memorandum of the President (MOP)
is reproduced below as well as status of their attainment. It should be noted that some of
the activities moved slowly, and some partially achieved. In the main most of the activities
were accomplished though not as per the set time table.
Summary implementation scbedule 2
TIME TABLE                                  STATUS
MANAGEMENT & ADMINISTRATION
-Hire or assign accounting and project records staff  Jan. 1991        Accounting staff was assigned.
-Assign Training Coordinator                        Jan. 1991          As a result of discussions and agreement with the Bank Supervison
Mission. WBD was to accept training on case by case basts with the
Banks No Objection' to avoid whole sale programmes as
experienced in the past Training was also to relate to project
objectives identified and justified by beneficiaries Training
Coordinator
-Identify training needs of project staff          Jan 1991            Project staff received training
-Coordinate preparation and review ot annual work  Jan-1 991- I 993    Work Programmes was collated annualiv and discussed with Bank
programs                                                               Task Manager
ECONOMIC POLICY ANALYSIS
Polic, Analysis Division
- Canty out Consultancy study                       April- June 1991   Collins Bruce study and Study by Professor Hashimoto conducted on
(PAD)
GHANA STATISTICAL SERVICE
-Set trgets for publications                       Jan. 1991            Time lags for vartous pubihcatuons umproved
-Expand and improve printing facilities            Jan-Dec. 1991       Improved
-Agree on plan to broaden dissemninaton            Jan 1991            GSS currently provides statnstcal /raw data to many researcers
and organizations on request in line wnth plan for broadening
dtssemination.
-Improve dissemination channels                    Jan-Dec. 1991      Channels improved, as organusation now maintauis an information
desk.
DEBT MANAGEMENT
-Install machines and software and train staff at BOG
and CAG                                            Apnl-Dec 1991       Machines installed and staff of BOG & CAGD trained
-Expand svstem to cover domestic debt              Jan- Dec 1992       Domestic debt vet to be fullv covered but system in place for start
up of work
FlSC4,L MANAGEMENT
-Establish Budget Improvement Working Group        Jan. 1991           Budget Improvement Workhng Group established
-Agree on TORs for requirements study for          Jan 1991            TOR though agreed. Budget computensation was done on piece
computerized budget intornation system                                meal approach
-Develop external assistance Infornation system.   Apnl   1991-July
1991
-Carry out budget requtrements study               May 1991            Budget requuement study done
-Design system                                     June1991 -Sept.    Systm design done on piece meal bases.
1991
-Instal system                                     Sept 1991           System installed on piece meal basis
-Finaliz recommendation to improve aid managemennt.  April 1991        Reconmmendation for integnion into IERD finalised
-Implrnent recommendation                          June 1991          Aid Management integrated into IERD and functioning
-Renovate/equip residenttial training school for CAG  June 1991- June  Renovation and equippng accomplished and enabled in-houe
1992               training programmes to be nnL
-Contract with consulting firm, designate Project                     Coopers and Lybrand Firm conutacted to design IPPD. IPPD
management appoint Steenng Group, Technical and                       Stecnng Group with its techiral and user Committees were
Users Committees for iutegrated personnel/payroll                     establised
maagement system                                   Feb1991
-Finalize user requirements                        April 1991 May      User Requuirments was fuualsed
1991
-Seleet software and hardware                      Sept 1991 -Oct.     Software and hardware were selected though this was done laer
1991              than the te table set.
18



Ilnstall hardwarc ano sottware                     \ov 1991            Software and hardware installed though this was done later than the
time table set
-SNstem dessin and development                      Jan -Ma% 1 92      System design and development accompiished though this was done
later than the time table set
-Data conversion, parallel runs, and svstem test   June 1992           Data conversion and parallel runs and system test done though this
was done later than the time table set
N\ew system                                        Oct 1992            IPPD new svstem operational though this was done later than the
time table set
Post- Implementation review                       Jan May1993         Post implementation review conducted. though revealed some
teething management problems DFID has pledged provide support
for its remedy
DOMESTIC RESOURCE MOBILIZATION
-Extend ASYCUDA System                              Junel991-          Planned extension of Asycuda to other major points of Aflao and
Dec. 1993          Elubo could not take place arising form a Crown Agents consultants
study recommendations.
-Finalize proposal to link ASYCUDA with domestic    Dec 1991           Partially implemented
sales and excise taxes
-lnstall system                                     Janl992-Dec        not established
IW3
-Decision to implement a credit svstem of sales tax  Jan 1992           accomilished
- Implementation                                   Jan 1992- Dec       Implemented to some extent though was overtaken by events.
1993
-Undertake requirements studv for computerization of   June 1991 -Dec  Computerisation study was conducted by US IRS
IRS                                                 199
Install systern                                     Jan 1992 -Dec       System was not installed due to the fact that the funding allocation
1993              for this component was inadequate After the mid-tertm revtew the
funds was re-allocated.
CIVIL SERVICE REFORM
-Prepare implementation program for introduction of                    Programme prepared
new grading system                                  March 1991
-Implement new grading structure                    Janl992            Resource constraints prevented its implementation
-Establish Salary Administration Unit in PPMD       Sept 1991          Satary Administration Unit in PPMD estabitshed
Implement revised performance apprasal system       JaL 1991 -Dec      Revaied performance appraisal system in use
1991
Equip accommodation for MSD                        June 1991 -         MSD office accommodation and equipping acconplifshed
Junel992
D   ASSESSMENT OF THE BANK'S AND THE BORROWERS'S PERFORMANCE.
8.0      The   Project performed creditablv. The borrower kept faith with all the covenants of the
Credit Agreement. [he Project's Accounts were audited timeously. Audited report for each year was
submitted verv timely to all concerned. Implementing agencies were keen on accessing their
resources for improving the much needed technical and analvtical skills. though invariably they
complained that the resources allocated were insufficient for their needs.
A disbursement related issue worth mentioning, related to the percentage funding of categories as
per page 6 schedule B of the Project MOP. Originally Equipment. supplies and materials were to
have been  funded  100%  of foreign and 80 %  of local. In addition operating and maintenance was to
have been funded at 50% of the expenditure.
Though the Government Counterpart funding was to a large extent made regularly available, the
beneficiaries were never able to meet either some of its 20% or 50% commitments .
On representation of these difficulties the Bank accepted a revision of this provision, a letter
received on January 7. 1994 modified the provisions and approval was obtained for the Government
to provide onlv 10% to match the IDA funding for those categories.
19



Performance of the project was overall very satisfactory due to the fact that the objectives were
flexible and funds were re-allocated to meet priorities agreed as and when priorities changed.
T he various World Bank task managers at all times reviewed priorities and as long as the priorities
wvere within the original objectives. necessarv approval was granted. for the new directions with
necessary reallocations of resources to support the effort.
Stability of the project was maintained by the fact that overall guidance and coordination was
continuously provided within World Bank Desk of the Ministry of Finance. which acted as the
liaison with the IDA in line with the Projects MOP. Responsibility for implementation of the project
sub-components rested with the implementing agencies as per the MOP. A senior Government staff
of the World Bank Desk who ensured the coordination and monitoring of the project's various
components remained the same through out the life of the project. Records were thus readily
available which accounted for ease of verification of transactions.
Ghana Supply Commission handled all the aggregated procurement plans which were normally
cleared with the Bank. with the exception of a few below the thresholds handled directly bv the
beneticiaries as per the project document, to speed up processing. in line with the Bank Procurement
Guidelines. Where prior no objections' were required from the Bank. they were obtained before
transactions were completed. for procurement. as such there were no major procurement problems
with the Bank. The only concern on procurement related to the delays encountered in the delivery of
these aggregated procurements.
E.    ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT'S OUTCOME
The most important outcome of this project is the qualitative change experienced by most of
the beneficiaries in their way of operation. Activities which were almost at a stand still
experienced resumption of action. This is confirmed by the responses received from a number
of these beneficiaries, in response to the request from the project desk by letter referenced
IDA/IU22.2 dated 24-6-98, to comment on the impact of the project on the activities of these
beneficiaries. The letter administered as well as the responses received are attached as
annex 2.
Bottlenecks in the way of these departments and in their operations have been largely
removed with the provision of the needed equipment, consumables and training in particular
local training and in-house re-training. Given the usefulness of these assistance, a number of
these agencies are still requesting for further assistance and support to supplement the
national resources made available to them, towards attainment of consistent developmental
goals.
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS. FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
A. IMEPORTANT FINDINGS OF PROJECT IPLEMENTATION
EXPERIENCE
Operating efficiency was greatly improved. Most of the beneficiary agencies showed increased
need for resources. However a lot more strategic planning and preparation of concrete and
consistent work activities is imperative for efficiency in resource use. The internalisation of the
project implementation within the Desk responsible for coordination of Government -Bank
Project Portfolio ensured quality coordination of activities and reporting.
20



B. FUTURE OPERATIONS AND SUSTAINABILITY.
Future such operations would assist greatlv in the consolidation of the gains so far made and
would ensure that the various beneficiaries become self sustainable. This implies that, the
qualitative improvement in the activities of these agencies would ensure that the required
results in the national developmental objectives and output are attained.
C LESSONS FOR FUTURE PROJECT IN THE SECTOR.
The importance of preparation of Work Programmes for sourcing resources can not be
underestimated. Even though the requirement for agencies to submit work programmes was
usually not a pleasant exercise for many beneficiaries, it has become increasingly abundantly
clear that resource accessibility are now hinged on activity costing as per the medium term
expenditure framework under the integrated public financial management reform programme.
A number of EMS Project beneficiaries have learnt to operate within this discipline.
Future such projects should entrench this approach to the extent that the beneficiary would
understand clearly why thev are part of a programme and understand their expected output as
well as understand how its objectives linked up into anv identified overall national objective.
21



IBRD 26553
3-BURKINA FASO 12                                                                                             J'
_- -w-' INovro-IIeo                                                                    BOn;--t G   H  A  N  A
Turnu              Nvog0              o
UPE/CITIES AND TOWNS
Lawro                          UPPER                    Sondemo
\ E   OJiropa                          ,                          m       b oboga                          -   PRIMARY ROADS
\ \  W  E S T        \           <                                X                    o0  DISTRICT CAPITALS
7%  Nodowli                              s      K                                   \         %.         @  REGION CAPITALS
,    \   -   /  \,  )    Wolewole  -  - T     L    *   NATIONAL CAPITAL
./ V_>--- DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
-    REGION BOUNDARIES
-  INTERNATIONAL
Lrr  \   ip/BOUNDARIES
_->   (   \                   >                       <               ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ ~~~~Gushiegu<<   
\i- z t  ~~~~~~~~~~~                                              ~          ~  ~Saveluo     SbbO
Io ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ o
.                                           Tolornnso                 g                                N-
~%ntompoo                   b BRONG-AHAFO                                 p                k
E-Kads1~              Kib    ~           0 Ka te
Wenchii          /                                    0 Kwome Donso                            20  3
iDrobom -- Aenchi                                      L Atebubu - ILAKEN
/           nTechma  Nkor                                                                     jebi
j Ejure S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Josiko .
j          S~~~~UNYA I                                                          TI LJ                           i_
{ Ahenkro                      c  A  Bem,r  opn -Swm-  oo
7.  /              ,    >           \                                       t~~~~~~~          ~    ~ ~~~~ Danso O   \ 
\   .  KenyOoyTepoO   \Off nso\    o  CEffiduose                           n             D           1994
, ~~~~~O    (               _ Monkrqns     o     O oMomnponteng ,   /
'   <_            W            ~~~~~~~~~Nkowie  -KUMAS1         s                                               (EHO 
\   +   / j>ni         --t -- O          JunW                   Be oro '    v~~V O L T A'
\     0                          NMkwano to    |Bekwai             OAS T E RNa,A
IJuobe509sJ/oe    /--- 
X Y ~~~Wiaws~                                                                      0             Krobp g
;                       ~~~~~~~~~on Offit;\            Akim Odoa              )N c     a do                                   Kt
|  EncOhi    ~ Asankrongwo            \2E<~o Fos:                                                                      Ado \-
-i                         ) X ;  ~~~~~~~~~~~Abura    0jmoo     Co     
i  ~~~~~~    ~~~    >    \~~~Dunkwa                                                     0       10  20  30   40  50   60O
F               Tcrkwo               >  \ Tork 0                   Winneia                                 MLES
~~ <-t    a                    90boeseo>    Sollponds                      The bourwiris, colors, dsnomintotns and any  tarif'o
'  HofAssinl ^>               r    ~~~~~~Elmn  PEO5                 shown on this map do not rimply, on th  part ofTh  k        Banks
,<_  _                       Goup, ony  nt  rJn the regal stutu of Orly wter'oy, or any
\    -  ;ww=5EKvNDl                       en~~~drsmnt ords po.:  ftsuh bonare.
Axim       A     zn   TAKORADI GULF OF GUINEA:
DECEMBER 1994



