Document of                                      p  y
The World Bank                         L   COP
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2365-MOR
MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INTEGRATED PROJECT FOR SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT
March 26, 1979
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Dirham (DH)
US$1  =  DH 4.00 (average 1978)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BCM       Banque Commerciale du Maroc
BCP       Banque Centrale Populaire
BdM       Banque du Maroc
BMCE      Banque Marocaine pour le Commerce Exterieur
BMCI      Banque Marocaine pour le Commerce et l'Industrie
BNDE      Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Economique
BRP       Banque Regionale Populaire
CCG       Caisse Centrale de Garantie
CDM       Credit du Maroc
CNCA      Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
DFC       Development Finance Company
ISCAE     Institut Superieur de Commerce et d'Administration
des Entreprises
MCI       Ministere du Commerce et de l'Industrie
MSI       Medium Scale Industrie
ODI       Office pour le Developpement Industriel
PSA       Procedure Simplifiee Accelerge
SGMB      Societe Generale Marocaine de Banque
SSI       Small Scale Industry
SSE       Small Scale Enterprise



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MOROCCO
INTEGRATED PROJECT FOR SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   INTRODUCTION .................,.,,,....                         1
II.   THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR ...........................            2
r                       A.  Past Performance ......................           ...       2
B.  Prospects .....................,,,. ...                    4
III.   THE SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY SUBSECTOR .................            5
A.  Characteristics and Past Performance of SSIs                5
B.  Main Development Constraints for SSIs ..........           9
C.  Strategy and Prospects for SSI Development   ,            12
IV.   THE FINANCIAL SECTOR ...............................           14
A.  Introduction ...................................          14
B.  BNDE ..........       ,      ............                 15
C.  The Commercial Banks ...........................          15
D.  Cost of Capital ......,,,,,,.......                       17
E.  Existing Mechanisms for Lending to SSIs ........          18
V.   PROPOSED INTEGRATED SSI DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM .21
A.  Objectives .............., , .                 ......     21
B.  Beneficiaries .......................,,..               21
C.  Institutional Arrangements .,                   ,         22
D. Subprogram and Costs .23
E.  Policy-Making Unit and Promotional Activities             24
F.  Technical Assistance Unit (TAU) ................          25
G.  Lending and Guarantee Subprogram ...............          28
H.  Project Justification:  Benefits and Risks .....          33
VI.   RECOMMENDATIONS ....................................           35
1.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the              38
Project File
This report is based on the findings of missions which visited Morocco in
April, June and November, 1978. All three missions comprised Messrs. F. Ibanez,
M. Diop and F. Ettori. Mr. J.F. Landeau and Ms. K. Nguyen participated in the
June mission. Mr. J. Levitsky participated in the November mission.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MOROCCO
INTEGRATED PROJECT FOR SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01       After a few years of constructive dialogue, the Bank and the Govern-
ment of Morocco have now agreed to launch the first integrated SSI development
program in the country.  Exchange of ideas about an SSI project started in
1975, during preparation of the seventh loan to BNDE. As a result, the eighth
loan to BNDE (loan 1428-MOR, 1977) included a pilot component of $5 million,
for SSI subloans, to be channeled through BNDE and Banque Centrale Populaire
(BCP). In addition, the pilot component proposed a sector study to identify
the potential and constraints for development of SSI in Morocco. The study
was completed in early 1978 by a consultant 1/. The proposed project will
expand the activities initiated under the pilot project and draw upon the
conclusions of the above sector study to help get underway the first inte-
grated SSI development program in Morocco. Two preparatory missions, in April
and June 1978, discussed the project concept and agreed with the Government on
a basic project design and on the necessary institutional requirements. A
third mission, in November 1978, appraised the proposed project for a possible
Bank loan of US$25 million to the Government of Morocco.
1.02       The SSI integrated program would entail creation or build-up of
institutions in the areas of policy-making, technical assistance, financial
guarantee and financial assistance. Th,-- institutional "software" tc carry out
this program was set-up as part of the project preparation and started opera-
tions, on a limited basis, before apprai-sal. The proposed Bank loan would aim
at: (i) financing small industries through the commercial banking s)stem and
BNDE; (ii) financing the establishment c.f a technical assistance uni: in
ODI; (iii) financing promotion and identification of SSI by the participating
agencies; and (iv) assisting the Government of Morocco in the establishment
and strengthening of the institutions involved in the program. The proceeds
of the loan are expected to finance over 200 sub-projects and to generate
some 5,000 productive jobs, mainly in urban areas.
1.03       This project involves greater implementation risks than traditional
DFC loans and will require more than average supervision, largely because of
the innovative features in the institutional arrangements and the limited
experience in small industry promotion and assistance in Morocco. These dif-
ficulties, however, have been taken into account in the design of the project
1/   SORCA-BMB "Etude du Secteur de la Petite Industrie  au Maroc", June 1978.



-2-
and the Government of Morocco has already given evidence of its strong commit-
ment to it through the rapid establishment of the required institutions and
through a very significant contribution to the preparation of this project.
Furthermore, while some procedures under the project are elaborate, they
represent a considerable simplification over the existing situation. In
conclusion, the higher risks seem more than balanced by the Government's
commitment to the project and by the expected contribution of the project to
the development of SSIs in Morocco.
II. THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR
A. Past Performance
2.01       Over the past ten years, Morocco's manufacturing sector (including
handicrafts) has been growing at a healthy 6.3% p.a. in real terms and, in the
Third Plan period (1973-77), growth accelerated to 7.2% p.a. Employment in
modern manufacturing (excluding handicrafts) totalled 186,000 in 1976 and has
been growing at a rate of nearly 6.0% p.a. during the 70's, which is higher
than the rate of growth of active population (3.8% during 1971-76). Despite
these rates of growth the share of manufacturing in GDP and employment remains
modest (16.4% and 11.1% respectively, in 1977) and leaves ample room for addi-
tional expansion. Exports of manufactured products also recorded relatively
high growth rates (about 10% p.a.in real terms) but they still represent only
10% of manufacturing output and only 24% of total exports. Past industrial
growth has been predominantly centered around import substitution in final and
durable consumer goods and in basic construction materials. Import substitu-
tion policies followed in Morocco over thie last Plan 1/ had serious effects
on the balance of payments. Imports of industrial equipment increased from
DH 850 million in 1973 to DH 4,970 million in 1977, while imports of raw
materials and intermediate goods for industry grew from DH 1,800 million in
1973 to DH 4,350 million in 1977. The balance of payments deficit for manu-
facturing amounted to DH 7,250 million in 1977 representing 85% of the coun-
try's deficit in the balance for goods and services.
2.02       Investment in manufacturing during the Third Plan period are esti-
mated at over DH 6.5 billion as compared to DH 1.9 billion for the previous
Plan period. Implementation of large pubiic sector projects and a favorable
1/ "Import substitution" is in many cases a misnomer. "Import reproduction"
would be a more accurate description in cases where new factories have been
set up to reproduce as closely as pos;sible facsimiles of previously imported
or potentially importable products, using designs, brand names and compo-
nents of foreign origin and where lit:tle attempt has been made to promote
real substitutes that would better suit Morocco's available resources.



-3-
investment climate following the enactment of a new Investment Code in 1973
contributed to this considerable increase. This increase came almost exclu-
sively from national sources; foreign investors remained aloof mainly because
of the "Moroccanisation" laws making it an obligation for most industrial
and commercial firms to be at least 51 percent owned by Moroccan nationals.
Private investment in manufacturing rose steadily from DH 887 million in 1973
to DH 2,529 million in 1977.1/  Public investment soared from DH 90 million
to DH 2,616 million in 1976, as a result of the Government's decision to use
increased resources from phosphate sales to accelerate the pace of industrial-
ization through investment in basic industries. The decrease in phosphate
prices did not allow the Government to continue this policy and investments,
in 1977, fell back to DH 290 million.
2.03      Unemployment remains a major problem in Morocco, which has a rate
of growth of population of over 3% p.a. In 1977, the number of urban
unemployed was estimated to be nearly 340,000 (nearly 13% of the urban labor
force). Morocco is one of Africa's most urbanized nations. Since the begin-
ning of this century the urban population has increased 15-fold; annual urban
population increases have averaged about 4.5% over the last ten years. The
country's 1977 population was 17.2 million, with 6.9 million in urban areas.
By the end of this century the urban population is expected to have leached
20 million, representing about 60% of Morocco's total population. The most
serious problems facing the country's cit:ies are housing shortage and unemploy-
ment. 2/ The number of jobs created through investment in the manufacturing
sector durir,g the Third Plan period amounited to 75,000 as compared to 30,000
during the previous Plan but fell short of the 90,000 set forth as initial
objective.   The average cost per job created by manufacturing was about
DH 60,000 dLring the Second Plan and increased, in current terms, to DH 90,000
during the Third Plan period. In addition to price increase in capital goods,
other reasor,s have favored the increase in capital intensity, among them: the
customs exemptions for imported capital ;oods, the interest rebates on indus-
trial investment loans and the tax deducJions on investments (acceleiated
depreciatior.), which are provided for by the Investment Code.  Manuf cturing
continued tc be heavily concentrated aloig the Casablanca-Kenitra axis which
provides 757 of manufacturing employment3 (54% in Casablanca alone). From the
policies adopted and in light of the resalts achieved it appears that over the
past five years manufacturing has not sufficiently contributed to either
employment creation or to regional development which remain major Go'ernment
concerns in Morocco.
1/   Investment in this section is total cost of projects approved under
Investment Code provisions, as reported in BNDE Annual Report, 1977.
2/   Urban development issues have been (described in the Staff Appraisal
Report (1800-MOR) on the Rabat Urban Development Project, dated
February 3, 1978.



- 4-
B. Prospects
2.04      Major changes in the economic environment and in industrial policy
have recently taken place or are currently in preparation. In 1976, the
Government felt the need to take stock of past results and to draw-ut a long
term industrial development strategy, with the assistance of a group of
foreign consultants. 1/ Drastic measure:; were announced, in May 197&, to
rebalance the economy after its record re!source gap (21% of GDP) and budget
deficit (19%; of GDP) in 1977; a Three-Year interim Plan has been prelared for
1978-80 stressing the need to reduce non-essential investments and ii,,ports.
As a result, GDP is expected to grow by inly 3-4% p.a. over the peri(d 1978-81
and by some 6% p.a. afterwards, with exp)rts increasing 6.5% p.a. M nufactur-
ing growth i6-6.5% p.a. during 1978-81) rould be fueled essentially ly the
local demanc and substitution of some of the curtailed imports and b, a con-
tinuation of the export orientation of s me branches (e.g. textiles, leather).
2.05      Investment in manufacturing is projected by the Plan to reach
DH 5.45 billion, of which DH 3.1 billion by the public sector.  The sectoral
programs for large industries (sugar, cexlent, phosphates) would absorb some
DH 3.85 billion. Private investments wouLld comprise DH 1 billion for sugar
and cement, and DH 1.35 billion to be in-ested primarily by medium and small
industries in their priority subsectors, namely: small chemical units,
construction materials, mechanical industries, food processing, wood and
textiles/leather. Based on past performance, on analysis of comparative
advantages and on resource constraints, i.ndustries based on local resources
with adequate supply and those using larl;e amounts of unskilled labor seem to
be those with larger growth potential. Among them, construction materials
(for the domestic market), phosphates andi some food products (for exports)
constitute the first group of industries, the second group of industries
comprise essentially clothing, leather products and some metal working indus-
tries (e.g. foundries). SSIs using labor-intensive processes are predominant
among this latter group (see Table 2.1).
2.06      While the long-term strategy fcr the industrial sector will still
require some time to be finalized, the industrial program for the 1978-80
Plan calls for the following Government actions: (i) continuing the on-
going sectoral programs for sugar, cement and phosphates; (ii) improving
regional distribution of industries through promotion, incentives, industrial
estates and other; (iii) strengthening industrial exports by restructaring
some subsectors (food industries), enforcing quality controls, and establish-
ment of a center for export promotion; (iv) implementing institutionaL mea-
sures for development of equipment goods industries; and (v) setting-up the
institutional support for development of small and medium industries which
1/   Dar Al liandasah "Etude d'Identification et d'Evaluation des Possibilites
d'Investissements industriels." Preliminary reports, August 1977.



- 5 -
Table 2.1: MOROCCO: EXPORTS, LABOR INTENSITY, LABOR COST
IN MANUFACTURING (1976)
Number
Exports/                  Average Salary  of Enterprises
Sub-Sector                Output   Labor/Output   SSIs/   Others  SSIs/   Others
(Manyear/    -(iDH '000 p.a.) 7%)       T7T
DH Million)
Food Industries              11          6             9       14       79     21
Textiles/Leather             21         26             4.5      6.5    85      15
Wood/Paper                   12         13             9       13      85      15
Sub-total Traditional
Industries                12          12             7       10      83      17
Technological Industries    6            8            13       16       74     26
Overall Manufacturing        10         10             9       12      81      19
/a   Defined for statistical purposes as enterprises with 5 to 50 workers.
See Chapter II.
can create employment at lower cost per job, contribute to regional devel-
opment and help integrate the industrial sector. Among several measures
under consideration to implement this scrategy are the following: (i) a
revision of the investment code to favor labor intensive and selected indus-
tries in specific sectors; (ii) various forms of assistance for export-oriented
industries; (iii) the starting of a technical assistance scheme for small
industries; and (iv) the expansion of vocational training programs. Most of
the above actions and measures constitute a welcomed shift in favor of small
and medium industries, whose characteristics, as will be seen in the next
chapter, allow them to make an important contribution to achieving national
goals for employment, regional development and balance of payments.
III.   THE SMALL SCALI INDUSTRY SUBSECTOR
A.   Characteristics and Past Peformance of SSIs
Definition
3.01      Morocco has a long tradition of craftmanship and business capabili-
ties but there is no official definition of SSIs and their importance is not
appropriately reflected in the official statistics. The most recent industrial



- 6 -
survey, for 1976, which excludes firms with less than 5 employees or activi-
ties considered handicrafts 1/, reports about 3,200 small industrial enter-
prises with less than 50 employees. Other sources 2/ estimate at 60,000 the
total number of small industrial units if firms with less than 5 workers and
handicrafts workshops are included. Similarly, employment in the modern
industrial sector was reportedly 186,000 in 1976, while total employment in
industry, including handicrafts, was estimated for the same year at 400,000.
The only admiinistrative definition of SSI presently used is the eligibility
threshold for medium term credit by the Central Bank. For that purpose
small and medium scale enterprises are jointly defined as those with assets
under DH 5 million (US$1.25 million) and annual sales under DH7.5 million
(US$1.88 million).
3.02      For the purpose of analysis and for the design of the proposed
project the Bank, in consultation with the Government, and taking account
of the consultant's survey, defined SSIs as those enterprises having a total
cost of project, or total assets after expansion, of less than DH 2.5 million
($625,000) 3/ and a capital/labor ratio under DH 40,000 in prices of 1978 (see
para. 4.03 for detailed definition of sub-groups of beneficiaries). Firms in
the above target group will generally employ less than 50 workers and, while
there will be no lower limit in the size, the majority will most probably
employ more than 5 workers. To a large extent, therefore, the charateristics
of the target group can be assimilated wuth those of the 5-49 workers segment
of the 1976 industrial survey.
Sectoral Characteristics of SSIs
3.03      Based on the Industrial Survey of 1976, the target group covers
about 3,200 firms employing over 43,000 workers. They represent 81% of all
establishments and 23% of manufacturing employment, in the formal sector.
The value added by these enterprises is tstimated at DU 1.035 millior, or
21% of manufacturing value added, in l97i,. The subsectoral structurE of SSI's
(see Table 3.1) is dominated by three activities: food/beverages, textiles/
clothing, and electro-mechanical industr es. SSIs in these three sut-sectors
account for three-fourths of all SSI est,blishments and employment ar,d for 70%
of total SSI value added, following a sui,-sectoral distribution similar to
that in overall manufacturing. In terms of location, modern SSIs follow the
pattern of larger industries, and are coicentrated in the Casablanca-Rabat-
Kenitra axis and a couple of large urban areas (Fes and Marrakech), ihich
1/  Handicrafts are defined as enterprisEs producing designated tradicional
goods and with an investment cost/jot under DH 5,000/job, regardl½ss of
the size of firms.
2/ Dar Al Handasah, "Etude d'Identification et d'Evaluation des possibilites
d'investissements industriels au Marcc", August 1977.
3/   The Banlc's indicative operational definition of SSI is:  firms wLth fixed
assets before expansion of less than $250,000, in 1976 prices. Both
definitions are comparable on an after expansion basis, in 1978 ?rices.



-7 -
comprise two-thirds of all SSI establishments and employment, and generate 57%
of SSI value added. The very small enterprises (less than 5 workers) and
handicrafts are probably better disseminated in smaller towns and in rural
areas but their exact distribution is not known since they have been excluded
from industrial surveys.
Table 3.1:  MOROCCO:  SUB-SECTORAL )ISTRIBUTION OF SSIs - 1976
No. of enter-      SSI Employment    SSI Value Added
prises as % of          as % of            as % of
SSIs     Total      SSIs      Total      SSIs      Total
Sub-Sector                 Total  Sub-sector  Total  Sub-sector  Total  Sub-sector
Food, beverages,
tobacco                     23        79        21       18          39        22
Textiles, Clothing;
leather                     38        85        37       26          16        24
Construction
materials                    9        86          9      31           6        17
Wood; paper;
miscellaneous               12        85         11      32          10        25
Chemicals, parachems;
plastics                     5        69          6      20          12        17
Electro-mechanical
industries                  13        75        16       22          16        19
Total                       100        81        100      23         100        21
Source:  Industrial Survey, 1976.  Prelitiinary results extrapolated (n basis
of employment.
Performance
3.04      Morocco's industrial developmeuLt strategy in the last decade has
given priority to large public enterprises and, more recently, to modern
medium-to-large privately owned enterprit;es benefitting from generous incen-
tives and institutional support. While :;SIs activities have not inten-
tionally been discouraged, they have received little specific support. Their
growth was moderate (see Table 3.2) 1/ w-.th a quasi-stagnation of their labor
1/   Rates of growth in Table 3.2 are rather distorted by the exclusion in 1976
of the atore dynamics SSIs , those which graduated to medium industries
(over 50 employees) between the years of comparison (1969 and 1976).
Nevertheless, these rates illustrate how the SSI group has been left
behind in the process of industrialization.



- 8-
productivity due to low expansion and little renewal of their capital stock,
to transfer of their skilled workers either to larger firms or to foreign
countries, 1/ and to lack of technical assistance in management and produc-
tion. The consultant's survey reported more than 50% of SSIs using equipment
aged 10 years or more and estimated that between a 30 and a 50% increase in
profitability could be gained by simple changes in production management.
Table 3.2: MOROCCO: MAJOR CHARACTERISTICS OF SSIs (5-50 EMPLOYEES)
1969      1976       Growth (% p.a.)
1.  Number of SSI establishments             2,840       3,200            1.7
2.  SSI Employment                          37,230      43,110            2.1
3.  Average employment per establishmeni        13.1        13.5
4.  2 as % of manufacturing employment          29.4        23.2
5.  SSI Value-Added (MDH 1969 constant
prices)                                  575        685             2.5
6.  5 as % of Manufacturing Value-Added         28.5        21.1
7. SSIs Value-Added per employee
(1969 DH'OOO)                             15.4       15.9          0.4
8. Value-Added per employee in non SSIs
(1969 DH'000)                             16.1        18.0          1.6
Source: Industrial Surveys 1969, 1976.
3.05      On the other hand, a large number of small firms have been suc-
cessful in satisfying local needs where they enjoy advantages of transport
economics (e.g. brick, tiles, furniture, etc.) or in rendering necessary
service to larger industries or local consumers (e.g. automobile and machinery
repairs, printing shops, bakeries, etc.). One example of SSI potential for
adaptability to changing market conditions can be found in their export
performance. While industry as a whole exports only 10% of its output, the
sample of SSIs surveyed by consultants, in 1978, showed a ratio of exports/
output of 30% on average. In sub-sectors, such as textiles and food indus-
tries, where SSIs have the advantage of their low labor costs some firms have
exported more than 60% of their production.
1/   The number of Moroccan workers abroad is currently estimated at 350,000
of which about 200,000 are working in France.



-9-
B. Main Development Constraints for SSIs
3.06      Major problems adversely affecting growth and competitiveness
of SSIs in Morocco are not greatly different from those observed in other
countries at similar stage of development. These problems include: outdated
machinery, deficient production planning, poor accounting and management, lack
of quality control, poor plant layout and product design, insufficient institu-
tional financing, lack of skilled labor. Government support to SSIs has until
recently been very limited and, in some areas, nonexistent. The bias3 in favor
of import substitution and high protect:ion (over export promotion and1 low
protection) has, in appearance, helped less efficient SSIs by reduci,ig competi-
tion in price, quality and technological innovation. In reality, however, the
protected markets have, at the same time, encouraged overinvestment, i.e.
excess capacity, in medium and large industries which have found proditable to
extend horizontal integration under "one roof" beyond efficient production
scales. The net effect has been an artificial displacement from their market
of many efficient SSIs producing less sophisticated products based oln local
resources which were not given the benefit of technical assistance to upgrade
the quality or design of their output. Increased competition could limit
integration to processes requiring large series and would encourage the
role of SSIs as suppliers, subconstractors and final producers in ancilliary
and small scale processes, but the transition from traditional small shops
into small but efficient units requires a decisive support from the Govern-
ment. SSIs problems can be grouped in three major categories: those that can
be solved through technical assistance, those requiring financial assistance,
and problems requiring policy changes or institutional support.
Technical Assistance
3.07      Until the inception of the proposed project there were no institu-
tions in Morocco providing effective technical or managerial assistance to
SSIs. As part of the proposed project, a Technical Assistance Unit has now
been established in the Office pour le Developpement Industriel (ODI) to
provide and coordinate technical assistance to SSIs (para. 5.07). The 1977
consultant survey identified the key deficiencies of SSIs in the areas of
technical operations and management, where the main actions are needed, and
singled out three categories of SSIs according to their managerial aptitudes
and dynamism:
a.   Firms with a competent and dynamic management and the clear
prospect to become medium scale firms (they account
for about 15% of SSIs in the survey).
b.   Firms with a dynamic management `i  need of training and
assistance and with a potential for growth (45% of the
SSIs in the survey).
c.   S!;Is with untrained and passiva management and likely
prospects for stagnation (40% of SSIs in the survey).



- 10 -
3.08      Most SSIs of these three categories need to improve their organiza-
tion and management, particularly in administrative and financial matters, and
to a less extent in technical fields where knowledge is somewhat better but
production operations and labor productivity could still be improved. A
majority of the last category of SSIs have shown skepticism towards assistance
and do not appear eager to receive it. An extrapolation of the survey, if
technical assistance is focused initially only on the first two categories,
shows a potential clientele of about 1,900 enterprises with good or promising
prospects of growth. Their self-expressed needs for technical assistance can
be grouped as follows:
Table 3.3: MOROCCO: NATURE AND EXTENT OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE NEEDS OF SSIs
Proportion of SSIs needing the Assistance (%)
Nature of Technical Category    Category a             Category b           Both
General Administration                75                   100                83
Financial Management                  50                   80                 72
Marketing                             50                    70                65
Operations Organization               25                   25                 25
Training of Foremen                   20                   40                 35
Training of Labor                     20                   30                 27
Priorities for technical assistance appear thus to be first for general and
financial management and for marketing, and second for on-the-job training
of foremen and middle-level staff 1/. The program of the Technical Assistance
Unit outlined in para. 5.08 reflects these priorities.
Financial Assistance
3.09      Lack of access to institutional finance, particularly for SSIs
occupying the lower end of the size range, is an important constraint: to SSI
development. It is hard however to ascertain in precise terms the true dimen-
sions of the problem, in view of the absence of, and/or the reluctance to
disclose, detailed financial position of SSIs in official surveys. Ihe com-
mercial banking system (reviewed in Chapter III) has experience only with a
limited, well-to-do group of small entrepreneurs.  The consultant's Eurvey of
1977 revealed a financial structure of SSIs characterized by a weak equity
base, and very low ratios of working capital to fixed assets and to turnover.
Basic cost accounting is generally lacking; some financial accounts are
produced occasionally only for fiscal purposes and tend to be meaningless.
Access to institutional financing is limited by lack of collateral and/or
insufficient equity, and is often avoided because of reluctance to disclose
assets and profits.
1/   SSIs have been reluctant to employ technicians graduating from the insti-
tutional training system, considering these technicians as improperly
trained and too expensive; hence, the need for on-the-job training and
promotion.



- 11 -
3.10      The combination of uncertain raw materials supplies (very important
in food processing, garments, and supplies of tourism centers) and lack of
sufficient working capital puts small entrepreneurs at the mercy of seasonal
market fluctuations and of commercial suppliers who overcharge for their
credits. Based on the consultant's survey and on direct visits to SSIs, the
appraisal mission believes that the lending requirements of SSIs, in terms of
amount and duration, cannot be entirely covered by commercial banks due to the
short duration of their presently available resources, to Banque du Maroc
regulations, limiting their term lending exposure and to the lack of appropriate
securities offered by small enterprises. The major source presently available
to finance SSI investments is a rediscoantable procedure with Banque du Maroc
(Procedure Simplifiee et Acceleree, PSA) which has had rather limited results
(para. 4.1:,). The proposed project wouLd establish a new mechanism (para.
5.11) for providing financial assistance based on more liberal and simplified
procedures than those presently in use and on a guarantee fund to alleviate
collateral requirements.
Institutiortal and Policy Constraints
3.11      Dispersed institutional responsibility and a system of incentives
oriented towards large scale modern enterprises were, until 1978, the charac-
teristics of the framework for development of SSIs in Morocco. In the Invest-
ment Code, tax holidays, exemption from import duties and other incentives are
open to all industrial firms irrespective of size but with an investment of at
least DH 100,000.  The 1977 survey however found that among SSIs, even the
modern ones, there is a very limited knowledge of the incentives available for
industrial development. Among those who knew about the available incentives,
some found limited opportunities to use them anyway because they do not import
their equipment directly and therefore c-annot qualify for rebates on imports
duties, or because they do not value appropriately the tax holidays due to a
very poor accounting system. Another obstacle in the way of SSIs tc benefit
from legal advantage is the requirement of lengthy and detailed questionnaires
which small enterpreneurs are either afraid or incapable to complete. It has
now been recognized that SSIs do not fit into the standard incentives scheme
and, as a result, the Moroccan authorities have agreed to the idea of setting-
up a special SSI Policy-Making Unit in the Ministry of Industry, which will
review, promote and coordinate policies and administrative actions in favor of
SSIs (para. 5.05).
3.12      The statistical base and knowledge of SSI characteristics and
performance needs definite improvements and broadening. Promotion and develop-
ment of SSIs calls for the establishment of an operation-oriented monitoring
system of SSI assistance programs. The responsibility should be put- on the
institutions in charge of the loan administration, in particular BNDE and the
Ministry of Industry, to collect and analyze data on the SSI sub-borrowers
with respect to: capital stock, labor and capital intensities of the prodution
processes, labor productivity, marketing and export performance, replacement
investments as compared to expansion investments, linkages with medium and
large industries. This statistical base should be used to build up "SSI
profiles" which would illustrate and quantify the impact and benefits of



- 12 -
financial and technical assistance in specific subsectors and would greatly
facilitate policy formulation for SSIs and a thorough evaluation of the
economic benefits and returns of future SSI programs in Morocco. Recom-
mendations in this respect are given in para 5.16.
C. Strategy and Prospects for SSI Development
3.13      The Government has now fully recognized the importance of small
enterprises as a means of achieving a dispersed, labor-intensive development
and, more important, their potential in the nurturing of local enterpreneurial
capabilities. The Government realize, at the same time, that significant
results will take a long time to become tangible. Consequently, the long-
and medium-term Goverrment strategy for industrial development, partially
spelled out in the 1979-81 Plan, calls for an increased and sustained role of
SSIs. A strategy for development of SSIs should aim simultaneously at employ-
ment creation, which remains Morocco's priority objective, and at improving
productivity, to help SSIs become a suitable partner in an accelerated indus-
trializationL process. SSI viability and self sustained growth can be attained
by focusing on activities with small economies of scale (e.g. garments,
clothing accessories, leather accessories), catering to specialized n&arket
niches (e.g. printing, office furniture, jewelry), or complementary to produc-
tion processes (e.g. metal coating, machine shops, paints and inks, containers)
of large firms. The transition from traditional small shops into small but
efficient units requires support from the Government through a combination of
policy changes, financial assistance, technical assistance and active promo-
tion of a new generation of SSIs. All such activities should aim at putting
SSIs on an equal footing with the larger firms and encourage a fairer competi-
tion for scarce resources.
3.14      In addition to the steps being taken in connection with the proposed
project, there are other signs of the Government's renewed interest and
commitment to the cause of SSIs. They iticlude:
a.   Organization by BNDE and the Gcvernment of joint meetings
of Moroccan and foreign small and medium entrepreneurs to
explore joint ventures and technological assistance.
b.   Project identification and pronmotional missions by BNDE
in less developed regions in Morocco. The first such
mi3sion, in June-July 1978, covered Northern Morocco
(Tanger, Tetouan, Al-Hoceima arnd Nador) and identified
nearly 200 small and medium projects of which 40 could
be implemented in 1979-80.
c.   The exemption granted to SSI from the import deposit!
requirement in effect since July 1978, and the announce-
ment of intentions to review the system of incentives
concerning SMIs.



- 13 -
d.   Initiation by ODI, in September 1978, of a study to
identify and build industrial estates primarily for SMIs,
in 18 secondary cities in Morocco.
e.   Creation in August 1978 of the Moroccan Association of
Small and Medium Industries, a private trade group.
The above developments should start bearing results during the period of
implementation of the proposed project.
Prospects
3.15      ]n the absence of supportive policies and of the specific actions
under the proposed project, a continuation of the past growth trend of 2.5%
p.a. for SHIs would have seemed the most probable outcome. 1/ Adoption by the
Government of vigorous and sustained actions support of SSIs would, on the
other hand, raise SSI growth prospects L:o significantly higher levels. On the
basis of the subsectoral potentials ideatified by the 1977 consultant's survey
and assuming execution of the project as proposed, the mission estimates that
the following rates of growth could be !Lchieved, by subsector:
Growth Rate                Share in SSIs'
Sub-Sector                              (  p.a.)                  Value Added (%)
Basic Food Products                        4                            15
Other Food Industries                      3                             7
Textiles                                   5.5                           8
Clothing                                  11                             6
Leather and Shoes                          8                             2
Wood Products                              9.5                           3.5
Construction Materials                    11.5                           6
Electro-mechanical Industries              3.5 to 8 /a                  16
Other Activities                           5                           _36.5
Overall                                5.5 to 6.2 /a               100
/a   depending on the implementation of the set of policies and programs
envisaged for a special program of development of electro-mechanical
industries, now under study by the Government (Project File A-2).
1/   The 2.5% rate of growth represents however a conservative estimate
because it excludes those SSI which "graduated" to medium industries
(over 50 employees) between the years of comparison (1969 and 1976).  The
consultant survey reported several cases where firms registered as SSIs
had, in a few years, outgrown that category.



- 14 -
3.16      The SSI Pilot loan approved by the Bank in 1977, as part of the
eighth loan of BNDE, made a first attempt at changing the prospects of growth
of SSIs. Initial difficulties in setting up the institutional agreements
between BCP and BNDE and rather stringent eligibility criteria (DH 25,000 cost
per job) delayed the implementation of that project. Nevertheless, commit-
ments are now proceeding well and the SSI component of the loan is expected to
be fully conmitted by mid-1979, at the time when the proposed new loan could
become effective. The sectoral survey conducted as part of the pilot scheme
and the direct experience under that loan were fully utilized in designing the
new project--in particular, in selecting appropriate eligibility criteria, in
designing the institutional set-up and in designing effective draft agreements
between,participating institutions. In addition, the pilot scheme served as a
catalyser of ideas and helped change the prevailing attitudes of the most
financial intermediaries, i.e. BCP and BNDE, in favor of SSIs.
3.17      The proposed project and its inastitutional set-up have been designed
to support the Government strategy and actions towards SSIs and to tackle
simultaneously aspects of policy, technical and financial assistance. In the
Moroccan context the best set-up in the long-run might be the establishment
of a specialized agency where all forms of public assistance to SSIs could be
grouped under the same roof. The Government and the mission agreed that, at
this stage, it would be more productive to put the emphasis on reinforcing
and/or restructuring existing institutions and in coordinating ongoing initia-
tives toward assisting SSIs. Although initially modest in size, the institu-
tional set-up under the proposed project is a major step forward in the right
direction and sets the stage for a continued dialogue between the GOM and the
Bank at the three levels of policy-making, technical assistance and financial
assistance, and for possible new operations which could benefit from the
results of this first integrated program (see para 5.20 for sectoral benefits
of the proposed loan).
IV. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
A. Introduction
4.01      Morocco has a well developed financial sector comprising 15 commer-
cial banks, 5 specialized institutions, including BNDE; and 2 savings banks.
Long-term finance is provided to private investors principally through three
of the specialized institutions, the agricultural credit bank (CNCA), the
housing and tourism bank (CIH), and the industrial bank (BNDE), all of which
have received Bank loans. The other two specialized institutions are: the
Caisse Marocaine des Marches (CMM), a BNDE affiliate that finances execution
of public sector procurement contracts, and the Caisse de Depots et de Gestion,
a wholly-owned Government institution in charge of public fund management
(e.g. pension and insurance funds, postal savings, etc.). The Banque du Maroc
(BdM) is Morocco's Central Bank. Morocco has a relatively developed capital
market centered at the Casablanca stock exchange, where gold, bonds, shares



- 15 -
and government securities are traded. There is also an active free inter-bank
market. This chapter focuses on financial institutions which lend to SSIs,
i.e. commercial banks and BNDE, and evaluates their lending experience and
their capacity to act as intermediaries in the proposed project.
B. BNDE
4.02      The Banque Nationale pour le D)eveloppement Economique (BNDE) was
established in 1959, and received its first Bank loan in 1962, along with an
IFC equity participation in its capital. BNDE is 75.7% Moroccan, and 24.3%
foreign-controlled; as of December 31, 1978 Government ownership amounted to
45.1% and IFC's 5.9%. BNDE has so far received eight Bank loans totalling
$185 million. It plays a key role in the financing of industrial development;
it is entrusted by the Government with t:he appraisal of all industrial proj-
ects requiring term financing under the provision of the Industrial Code. In
addition, BNDE plays a major role in the distribution of medium-term loans by
commercial banks to the industrial sector, especially for the benefit of
smaller industrial enterprises. Medium--term loans for industry, initially
extended by commercial banks, may be rediscounted with the Central Bank only
if appraised and guaranteed by BNDE. 1/ For many years the Bank had been
trying to steer BNDE away from its emphasis on large size projects.  As a
result of such dialogue, a pilot component in favor of SSI was included in the
eighth loan to BNDE, and BNDE fully financed the consultant's study on SSI
mentioned in Chapter III. BNDE has not had an in-depth experience in lending
to SSIs and will need some strengthening of its staff to handle SSI projects.
Nevertheless it is the only institution with a solid experience in term lend-
ing to industrial enterprises in Morocco. Under the proposed pioject, BNDE
would play an important role as administrator of the loan and would also
participate in the direct financing of the labor intensive or decentralized
subprojects (see para. 5.03). It will share its appraisal experience with
commercial banks.
C. The Commercial Banks
4.03      Commercial banks must by law be at least 50% Moroccan owned and in
practice this has led to dominant Government ownership of the major banks.
The commercial banks are efficiently run, their management is generally of
good quality, particularly at the middle levels, and they appear to be free of
major Government interference.  Commercial banking activities remain concen-
trated along the Casablanca-Tangiers axis, which in 1976-77 accounted for 77%
1/   For further details on BNDE, see the Report 1505a-MOR entitled "Appraisal
of Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Economique (including a Small
Scale Industry Component)", April 25, 1977 (Project File B.7), and the
latest Project Performance Audit Report on a loan to BNDE (Report OED-
817, July 1975).



- 16 -
of loans, 70% of deposits and 50% of the banking branches in the country.
This, in spite of a determined effort to reach the rural and less developed
areas, where 94 new branches were opened between 1976 and 1977.  The relative
size of banks shows seven of them accounting, in 1977 for 88% of the consoli-
dated assets of all banks, two of these banks, BCP and BMCE accounted for
42%. The other five are BCM, BMCI, CDM, SGMB, and CMCB. In terms of branch
implantations, BCP alone account for 26% of the total with 124 branches
followed by BMCE (15.4%) and BCM (14%).
4.04      Commercial banks have been the largest source of institutional
short-term financing of the economy, but have played a limited role in term-
financing, as shown by the following tabLe:
Table 4.1: MOROCCO: SOURCES OF CREDITS OUTSTANDING, 1977
(DH MiLlion)
Amount    %
a.  Short Term Credits                                                8,4/8   64.7
Banque du Maroc                                                     237    1.8
Commercial Banks                                                  7,585   57.9
Specialized Institutions                                            656    5.0
b.  Medium/Long Term Credits                                          4,630   35.3
Commercial Banks /1                                                 832    6.3
Specialized Institutions                                          3,798   29.0
c.  Total                                                            13,108  100.0
/1   Excludes medium term loans to specialized financial institutions (e.g.
subscriptions to 5-year notes, and borrowings by BNDE and CIH).
Source: Banque du Maroc
In terms of sectoral distribution, services (44%) and industry (40%) take up
more than 80% of total available credit. There are no statistics on sectoral
distribution differentiated by short and long term. Commercial banks lending
to SSIs is discussed in paras 4.11 to 4.34 below.
4.05      Commercial banks lending reflects the structure of their resources
which originate primarily from sight depcsits (68% in 1977) and to a lesser
extent (16%) from term deposits with an average duration of 18 months. Addi-
tional resources include equity and provisions (5.3%), advances from special-
ized institutions and correspondants (3.4%). The balance of resources (7.3%
in 1977) is provided through rediscounting of short- and medium- term loans at
BdM under a "ceiling" established for each bank. Medium-term loans, of up to



- 17 -
five years 1/, with previous approval and guarantee by BNDE or CNCA, can be
rediscounted at BdM if a bank has committed and financed loans out of its own
resources for a minimum "floor" equivalent to 4.5% of its deposits.
D. Cost of Capital
4.06      The Government determines interest rate ceilings on deposits and
loans which apply to all institutional credit in Morocco. Cost to commercial
banks of local currency resources present a wide range of variation, as
follows:  sight deposits yield no interest, short-term deposits yield from 3%
for three-month deposits to 8% for deposits of up to 24 months; rediscounting
facilities at the Banque du Maroc vary from 3% p.a. for export loans to 4.5%
p.a. for other medium-term loans. Interbank short-term money is also avail-
able in small amounts and its cost averaged 9.0% in 1977 and was around 6.5%
in October 1978. Local currency resourzes such as 5-year notes and long-term
bonds carry interest cost varying from 5.75% to 8.50% and can be molilized
mainly by specialized financial institucions (CIH, BNDE), which are not
allowed to collect savings, and by larga public enterprises. Cost of directly
contracted foreign exchange resources is not regulated by the Government and,
therefore, reflects international rates.
4.07      Lending rates, on the other hand, range from a minimum of 4.5% for
some short-term rediscountable loans to a maximum of 11% for medium- and
long-term non-rediscountable loans, with medium-term rediscountable loans
carrying a maximum interest of 8%.   Nominal interest rates charged by BNDE
to manufacturing projects are 10% p.a. for loans of up to 7 years and 11%
p.a. for loans over 7 years, but a majority of these projects are eligible
for incentives under the Investment Code and obtain a 2% interest rebate from
the Government, which reduces effective rates to 8 and 9% p.a. (9 and 10%
p.a. after adding commissions and taxes which are charged to all loans).
Rebates are higher for maritime projects (6%) and handicraft (5%), and are
intended to maintain low interest rates while allowing specialized financial
institutions to generate a profit. The present BNDE interest rates resulted
from agreements reached between the Government and the Bank, under the BNDE
VIII loan, which increased BNDE's nominal rate on long-term loans from 10% to
11% p.a.
4.08      Although effective interest rates for industry are the highest in
Morocco, they have implied certain subsidy elements when compared with recent
inflation rates in the country but are expected to become slightly positive
in real terms by 1980. Inflation rates remained moderate through 1976 (8.6%),
but increased to 12.5% in 1977; they are expected to average 9.0% through
1978-79 and fall to 7.0% by 1980. The issue of raising interest rates for
increased savings mobilization and more efficient allocation of resources
1/   Although maritime loans of up to seven years are rediscountable, in
actuality they can be rediscounted only over five years, with the first
two years financed by banks out of their own resources.



- 18 -
is part of the ongoing dialogue between Bank-IMF and the Government. The
interest rebates together with the assumption of foreign exchange risk and
other incentives under the Industrial Code are viewed by the Government as
necessary to maintain a favorable investment climate in Morocco and are
assessed in terms of other benefits accruing to the economy (e.g. employment,
export earnings). Nevertheless the Government is increasingly concerned
with the financial burden and the effectiveness of such incentives arnd of
low interest rates. It proposes to review the incentive systems, the for-
eign exchange risk, and possibly the interest rates and has requested Bank
assistance to this purpose. The recent increase in the savings rates from
2-6.5% to 3-8% may signal a trend towards an overall increase of interest
rates.
E. Existing Mechanisms for lending to SSIs
4.09      The commercial banking system is not yet adequately meeting the
financial needs of SSIs. It is, nevertheless, the best available source of
SSI lending expertise in the country and could be profitably utilized to
increase its contribution to SSI lending Commercial banks maintain regular
contact with some small entrepreneurs, tlhrough their short-term lending opera-
tions, and some banks with a large network of branches (BCP, BCM, BMCI, SGMB)
have gained valuable experience in term Lending through the rediscountable
accelerated procedure (para. 4.13). SSI access to banks financing is, how-
ever, severely hampered and restricted to those few borrowers able both to
finance 50 to 60% of project costs from equity funds and cash generation,
and to offer sufficient and valuable fixed assets as collateral. Borrowers
satisfying these conditions can either borrow medium-term funds or utilize
rolled over short-term facilities to finance investment and working capital.
This pattern of financing has led investiaent to concentrate predominantly into
expansions and replacements in existing 'SIs and has discouraged creations of
new firms. Due to the above, commercial banks show a negligible level of loan
arrears and a lack of default cases in SSI financing.
4.10      Short-term lending facilities are intended primarily to finance
working capital needs of enterprises; however, BdM and commercial banks esti-
mate that probably up to 30% of such facilities 1/ end up financing fixed
assets. Importance of roll-over financing can be explained by the reluctance
of many SSI to submit an investment proposal for term financing and by the
tendency of banks to provide temporary financing for approved rediscountable
term loans when delays in authorization or disbursement occur, as is often
the case. Short-term financing is highly profitable for commercial banks
since it can be covered with sight deposits and generate interest revenues
of 10.5%-11.0% p.a. on a principal that may remain years unchanged except at
short periodic intervals. The flexibility offered to SSIs by such facilities,
1/   Based on periodic BdM sample analysis of the financial structure of
enterprises receiving short-term loans; samples cover up to 80% of
each bank's loans outstanding.



- 19 -
partially compensates for their high interest cost. The proposed project
cannot expect to change appreciably this practice for a large number of SSIs.
Nevertheless, the availability of better terms, inexpensive technical assis-
tance and associated services coupled with the determination of BNDE, BCP and
other banks to use the new facility will encourage new and existing SSIs to
compete for Bank funds and allow the banks to make a better choice based on
the quality of investment. The support of the authorities is also assured
since they realize that past SSI financing, without proper screening, explains
some uneconomic features and behavior patterns of SSI identified in the con-
sultant's survey (e.g. over-equipment, low labor intensity and excess capaci-
ties). Screening and appraisal of SSI projects are undertaken only when a
medium-term loan is considered, particularly if BdM refinancing is to be
requested, in which case the special rediscounting procedure discussed below
is used.
The Accelerated Procedure (PSA) for SSI Financing
4.11      The only procedure of institutional term lending to SMEs 1/ was
established in 1973, but its impact has been rather limited in particular
among manufacturing enterprises. It provides one of the few available
sources of information on term loans to SSIs. The PSA procedure (Procedure
Simplifiee et Acceleree) differs from tLe normal BdM rediscounting procedure
for medium-term loans in that (i) commercial bank appraisal reports follow a
simplified format which is reviewed by BNDE in batch for conformity and sub-
stance; (ii) decisions are delegated to a Restricted Committee comprising
BNDE, BdM and Ministry of Finance, instead of going through BNDE's Executive
Committee and Board and BdM management reviews; (iii) fulfillment of condi-
tions of effectiveness rests with commercial banks exclusively and is not con-
trolled by BNDE and BdM which need only be informed by letter. In practice,
however, the PSA has served only a limited number of SSIs and procedares are
lengthy and cumbersome, taking at least 3 to 6 months between appraisal and
disbursemer,t. The main bottlenecks are. repeated reviews of the appCaisals by
some participating institutions, delays in fulfilling collateral requirements,
particularly when fixed asset mortgage validation is involved, insufficient
assistance to entrepreneurs in preparing loan applications.  The design of the
proposed lcan has taken into account the need to overcome these bottlenecks.
Agreements were reached during negotiations on streamlining of the procedure
in the context of the Bank loan (para 5 13).
4.12      Loan approvals under the PSA procedure, as illustrative of the grow-
ing demand for SSI financing, have increased from DH 5 million for 59 proj-
ects in 1973 to DH 58.8 million for 187 projects at end 1977 and 109 projects
for 10 months in 1978.  Distribution for 1976 through 1978 is as follows: 2/
1/   Firms, including manufactures, with. annual turnover, after the project
not to exceed DH 7.5 million and total assets, after the project, under
DH 5.0 million ($1,200,000). A minimum 40% equity is required in practice
from the entrepreneur and loans arc limited to DH 1 million per firm.
2/   Detailed information on PSA approvals are available in the project file.



- 20 -
Table 4.3: MOROCCO: PSA LOAN APPROVALS AND ESTIMATED INVESTMENTS
(DH MILLION)
1978
1976              1977           (Jan.-O)ct.)
No.  Invt. Loan  No.  Invt. Loan  No.  Invt.. Loan
SSI (manufacturing)          44  21.5  10.7   63  48.5  17.9   52  41.7  19.0
SSE (clinics,
fisheries, etc.)       88  20.1  10.0  124  76.7  40.9   57  20.2   9.0
Total                       132  41.6  20.7  187 125.2  58.8  109  61.9  28.0
Average SSI                      0.49  0.24         0.77  0.28        0.80  0.36
Average SSE                      0.22  0.01         0.62  0.33        0.35  0.16
Source: BNDE
PSA loan approvals may be considered as actual disbursements to projEcts since
commercial banks finance such projects i.a any case, whether or not tt-ey obtain
BdM final commitment to rediscount (para 4.05). While preliminary ir.formation
available for 1978 shows a decrease of financing to SSEs (clinics, piofessional
offices, fisheries, etc.) probably due to stringent credit policies, it shows
a sustained demand from SSIs.  The share of SSI has tended to increase in
amounts and decrease in numbers as large- SSIs become eligible. In terms
of sectoral and geographic distribution )f SSI approvals, food proce.sing,
textiles, and mechanical industries domiAate while Casablanca, Rabat and Fez
account for the bulk of borrowers, reflezting the same distribution latterns
found in Moloccan industry in general. rhe leading banks in using tl.e PSA
have been B(P, BCM, SGMB and BMCI which together have accounted for [3% of the
total loan amounts, and 90% of the numbe: of PSA projects approved i] 1973-78.
Non-Institutional Financing
4.13      N.n-institutional sources are oelieved to be important pro-iders of
financing fo.r SSIs. While data on the eKact contribution of those s~'urces are
rather scarce, the Government and the ba.aks believe that self-financing, rela-
tives and friends, money-lenders, supplirs-,etc.-cover more than half of the
financing requirements of Moroccan SSIs. Even in those SSIs with sone limited
access to institutional financing, equiti and cash-generation has to cover as
an average more than 50% of cost of projects financed through commerdial banks.
Installment financing at a cost of 18% p.a., and leasing through specialized
financial firms are also available to SSEs but the extent to which ttey rely
on such sources is not well known. Surveys and interviews with entrepreneurs
lead to the conclusion that deficiencies in institutional financing are an
important bottleneck for SSI development in Morocco.



- 21 -
V. PROPOSED INTEGRATED SSI DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
A. Objectives
5.01      Rtecognizing the economic and social importance of promoting the
growth of SSIs, the relative scarcity of financing available to them and the
deficiencies in the present system of institutional support for SSIs, the
Government of Morocco has decided to launch a comprehensive integrated program
of assistance to SSIs. The overall objeXctive of the Bank project is to
support thks Government effort, which in turn will have the following main
objectives:
a.   lo foster more rapid growth il productive employment in
urban areas by creating new j)bs at an average cost/job
iiuch lower than those attained in the industrial sector
in recent years.
b.   To foster development of entecpreneurship and formation
cf technicians with a direct experience in industrial
management, particularly among expatriate Moroccan workers
returning to their country.
C.   lo develop the industrial bas,! of the less developed
regions of the country.
d.   lo assist new and existing SS:LS in increasing their
productivity and competitiveness with larger units in
local and international marke:s.
e.   To encourage inter-industry exchanges between small and
large firms and stimulate the establishment of an inte-
grated industrial sector.
In addition, one key goal will be to support the establishment of the institu-
tional structure, which is necessary not: only to implement the present program
but to provide the basis for future operations in SSIs in Morocco.
B. Beneficiaries
5.02      The principal beneficiaries of the proposed loan would be small
firms in the manufacturing sector. SmaLl firms in construction and mechanical
repair activities would also be eligible if they required substantial fixed
investment financing. Eligibility criteria would be based on two indicators:
size of total investment (including pennanent working capital but excluding
land), and cost per job created or maincained. Three categories of benefi-
ciaries have been proposed using the above indicators:



- 22 -
a.   Group A - Very Small Firms:  New or existing enterprises
with total project cost, or total net assets after expansion,
under DH 500,000 ($125,000) and cost per job created or
maintained under DH 40,000 ($10,000), at 1978 prices. 1/
b.   Group B - Small Firms:  New or existing firms with total
project cost, or total net assets after expansion, between
DH 500,000 and DH 2,500,000 ($625,000) and a cost per
job created or maintained under DR 40,000 ($10,000), in
1978 prices.
c.   Group C - Labor Intensive or Decentralized Industries:
Medium size firms with total cost of project or total net
assets after expansion up to DH 5 million ($1.25 million)
but with a cost per job created or maintained under
DH 35,000 ($8,750), in 1978 prices; or with a cost!
job of DH 40,000 but located outside of the Casablanca-
Mohamedia region.
For Group B and C industries in the mechanical and electrical
subsectors the cost per job ceilings would be DH 50,000 (DH 45,000 for those
enterprises in the Casablanca-Mohamedia area). The above criteria were
selected on the basis of rather scarce information on past SSI investment
record and would be open for review by the Bank during project implementa-
tion, both in terms of size of enterprise and cost per job ceilings.
C. Institutional Arrangements
5.03      The existing institutional framework for assistance is inadequate
for satisfying the development needs of the SSI sector. Based on an assess-
ment of SSI's needs in Morocco, an effective program for developing SSIs
should contain the following elements:
a.   A policy-making unit to:  (i) ensure that the special
problems and needs of SSIs are adequately studied and
taken into account in formulating national industrial
1/   The Urban Poverty Program (UPP) capital/labor threshold for Molocco was
estimated by Bank staff at $7,570 in 1977 prices.  Taking accoint of
inflation and of devaluation of the dollar vis-a-vis the dirhan. the thres-
hold in 1978 would be at about $9,590. Information on recent projects
shows a wide range of average cost per job from DH 30,000 ($7,500) in
traditional industries to as high as DH 70,000 (17,500) in modern small
industries particularly in the mechanical and electrical subsectors. The
proposed limit of DH 40,000 is below the median and, without making it
unrealistic, should encourage the use of Bank funds in labor intensive
activities. More than 75% of the sub-projects under the loan are
expected to be under the UPP threshold.



- 23 -
policies; (ii) better orient the institutional support
to SSIs towards the achievement of national industrial
development goals.
b.   A comprehensive and effective mechanism to provide and/
or coordinate technical and managerial assistance to
SSIs, improving access of small firms to this assistance,
and expanding the volume and quality of services provided.
c.   A financial assistance scheme tailored to the require-
ments of small firms. It should provide decentralizedw,
routine banking and financial services to SSIs and, at
the same time, assure appropriate appraisal of new pro-
jects and monitoring of the performance of individual
borrowers by an experienced institution. A guarantee
arrangement to facilitate access to credit of small
firms lacking sufficient financial base and collateral
s;hould also be part of the fiaancial scheme.
To implement the integrated program, the Government of Morocco is establish-
ing: an SSI Policy-Making Unit in the l4inistry of Industry (para 5.05), a
Technical Assistance Unit in the Office pour le Developpement Industriel
(ODI) (paras 5.07-10), and a financial assistance and guarantee scheme using
the existing commercial banking network (paras 5.11-12) and the Caisse Cen-
trale de Garantie (CCG) (para 5.14).
D. Subprograms and Costs
5.04      T'he proposed project would have three subprograms as showr in Table
5.1. The total project costs covering a period of approximately two years
are estimated at $42.5 million, of which about 60% in foreign exchange. Based
on the range of plausible assumptions for SSI growth rates (2.5 to 6.0% p.a.
in para 3.15), the estimates of required investments for SSIs during the
1979-80 period would vary from $98 million to $136 million, of which 60% on
average would be directly or indirectly in foreign currency ($59 million and
$81.6 million respectively). About $15-20 million could continue to be fi-
nanced by existing financial mechanisms (medium-term rediscountable facility,
short-term roll-over from commercial baaks, etc.) and could cover some of the
SSI projects with a total investment or a cost/job above the project ceilings,
which are rnot eligible for Bank financiag. A balance of $39-62 million could
be absorbed by the proposed loan, helpi.ng to establish or expand about 250
small scale projects. However, given the novelty of the proposed institu-
tional scheme, certain weaknesses of data on past SSI financing, a loan of
about $25 million would be appropriate to allow for testing the system during
an 18-24 month period which could be followed, if warranted, by another Bank
operation using the institutional mechaaisms to be established under the
present loan. The proposed loan of $25 million would be made available to the
Government of Morocco to cover the project's foreign exchange component. The
loan will have a maturity of 15 years with 4 years of grace and a fixed



- 24 -
amortization schedule. The allocation of the proposed loan by components and
particularly among target groups A, B and C (see Table 5.1) would be open for
review after the first year of operations starting from the date of effective-
ness. In support of the actions required to reach the higher rate of growth
of SSI's output the proposed project includes, in addition to the above credit
component, two other minor components for promotion of SSIs (para 5.06), and
for financing of technical assistance unit in ODI (para 5.10).
Table 5.1 MOROCCO - SSI: SUBPROGRAMS OF PROPOSED PROJECT
Foreign Local Total
Cost    Cost   Cost
U-US$ muiliono n--
I.    Subprogram I.  Financial Assistance
Ia. Very Small Scale Enterprises
Target Group (A)                            6.0     4.0    10.0
lb. Small Scale Enterprises
Target Group (B)                           12.0     8.0    20.0
Ic. Labor intensive Enterprises
Target Group (C)                            6.0     4.0    10.0
II.   Subprogram II.  Promotion and Development
Promotional Fund to finance SSI             0.5     0.5      1.0
studies and project identification
III. Subprogram III. Technical Assistance
ODI (Government of Morocco)                         1.0     1.0
Bilateral sources (or IBRD)                0.5              0.5
TOTAL COST      25.0    17.5    42.5
E. Policy-Making Unit and Promotional Activities
5.05      As a result of the dialogue between the Government of Morocco and
the Bank, during project preparation, the Government took the initiative to
establish a Policy-Making Unit for SMIs I/ under the direct supervision of
the Director of Industry in the Ministry of Industry and Commerce.  rhe Unit
was officially established and its head nominated in October 1978 before
I/   Under the Ministry of Industry's definition the Unit will cover firms
with total assets up to DH 5.0 million which in the Moroccan context
jigude medium industries, but nonetheless show many of the problems of



- 25 -
arrival of the appraisal mission. Additional staff is being hired, as needed,
in accordance with operational requirements. The tasks of the Unit will
involve, inter alia: propose and follow-up of the administrative measures
in favor of SSIs; propose and supervise studies on the SSI subsectoc; propose
policy changes to the Investment Code, tax Laws, Custom Bill and other legal
regulations affecting SSI development; coordination of activities by institu-
tions dealing with SSIs. 1/ In summary, the Unit will be the SSIs inter-
locutor and advocate within the Government.
5.06      An amount of $0.5 million of the proposed loan would be earmarked to
a Promotional Fund to finance the foreign exchange cost of discrete studies
and promotional activities in favor of SSIs.  Applications under this Fund
could come from any of the institutions participating in the activities under
the integrated program and from enterprises eligible under the loan. The
proposals would be channeled through BNDE to the Credit Committee fcr approval.
Credit applications in excess of $50,000 will in addition require Bank approval.
If after one year of loan effectiveness, commitments under this component
are lagging behind, funds available under the component will revert to the
lending component. To facilitate disbursement procedures the Promotional Fund
will be under the responsibility of BNDE, the administrator of the financial
assistance sub-program, and decisions of expenditure would be taken by the
Credit Committee (see para 5.11) before being approved by the Bank.
F. Technical Assistance Unit (TAU)
ODI
5.07      lhe Technical Assistance Unit (TAU) under the proposed project has
been established as a Unit within ODI. The Office for Industrial Development
(ODI), a Government Office under the Ministry of Industry, was established
in 1973 to promote industrial development in Morocco through studies, direct
Goverment participation, and general promotional activities. At present ODI
has about 150 employees (including a dozen foreign experts). In four years
(1973-77) CDI has supervised and paid for about 50 sectoral or project
studies (e.g. sectoral strategy for the metal and mechanical industry, a
study on local integration in automobile and agriculture machines manufactur-
ing, and a study on the potential of the printing industry). These studies
have led to the establishment of 10 new affiliated industrial public firms and
four more cre in the process of implementation. Total accumulated ODI equity
participations in the 14 firms amounted at the end of 19 to 476 million DR
(US$114 million).  In terms of promotion the activities of ODI have consisted
of technical assistance to local entrepreneurs in the preparation of medium-
large projects, and of promotion of foreign investment in Morocco either
through agreements with foreign agencies (CEPIA and ACTIM in France) or
1/   A detailed program for initial activities of the Unit was discussed
during appraisal and is available in the project file.



- 26 -
directly through an ODI delegation in Koln (West Germany). Performance of
ODI's participations shows a mixed record. Some of the companies owned by
ODI in agroindustries, textiles, chemicals and electromechanicals are in less
than satisfactory condition. Although the responsibility does not lie
entirely with ODI, there is a widespread feeling among Moroccan authorities
that the 1973-77 record of ODI could have been greatly improved through more
vigorous control over studies and project preparation. In December 1977,
however, a new Director General was appointed, Mr. Belkhayat, who iE well
known to the Bank as former State Secretary for Economic Affairs and has a
good reputation for delivering results. New guidelines for ODI call for less
direct part:icipation in new activities and for a set-up of promotior.. initia-
tives by domestic and foreign investors. Within this new philosoph) ODI is
interested in making an important efforc towards assisting the development of
small firms and Mr. Belkhayat has committed the institution to a specific
program of work 1/ to set up a technical assistance unit under his airect
supervisionl.
The Unit
5.08      The terms of reference for the SSI Unit call for activities in the
following fields:
a.   Identification and preparatioa of SSI projects in coordincstion
with banks and Ministry of Industry.
b.   Technical advice to small entrepreneurs in the selection and
procurement of equipment and in preparing their requests for
financing.
C.  Assistance in project implementation and in solving infra-
structure and administrative oottlenecks.
d.   Basic assistance to small enterprises in identifying
and solving management and praduction problems.
e.   Assistance, in cooperation with banks, in identifying
and solving accounting and financial deficiencies in
operating SSIs.
f.   Assistance in locating marketing outlets and/or subcon-
tracting arrangements in local or foreign markets.
The Unit was established at the time of appraisal of the project in order to
provide time for testing of the system before effectiveness of the ;oan. The
Unit has been initially staffed with personnel transferred from ODI which in
1/   Detailed terms of reference and a Program of activities for th) Unit were
drafted during the pre-appraisal and appraisal missions furthec- reviewed
during negotiations and are available in the project file.



- 27 -
addition to their experience will receive short-term training in SSI institu-
tions abroad. The Head of the Unit started that process with a few weeks of
training in a specialized agency in France and in the U.S.A.
5.09      By the end of 1979, during operation of the proposed loan, the Unit
should have twelve full-time professionals including eight Moroccans and four
foreign experts. In addition, the Unit will be able to call upon the services
of technical experts from other ODI departments, and to hire local or foreign
consultants for specific short-term assignments. The Unit will also make full
use of other institutions with specific fields of expertise. In particular,
it could contract with ISCAE 1/ the preparation of extension seminars for
small entrepreneurs in fields like:  basic accounting, workshops layout, stock
management, marketing and personnel management. To be effective, technical
assistance has to comply with a few basic principles: (i) it cannot be com-
pulsory, (ii) it has to be part of the appraisal and supervision by credit
institutions, and (iii) has to be available to entrepreneurs at any stage of
operations. (Compulsory technical assistance in particular from a Government
agency like ODI would be counterproductive and self-defeating with small
private sector entrepreneurs. On the other hand, financial assistance without
appropriate consideration of the technical problems affecting SSI might be
wasteful.) Under the proposed project it is, therefore, expected that the TAU
would initially concentrate its efforts in selected areas and firms where its
assistance could bring about immediate and tangible results creating a demons-
tration effect and a demand among small firms (see paras 3.08, 5.08 and
agreed work program for the TAU). At the same time, the TAU would, through
its participation in the Credit Committee, be actively involved in the assess-
ment of and decision to finance sub-projects. Participating banks uould
inform every potential sub-borrower of the services available at ODI and
would require ODI assistance in preparing the technical aspects of sub-loan
applications. As for the use of technical assistance during operations of SSI
projects, the initiative to call upon the Unit for assistance would remain
with the entrepreneur, but in cases whe:e the technical problems are affecting
normal repayment of a sub-loan, the lending bank would request the Unit's
assistance, as part of its supervisory .esponsibilities. In the future, after
the above professional core of the Unit has been established and broken-in,
the Unit should move towards operating Like an industrial extension service
for SSIs and its staff should be expanded with middle-level technicians
operating through mobile teams. Agreem-nt was reached during appraisal and
would be confirmed during negotiations on the principle of periodic consulta-
tions between the Government of Morocco and the Bank to review the functioning
of the Technical Assistance Unit and make the necessary changes to serve the
objectives of the project.
5.10      Financing for the local expercs will be initially provided by the
Government and ODI. In the future, after establishing its credibility vis-a-
vis the private small entrepreneurs, the Unit may charge a fee for its services
1/   Institut Superieur de Commerce et d'Administration des Entreprises.



- 28 -
and become partially self-financed.  Financing for the foreign experts required
to help start the Unit is expected from bilateral and/or concessionary multi-
lateral sources. ODI and the Ministry of Industry have initiated discussions
to that effect with European Governments (France and Spain) and with the EEC
and UNDP. Considering the crucial role of the technical assistance component
in attaining the objectives of the project and the need to ensure the early
start of its activities, a portion of the proposed loan amounting tc US$0.5
million will be allocated to cover the foreign exchange cost of the technical
assistance subprogram according to a preliminary budget available ii, the
project file. It was agreed during negotiations that if firm commitments for
the above financing are obtained from ocher sources at the time of effective-
ness of the proposed loan, the allocated amount would be transferred to
the credit subprogram of the loan.
G. Lending and Guazantee Subprogram
5.11      This subprogram is the core oL the proposed loan.  It aims at
improving the quality and increasing the amount of investment finance to a new
group of SSI sub-projects through the banking system and BNDE. About US$24
million of the proposed loan to the Government (Treasury) would be channeled
to private SSI sub-borrowers through the commercial banking system and BNDE.
In order to facilitate lending procedures the Treasury would enter into a
management agreement with BNDE 1/ whereby the proposed loan will be managed by
BNDE, as an agent of the Treasury, and under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank. BNDE in consultation with the Treasury and the Bank would enter
into joint agreement with those commerc,al banks 1/ which will express interest
in participating in the SSI financing pzogram and make a commitment to create
and adequately staff a unit to process ';SI sub-loans. 2/ As part of its
commitment as project manager, BNDE will also reinforce the number and level
of its staff specialized in SSI financing and assistance. A preliminary
program, to this end, was discussed during appraisal and agreed during nego-
tiations and is available in the project: file. Because of BNDE's double role,
as manager and user, and as a safeguard to other participating banks, the
amount that BNDE can lend directly to its own SSI clients will be limited to
30% of the lending sub-program. For more than a decade, BNDE has been asso-
ciated with commercial banks in financing of their medium-term investment
credits. During that period, commercial banks have been able, under the
influence of BNDE, to improve their abiiity to appraise projects which were
either co-financed by BNDE (when longer term money was required) or approved
1/   Draft Agreements were reviewed and agreed during negotiations and are
available in the project file.
2/ As of the date of the appraisal mia,sion, 6 banks had already expressed
interest in participating in the sc:heme and submitted acceptable work
programs. This interest was confirmed during negotiations by the com-
mercial banks' representative in thie Moroccan delegation.



- 29 -
by BNDE under the rediscountable procedure. This experience has demonstrated
that BNDE has been able to maintain a role of advisor and technical assistance
agency to commercial banks in spite of being at the same time a co-financier
or even in certain cases a direct competitor. For the proposed project,
commercial banks have expressed their continued interest in learning even
more than in the past from BNDE's unique experience in industrial long-term
lending and welcomed the advisory role that BNDE can play in the proposed
lending sclheme. Conversely, BNDE itself recognizes that it has to strengthen
its role in this respect and has hired additional staff to meet that objective.
In addition BNDE is expected to make a special effort in identification of
sub-loans in Group C and innovative SSIs in Group B. Final decisions on sub-
loans would be taken by a Credit Committee 1/ composed of Ministry of Finance,
Banque du Maroc, ODI, Ministry of Industry and BNDE. The processing of
sub-loans will follow a pattern similar to the existing accelerated procedure
(PSA) but considerably more simplified. As an additional step to expedite
procedures, the Government has agreed to establish a special procedure within
the Caisse Centrale de Garantie so that the guarantee to SSI sub-prcjects
could be approved at the same time as tne sub-loans (see para 5.14).
Appraisal Plrocedures
5.12      SSI promoters might contact participating banks either directly,
through their various branches, or be referred to a bank by the ODI Technical
Assistance Unit. The appraisal report would be prepared by the comniercial
bank along lines closely similar to those followed under the PSA and according
to the agreed criteria below. In particular, an incremental cash-flow analysis
justifying loan amortization schedules and debt service capability would be
required. A detailed calculation of the incremental or permanent working
capital needs and, when applicable, the foreign exchange expenditure would
be required of each project appraisal. The calculation of the internal finan-
cial rate of return (IFRR) will be required for all three target groups.
Sub-projects are expected to yield a minimum rate of 10% p.a.; under target
group C, a minimum internal economic rate of return of 10% will be required
in addition. The TAU would make its services available to the entrepreneurs
for technical appraisal and procurement advice. In addition, loan security
arrangements would be substantially relaxed with the intervention of the
Caisse Centrale de Garantie (para. 5.14). The participating banks would
follow their own decision-making procedures and approve the investment pro-
posal for refinancing under SSI loan.
5.13       En its review of bank's proposals, BNDE would not attempt to re-
appraise the projects but rather to ensure that proper procedures aiid criteria
have been Eollowed and applied. BNDE uould, however, assist the pacticipating
banks, as aeeded or requested, to imprcve their appraisal capability. BNDE
1/   To avjid confusion with existing credit committees, Moroccans iave chosen
to label the committee as "Comite Technique."



- 30 -
would also collaborate with the ODI Unit to make sure that technical assis-
tance needs are dealt with already at the appraisal stage. BNDE's own contri-
bution would be particularly required for technical evaluation and assessment
of market potential. All sub-projects will be reviewed by BNDE and presented
to the Credit Committee for approval. rhe Committee has to approve or reject
sub-loans under categories A and B below in a maximum period of 15 cays
counted from the day of reception of the sub-loan application by BNI,E. If
after two raeetings of the Committee (which will meet every two week), there
has been no formal notification to the contrary, the sub-loan is considered
approved. Suitable simplified sub-proj?ct appraisal formats have bcen designed
by BNDE for each target group and revie,wed during negotiations. Sp(cific
screening ..nd review procedures would b.! applied as follows:
a.   t:roup A - Very Small Industries - (Total Investment per stb-
project under DH 500,000, withl financing from IBRD funds iot
toxceeding DH 300,000 (US$75,000) per sub-loan). The Cred:t
Committee upon recommendation of BNDE and, in consultatioi
with the Bank, will ascertain whether the participating b.nk
could be given a free limit. Under the free limit basis,
projects could be sent to BNDC and the Credit Committee oily
for registration and review of eligibility criteria. The
free limit is designed to encourage the banks to favor the
smaller size SSIs and provide a better coverage of that group.
b.   Group B - Small Industries - xTotal investment per sub-prcject
under DH 2.5 million with fin.incing from IBRD funds not exceed-
ing DH 1.5 million (US$375,001)) per sub-loan). Appraisals of
these sub-projects would be reviewed in detail by BNDE which
could either recommend approval by the Credit Committee or send
them back for improvement. In addition to demonstrating their
financial viability and complying with the capital/labor
ceilings as defined in para 5.02, sub-projects in this category
would have to produce goods wlhose ex-factory prices will be
reasonable compared with c.i.f. prices for similar impqrted
goods according to information to be reflected in the appraisal
reports.
c.   Group C - Labor Intensive or l)ecentralized Industries -
(Total investment by sub-project in this group may reach DH 5.0
million and financing from IBRD funds may reach DH 3 million
(US$750,000) per sub-loan.) This group has been included in the
proposed loan only as an extension of the SSI program and to cover
a few medium-size projects of an exceptional nature due tc their
employment generation capabilities or their location in less
developed regions (outside of the Casablanca-Mohammedia area).
All applications would require detailed appraisal and review
by BNDE. All applications would include calculation of IFRR
and IERR according to Bank guidelines for DFC projects.
The question of the capability of commercial banks to conduct the kind of
appraisals envisaged by the proposed Project was reviewed in detail during



- 31 -
the preparatory missions, in particular for BCP, BCM, SGMB and BMCI which
currently financed altogether about 83% of the PSA (see para 4.14). Commer-
cial banks are well staffed at the professional level and, although some of
them have to rely on BNDE for technological matters, their work in medium-
term lending (e.g. simplified procedure) has been of good quality. In addi-
tion, through their wide branch system, they have a unique advantage over BNDE
or any new specialized institution as a source of regular contract with small
clients. The main objective behind the monitoring on commercial banks by
BNDE and the Bank, is to further build up an appraisal expertise close to
the SSI themselves. It is moreover expected that, if successful, the above
experience could result in increased re;ponsibility and autonomy for commercial
4            banks, in the use of Bank funds, in poss;ible future SSI operations in Morocco.
Guarantee Fund. Structure, Funding and Procedure
5.14      Ihe establishment of a guaranLee mechanism was regarded as a crucial
element in the project from two points of view: (i) it facilitates access
to institutional financing for SSIs witli insufficient collateral; and (ii)
when collateral is available, it can sp4!ed up procedures for sub-loans by
providing Gn automatic guarantee, pendi.ig validation of other guaraitees, if
needed.  SEveral alternatives for estabLishing a mechanism were discussed
before and during appraisal. After con;idering the lengthy legal procedures
required tc establish a new Fund, the Government proposed to use thE existing
Caisse Centrale de Garantie, a governmeilt agency under the Ministry of Finance
(information available on file). The M.nistry of Finance has agreeci to issue
special guidelines regulating the operacion of the guarantees for S'ls; these
guidelines were reviewed and agreed upol during negotiations and wotld require
Bank appro'al. The guarantee would cov!r up to 80% of the sub-loan depending
on the rist of the project and possibilLties of the entrepreneur.  lhe borrower
would make a one-time payment ranging f-om 1.25% (sub-loans up to 5 years) to
3.25% (sub-loans up to 12 years) of the guaranteed amount. This payment would
correspond to increasing the annual int!rest rate by about 0.35%. The initial
funding for the SSI account would come Erom the Caisse's own resources and
from existing stand-by Government commicments to the Caisse. Decisions on the
guarantee coverage would be made at the same time as the approval of sub-loans.
Procurement and Disbursement Procedures
5.15      The goods and services requir,!d under the proposed project would
be for the most part purchased by borroiiing enterprises through local commer-
cial channels. Given the size and type of sub-loans competitive bidding is
not feasible but BNDE and the commerciaL banks will see to it that shoppirng
be used in accordance with Bank general requirements for DFCs. Comnercial
banks will be assisted by BNDE and by thte TAU in establishing adequEte pro-
curement procedures. In particular, BNO)E will require that (i) wherever
possible, borrowers obtain and submit a. least two price quotations from
suppliers/contractors; (ii) each sub-project appraisal include a description
of the procurement procedure to be used; and (iii) disbursements by BNDE
should, to the extent possible, be made directly to the suppliers/ccntractors.



- 32 -
Bank funds would cover up to 60% of the cost of each sub-project (including
permanent working capital but excluding land) which represents an estimate
of the average needs of foreign currency by SSI sub-projects in Morocco.
Disbursements would be supported by standard documentation to be retained
by BNDE and be available for periodic review by Bank supervision mission.
Bank disbursements to the borrower, or BNDE on its behalf, would be pari-
passu with disbursements of local funds by commercial banks and made against
certified statement of expenditure issued by BNDE. Application formats were
discussed and agreed upon during negotiations. Such disbursements would have
to be consistent with a brief description of the sub-projects, including
the amount of total investment and estimated schedule of expenditure, which
would be sent to the Bank following approval of sub-projects by the Credit
Committee. Disbursements under the technical assistance and promotional
activities components of the loan would reimburse 100% of fully documented
foreign exchange expenditures.
Supervision and Monitoring
5.16      On behalf of the Treasury and the Bank, BNDE will require from
participating banks an annual supervision report on the basis of an agreed
format covering all their SSIs clients financed under the program. BNDE would
submit the above information to the Credit Committee and the Bank accompanied
by an analysis of data to show sub-sector, regional and size trends. Agree-
ment was reached during negotiations for the establishment by BNDE and
Ministry of Industry (MIC) of a joint monitoring system of SSI assistance.
BNDE and MIC will issue an annual report covering policies, financial and
technical assistance, singling out issues, and suggesting actions to be taken
by the participating institutions (see also para 3.12).
On-Lending Conditions for Sub-Borrowers
5.17      The term of individual sub-loans would be in line with the economic
life of the SSI projects being financed, with a maximum of 12 years including
a grace period of up to three years for repayment of principal. On average
sub-loans are expected to last between 8 and 9 years with 2 to 3 years of
grace. The interest rate paid by sub-borrowers under the proposed loan will
be aligned to the prevailing effective rates for the rest of the industrial
sector (see paras. 4.08-4.10). In practical terms this would mean that SSI
sub-loans under the proposed loan would be available at nominal rate of 8% for
medium-term loans (up to 7 years) and 9% for long-term loans. The effective
rates (adding 1% commissions and taxes) would be 9% and 10% respectively and
lending rates during the period of disbursement of the project would be posi-
tive in real terms (para 4.08). In discussions with the Government it was
generally accepted that any disadvantages encountered by SSIs are better
addressed by the technical assistance program than by interest rate subsi-
dies. Any upward movement resulting either from revision of the present
structure of nominal rates or from changes in the rebates would also apply to
the sub-loans under the project. That would put all sizes of industries on
the same general footing as regards the cost of money. In addition the use of
a cost/job ceilings should prevent use of Bank funds for capital intensive SSI



- 33 -
projects. To make funds available to the participating banks and BNDE at an
effective rate consistent with the rate to end-users, the Treasury would
relend Bank funds at a rate that leaves at least a 2% spread to the banks.
Commercial banks, however, are mostly attracted to the proposed project by
the expected promotional boost it would provide and the potentially large
clientele of high quality that could be secured therein. Most commercial
banks indicated that a 2% spread on Bank funds, while lower than their
present interest spreads, would be adequlate to cover their administrative
costs of participating in the SSI project and, on that understanding, have
expressed interest in participating in t:he scheme. The foreign exchange risk
would be assumed, as in the past, by the Treasury, which is in line with the
prevailing practice for larger industrial term loans.
Financing Plan and Use of Bank Funds
5.18      As noted in para 5.15 the Bank loan will finance up to 60% of total
sub-project costs. The balance of funds would be provided by the enterprises
(20-25%) and by participating banks (25-20%). However, due to the limited
term resources available at present in the banking system, if necessary Banque
du Maroc would rediscount the local currency sub-loans to be contributed by
the banks for local financing. Banque du Maroc has agreed that rediscountable
local funds and Bank funds would not be accounted for in the credit ceilings.
The Banque du Maroc, through its credit regulation controls, will ta&e the
necessary actions to prevent substitution of Bank funds to term resources
normally available to commercial banks through other Banque du Maroc redis-
counting facilities.
Amortization Schedule
5.19      As the number of sub-loans firLanced under the project is e?pected
to be large (about 200, of which 150 for the Group A of very small industries)
it would not be practical to apply a composite amortization schedule. More-
over, some of the sub-projects are expected to have maturities of up to 12
years, and they may be approved up to the end of the commitment period.
Therefore, the Bank loan would be repaid over a period of 15 years including
4 years of grace (expected period to complete disbursements) with a fixed
amortization schedule. A limited amount of Bank funds would be rollsd-over
for further lending to small industries. The final date for sub-loan submis-
sion would be December 31, 1981, and the closing date would be December 31,
1983.
H. Project Justification: Benefits and Risks
Sectoral Justification of the Project
5.20      Bank assistance to SSI as proposed under this project raises a
number of questions and in particular the matter of priority of such assis-
tance to Morocco, at this particular tinke. The question is suggested by the
poor quality of the data which does not categorically point to a specific



- 34 -
economic advantage of small industry over medium and/or large industry. Our
knowledge of the country however, including the Bank's exposure with urban
development and industry, and the special preparation which has taken place
for this project all recognize that a special effort must be made to slowdown
growing unemployment in urban areas and that the most efficient way, espe-
cially in terms of resources, to achieve that aim, is the establishment of a
true development program to benefit SSI activities. As noted in the introduc-
tion, the existence of a large - and growing - SSI sector in Morocco has
become a preoccupation for the Government during the past two Plans. Related
issues became very serious ones over the past few years when the price of
phosphate went down; Europe, Morocco's major client, suffered a long lasting
recession; and Morocco had to face extr.aordinary expenditures resulting from
unsettled boundaries and regional confrontations.
5.21       In this setting, the attention of the planners has been redirected
to the economic possibilities of SSIs. Employment generation at lowar costs
has become an essential feature of Morocco's medium-term objectives and
priorities. The available data (especially the sample review undertaken by
the consultant in 1978) already permit lo expect without major risk that an
integrated approach will gradually help not only employment generatiDn but at
the same time will promote efficiency aud permit a faster growth of a number
of SSI than otherwise foreseeable under the status quo.
Project Benefits
5.22       The proposed project would be the first integrated SSI development
program in Morocco. The project purports to ease and remove the main identi-
fied constraints for the development of SSIs in Morocco: poor subproject
preparation by SSI sponsors, lack of specific policies tailored to SSI needs,
insufficient access to institutional finance for investment credit and working
capital requirements, lack of technical and management assistance, weaknesses
of institutional support to foster SSI promotion and extension. By its nature
the project would have significant sociail and economic impact in terms of:
employment creation, development of teclhnical and managerial skills, redis-
tribution cf income, encouragement of savings and investment, institution-
building, increase in quantity and quality of SSI output.
5.23       The lending and guarantee sub-program is expected to provide assis-
tance for over 200 sub-projects approximiately distributed as follows: 1/ (i)
Group A:  135-150 enterprises, average siub-loan $45,000, average employment 10
workers per firm; (ii) Group B: 50-60 enterprises, average sub-loan $220,000,
average employment 40 workers per firm; (iii) Group C: 10-12 enterprises,
average sub-loan $550,000, average employment 130 workers per firm. In total
it is expected that at least 5,000 jobs could be created at an average cost of
about $8,000 per job, in 1978 prices o0 about one-third of the average cost
per job created in the manufacturing se:tor during the Third Plan (1973-77).
Since most enterprises will be located .n the urban areas, employmert and
income impact will benefit largely the urban poor. Backward and forward
1/   For detailed estimates see project file.



- 35 -
linkages as well as roll-over of Bank funds would create additional jobs.
In addition, by increasing productivity and competitiveness in existing
enterprises many jobs will be maintained that would otherwise be displaced by
larger, highly capitalized, industrial units in the country or by foreign
imports.
5.24      A major expected result of the proposed project would be the
building-up of institutions specifically geared to support developm;nt of
SSIs:  a Policy-Making Unit has already been established in the Ministry of
Industry, .1s well as a Technical Assistance Unit in ODI; commercial banks
would create and/or expand SSI term lending activities while BNDE would
reinforce its operations in SSIs through management of the project and through
an increased role in promotion and implementation of projects in less developed
areas. The above institution-building is expected to pave the way for expanded
SSI operations in Morocco and facilitate a meaningful dialogue between the
Bank and the Government concerning SSI policies and procedures.
Risks
5.25      This "new style" project involves more risk than the Bank's standard
DFC loan in view of some of the project's features and the participation in it
of several institutions with limited experience in project appraisal and SSI
assistance. Delays in the take-off of institutional units are almost unavoid-
able and they could affect the implementation of the program. To minimize
this risk, a great effort has been excerted during preparation of the project
to complete legal agreements, formulation of detailed work programmes and
training of key officials for the new institutions. As a result the basic
project units were in place before appraisal. During project implementation
the Bank would closely monitor the progress achieved by these institutions,
particularly the Technical Assistance Unit and provide all necessary assis-
tance to adjust their work programs to observed results. Another project risk
could be the reluctance of small entrepreneurs to avail themselves cf the
services provided by ODI's unit for fear of Government intervention in their
own affairs. To minimize this risk, it has been agreed with ODI that the new
unit would at the beginning concentrate its activities in selected areas and
firms where its assistance could bring about immediate and tangible results.
The inter-personal relationships between small entrepreneurs would help turn
prevalent nmood if success was achieved in some areas. This would also contri-
bute to making the banks more aware of their interest in obtaining assistance
from the unit.
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      A loan of $25 million to the Government of Morocco is recommended.
6.02      During loan negotiations, agreement was obtained and understanding
reached on the following points:



- 36 -
(a) Definition of eligible SSIs (size, cost/job, sectoral
coverage, etc.) and arrangement for reviewing such
criteria during project implementation (para 5.02).
(b) Operational arrangements (para 5.03), legal agreements
between: Government (Treasury), BNDE (paras 5.13 and
5.16), participating commercial banks (paras 5.11-5.12),
ODI (paras 5.07-5.10), and Caisse Centrale de Garantie
(para 5.14), Ministry of Industry (para 5.05).
(c) Appraisal and commitment procedures for sub-loans and
functions of the Credit Committee (para 5.13).
(d) Conditions for sub-loans (term, on-lending interest
rates (para 5.17).
(e) Procedures for approval and coverage ratio of sub-
loans by Caisse Centrale de Garantie (para 5.14).
(f) Procurement and disbursement procedures (para 5.15).
(g) Staffing and financial arrangements for the Technical
Assistance Unit in ODI and arrangements for periodic
evaluation of its work (para 5.10).
(h)  .,taffing and work program for the Policy-making Unit
i.n the Ministry of Industry (para 5.05).
(i) S,taffing and work program for the SSI Division in
bNDE (para 5.11).
(j)  Procedures for approval and disbursements under the
-und for promotion and development of small industries
"para 5.06).
(k)  Reporting requirements on sup.rvision and monitoring
of sub-loans (para 5.16) and of the implementation
of the Project.
(1) Allocation of the proceeds of the loan among the various
components of the project, and arrangements for reviewing
of such allocation during the loan commitment period
(para 5.04).
6.03      Luring loan negotiations, it was agreed that effectiveness of the
loan would be contingent upon the following:
(a) Signature between Treasury and BNDE of the Agreement,
defining BNDE's role in the loan administration and
reflecting the principles and procedures contained
in the Loan Agreement (para 5.11).



- 37 -
(b)  Signature, by at least three financial intermediaries
(including BCP), of the Open Agreement between BNDE and
commercial banks, which defines the role of commercial
banks in appraising sub-loans and contains the relevant
conditions and procedures included in the Loan Agreement
(para 5.11).
(c)  Appointment of the members of the Credit Committee and
publication of the operating procedures of the Committee
(para 5.11).
(d)  Issuance by the Ministry of Finance of the guidelines
regulating the procedure to be followed by the Caisse
C'entrale de Garantie in guaraateeing sub-loans under
:he project (para 5.14).



- 38 -
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA
AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.1 "Etude d'Identification et d'evaluation des possibilites
d'investissements industriels au Maroc", Dar-Al-Handasah
(ConsuLtants) for le Ministere du Plan et le Ministere
de l'Iiidustrie, 1978, 4 volumes.
A.2  "Etudes d'une strategie de developpement du secteur des
industries metalliques, mecaniques et electriques au
Maroc." McKinsey (Consultants) fox ODI et le Ministere
de l'lIdustrie, February 1978, 4 vc,lumes.
A.3 "Etude du Secteur de la Petite Indistrie au Maroc." SORCA
SORCA-3MB (Consultants) for BNDE, ane 1978, 2 volumes
and addendums.
A.4 "Small Scale Industry in Morocco." B. Decaux (Consultant
for IBRD), September 1976.
B.1 O.D.I.. Bilan des Realisations 1973-77.
B.2 O.D.I.. Comptes et Bilans, Budget 1978.
B.3 O.D.I.: Etudes Sectorielles en cours et Etudes a lancer.
B.4 Banque du Maroc: Interest rates in Morocco, 1977.
B.5 Banque du Maroc: Annual Reports, 1976 and 1977.
B.6 Banque du Maroc: Analyse des resultats d'Exploitation
des Baiiques. Exercice 1976.
B.7  Appraisal of Banque Nationale pour le Developpement
Economique (including a Small Scale Industry Component)
Bank report 1505a-MOR, April 25, 1977.
B.8 BNDE: Rapport Annuel, 1977.
B.9  Caisse Central de Guarantie:  Dahirs de creation et organisatior
financiere et comptable de la C.C.G.
C.1  ODI 'CCellule d'Assistance Technique a la Petite Industrie".
Programme de travail 1978-79.
C.2 ODI "Budget Unite Assistance Technique pour un Financement
BIRD".



- 39 -
C.3 ODI "Requete d'Assistance Financiere envoyee a la CEE.
C.4 ODI: Requete au Gouvernment Espagnol concernant assistance
technique pour la PMI.
C.5 BNDE: Work program and staffing requirements for the SSI Unit.
C.6 Caisse Centrale de Garantie: Scheyaa financier d'intervention
de la C.C.G. (Draft) et project de circulaire relative a l'inter-
vention de la CCG.
C.7  Draft Agreement Treasury - BNDE.
C.8 Draft Agreement BNDE. Commercial banks.
C.9 Minister of Industry: Terms of Reference for SSI Policy-
making Unit.
C.10 Actual and projected operations in SSIs by commercial banks.
Work program in favor of SSIs submitted by BCP, BCM BMCI,
BMCE, SGMB, CDM and UNIBANK.
EMENA/IDF
March 26, 1979



