Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2499-MOR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF TEE
PRESIDENT OF THE
IIITERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR AN
INTEGRATED PROJECT FOR SMALL SCALE
INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT
March 28, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
thelr official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
US$1.00    =    DH 4.00 (Average 1978)
DH 1.00    -    .25 US$
Fiscal Year    January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BCP     Banque Centrale Populaire
BNDE    Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Economique
CIH     Credit Immobilier et H6telier
CIOR    Cimenterie de l'Oriental
EEC     European Economic Community
OCP     Office Cherifien des Phosphates
ODI     Office pour le Developpement Industriel
ssi     Small Scale Industry



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
INTEGRATED PROJECT FOR SMALL SCALE
INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Kingdom of Morocco
Loan Amount:           US$25.0 million
Terms:                 15 years including four years of grace at an interest
rate of 7 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:       Proceeds of the loan would be re-lent by the Government
to Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Economique
(BNDE) and commercial banks for re-lending to small
industries at 8 or 9 percent per annum depending on sub-
loan maturity. The foreign exchange risk would be borne
by the Government.
Project Description:  The project consists of a two-year slice of a Government
program to assist small and labor intensive industries
through policies and technical, managerial and financial
assistance. Objectives of the program are, for the short
term, to create employment at low cost and improve the
balance of payments, and for the long term, to foster
opportunities for entrepreneurship, stimulate a better
integration of the manufacturing sector and develop the
industrial base in less developed regions of the coun-
try. The lending component of the project is expected
to provide assistance to over 200 firms. At least 5000
jobs would be created directly at an average cost of
about $8000 per job, or about one third of the average
cost per job created in the manufacturing sector during
the Third Plan (1973-77). The main project risk would
result from the novelty of the technical and financial
assistance schemes and the need to coordinate activities
of many participating institutions, and close supervi-
sion will be required during the start-up of the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs:
--- $ million ---------
Local       Foreign       Total
- Lending component                            19.6         24.0         43.6
- Project identification and
promotional activities                       0.5           0.5          1.0
- Technical assistance to small firms           1.0          0.5          1.5
TOTAL                                        21.1         25.0         46.1
Financing Plan:
--------- $ million ---------
Local       Foreign       Total
- Bank loan                                       -         25.0         25.0
- Government contribution                       1.5            -          1.5
- Financial Institutions                        9.8            -          9.8
- Beneficiaries                                 9.8            -          9.8
TOTAL                                       21.1          25.0         46.1
Estimated Disbursements:
----------- $ million ------------
Bank FY                1980      1981       1982       1983
Annual                  5.5        7.5       7.5        4.5
Cumulative              5.5      13.0       20.5       25.0
Staff Appraisal
Report:                 Report No. 2365-MOR dated March 26, 1979



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO FOR AN INTEGRATED PROJECT
FOR SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT
1.        I F-bmit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Kingdom of Morocco for the equivalent of US$25 million to finance a pro-
posed integrated project for small scale industry development. The loan would
have a term of 15 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at 7 percent
per annum. A portion of the proceeds of the loan would be re-lent to project
beneficiaries through financial intermediaries for up to 12 years, including 3
years of grace, with interest at prevailing rates for industry in Morocco.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "Country Economic Memorandum on Morocco" (1473-MOR)
was distributed to the Executive Directors in June 1977. An economic mission
which visited Morocco in February/March 1978 was followed by a basic economic
mission in November 1978. A basic economic report is under preparation;
preliminary findings and conclusions of these missions are reflected in the
following paragraphs. Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex I.
Recent Developments
3.        In 1977, Morocco completed the return towards a constitutional mon-
archy. Having marshalled a strong national consensus over the Western Sahara
issue, King Hassan II called municipal, provincial and national elections
between November 1976 and April 1977. Opposition parties with platforms
stressing social reform scored strongly in municipal elections in the larger
cities, while at the provincial level, rural constituents supported Government
candidates, who eventually obtained a majority of 141 seats out of 264 in the
National Assembly. With the new Government formed in October 1977, both the
Istiqlal party which had been in the opposition since 1963, and the Mouvement
Populaire whose main support is in the Berber population returned to political
responsibility. The new Cabinet was appointed with the mandate to prepare
and implement economic austerity measures, the first of which were introduced
in the 1978 Budget Law, and to pursue the social development objectives
set out in the 1973-77 Development Plan.
4.        Morocco's economic and financial situation became increasingly
unbalanced towards the end of the 1973-77 Plan. Rapid growth of investments
and imports, carried over from 1974-75 when phosphate export revenues reached
an all-time high, did not slow down despite some Government restrictions,
while the world demand for Morocco's main exports, especially phosphate,
recovered only moderately. At the same time, efforts to increase budgetary
savings were insufficient to meet the continued increase in investment and
military expenditures. As a result, in 1977 Morocco faced again a large
1/   This Part is identical to paragraphs 2 to 16 of the President's Report
on a Loan for the Fourth Education Project.



- 2 -
resource gap (21 percent of GDP) and overall budget deficit (19 percent of
GDP). To cover these, it sharply increased external borrowing to $1.9
billion (commitments), from $909 million in 1976 and $780 million in 1975;
most were from commercial sources. Despite these borrowings, the country's
net foreign assets stayed at a low level (1.2 months of 1977 imports by
year's end). On the domestic side, external borrowings fueled monetary
expansion which remained rapid in 1977; consumer prices rose 12.5 percent
over 1976 compared to about 8 percent in the previous two years.
5.        By and large, the new Government has succeeded in regaining control
over the excessive increases in investment and external borrowing experienced
towards the end of the 1973-77 Plan. Investment has since been reduced by
an estimated 25 percent in real terms, and so has external borrowing which
at $1.3 billion of new commitments was, however, still large and mostly on
commercial terms. The Government has achieved these improvements through
budgetary austerity, including severe cuts in public investment, restraint
in current spending and some tax increases; it applied selective import
restrictions and controls on private credit preserving as much as possible
the growth momentum of private sector output and exports. A good agricultural
crop in 1978 helped sustain growth, despite a sharp decline in construction
activity largely resulting from cuts in public investment plans; overall, GDP
grew by an estimated 4 percent in real terms in 1978.
6.        The Government will have to pursue austerity policies for a while,
considering the continued excessive resource gaps and low exports and savings
which cannot be increased quickly for reasons largely beyond the Government's
control. Instead of the 1978-82 Plan, the Government has introduced a three-
year interim plan (1978-80) which was approved by Parliament in December 1978,
together with the 1979 Budget Law. Its main objectives are to further reduce
the budget and current balance of payments deficits, and to concentrate avail-
able resources (after meeting defense requirements) on productive projects
and the neediest population groups. Implementation of major public projects
not meeting these criteria has been postponed, while the measures designed
to preserve growth in the private sector have been strengthened. Recently,
the Government agreed with the IMF on a short-term financial rehabilitation
program for 1979. This program calls for continued limitation of budgetary
expenditures, domestic credit expansion and new external borrowing, while
maintaining selective import restrictions and credit controls favoring produc-
tive private activities. It is aimed at reducing the overall budget deficit
by 15 percent, and narrowing the current balance of payments deficit by more
than 30 percent. Assuming harvests are equal to those of 1978 and phosphate
exports increase by 6 percent in quantity and 7 percent in value, real GDP
growth in 1979 again may still not exceed 4 percent.  Gross official reserves
would stay around 1.5 months of imports.
7.        While the interim measures may be effective in re-balancing the
economy, because of the short-term constraints on exports and savings, they
might cause a rise in social pressures. The Government is therefore anxious
to resume the more dynamic social policy stance which characterized Moroccan
development during the 1973-77 Plan. Preparation of the 1981-85 Plan has
begun and attention is being given to long-term reforms which are needed if
an early resumption of more rapid economic and social progress is to be
achieved.



- 3 -
Economic Development Issues and Prospects
8.        Bank projections summarized in Annex I reflect the Government's
keen concern to avoid a liquidity crisis in the next two to three years.
They assume sharp policy adjustments to keep the economy on a financially
viable growth path over the long run, but also reflect the desiue to maintain
adequate GDP and employment growth during the interim period, and to achieve
further progress towards the country's social objectives. The projections
show that investment and GDP growth will have to be curtailed for the next
two to three years, given the constraints on savings and exports. In this
period, Morocco will need substantial capital transfers from abroad on terms
as favorable as possible to sustain the project investment and GDP growth.
Beyond 1982, export prospects should enable Morocco to resume more rapid
growth of investments, output and employment while progressively reducing the
relative burden of debt and debt service.
9.        Following the large windfalls in foreign exchange and domestic sav-
ings caused by high phosphate prices in 1974-75, the investment target was
raised to meet cost increases, permit some real expansion of original invest-
ment programs, and undertake large capital-intensive projects geared to import
substitution (in particular sugar, chemicals, shipping and steel). Thus the
GDP growth target for 1973-77 was nearly met, and investment rose to nearly
32 percent of GDP in 1977 from less than 14 percent in 1972. In the process,
Morocco built up its capacity to prepare and implement projects not only in
traditional sectors such as irrigation, import-substitution industries and
physical infrastructure, but also in new and more difficult sectors such as
rainfed and small-scale agriculture, export industries, and socially-oriented
programs. There is little doubt that Morocco can achieve the investment
levels assumed in the Bank projections, the main constraints being domestic
savings and foreign exchange availability.
10.       Domestic savings have been falling in relation to GDP after the
brief increase during the phosphate windfall years, mainly due to low public
savings of only 4.7 percent of GDP in 1977. Successful efforts to raise
public revenues to 28 percent of GDP in 1977 were offset by increases in
current spending, partly for education and health, but particularly for
price subsidies and military expenses. Tax reform measures (which are being
prepared with IMF assistance) and unpopular price policy decisions, such as
reduction of subsidies to urban consumers, farmers and industrial investors,
will be required to increase public savings. Interest rate adjustments to
reflect changes in the rate of domestic price inflation would also be called
for.
11.       During the 1973-77 Plan period, exports rose by less than 2 percent
p.a. in real terms (the Plan target was 10 percent). This lackluster per-
formance was largely due to weak external demand for Morocco's main export
products since 1974, especially phosphate, other minerals and agricultural
products. Moreover, with some exceptions, such as textiles, export produc-
tion and marketing efforts were not sufficient, and new markets were not
aggressively sought; Morocco continued to depend on demand from the EEC,
especially France. Yet, it has considerable export potential if only products



- 4 -
and markets were diversified. Export programs are now under preparation
particularly for phosphate and its derivatives, fresh and processed food-
stuffs, and tourism. With regard to phosphate, for example, Morocco and
the USSR signed agreements in March 1978 under which Morocco will export
phosphate rock and phosphoric acid for the next 30 years for possibly up
to 10 million tons per year by 1985-86; in return, the USSR will lend
Morocco up to $2 billion on favorable terms to develop its phosphate export
capacity and will export various commodities and goods to Morocco, including
crude oil. These agreements substantially improve Morocco's long-term
prospects for phosphate exports.
12.       While the emphasis on completion of high-return projects will have
to continue, Morocco should shift away from highly capital-intensive, import
substitution investments, as well as from some ambitious programs for phys-
ical infrastructure. This would call for improvements in policy planning and
investment programming. Consultants are currently completing a major study
on industrial investment strategy, which should facilitate better investment
selection. A changed investment pattern should reduce the external resource
gap, and also contribute to higher growth and employment at lower investment
and import costs than in recent years.
Social Development Strategy
13.       Comparatively slow economic growth and employment creation up
to the early 1970's were accompanied by widening income disparities and a
decline in real consumption for the weaker sections of Morocco's population.
As a major objective, the 1973-77 Plan set out to reverse these trends.
The Government's strategy since 1973 has emphasized: (i) acceleration of
employment creation; (ii) measures aimed at reducing income disparities; and
(iii) specific investment programs to benefit the least favored population
groups.
14.       Progress has been made towards these objectives, as witnessed by
the increased expenditures for social sectors (from DH 1.3 billion in 1972
to DH 3.7 billion in 1977). However, the institutions created to meet social
sector objectives are in many cases still fragile. Understaffing, weak policy
analysis and inadequate program formulation are common. As a result, public
programs to improve productivity, collective amenities and social services
are reaching relatively small proportions of the population, especially in
rural areas. In addition, during the period of financial stringency ahead,
Morocco will not be able to sustain the current level of expenditures in
socially-oriented sectors, and cuts have been made as part of the measures
to re-balance the economy.
15.       With the population growth rate now at about 3 percent, pressure
to provide adequate social services will rise. Despite short-term financial
constraints, efforts will be needed to limit such growth. Consequently,
strengthening health and family planning services is now an integral part of
the Government's social objectives.



- 5-
External Debt and Debt Service
16.       Morocco sharply increased external borrowings after 1973 (para. 4).
Nearly all of the increase came from Arab and commercial sources. With a
hardening of terms on new commitments, average maturity dropped from 19 to 10
years and a-~rage interest rose from 5 to 7.5 percent between 1974 and 1977.
Morocco also drew on the IMF automatic credit facilities in early 1976, and
obtained about $70 million in IMF compensatory financing in August 1978.
From the low levels in 1974-75, Morocco's external debt has risen rapidly to
an estimated $4.0 billion (disbursed only) at the end of 1978, and in that
year debt service amounted to $481 million (18 percent of exports and workers'
remittances). As a result of recent and projected borrowings, debt and debt
service may be expected to increase further, and debt service may exceed 25
percent of exports and workers' remittances by 1980-82, and decline progres-
sively thereafter. The country's net foreign assets would remain at a rela-
tively low level. Because of the expected upswing in debt service, external
debt management has become more restrictive and selective since 1978. If
debt service is to stay manageable, Morocco will have to continue this policy
over the next few years. Additional commercial borrowing should be limited,
and efforts should be increased to seek loans on softer terms. Yet, external
borrowing needs would be sizeable. Beyond 1980-82, however, the situation
should progressively improve with the Government firmly controlling domestic
demand and with good long-term prospects for exports and, in particular, with
assured sales of phosphate rock and derivatives. Morocco should therefore be
considered creditworthy for further Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCO
17.        Bank and IDA lending to Morocco has supported 38 projects, financ-
ing a total of $918.9 million (net of cancellations), of which $755 million
has been lent since the beginning of FY73. IDA credits, totalling $50.0 mil-
lion, have been made available for five projects. A Third Window loan for
$25 million for the third education project was approved in March 1976. IFC
investments have amounted to $12.6 million ($10.5 million after cancellations,
terminations, repayments and sales). Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of February 28, 1979, and
notes on the execution of ongoing IBRD/IDA projects. In some cases, delays
in project implementation have been caused by management or procurement
difficulties, and in 1974 cost overruns increased due to the upsurge in
investment activity in Morocco and the acceleration of inflation. Overall
performance in project execution, however, has considerably improved in recent
years. Total disbursements as of December 31, 1978, amounted to 72 percent
of original appraisal forecasts and to 75 percent of revised forecasts.
18.       Past Bank Group lending has been concentrated in the agricultural
and industrial sectors, which have accounted for 32 and 34 percent respec-
tively of total net commitments; the balance is represented by utilities (18
percent), tourism (8 percent), roads (5 percent), education (4 percent) and
urban development (2 percent). Apart from the transfer of resources to



-6-
Morocco (Bank Group gross disbursements amounted to 5.5 percent of total fixed
investment in 1970-74), the main objectives of lending were to foster and
strengthen development institutions, provide technical assistance especially
for project preparation, and increase productive capacity, in order to improve
the balance of payments.
19.       While these objectives remain, greater emphasis is being given to
prepare projects that support the Government's policy of fostering social
development and improving income distribution. An increasing share of Bank
Group lending will be devoted to projects directly or indirectly developing
the productive capacity of the lowest urban and rural income groups and
meeting their basic needs, including, possibly, Bank participation in the
Government's program for promoting integrated regional development, which is
under discussion.
20.       Past lending for agriculture has supported irrigation development,
credit and, through a first operation in FY75, improvement in the produc-
tivity of rainfed farming. Continued selective lending for irrigation is
envisaged but emphasis will be increasingly given to support small farmers
and the development of rainfed areas. The Fez-Karia-Tissa Agriculture Proj-
ect, approved in June 1978 was the second, after the Meknes Project (Credit
555-MOR) to directly address these objectives. An integrated rural develop-
ment project, including livestock/forestry development, is under preparation
in a rainfed zone in northern Morocco, as are projects aimed at extending
agricultural credit to farmers and at developing production, marketing and
processing of vegetables on small holdings. A Government program for pro-
moting integrated regional development is also under discussion.
21.       Projects in industry and tourism have had as key objectives increased
foreign exchange earnings or savings and the improvement of sectoral policies,
which have taken on increased importance in view of the country's short-term
resource constraints. The eighth loan to Banque Nationale pour le Developpe-
ment Economique (BNDE) which was approved in 1977, included a pilot small-
scale industry component to promote labor intensive investments. The present
project follows up on this pilot effort. The loan to Maroc Phosphore made in
1978 will help increase Morocco's foreign exchange earnings. Continued lending
for industry through the BNDE is contemplated as well as further lending to
Credit Immobilier et Hotelier (CIH) for tourism development.
22.       Previous lending for utilities has consisted of a loan for potable
water supply, two loans for power and one engineering loan for the preparation
of a sewerage project for Casablanca. A follow up project for water supply
and distribution in urban centers, including distribution to low income urban
consumers, is under preparation, as are a sewerage project in Agadir and a
village electrification project.
23.       Education continues to need attention to ensure Morocco's manpower
development. Two credits and a loan have been made to develop secondary
education and teacher training, to improve technical and vocational training,



and to expand facilities in rural areas.  A fourth project with emphasis on
technical education has been recently negotiated.
24.       The recently approved Rabat project was the first Bank-financed
project in the urban sector. Follow up projects are under consideration to
support the Government's program for slum upgrading and urban deielopment
through the provision of basic infrastructure, housing and social services
and the creation of employment opportunities.
25.       Loan commitments from multilateral and bilateral official sources
to Morocco rose from $221 million in 1975 to $296 million in 1976, and dropped
from $831 million in 1977 to $370 million in 1978. Major sources of aid were
France, Saudi Arabia, the UAE, the U.S., Germany and the Bank Group. At the
end of 1978, the Bank Group's share in Morocco's outstanding and disbursed
external public debt was 11.2 percent. The share of the Bank Group in debt
service was 24 percent in 1976 and declined to 18 percent in 1977, and 9.5
percent in 1978. By 1983 the Bank Group's shares in debt outstanding and in
debt service are expected to be about 25 percent and 12 percent respectively.
PART III - SECTORAL BACKGROUND
Manufacturing
26.       Despite increasing growth rates during the last decade, the share
of the manufacturing sector in GDP and employment (respectively 16 percent
and 11 percent in 1977) remains modest. Value added by manufacturing grew
at an average annual rate of 4.0 percent during the twelve years following
Independence (1956-68), 5.4 percent during the period of the Second Plan
(1968-72) and 7.2 percent during the period of the Third Plan (1973-77).
Output of the sector still mainly meets demand for consumer goods and con-
struction materials; growth since 1966 has been led by the food processing,
motor vehicle assembly, textile, leather and construction material subsectors.
Exports of manufactured products grew at about 10 percent per annum in real
terms over the past decade to reach in 1977, 24 percent of total exports, 10
percent of total manufacturing output and 13 percent of imports of manufac-
tured products. This increase has not been sufficient to offset the surge
in imported inputs. Manufacturing industries are concentrated along the
Casablanca-Rabat-Kenitra axis (75 percent of workers; 54 percent in Casablanca
alone). But Government policies aimed at regional decentralization, mostly
through public investment, begin to show results.
27.       Investment in manufacturing during the Third Plan totalled DH 6.5
billion as compared to DH 1.9 billion for the previous Plan. This jump was
the result of a favorable investment climate following a new Investment Code
in 1973 and implementation of large public sector projects. The share of
foreign investment in total investment in the sector was minimal mainly
because of the "Moroccanization" laws enacted in 1973 which made it man-
datory for most industrial and commercial firms to be at least 50 percent
owned by Moroccan nationals. Total estimated cost of private manufacturing



- 8 -
projects approved under the provisions of the Investment Code rose steadily
from DH 887 million in 1973 to DH 2,529 million in 1977, while public invest-
ment on a commitment basis soared from DH 90 million to DH 2,616 million in
1976, but decreased to DH 290 million in 1977. The peak reached in 1976 was
the result of the Government's decision to use increased resources from
phosphate sales to accelerate the pace of industrialization through invest-
ment in basic industries. The decrease in phosphate prices did not allow
the Government to continue this policy in 1977. While the sharp increase in
public investment during the first four years of the Plan period has fostered
private investor confidence, its sharp decline in 1977 did not visibly affect
the growth pattern of private investment.
28.       The number of jobs created in the manufacturing sector during the
Third Plan amounted to 75,000 as compared to 30,000 during the previous Plan.
The average cost per job was high at about DH 60,000 during the Second Plan
and increased to about DH 90,000 during the Third Plan. This largely reflects
the Government's then prevailing policy to invest in basic industries and to
induce capital intensive investment through low interest rates, tax deductions
on investments and custom duty exemptions on imported equipment.
29.        In 1976, the Government recognized the need to adopt a more aggres-
sive strategy for industrial development and hired consultants to prepare
investment proposals. The consultants showed that the Government should
promote industrial development in sectors other than import substitution for
consumer goods, while maintaining the share of industry in total employment
generation. The sectoral program for industry in the Three-Year Plan (1978-
80) emphasizes the need to promote (i) export industries using locally pro-
duced raw materials or cheap labor; (ii) industries producing intermediate
and capital goods for efficient import substitution; and (iii) small-scale
industries which could create employment at low cost and realize the potential
of backward and forward linkages with large and medium industries. Measures
under consideration to implement this strategy include: a revision of the
investment code to favor labor intensive and selected industries in specific
sectors; assistance for export-oriented industries; a technical assistance
scheme for small industries; and the expansion of vocational training programs.
Small-scale Industries
30.       The new emphasis on small-scale industries follows years of neglect.
Government policies have long favored large industries and handicrafts -
defined as activities for producing specific artistic goods with investment
per job of less than DH 5000 -, while small industries were largely ignored
despite their importance for the economy. According to the 1976 industrial
census, 3200 firms with 5 to 50 workers accounted for 23 percent of employ-
ment and 21 percent of value added in manufacturing, their majority in food
processing, textile and leather products and metal working. A comparison of
the 1969 and 1976 industrial censuses indicates that value added by small
industries increased by 2.5 percent per annum, employment by 2.1 percent and
productivity by 0.4 percent. These figures, by not taking into account those
firms which, because of their dynamism, became medium size firms during the



- 9 -
period under consideration, fail to give an adequate picture of the subsector.
However, they point to a relatively slow growth of small industries in the
past and the need to impart greater impetus to a vital subsector of the
economy. A better assessment of the present situation and growth potential
of small industries can be obtained from the 1977 survey financed by Banque
Nationale po-r le Developpement Economique (BNDE). This survey of some
122 firms showed that overall, labor productivity was low due to outdated
machinery, deficient production planning and inability to attract skilled
workers. In spite of this, a number of small industries have proved suc-
cessful in tapping specific markets, including abroad. The firms surveyed
exported 30 percent of their output as compared to 10 percent for the sector
as a whole. About 60 percent of the small industries surveyed had good
prospects for growth, if provided with adequate technical, managerial and
financial assistance. The remaining 40 percent would likely stagnate, mostly
because of passive and untrained management.
31.        While handicrafts receive substantial Government support through a
special and generous investment code, training programs for apprentices and
marketing promotion, similar assistance is not available to small industries.
Among the limited number of those aware of the incentives provided by the
1973 investment code for industry, only a few are in a position to benefit
from them. Since they do not import their equipment, the majority does not
qualify for rebates on import duties, or cannot make use of tax holidays
since they do not keep adequate accounts.
The Financial System and Small Industry Financing
32.       Morocco has a well developed financial sector including Banque du
Maroc (the Central Bank), fifteen commercial banks, five specialized institu-
tions, including BNDE, the industrial development bank, and two saving banks.
Commercial banks are efficient and have a good record of profitability. Sight
deposits represent more than two-thirds of their consolidated resources, the
average cost of which is a low 2 to 2.5 percent. Short-term loans account
for about 90 percent of their lending activity. It is estimated that up to
30 percent of these loans finance fixed assets. The practice of financing
investment through short-term loans is more costly than through rediscountable
medium-term loans (interest rate of 10.5-11 percent p.a. instead of 8 percent
p.a.). In spite of this, short-term financing of investment is widespread,
mostly because small enterprises are reluctant to apply for medium-term loans
or their inability to meet stringent down payment and collateral requirements.
Medium-term loans to industry may be rediscounted with Banque du Maroc only
if appraised and guaranteed by BNDE under a complex procedure. To facilitate
access of small and medium enterprises to such medium-term loans, simplified
procedures were introduced in 1973. However, procedures remain complex,
involve lengthy delays and require full collateral. Only few small industries
have been able to benefit.
33.        BNDE was established in 1959 and received its first Bank loan in
1962. Since then it has obtained eight loans totalling $185 million. It is
now a mature and well-managed institution. The latest IBRD audit report on
BNDE (OED-817) was distributed to the Executive Directors in 1975 and an



- 10 -
Appraisal Report on the Eighth Loan to BNDE was distributed in April 1977
(1505a-MOR). Operationally, BNDE has performed well, and the quality of its
appraisals has continued to improve. BNDE is the only source of long-term
financing for industry and plays a key role in the distribution of medium-
term loans by commercial banks to the sector. Its activities have tradi-
tionally been oriented towards larger industries. Only recently it became
more directly involved in assisting small industries through the preparation
and implementation of the small scale industry pilot project under the eighth
loan it received from the Bank. The $5 million earmarked for this purpose
under the loan will refinance BNDE's participation in small industries' equity
($0.3 million), BNDE's direct loans to small industries ($1.7 million) and for
the remaining part, medium-term loans to small industries through Banque
Centrale Populaire (BCP), the largest commercial bank in Morocco. The pilot
project had a slow start but commitments have recently picked up, and the
credit line will be entirely committed by July 1979. The sectoral survey
prepared by BNDE's consultants and the experience gained in implementing the
pilot project helped in the design of the proposed project.
34.       Interest rates are established by the Government.  Sight deposits
yield no interest, while term deposits yield up to 8 percent to encourage
savings. Lending rates range from a minimum of 4.5 percent for some
short-term rediscountable loans to a maximum of 11 percent for medium non-
rediscountable and long-term loans. Medium-term rediscountable loans,
which are screened on their economic merits by specialized financial insti-
tution, carry a maximum rate of 8 percent. Interest rates on BNDE's loans
are 10 percent p.a. for loans up to seven years and 11 percent for longer
term loans plus about 1 percent for commission and fees. These rates are
reduced by a budgetary rebate of two percent for industry and five percent
for handicrafts. This rebate would not apply under the proposed project.
Government Institutions in the Manufacturing Sector
35.       The Government sets policies for the development of industry through
its Ministry of Industry. It also participates directly in manufacturing
activity. The Office Cherifien des Phosphates (OCP) is responsible for
mining, processing and export of phosphates and derivatives, which has been
reserved to the public sector because of its importance to the economy.
Established in 1973 under the supervision of the Ministry of Industry, the
Industrial Development Office (ODI) is responsible for industrial promotion
activities.  ODI undertakes pre-investment studies, acquires equity shares in
new industrial enterprises, and aims at contributing to regional development
and local participation in manufacturing. Since its inception, ODI has
prepared or supervised fifty sectoral or project studies which have led to the
establishment of 14 industrial firms. Some of them have shown poor results,
mainly due to wrong conception. Others are operating satisfactorily, among
them the CIOR cement plant which was financed with the help of the Bank. The
Government's new policy to rely more on the private sector and less on direct
public investment for industrial development is echoed in ODI's guidelines
calling for more promotional activities to stimulate foreign and domestic
investment while discouraging direct participation by ODI in industrial
ventures.



- 11 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
36.       The proposed project was identified by a Bank missior in April 1978.
An interministerial committee was established to prepare the project taking
into account the recommendations of the mission and the conclusions of the
BNDE-financed survey of small industries (para. 30); its proposals were
reviewed in June 1978 by a Bank mission which agreed with the Government on
the basic project design and institutional requirements.  Before appraisal
of the project in October/November 1978, a unit responsible for formulating
policies for small industry development was established in the Ministry of
Industry and another unit responsible for providing technical and managerial
assistance to small industries in ODI. Negotiations took place in Washington
from March 19 to 23, 1979. The Moroccan delegation was led by Mr. Belkoura
of the Prime Minister's Office and included representatives of all agencies
participating in the project. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Integrated
Project for Small Scale Industry Development" (No. 2365-MOR dated March 26,
1979) is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. The main
features of the loan and project are listed in the Loan and Project Summary
and in Annex III.
Project Objectives
37.       Recognizing the economic potential and social importance of promot-
ing the growth of the small industry subsector, the relative scarcity of
financing available to it and the deficiencies in institutional support, the
Government has decided to launch a comprehensive program of assistance to
small industries. The proposed project would consist of the first two-year
tranche of this program. It would entail a major institution building effort,
already initiated during project preparation both in the Government and the
banking system where BNDE will play a key role in view of its long and credit-
able record in industrial lending.
38.       The Government's present interest in small industry development
following years of neglect springs from both short and longer term considera-
tions. The immediate objectives of the Government are to create employment
at low cost and increase exports. Because they provide employment at lower
cost and absorb more labor per unit of output than the average producer in
the manufacturing sector, small industries in Morocco are well suited to
implement these objectives. Objectives for the longer term in promoting
small industry development are to (i) foster opportunities for entrepreneur-
ship, particularly for skilled immigrant workers returning from abroad;
(ii) stimulate the establishment of a better integrated industrial sector
by expanding linkages between small and large firms; and (iii) develop an
industrial base in less developed regions of the country.



- 12 -
Project Beneficiaries
39.       The main beneficiaries of the proposed project would be small
manufacturing firms capable of generating employment at low cost.  Small
construction and mechanical repair firms would also benefit from the project,
as would larger firms, if labor intensive or located in less developed
regions. The two criteria for eligibility under the project are their
net assets excluding land after investment and the cost per job created or
maintained. Figures are expressed in 1978 prices and would be adjusted at
regular intervals to take account of price variations for investment expendi-
tures (Schedule 4 of draft Loan Agreement). Three categories of firms have
been selected on the basis of these criteria: (i) very small firms with net
assets after expansion of less than DH 500,000; (ii) small firms with net
assets after expansion ranging from DH 500,000 to DH 2,500,000; and (iii)
medium firms with net assets after expansion of less than DH 5 million. As
a general rule, the cost per job created or maintained should not exceed DH
40,000 ($10,000). However, this ceiling would be DH 50,000 for industries in
the electrical and mechanical subsectors to take account of their higher
average cost per job. To discourage further concentration of investment in
the Casablanca- Mohammedia region, ceilings for medium firms located there
would be DH 5,000 lower. The ceilings for cost per job have been set at
levels low enough to limit assistance under the project to labor intensive
firms hitherto unable to benefit from existing credit facilities. The eli-
gibility criteria would be reviewed during project implementation and modified
if they prove too stringent.
Government Program to Assist Small Industries
40.       The three main components of the Government's program for assisting
small industries are (i) a policy-making unit to analyze the requirements of
small industry and formulate policies for its development; (ii) technical and
management assistance to small industries through the constitution of a
special team; and (iii) a financial assistance scheme, including a guarantee
mechanism.
41.       The policy-making unit was established in October 1978, and a compe-
tent director nominated under the direct supervision of the Director General
of Industry in the Ministry of Industry. Its terms of reference are to pro-
pose and supervise studies of the subsector, propose administrative measures
or policy changes in favor of small industry, review the effectiveness of
regulations and more generally, channel information to and from SSI's and
ensure that small industries are aware of the advantages provided to them.
42.       The technical assistance unit was established within ODI in Septem-
ber 1978 to identify and prepare projects, advise entrepreneurs in the selec-
tion and procurement of equipment and assist them in identifying and solving
production and management problems, in preparing requests for financing
and in locating marketing opportunities. Some of these activities would be
conducted in cooperation with commercial banks and specialized institutions,



- 13 -
in particular the Moroccan Training Institute for Business (ISCAE). The unit
started operating in ODI headquarters in Rabat and would concentrate its
activities, at least initially, in selected areas. The services of the unit
would be sought at the request of the firms concerned or their bankers but its
assessment of sub-projects would be required in the approval of all sub-loans
(para. 45). Xt present, the staff of this unit comprises five professionals.
By mid-1979, the unit should have nine professionals and by end-1979, twelve,
including four expatriates who would be financed from the proposed loan (para.
44). The work program and staffing arrangements of the unit would be reviewed
periodically in consultation with the Bank (Section 3.08 draft Loan Agreement).
The Moroccan professionals will be financed out of ODI's current budget, but
the unit should increasingly charge for its services and eventually become
partially self-financed.
43.       The financial assistance scheme would involve commercial banks and
BNDE and include a guarantee mechanism. Interested commercial banks have been
requested to program their activities in support of small industry development
as a condition of participation in the scheme. Procedures for loan appraisal
and approval would follow a pattern based on the existing rediscounting proce-
dure (para. 32) but considerably simplified. Participation in the guarantee
mechanism would facilitate access to credit by small industries without
readily available collateral and eliminate lengthy procedure required at
present for mortgage registration.
Proposed Project and Bank Loan
44.       The proposed project would help finance the first two years of a
long-run Government program of assistance to small industries. It would cover
(i) investments made by small industries and financed through the new scheme;
(ii) the technical assistance program to be carried out by ODI; and (iii)
discrete promotional activities for the benefit of small industries and fi-
nanced on a reimbursable basis. The proposed Bank loan would be made to the
Government of Morocco and would finance the estimated foreign exchange cost
of the project. $24 million of the Bank loan would be re-lent to small indus-
tries. The remaining portion of $1 million would finance the foreign exchange
cost of promotional activities ($0.5 million) and the cost of foreign experts
for the technical assistance unit ($0.5 million). If financing of these
experts is later secured from other sources, the $0.5 million would be added
to the lending component of the project. As some of the sub-projects are
expected to have maturities of up to 12 years, and may be approved up to the
end of the commitment period, the Bank loan would be repaid over a period of
15 years including 4 years of grace (expected period to complete disburse-
ments). A fixed amortization schedule would be used for repayment of the
proposed loan due to the large number of sub-projects involved. Investments
financed under the proposed loan would represent one third to one half of
total investment in small industry during the same period. Half of the
lending component ($12 million) would be directed to small firms as defined
in para. 39 above; the remaining half would be equally divided among the very
small and medium firms ($6 million each). This allocation would be reviewed
from time to time.



- 14 -
Appraisal and Approval Procedures under the Lending Component
45.       The proceeds of the loan would be re-lent by the Government to com-
mercial banks and BNDE, which would in turn re-lend them to small industries.
BNDE would have a double role under the project: that of a direct lender and
of an agent of the Government in supervising the commercial banks and managing
the funds re-lent to them. It would do so under a management agreement. To
achieve the above tasks, BNDE recruited additional staff in its unit specially
responsible for small industry financing. To safeguard the interest of com-
mercial banks in the project, BNDE would limit its own re-lending to thirty
percent of the lending component. Commercial banks willing to participate in
the scheme and ready to commit sufficient resources to promote and appraise
small industry projects would sign a standard convention with BNDE. This
convention would spell out eligibility criteria and procedures for appraisal
of sub-loans, disbursements and supervision. The proposed system should work
smoothly considering the long standing association between BNDE and the com-
mercial banks in extending medium term credits. Under the proposed project,
the commercial banks, which are well staffed, have expressed their keen
interest in drawing even further than in the past on BNDE's experience in
industrial long-term lending, and welcome the advisory role that BNDE would
play in the proposed lending scheme. The draft management agreement and
standard convention were reviewed during loan negotiations. Signature of
the agreement by the Government and BNDE and of the convention by BNDE and
at least three commercial banks would be a condition of loan effectiveness
(Section 6.01(a) and (b), draft Loan Agreement). Approval of sub-loans would
be made by a Credit Committee on which the Ministries of Finance and Industry,
Banque du Maroc, ODI and BNDE would be represented. The committee would also
coordinate project implementation. Appointment of the members of the Credit
Committee would be a condition of effectiveness for the loan (Section 6.01(d),
draft Loan Agreement).
46.       BNDE has agreed to develop simple standard forms for sub-loan appli-
cations and a brochure describing conditions and appraisal procedures for
sub-loans before end-July 1979 (Section 2.06, draft Project Agreement). The
smaller the firms, the simpler the loan appraisal requirements and approval
procedures would be. As a general rule, BNDE would screen all appraisal
reports prepared by participating banks, and all loans would be approved by
the Credit Committee which would meet every fortnight. A loan would be
considered approved in the absence of objection during the period in which the
committee would have met twice, after receipt by BNDE of the appraisal report.
This would not apply to loans to medium firms. A free limit could be extended
by the Credit Committee to participating banks in consultation with the Bank
for loans to very small firms (amounting to less than $75,000). This would
exempt banks from the necessity of both BNDE's review and the Credit Commit-
tee's approval, and sub-loan applications would be sent to BNDE only for
notification and disbursement (Schedule 4, draft Loan Agreement). Appraisals
of loans to medium firms would include calculation of financial and economic
rates of return and would be thoroughly reviewed by BNDE.



- 15 -
Terms and Conditions of Sub-Loans
47.        The terms of sub-loans would conform to the economic life of sub-
projects with a maximum maturity of twelve years including three years of
grace. Interest rates would be those prevailing under BNDE's loans to indus-
try (Schedule 4, draft Loan Agreement). Interest rates paid by sub-borrowers
would be 8 percent per annum for sub-loans with maturity up to v years and 9
percent per annum for sub-loans with maturity more than seven years. Commis-
sion and taxes would add about 1 percent to these rates to which would be
added a one-time guarantee fee of 1.25 to 3.25 percent (para. 49). Recent
rates of inflation in Morocco have been 8.6 percent in 1976 and 12.5 percent
in 1977; they are expected to average 9 percent through 1978-79 and decrease
and stay at 7 percent thereafter. Onlending rates under the proposed project
would therefore be slightly positive. The foreign exchange risk would be
assumed by the Treasury, in line with the practice followed in Morocco
for larger industrial enterprises. Commercial banks and BNDE would draw the
proceeds of the proposed loan from the Treasury at a rate of two percent below
the rate to be paid by sub-borrowers. This spread would be less than the
average spread earned by commercial banks but has been judged acceptable by
them in view of the potentially large clientele they could serve through the
project.
48.        The Bank loan would finance the foreign exchange cost of the sub-
projects estimated to represent on average 60 percent of total sub-project
cost excluding land. Sub-borrowers would provide 20 percent of sub-project
cost. The remainder would be funded by the participating banks and would be
rediscountable with Banque du Maroc.
Guarantee Mechanism
49.        The Caisse Centrale de Garantie, a government agency established
for guaranteeing loans to contractors under Government sponsored projects
which in the past has also guaranteed loans for property transfers under the
Moroccanization process, would provide a guarantee of up to eighty percent of
the outstanding amount of sub-loans under the project. The one-time guarantee
fee payable by sub-borrowers (para. 47 above) would correspond to an annual
charge of about 0.35 percent of the guaranteed amount. The guarantee would
be approved at the same time as the sub-loan. The guarantee mechanism would
facilitate access to institutional financing for small industries, which
generally have insufficient collateral, and expedite sub-loan disbursements by
not making them contingent upon completion of the lengthy process of mortgage
validation. Draft guidelines governing the guarantee mechanism under the
project were discussed during negotiations. These guidelines would be issued
as a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Sections 3.09 and
6.01(c), draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
50.        Given the small size and cost of individual investment items, most
of them will be directly purchased from suppliers. BNDE would develop a
set of guidelines for procurement under the project in conformity with the



- 16 -
Bank's recommended procedures (Section 2.06, draft Project Agreement). These
guidelines would require sub-borrowers to obtain and submit price quotations
from at least two suppliers or contractors in the majority of cases. Par-
ticipating banks would be invited to describe procurement procedures to be
used in their appraisal reports. Disbursements would in most cases be made
directly by BNDE or commercial banks to the suppliers or contractors. Tech-
nical assistance for promotional activities and building up ODI's small
industry unit would be provided by experienced consultants.
51.       The proposed Bank loan of $25 million is expected to be fully
committed by December 1981 and fully disbursed by June 1983. Bank funds
would finance up to 60 percent of the cost of each sub-project (including
permanent working capital but excluding land), which represents an estimate
of the average needs of foreign currency by SSI sub-projects in Morocco.
Disbursements would be supported by standard documentation to be retained
by commercial banks and BNDE and available for periodic review by Bank
supervision missions. Bank disbursements to the borrower, or BNDE on its
behalf, would be made against certified statements of expenditure issued
by BNDE. Disbursements under the technical assistance and promotional
activities components of the loan would reimburse 100 percent of fully
documented foreign exchange expenditures.
Supervision and Monitoring
52.        Participating banks would prepare an annual supervision report on
all their borrowers under the project. BNDE would consolidate these reports
and prepare an analysis of investment activities by sub-sector, region and
size of enterprise. BNDE's report together with an annual monitoring report
prepared by the Ministry of Industry and a report prepared by ODI on tech-
nical assistance activities would be reviewed by the Credit Committee which
would assess the results achieved under the project and recommend adjustments
to criteria and procedures as necessary (Section 3.05, draft Loan Agreement).
Project Justification
53.       The proposed project would be the first integrated small industry
development program in Morocco. Its objectives are to ease and remove the
main constraints to the development of small industries in Morocco: lack of
specific policies tailored to their needs, insufficient access to institu-
tional investment credit and working capital, and lack of technical and
managerial assistance resulting in poor project conception. The project
is expected to have significant social and economic effects in terms of:
employment creation, development of technical and managerial skills, redis-
tribution of income by class and region, encouragement of savings and invest-
ment, and increase in quantity and quality of output and exportable goods.
The lending component of the project would provide assistance to over 200
firms approximately distributed as follows: 135 to 150 smallest firms; 50
to 60 small firms; and 10 to 12 medium firms. At least 5,000 jobs would be
created directly at an average cost of about $8,000 per job, or about one
third of the average cost per job created in the manufacturing sector during
the Third Plan (1973-77). Indirect employment generation has not been
quantified, but it is expected to be high. Also, by increasing productivity



- 17 -
and competitiveness in existing enterprises, jobs would be maintained that
would otherwise be lost to larger and capital intensive units in the country,
or to imports.
54.       The major long-term result of the proposed project would be the
building of i stitutions to support development of the small industry sector:
a policy-making unit has been established in the Ministry of Industry and a
technical assistance unit in ODI; commercial banks and BNDE would develop
their capabilities of assisting small industries in investment financing. In
addition, BNDE would reinforce its recently started promotional activities in
favor of small industries and less developed areas. This institution-building
is expected to pave the way for expanded operations to the benefit of small
industries in Morocco.
Project Risks
55.       This project involves more risks than a standard loan to development
finance companies in view of some of the project's features and the participa-
tion of several institutions with limited experience in project appraisal and
assistance to sub-borrowers. Delays in their start-up are possible and could
affect the timely implementation of the project. To minimize this risk, a
great effort has been made during project preparation to complete the legal
arrangements, formulate detailed work programs, and train key officials for
the new institutions. During project implementation, Bank staff would closely
monitor the progress achieved by these institutions, particularly by the
technical assistance unit, and provide all necessary assistance to adjust
work programs as necessary. Another risk could be the reluctance of small
entrepreneurs to avail themselves of the services provided by ODI's unit, for
fear of Government intervention in their affairs. To minimize this risk, it
has been agreed with ODI that at the beginning the new unit would concentrate
its activities in selected areas and on firms where its assistance is most
likely to bring about immediate and tangible results.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Morocco and the Bank,
the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and BNDE and the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
57.        Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
58.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 18 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
59.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
March 28. 1979
Washington, D.C.



19                       "~,              MANEX  I
Page  1 of  6
TABLE 3A
MOROCCO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
MOROCCO                                               /a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. RM.)                                            - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           659.9 /f                                            SAME        SAME    NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL    157.8                              MUST RECENT    GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 lb   1970 /b ESTIMATE Lb      REGION /c  GROUP Ld   GROUP /e
CNP PER CAPITA (US$)               190.0       290.0    570.0          1438.5     432.3       867.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    148.0     180.0    274.0           816.7      251.7       578.3
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-TEAR
(MILLIONS)                      11.6       14.8      17.7
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 29.3      32.2     39.5            45.8      24.2        46.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                     26.0        33.0     39.0 tg         23.2      42.7        50.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    61.0       74.0    112.0           112.4      95.0        93.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                       44.3        46.4     45.8            46.0      44.9        42.9
15-64 TRS.                       51.7       51.1      51.6           50.6       52.8        53.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                 4.0         2.5      2.6             3.3       3.0         3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            2.6         2.4      2.4             2.9       2.7         2.5
URBAN                            6.4         4.0      4.8             5.0       8.8         4.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    50.4       49.2     44.5            45.0      42.2        37.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    24.2       18.5     13.4            13.7      12.4        10.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE            3.4 /h      3.4      3.3             3.4       3.2         2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)     ..        25.1     68.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..        3.0      5.4            14.7      14.2        20.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)          118.7       100.0     86.0           107.1     104.3       107.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY'OF
CALORIES <PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                 90.0       102.0    108.0            99.2      99.5       105.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)        43.0        64.0     70.5            63.4      56.8        63.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       ..        14.0 A   15.6            16.4       17.5       21.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     ..          ..       ..              ..       7.5         8.0
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   45.4       50.4     53.0            53.7      53.3        57.2
INFANT MORTALITY
RATE (PER THOUSAND)            149.0 h        ..    130.0            77.7      82.5        53.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..        51.0       ..            59.1      31.1        56.8
URBAN                             ..        92.0       ..            85.9      68.5        79.0
RURAL                             ..        28.0       ..            38.0       18.2       31.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..        29.0       ..            64.3      37.5        30.9
,RBAN                             ..        75.0       ..            94.5      69.5        45.4
RURAL                             ..         4.0       ..            27.7      25.4        16.1
POPULATION PER PHSICIN          9700.0 /   12650.0  12400.0          4271.6    9359.2      2706.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       ..      2820.0   1500.0          2077.4    2762.5      1462.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          680.0       660.0    710.0           580.2     786.5       493.9
URBAN                             ..       460.0       ..           310.0     278.4       229.6
RURAL                                     2980.0       ..              ..    1358.4      2947.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..        15.5     16.5            22.0      19.2        22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                            4.8         5.5       ..             5.4        ..         5.2
URBAN                            4.3         4.9       ..              ..         ..        5.0
RURAL                            5.1         5.8       ..              ..         ..        5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OP PERSONS ?ER ROOM
TOTAL                            2.2         2.4       ..              ..         ..        2.0
URBAN                            2.1         2.1        ..            1.8       2.3         1.5
RURAL                            2.3         2.6       ..              ..         ..        2.7
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                           76.0 /        ..        ..           40.3       28.3       64.1
URBAN                           85.4 /1    68.4       55.0             ..         ..       67.8
RURAL                           31.0 LI                 ..           12.2       10.3       34.1



-20-                                           ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                        Page  2  of  6
MOROCCO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
- REFERENCE GROLPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
MOROCCO                                                  /5
- MOST PECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAYE     NEXT HIGHER
NDST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 Lb     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 47.0        52.0       65.0            80.8        75.8         99.8
FEHALE               27.0         37.0       47.0            61.8       67.9         93.3
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                   5.0        13.0       17.0            23.6        17.7         33.8
FEMALE                2.0          7.0       12.0            18.2        12.9        29.8
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)   ..          2.0        3.0             6.7         7.4         12.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRDIARY                            43.0        34.0       40.0             31.5       34.3         34.9
SECONDARY                            ..        20.0       22.0            22.3        23.5         22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        17.0         21.0      28.0             50.1       63.7         71.8
CONSLMiPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         11.0        15.0       18.0             14.5        7.2         12.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER TIOUSAND
POPULATION                         46.0        60.0       77.0            125.8       71.1        104.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.4        11.0       23.0            34.5        14.1        28.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  22.0        16.0       14.0             17.4       16.3        45.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0            ..       1.6              1:6        1.6          4.6
E1MPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FMICE (THOUSANDS)      3250.0      3980.0    4930.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   10.6         15.2      19.0             9.3        28.0         25.7
AGRICULTLRE (PERCENT)              56.4        49.9       42.5             42.0       54.1        46.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 11.3        14.9       18.1
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                28.0         26.3      27.0             26.9       37.8         33.8
MALE                                 50;1        44.5       44.4             46.6       50.3         48.1
FEMALE                                5.9         8.0       10.3             5.3        20.9        17.3
ECONOGIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               2.0          1.9       1.8              1.9        1.3          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.0 /k      20.0 /k      ..               ..       19.5        23.6
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  43.3 /k      49.0 /k      ..               .        4 48.9      52.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    7.0 /k       4.0 /k      ..               ..        5.9         4.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.0 /k      12.0 /k      ..              ..        15.7        13.1
POVERTY TASGET GROUPS
ESTIMATE) ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                             107.0       157.0      288.0              ..       155.9       191.9
RURAL                              66.0       101.0      174.0           142.0        97.9       193.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..      189.0           236.1       143.7       319.8
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..           144.7        87.3       197.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                              59.0        39.0       34.0            21.5       22.9         19.8
RURAL                              49.0        45.0       45.0            37.4       36.7         35.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
La    The adjusted group average& for each indicator are population-eighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries aong the
Indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
Ic    North Africa & Middle East;  /d   Lower Middle Income (S281-550 per capita, 1976);  /e  Intermdiate Middle
Income (5551-1135 per capita. 1976);   Lf Including Moroccan provinces In Western Sahara;  LI  Excludes
Moroccan provinces in W. Sahara;   /h  1962;   /i  Av. 1964-66;   .  Brick building only;   /k  Consumption
expenditures of households.
September, 1978



- 21 -                                                                  MINEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                 tagt   3   of   6
U=~: The adjusted group aver ges for each inidicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and toe most
populated country in each grouc~.  Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.  Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Ol Exporters and indicators of access to water and excrete disposal, heusing, income diarribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
IMtAREA (thousand so . km)                                                                population per hospital bed - total, urban, ar.d rural - Population  (total.
lotal - Total surf ace area comprising land urea and inland waters.                           urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of ioupctcl beds
krciorl- Moot recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarIly                   available in public and private general and specialiced hospital  c  ro-
ar permamr.ecly (or crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardeos or to                       habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments per~manentl  tarafio o
lie fallow.                                                                                 at ..east one physician.  Establishments providir.g principallycstdl
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and .edil-
.2'N? PEP, lAP1A (Uii) - SIMP pe  -apica ascomates at current market prices.                   cal renters not permatneoly staffed by a physician (but by a nedlool  o-
calculated by sam,e conver,      machod as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 daca.                                                                  provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSL'MPTIGN PER CAPITA - Annual crosumption of commercial energy                       from hospitals divided by the number of heda.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                       HOUSING
Aveag  size of household (persons per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION blID VITAL STATISTICS                                                               A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population. mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if niot available,                      end their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not he included in
a                ~~~~average of two end-pear estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 date,                            the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urbam population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                         hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                      Average number of persons oar room - total, urban, and rural - Average  un
of data among countries.                                                                   bar of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                            dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings eXolude non-pernanest structures and
per  so. km. - M.id-year population per square kilometer (105 bectares)                      unoccupied parts.
of total arses.                                                                          Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, orban, and rural -
Per sq. km. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                       Conventlonal dwelli-ngs with electrlcity in 1lvivn  quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                      of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Ponu.lation age structure (percent) - Children (I-li years), working-age
(15-6i years), and recired (H5 years and aver) as percentages of mid-                  EDUCATION
year population.                                                                        Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population orowth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                      Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1-950-6O,                         at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                      populations; normeily includes children aged 6-11 years hoc adjusted fcr
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                          different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                        cation enrollment may exceed 110 percent since some pupils are boelow or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                        above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual1 deaths per thousand of mid-                       Secondary school - total, and female - Co-pated as above; secondary ed..a-
year Population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                      tion requires at least four pears of  approved primary instruoction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 11975 for most recent estimate.                            vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pup-is
Grass reproduction rota - Average number of daughters a womenl will bear                      usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in aer normal reproductive period  if she experiences present age-                         excluded.
specific fertility races; osually fiv-veer averages ending in 1960,                      Vo.cational enrollment (neccect of zecocdarv(  - Vocational iSjtlt4tins is-
1970, and 1975.                                                                            clods cechniosl, inoustolal, or other pacc  which operate indop-eooiiv
Family ola-nnis  - acoptor, annua. l (thousa.nds) - Annual number of                          or as departments of aecondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-controL devices under auspIces of national. family                   Pupil-teacher ratio - prcoaro, and secoindar, - Total orodents eccollei in
planning program.                                                                          primary and secondary levels divided by tuckers ci teachers :n th  carrte-
Family nlanning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                            sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (Ih  years) who use birth-control                    Adult l1iteracy rate (percent) - Literate adults  shIve to read and urtzc, as
devices to all married women in s-am  age group,                                           a percentage of total adult popu-lation aged 15 years and aver.
POOD AND NUTRITION                                                                        IONSU9"TEON
Index of food production per capita& (il197-100) - Index numnber of Per                   Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production of all foco comoities.                                          seating less than eight persons; esciudes ambulances, hearses and oiitary
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                    vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita                  Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production. imports less                  broadcasts to general public per thousand of n-vultior; occludes, unlicensel'
esports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude aninal feed, seeds,                 receIvers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets  aeo in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                     effect; data for recent yearn ma;' nor be comparoole since most countries
quicoments were estimated by PAO based oni physiological needs for nor-                  abolished licensing.
c,al activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                    TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV reoc.iers for broadcast to generat
weights, age and sex distributions of pnpulation, and allowing 10 per-                     public par thousand Population; encludes unlIcensed TV receivers in nou n-
cent for waste at household laeve.                                                         tries and in years when registration af TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supoly of protein (grams per dav) - Protein content of pe                        wpaer    circulation (par choo..and posulorlon) - Shows the average circula-
capita net sppl y of food per day.  Pet oupply of food is defined as                       tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodicl  -ucli-
oho-e.  P.eqoiremetst  for all countries escabliahed by USDA Provide for                   cation devoted yrinar1v to recording general news.  it is considered to
a minimum allowance of 6i grane of total protein per day and 10 grams                      he "doiUr  if it appears at least four times a wek..
of animal and pulse protein, of whicn II grams should he animal protein.                Cinema annual attendance per canitcs nor veer - Baned an the nunher of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of. total protein and                     sold during the pear, inclu~ding admisslons to drive-in oioemas .an  mobile
2) grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                        units.
PAO in the Third World Pond Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food                 EMPLOYMENT.
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                      Intel laker force ithousands)  - Econ-ically actIve persons. including ormed
Chili (ge  1-4) sortality race (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thcus-                     fume.s and unemployed but eacudngheseivs. stoosnts, otc.  D.aCic-
-                ~~~~~ama in age group i-h years, to children in this age group.                             tions in various countries are not comparable.
Female (peronot) - Peamel labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH~                                                                                    Agriculture (percent) - Labor forte in farmting, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life expectancy at birth (pes.ra)   Average number of years of life                          as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                   Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                                  electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
-              ~~~~infanr mortality rare (per thous.and) - AnnualI deaths of infamts under                Participatiom rate (percent) - total  .Isale  and female - Tntol,  tale, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                                  0emale labor force as percentages of chair respectovi         oultos
Access to safe water (percent of sosulation) - total, urban, and rural -                     These are  LOD's adjusted participation rates reflecting eec-sen
Numpber of people (total, urban, and rural) with resonable aces   o                        atrcrarrur  of rho veooio.ad lone tine trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated hut                     -tononit dependency ratio - Ratio of popullation u-der 11 and 65 and overt
.ononcaminsted water such as that from protected boreholee, springs,                       the labor force in age groop ci 12-6  ..pears.
and sanitary "ello) as -percentages of their respective populatcone.
.inon urban area a Pooliconcc  or standpost located not more                          INCOME DISTRIBUrTON
tban 201 motors iron s house mat be considered as being within tee-                    Percencoos of private income (both in cask and kinad) received hr rIchiestI
socable access of that ocuse.  In rural areas reasonable access wou ld                     percent, richest 210 percent, Poorost 20 percent, and pocrest 4O portent
imply coat the a--ewife or ome.brs of the ,ousehold do nor have to                         of households.
soend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                          POVeiTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to excrete disposal (percent of population) - total. urban. and                    intimated aboolute novertv Income level (15$ per capita)   u rhon, and coral -
rural - Number of people (total, crban, and rural) served by excrete                         Abso lutepoverty income level is chat icoron  level holw which a no..ctal
disposal as percentagas of their respective populations.  Excreta                          nutritionally adequate diet plus essential  ons-food requirementa  Ls cot
disposal map include the colletion. and disposal, with or withnut                          affordable.
tramn,of human excrete end waste-wter by water-borne systems                     Istinoced roSactve noverty income. level (105 cer aota) - urban andcra -
at the use of rot privies and similar installations.                                       Relative poverty income level is that income level lass than, one-third
PopulatIon nor physician - Population divided by number of practIcIng                        Per capita personal income of rho country.
shicsicans qualified iron a medical school at oni-ersity level.                        Gotrtoscd posulacion below anver:y income level  verrcent  - 'rba  ar.d rural-
Puoulation Par narsina 'arson  - Pepulation divided by number of                             Percent of population  ,urban and rural) woo ore either "absolute  poor" or
pr-ntainig male and fosi  graduato scenes   praroical across, and                          "eaiepoor' whichever is greeter.
oacatant nurse..
E--ssio and Social boata vica
Economnic Analysis and Protections Departmnort



21, .40II 3 021212132  0 012 COns    taOC12 20I.CaCIOWO  .. 
0001   12   2   aro-1 Cl    2  C'    2022  C   2(02122   12 50011   0           clrlOaCOabr*12212A2   -
I  -.1222222  22-00                                           0C        sor    LoS    4-I   1--2-                      r
*   -20020   r-.e1223312r    122102045   12   Coo               a.   IS                                          a 0l-      re 
3   22 0  -. OmfO             o       0101212                12   -   S   020ISC33... C.........                              
......00214                   122               1 .. . .. .   ....r                                             .........CC......... 0                      ..
. o o .                           . Co .= 12  .  .0                              . .-. . .7
. .    .    .      . .     .          0 .20                      .   2. ...2. .0.
3   -  .322   12   1210  12   r             12000               l             0        ........C.C C             .2...          3      3
cr12C-*        1212          . ..- .. ..0..   . O .                            200                1 .0                          .3100..l.
*   3  12                            ..0             00                                  mr~~~~~~~~~~ ..   . .    .......    .   . .0 . . 0 ..
I  0                                  50                 12  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .                        ... .c .                           .        
.        ... .                       ...                 ....                 .3                                                                           
2  3                        12                -                                                                                   3      a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z ,Z
.                             .......                                   . . .....                               
.-                                    ... . ........3                                                    
.                               ..... . ...                                                                                   --   .. . .... . .                          . 4 -
*      230         -                            2                                      22                        000112   0             3



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
AIIACH$ENI 4A, BALANLL [IF PAYMLNIS AOl EXItENAL  ASSIt4ANCE
(MILLIONS UP U3 D4EILA93i CURRENT D4ARtEI  PRICLS)
._---_---_-_------------------------- -------_,,_--_----__ --, _------------_ ................--.....-..-..-...-....-.........---.......--.....----.....-..-..--..-----.....-..----..... ,,_ - -.,---.__-_---. 
Actual-                                                            Proj1ected 3/
A. SUMMARY Uf sALANCF L  PAYEhiNTS                              *               *         *         *                *         *               *          *         *
1. EtXPORlS# INCL. Niag                         SbS.O    949,0   1Y47,0o/11860.0o  2240.0   2783.0    3316,0   3924.0   41592,0   5337.0   9306,0  1nSs9,0
Z, IUPON13,  EXCL. NIS                          623.0    97o,0   1519,V0   426.0   3954,0   3632.0    4045,0   4sQ020   5105.0   S683,0  41403.0  18672.0
3, RbSOURCE BALANCF                             -68.0    -27.0 .4e02,0  .2258.0 .lt'.0o  u849.0    .729,0   .578.0 -o 53.0   .546.0  -2097,0   -sM53.0
4. hET FAC1UR SR9VICES                           -t7,0      31.0    316.0    319.0    41b.0    367.0            35S,0    311.0    414.0    415,0    666.0    9J1.0
4.1. NET INTEAtSI PAYMENTS                       -17.0    -29,0    *57.0   .429.0   -181.0   .236.0    -Z90.0   .319,0   .32S,0   .324,0   .447.0   .722.0
4.2, NET INVESTMENI INCOME                      - 2.0      -28.0    -42.0    - 29,0    -54.0        .98,0    -109,0   -12,0   .112.0   .I4,il0   *150.0   .-50.0
4.3, a4JRKEPIS REMITrANCES                        41,0    I39,o    su47.,    589.0    741.0    751,0            804,0    860.0    921,0    985,0   13J3.0   1855.0
4,4. UTHti  (NEI)                                -52,0    .46.0    -70,0    -52.0    -84.0    -50.0             -50.0    .SO,o    -so.0    .50.0    .50.0    .50.0
5, CURRENT TFANSFERS(hLT)                         i3,0      42.0       69.0      s2.0      aS.0       48.0       5z.0       S5.0      58.0       .3,0      83.0    1lb.0
6. CURRENT  ACCOUNT  BALANCE                     .9e.0      55.0 .1355,0  -1027,0 -1250.0   -4514.0    .22,0  *450    *4.4,o0    .26.0 .1346.0    4b4,0
To PRIVATE  CIRECI INVESIMEN)  (NET)               9.0      24.0       36.0      53.0      s3.0       70.0       77,0      85,0       93.0    402.0    Iso.0   2au,0
8. PUHLIC  M * LI LOANS                                                   S .        a    *              *           4          *         I          *         A 
6.). DISBURSEMENTS                                86,0    314.0    732.0   1213.0    792.0    821.0             966b0    933.0    942.0   1089.0   2411.0   1569.0
8,2, REPAYMENTS                                 *29,0    .78.0    .014,0   .105.0    294.0  .426.0    .652.0  *789.0  .693,0   .6s6.0   *V45.0 .4954.0
8.3,   ET DISHURSEMENIS                          59.0      s3.o0      48.0   1166.0    496.0    39q.0          314,0    144.0        49.0    233,0   148b,0   -13850                      I
9, SHORT  TERM CAPIIAL  (NE1)                    .18.0    .32.0       29.0       66.0      .5.0                      A          a         *          *                    *W
40,NET  USE OF IMF RESOURCES                         0      42.0    195.0           *      34.0      70.0         6,0      91,0       1e,0       11.0          *
It, CAPIIAL  N.E,I,   2/                        *32,0       95.0    559,0    579.0    b38.0              a           A          A         A          I t 
l2,CHANGE  IN RESENVfS                          .49.0    -75.0   -114,0    .41.0           32.0       37,0    -.6.0         14.0    *r9.0   *298.0   .26b.0   .320.0
13.LLVEL OF RESERVES                                                                                                                      a a  a  a  ,  *  a  *  a
13.1, AMOUNT                                     21,0    23W,0    494,0    512.0    500,0    461,0              524,0    i4o0.       599.0    897.0   0876.0   3083.0
13.2, MONIHIS IMPURiS                              0.4       2.9        2,0        ,5       I0,s       ,'s         1.6       1.5       145        1.6 ,.9              2.0
B. GRANT 9 LOAN CUMMI IMENTS                                              a                     a                               . A       4 a  1     a '                  a
1, OFFICIAL GRANTS                               25,0       17.0      15,0       30.0          a         *           4          a         *          4         4
2, TOTAL PU6LIC rN K LT LOANS                     b8,0    179.0   9s9,0   1930,0   1344,0                *           4          4         *                     a ^
,.l. 19RDI10A                                      8,0      97.0    150.0    0b8.0    133,0              * A                    *          a         a          a         a
2,2. UTHER  INITL INSTITUTIONS                        0         0       4,0      4.00      47.0           a          4          a         4          a         a          a
2,3. G4JVERNMLNTS                                 40.0      b30o   144,0    653.o    220.0               4           *          a         a          a          a
2,4. SUPPLItR'S CRtOITS                               0     30,0        8,0    163.0       9V0             
2.5. CUOMERCIAL BANKS                                 0        o.0    bo3,0    936.0    96S.0                                              A a    *  *          a
C, MEMO ITEMS                                         a         a         a                                                                a
1, GRANT ELEMENT(Z)                                        o306       13,9       II.:       b9           a           a          a         *          a                    a
2,  AvLRAE  I4NTEREST(X)                              *      5,3        7.2       7.15       15          a           a          a         a          a          a
3, AVERA6E '4ATURITY(Y& AWSI                         *      22.5      tit7       10,1       7.5                     a          a                    41 *                 a
..__..__.. ___.........___-.-_.............._. -._.--_._.......................................--_____.......... ............__.. ___....__.__.___.__....................................  
1I   Including  special military import payments which are tentatively estimated by the mis.ion at                                                     Macc, 26, 1979
$590 million In 1976 and $530 million In 1977.                                                                                                   EMENA CP ilc
21   Including grants.
3/   Projections are being revised by the Basic Economic Mission.



ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
AIt T As C -1`4 F ti I0ut, F y I F FlN t  (IE t   I LtP F?    I fI .1 INF 7 H I N~ F5S
Actuals                                                   Projected  1/
__1967              ....._9E__._7......... .6                          1980        1981         1982       1983         1987    .1221--
A. tIA t!jt  K EtAn'  YIt?h  LF8T                                                                                                                I *  *                                a
(MILIjuDs  IIF  US   1L,[LARS1                                         t            *                       A                                                                         *
1. TLlAL  iAIt  Al  YEAR'S                                                   919, J   919. 4 2e.1     jutr9       39r7  rt   4"S,    tS171.i   S31.0   ` b36SS,O)   S9h.0    Hb9h.0  1129b.( 
e.  IN(Lln1lt(; 1-0'1ISHUFSE'                                           *   I Ih/Ou   .S2t 1.0    5u4;('  6h125 .             7440o.     77352.(    74 7L5..I 7I 1.1   1S98.I/   tt386.0    97 45,1
S. DRtil SH,.1lu                                                   11I, ,       1ItJI,O   Iii^          J            I I4l)    t,  2.r,       942 '.4    lnJIh.U     I   IH. ,   I I ts*I    1 3Qc0    2h76.0
3.1,  IF      i tI1 II N t F  Sl                                   1 7.o       34.u        51.tl      19  0 (      1 850.)     e3b.0        9tt0       .3 I9 II     325,0       3S2i,n       U4III7.0    7,Ie) 
tt,  Dt I  tULth)U                                                      *           A           *            *           *INII                                A           I            A                        III
1. DFiii  S PVILF-/f XJVIH6I  1.  (.                                            0 l*F  e   S1  ,.I       i. e   S      I4       24.e        2Ni I         J6 7   2J,7   27.1)     22.0        I5.t4        IS.S
2.   tR       ` I' I S   I f /t XP'R0TS  6 A'*sl,K HFS kk Fi TI     77          '3 S           .I        9 5        I.5    1      9.7        25 3.*      2.          22. I           It1. I    1 5. 1      1 3 /L
3. ,     ntI  SC S1(E I  ' UP                                       3*5         e. I        I .5        Z2           3,8         5.u         h. 3        h.8          h,          S,8          4.?         4,6
C.   Iks                                                                            III         *             *  *
1.  INIE`t4t19I/Pe-Ii-  YEAFJ IrJL                                                .9 ,4 h6                           S.j          S.9         5.9        6f, 5         t2,4        ObfL         5,          7, 6
!.    ti l  St mVIU/I'911JR YcP  i,                                     * II.t- Y.E                     1   1 1,    1 S,  I      t2                                   2 18.0  21,2  2J. 1  2 .1  1S.7      ?5u
D.   tPE^I-'E  HiC   H^I1f)S                                            *           *           *                        A           A            A           *            *           *                        A 
1. f;".ISS gI~lbhMiSEttF:IlS/1Mp,n1TS                              1).I        Ifl.t 2e,A               3S,b        20.9        22.7         23,9        2( 1         14.5        18.5         2 1. 2
2.  wL1  iiSRjukSr~      TS/IS    f.l l II                          h II.?            le   1-.4         2,; F       1?,S          4 .ie        o3        _U.3         *S._t       -2  n         8.3         'b
S.   IE tDlSH./GWIllSS  OIShb                                   411"7        I7 .9       tttD5       q9I          b ts2   t4  3P; a1                                            I. I)',  -5,  - 7  39  2  .18 9
E . txISURL  RAI Ii1S                                                   A                                                                                                                           A
e. ttA ig  G.-JII    I1,fl1AL                                          A t)1.6 I                                   1) 1. 2          A            A           *                        *            *           *
S. PA*-K  601IJUV  rC8I  SER*/l,dTAL  t)LLt SFN.                       *A      1j.5        25.0         I79          9.5 5                        A
F. F XIE F4AL  tLL4t(I       IiS        (ILhUt LSt    t:                            A * t  *  *                                                   A            A           A            A
(Ml. 1 1 e S  '- FtLS  1)                                                                                                                                                  A A                                  A
Outstanding Dec.31,77
I,  1 t4h r                                      *           *    to(un~~~~Awutt    2 
1.                                                             '4 1 (, n.O       k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ii~.3A                           AAA                                     
e.  st)A                                                               *g                                1.*   9  10     A           A            A            A           A
3.  I,..Hri I N                                                                    A I I,n 1-1                          A           *            A           A            A            A           A'A
14,  Aj;;>                                                                          A tu0               3.;A                                                                                          
5.  SGJ FPI J  F C  S lit'.                                             A           A I II                               A    *  S      9                     A 1                      AA
5.  FkpI AITA_ I.      t,11lLI V13 7 A   kII 0 *L                                                       14.,             A                                     AAA 
t)  tF I NA t C T A L  I s5 I I I (i r 1 l s  s                                         I  1      8 8                                             A. o         A           A                                     A
tt. 1 I I     It Ji4SI l)* M                                                                                                         A            A            A           A A                                   A.
9.  Tt TAL  it. 7I II                                                                                 I   !N,   
r; . ,F -t 1t41 t t0ttt 
1.  Total debt service 1978/82/Total DOD end 1977    1.14
1/   Projections are being revised  by the Basic Economic Mission.
Masrch, 26   1979
EMENIA CP tic



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of February 28. 1979)
Loan of                                                                US$ Million
Credit                                                         Amount (less cancellations)
Number   Year       Borrower                  Purpose          Bank       IDA /   Undisbursed
Elevec   Loans      Fully disbursed                            174.9
Four     Credits   Fully disbursed                                       36.0
643      1969       Kingdom of Morocco        Irrigation        46.0               0.3
848      1972       CIH                      DFC (Tourism)    15.0                 1.1
850      1972       ONEP                     Water Supply       48.0               4.8
936      1973       ONE                      Power              25.0               3.6
955      1974       Kingdom of Morocco       Highway            29.0               5.8
1017      1974       Maroc-Phosphore           Industry          50.0               4.4
1018      1974       Kingdom of Morocco       Agricultre         32.0              12.5
1061      1974       BNDE                     DFC                30.0               5.0
555      1975       Kingdom of Morocco       Agriculture                  14.0    13.7
1123      1975       Kingdom of Morocco        Agriculture       18.5               8.4
1201      1976       Kingdom of Morocco       Agriculture        30.0              18.5
1202      1976       Kingdom of Morocco        Tourism           21.0              19.2
1220-T    1976       Kingdom of Morocco       Education          25.0              25.0
1279      1976       CIH                       DFC (Tourism)    25.0                6.4
1299      1976       Kingdom of Morocco       Power              49.0              36.6
1361      1977       CNCA                     Agriculture        35.0              17.1
1383      1977       CIOR                      Industry          45.0               5.7
1416      1977       Kingdom of Morocco       Agriculture        41.0              40.3
1428      1977       BNDE                     DFC                45.0              44.7
S-7      1977       Kingdom of Morocco        Engineering        1.5               1.5
1528      1978       Kingdom of Morocco       Urban Develop.   18.0                18.0
1602      1978       Kingdom of Morocco        Fes Karia Tissa  65.0               65.0
1625 2/   1978       Maroc-Phosphore           Industry          50.0      _       50.0
Total                                                     918.9      50.0   407.7
of which has been repaid                                127.6       0.4
Total now outstanding                                      791.3     49.6
Amount sold                    20.4                                    -
of which has been repaid    6.2                          14.2        -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                             777.1     49.6
394.0     13.7   407.7
Total undisbursed                                          3         1
NOTES
/ Prior to exchange adjustment
2/ Effective as of March 23, 1979
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of February 28, 1979)
US$ Million
Loan      Equity  Total
1962      ENDE                      Develop.Bank      --       2.7      2.7
1966      CIL                       Canning Factory  0.9       0.3      1.4
1976      Miarrakech Cement         Cement Factory   --        1.3      1.3
1977      Temara Cement             Cement Factory   4.8       2.4      7.2
Total gross commitments                         5.7       6.9    12.6
less cancellations, terminations
repayments and sales                            0.9       1.2     2.1
Total commitments now held by IFC               4.8       5.7    10.5
Total undisbursed                                -        0.2     0.2



- 26 -                           ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 643 Rharb-Sebou Irrigation Project: US$46 million Loan of November
13, 1969; Date of Effectiveness: June 8, 1970; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
Progress in implementing the project was delayed by problems ini-
tially experienced with management and procurement of canalettes and severe
flooding in February 1977 which caused damage to crops and irrigation works.
The major project structure, Idriss 1   Dam, is completed and 32,400 ha out
of a total of 35,200 ha are already equipped. Additional infrastructure for
the project area, including a sugar cane processing factory, are being pro-
vided by Loan No. 1018-MOR.
Ln. No. 848 Second Hotel Development Project; US$15 million of June 30, 1972;
Date of Effectiveness: November 1, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Commitments and disbursements initially lagged behind expectations,
due to sluggish investment activity in 1973, but the loan is now fully com-
mitted.
Ln. No. 850 Water Supply Project; US$48 million Loan of July 19, 1972;
Date of Effectiveness: May 2, 1973; Closing Date: October 31,
1979.
The dam which was the major component of the project was inaugurated
in August 1974. All project elements are completed except for the training
school, which is under construction and expected to be completed by Fall 1979;
training courses are presently being given in temporary facilities. Although
tariff increases were implemented in October 1977, the higher revenues did
not compensate for steep increases in operating cost. The Government has
established an interministerial commission to review the situation.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
- 27 -                           Page 3 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 936 Power Project; US$25 million of October 5, 1973; Date of
Effectiveness: January 23, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1979.
Physical implementation of the project is complete. Favings amount-
ing to about US$3.5 million are being applied to consultant services for feas-
ibility studies, preliminary design and preparation of bid documents for 5
hydro stations required to alleviate Morocco's dependency on imported oil.
A one year postponement of the Closing Date was granted to allow payments
under these contracts.  Electricity rates were increased on average by 14 per-
cent on February 1, 1978, and again by 22 percent in January 1979.
Ln. No. 955 Second Highway Project; US$29 million of January 11, 1974; Date
of Effectiveness: May 21, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Construction of the Rabat-Casablanca expressway which began in early
1975 - about 8 months behind schedule - is now almost complete and the mainte-
nance equipment and highway improvement programs are complete. Work on the
contract for technical assistance for the establishment of a Transport Plan-
ning Office in the Ministry of Public Works is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1017  Phosphoric Acid Project; US$50.0 million of June 27, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The project was mechanically completed in October 1976 and the plant
is now in commercial operation.
Ln. No. 1018  Sebou II Development Project; US$32.0 million of June 27, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: February 28, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The sugar cane processing factory was essentially completed on sched-
ule in 1975. Construction of the project area roads is on schedule. The
Government recently requested that funds earmarked for the construction of
flood protection dykes be transferred to other infrastructure works related
to the Sebou I and II projects, in view of the high costs of such works, the
economic benefits which are less than originally estimated and the advance-
ment of the construction of the M'Jara Dam which greatly curtails the risk of
flooding.  A decision on this request is under review.  The study on pollution
control is now proceeding satisfactorily; however the study on the incidence
of bilharzia on the Rharb plain has yet to be started.
Ln. No. 1061 Seventh BNDE Project; US$30 million of December 30, 1974; Date
of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1979.
The loan is fully committed. Disbursements are roughly in line
with appraisal estimates.



ANNEX II
- 28 -                         Page 4 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 1123  Souss Groundwater Proiect: US$18.5 million of June 11, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness   Se tember 26. 1975- Clo_ing Date-
June 30. 1980.
The 59 wells required for new irrigated area (6,300 ha) were com-
pleted and tested one year ahead of appraisal schedule. Land clearing and
construction of the Project Headquarters and Development Centers have been
completed. Land distribution to Agrarian Reform beneficiaries has been
completed on about 55 percent of the project area. Works related to the
social components of the project which suffered from substantial delay are
now underway. Budgetary constraints facing Morocco have resulted in cutbacks
in the operating budget and held back the assignment of additional personnel.
While this issue has been partially solved for the area equipped so far,
developments will need to be watched carefully as more area is put under
irrigation in the future.
Cr. No. 555 Meknes Agricultural Development Project: US$14.0 million of
June 11, 1975' Date of Effectiveness: November 14, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
The Project initially faced substantial delays in project imple-
mentation. The studies are now underway, and commitments of funds under the
project have been initiated. Project management and the coordination of
project activities between the project authority and the central offices of
the Ministry of Agriculture have improved but continue to require close
monitoring. A revised land reform and redistribution program which meets the
project's objectives is currently under preparation.
Ln. No. 1201  Doukkala Irrigation Project; US$30.0 million of February 27
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 20, 1976- Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
The project includes sprinkler irrigation for 15,400 ha and infra-
structure and equipment. Progress of construction is satisfactory after
initial delays. The first 4,200 ha have been completed and put in service.
Completion of the remainder of sectors is underway and expected to be on
schedule. Agricultural development has been very satisfactory.
Ln, No. 1202 Bay of Agadir Tourism Project; US$21.0 million of February 27,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: October 29, 1976: Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project is intended to develop Agadir into a major tourism area
and consists of infrastructure works and public facilities for the development
of a new tourism section on 260 ha on which 7,000 hotel beds and 2,600 hous-
ing units are expected to be constructed. The project includes also regional
infrastructure and facilities for the development of Agadir's tourism assets.
The major project component, UAT-Forestry land development, has entered its
construction phase and is expected to be completed by the end of 1979. The
implementation of other components experienced some delays but these are not
expected to affect overall project implementation.



- 29 -                         ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 1220 Third Education Project; US$25.0 million of March 18, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: October 1, 1976; Closing Date:
May 1, 1981.
The Droject is designed to expand and improve primary and secondary
education in -,ral areas and specialized training to meet urgent manpower
needs in education, agriculture, health and tourism. Project implementation
of physical aspects is slow with the exception of the rural development and
extension training center, construction of which has recently started. All
sites have been selected and design development is at an advanced stage.
Recruitment of experts under the technical assistance program has been slow.
It is expected that the overall situation will improve, and progress is being
clearly monitored by supervision missions.
Ln. No. 1279 Third Hotel Development Project; US$25.0 million of July 2,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 18, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Implementation of the project is proceeding well. The Loan is ex-
pected to be disbursed somewhat ahead of schedule. The loan is fully com-
mitted. CIH has been successful in mobilizing foreign exchange resources
other than the Bank's and in reducing outstanding arrears in accordance with
understandings reached during negotiations.
Ln. No. 1299 Sidi Cheho - Al Massira Hydro Project; US$49.0 million of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 16, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project comprises the construction of the Al-Massira concrete
dam on the Oum er Rbia river, a 120-MW power station including a 225-KV sub-
station, construction of about 200 Km of 225 Kv transmission lines, and prepa-
ration of preliminary designs and bid documents for the Merija compensating
dam and power station. Procurement of the main project items is underway
and physical progress of the project is satisfactory. The hydro plant should
start operation by early 1980.
Ln. No. 1361 Third Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million Loan to
Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA) of February 7, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: August 11, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The project aims at increasing Morocco's agricultural production
and at expanding the capability of CNCA as a sound agricultural institution.
The project will cover most of CNCA's program for medium- and long-term
lending through August 1979 and will include related technical assistance.
Disbursements of IBRD funds aim at financing on-farm investments of small
farmers, cooperatives and farmers' association. Over one half of the Bank
loan has been disbursed, and the remainder is expected to be disbursed by
August 31, 1979, as scheduled..



30-                             ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 1383  CIOR Cement Project; US$45.0 million of April 29, 1977; Date
of Effectiveness: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project comprises construction of a 1.2 million tons per year
cement plant near Oujda in the Eastern Region of Morocco, and related distri-
bution facilities. Overall project implementation is satisfactory, within
original cost estimates and with a delay of about three months. Training of
key personnel is almost complete, and recruitment is adequate. The plant
has started operation in January 1979.
Ln. No. 1416 Doukkala II Irrigation Project; US$41.0 million of June 16,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The project aims at extending irrigation and related agricultural
development in the Doukkala perimeter by 16,600 hectares; it also calls for
provision of extension and credit services, and village infrastructure.
Land consolidation program and the enlargement of the main canal are proceed-
ing according to schedule. Equipment of the project area has been slowed down
due to budgetary constraints facing Morocco and are likely to result in a 1 to
2 year delay in completing the project.
Ln. No. 1428 Eighth BNDE Project; US$45.0 million of June 16, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: December 21, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981.
The project is designed to meet part of BNDE's requirements for
financing of the import component of specific industrial enterprises, and
of a small-scale industry pilot project for which up to $5 million of Bank
financing is included. The loan became effective on December 21, 1977 and
commitments as of January 31, 1979 amounted to US$25 million.
Ln. No. S-7 Sewerage Engineering Project; US$1.5 million of August 30, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: August 26, 1978; Closing Date: April 30,
1981.
The project includes the preparation of a sewerage Master Plan for
the Casablanca-Mohammedia region and a priority first stage project. It would
assist Morocco in developing the design and planning criteria for urban sewer
systems and strengthening the institutional and financial bases for the
development of this sector. The loan became effective on August 26, 1978.
Ln. No. 1528 Rabat Urban Development Project; US$18.0 million of March 31,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: November 21, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982.
The project is designed to improve living conditions of the urban
poor in Rabat. It includes (i) comprehensive squatter upgrading; (ii) an



- 31 -                             ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7 pages
experimental Sites and Services Housing Schemes; (iii) an employment gen-
eration program; (iv) community services equipment; and (v) technical assis-
tance to strengthen the institutional arrangements and technical capabilities
of the executing agencies. The loan became effective on November 21, 1978,
and implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1602 Fes-Karia Tissa Agriculture Project; US$65.0 million of
September 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: February 13, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The project aims at (i) improving the standard of living of about
33,900 farm families cultivating about 256,000 hectares in the Fes-Karia-
Tissa region, and (ii) contributing to the growth of agricultural production
and to a decline in Moroccan dependence on imported food commodities. These
aims would be achieved through a reorganization and strengthening of agricul-
tural services and provision of infrastructure.
Ln. No. 1625 Maroc Phosphore Expansion Project; US$50.0 million of
October 27, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: March 23, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project consists of expansion of production facilities at Safi
through (i) the erection, on the site of the existing Maroc Phosphore plant,
of an additional unit to produce for export 165,000 tpy of phosphoric acid,
complete with ancillary facilities and related civil works; and (ii) the con-
struction of sulphur melting units and sulphur storage facilities; and the
construction of new phosphoric acid concentration and storage facilities.



- 32 -                     ANNEX III
MOROCCO
SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I. 7'netable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare project:  12 months (November 1977
to November 1978)
(b)  Agencies which have prepared the project:           Treasury, Banque Nationale
pour le Developpement
Economique (BNDE), Office
pour le Developpement
Industriel (ODI) Special
Interministerial Committee
(c) Date of the first Bank mission to consider
Project:                                            April 16, 1978
(d)  Date of departure of Appraisal mission:             October 23, 1978
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:                 March 23, 1979
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                      July 1, 1979
Section II.  Special Bank Implementation Action
No specific action considered necessary
Section III. Special Conditions
(a) For effectiveness:
(i)  Signature of project Management Agreement between Treasury and BNDE
(para. 45)
(ii) Signature, by at least three financial intermediaries, of the
Agreement between BNDE and commercial banks (para. 45)
(iii)  Appointment of the members of the Credit Committee (para. 45)
(iv)  Issuance by the Ministry of Finance of the guidelines regulating
the procedure to be followed by the Caisse Centrale de Garantie
in guaranteeing sub-loans under the project (para.49)
(b) Other condition:
BNDE would develop, by June 31, 1979, standard simplified forms
for sub-loan applications, and a brochure describing the conditions
and appraisal steps for sub-loans under the Bank loan (para. 46).



