Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15191
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
SECOND WATER SIPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 2130-IVC)
DECEMBER 22, 1995
Infrastructure Operations Division
West Central Africa Denartment
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAE)
Annual Averages
1981: US$1.00 = CFAF 272
1982: US$1.00 = CFAF 329
1983: US$1.00 = CFAF 381
1984: US$1.00 = CFAF 437
1985: US$1.00 =  CFAF 449
1986: US$1.00 = CFAF 346
1987: US$1.00 =  CFAF 301
1988: US$1.00 = CFAF 298
1989: US$1.00 = CFAF 319
1990: US$1.00 = CFAF 272
1991: US$1.00 =  CFAF 282
1992: US$1.00 =  CFAF 265
FISCAL YEAR
Borrower and FNH : January I to December 31
SODECI : October I to September 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m) = 3.28 feet (ft)
I kilometer (km) = 0.62 mile (m)
1 liter (1) = 0.26 US gallons
I cubic meter (m3) = 264.0 US gallons
I cubic meter/hour (m3/h) = 6,336 US gallons per day
1 liter per capita per day (lcd) = 0.26 US gallons per capita per day
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS (English/French)
BCEAO   Central Bank of the West Africa States / Banque centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
BSIE      National Investment Budget / Budget special d'investissement et d'equipement
CAA       Autonomous Amortization Fund I Caisse autonome d'amnortissement
CCCE    French Aid Agency / Caisse centrale de cooperation economique (presently CFI, Caisse Frangaise
de Developpement)
DCH       Central Directorate of Waterworks / Direction centrale de l'Hydraulique
DCGTx   Office for Supervision and Control of Major Works / Direction et Controle des Grands Travaux
DE        Directorate of Water / Direction de I'Eau
FNA       National Sanitation Fund / Fonds national d'Assainissement et de Drainage
FNE       National Water Fund / Fonds national de I'Eau
FNH       National Waterworks Fund / Fonds national de l'Hydraulique
MTPT    Ministry of Public Works and Transport / Ministere des Travaux publics et des Transports
SODECI  Ivorian Water Distribution Company / Societ& de distribution d'eau de la Cote d'lvoire
WASAL  Water and Sanitation Sector Adjustment Loan / Pret d'ajustement du secteur de I'eau et de
I'assainissement



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December22, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Cote d'Ivoire
Second Water Supply Project (Loan 2130-IVC)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Republic of Cote d'lvoire: Second Water
Supply Project (Loan 2130-IVC, approved in FY82) prepared by the Africa Regional Office (Parts I and
III). Direction et Controle des Grands Travaux (DCGTx), the Borrower's office charged with the
supervision of major works, prepared a detailed completion report on the rural water supply component but
the full Part II was never submitted. The loan for US$43 million was closed on March 31, 1992, four
years behind schedule.
The overall objectives of the project were to develop the water sector so as to provide improved
service under present financial and managerial constraints. To achieve this, the project focused on
optimizing existing investments through system improvements, particularly in Abidjan; promoting greater
utilization of the existing systems by providing consumer connections including standpipes in low-income
areas; developing village wells in rural areas; upgrading of local skilled workers through technical
assistance to replace expatriates, and streaniliing sector organizations and upgrading their technical and
financial management. The institutional study completed in early 1985 under the project served as the
starting point for a sectoral adjustment program (Loan 3240-IVC) - carried out in parallel with the project
during an economically difficul period (1990-91). The adjustment program yielded a substantial reduction
of current expenditures of the water sector and initiated reforms for its financial restructuring.
The project's achievements were important, although they cannot be separated entirely from those
of the sectoral adjustmnent program; by 1987, system improvements in Abidjan had been completed ahead
of schedule and below cost; house connections in Abidjan rose to 124,000 in 1990, versus 113,000 in
1985. In more than 50 other urban centers, house connections grew to 42,000 in 1990 versus 35,000 in
1985. The mnajority of new connections were installed in low-income areas. In project-serviced villages,
455 wells were constructed, compared to 300 estimated at appraisal; and a conmmunity-based maintenance
system conceived by the beneficiary proved so successful that it was extended to about 4 million persons.
The institutional study was successfully carried out but implementation of its recommendations came to full
fruition later after the sectoral adjustment program (see above) was completed. Upgrading of skills appears
to proceed slowly with mixed results especially in financial management training but with effective and
measurable outcome in rural operations. The recalculated Economic Rate of Retum is 12 percent for the
urban supply components (24 percent at appraisal) and 10 percent for rural supply (no ROR was
calculated at appraisal).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the perlormance of their
official duties. itt contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



2
The project outcome is rated as satisfactory, and its institutional development impact as moderate.
The sustainability of project benefits is rated as uncertain, however; for urban water supply, accounts
receivable from government agencies remain high; for rural water supply, not enough experience is
available thus far to assess the sustainability of the components of the rural maintenance system, including
the community arrangements, and the village caretaker system.
The PCR is of satisfactory quality and presents important lessons from this complex operation.
Among the key ones: operations and maintenance of scattered rural water points is better achieved through
local community involvement than through centralized arrangements; and a central government departinent
is a weak solution for managing investments unless it is given clear accountability and financial incentives.
No audit is planned.
Attachment



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface
Evaluation Summary . ................................. i
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity .................................  1
B. Background  .................................  1
C. Project Objectives and Description ............................... 2
D. Project Design and Organization  ................................  3
E. Project Implementation .................................. 5
F. Project Results .................................  7
G. Project Sustainability .................................. 8
H. Bank Performance . ................................. 9
I. Borrower Performance .................................. 9
J. Project Relationship .10
K. Project Documentation and Data  ...............................  10
L. Lessons Learned . ................................. 10
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans and Credits ........................   14
2. Project Timetable ........................  15
3. Loan Disbursements .........             ...............  15
4. Project Implementation ......................... 16
5. Project Costs and Financing  ........................    17
6. Project Results  ........................  18
7. Compliance with Covenants  ........................    22
8. Use of Bank Resources ......................... 24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.  l






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 2130-IVC)
Preface
1.         This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Water Supply Project in
C6te d'Ivoire for which Loan 2130-IVC in the amount of US$43 million equivalent was approved
by the Executive Directors in April 1982, and became effective on June 7, 1983. The Loan was
closed on March 31, 1992, four years behind schedule. The last disbursement under the loan was on
June 25, 1992; the remaining undisbursed balance of US$13,770.68 was canceled effective June 25,
1992.
2.         The PCR was prepared by the staff of the Infrastructure Operations Division of the West
Central Africa Department (AF4IN). A detailed completion report covering only the rural water
supply component of the project was transmitted by the Direction et Contr6le des Grands Travaux
(DCGTx) but Part II was never submnitted by the Borrower.
3.         This report is based on the President's Report, the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the
Loan Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, interviews
with Bank staff who have been associated with the project over the years and internal Bank
memoranda. It should be read in conjunction with the Program Completion Report (Report No.
12635, distributed to the Executive Directors on February 17, 1994) of the C6te d'Ivoire Water
Supply and Sanitation Sector Adjustment Loan (Ln. 3240-IVC), the preparation and implementation
of which coincided with most of the implementation period of the Second Water Supply Project.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 2130-IVC)
Evaluation Summary
Macroeconomic and Sector Background
i.         In the early 1980s when the second operation in the water sector was being planned, the
issues in the physical development of water systems were (i) the backlog of works which had
accumulated in Abidjan while water supply was being expanded elsewhere in the country, and (ii)
the relatively low rate of house connections despite excess water production capacity, particularly in
the secondary centers. Lack of access to clean, affordable water by the urban poor was also a concern
(para. 3).
ii.        After a long period of sustained growth, the Ivorian economy was facing at the time of
appraisal a loss of dynamism of the agricultural sector and public finances displayed signs of stress.
It was not until the project was underway that the unfortunate consequences of the combination of
the debt financing and tariff strategies of the sector and of the onset of adverse macroeconomic
conditions became clear. This led to a major Government sectoral adjustment program, the
preparation of which started in 1984 (para. 4).
iii.       In 1987, the Borrower and the Bank reached a full understanding on the major features
of the sectoral adjustment program, namely: (a) to give investment responsibilities to SODECI under
a concession contract; (b) to decentralize the maintenance of rural water points under a community-
based system; and (c) to provide for the financial restructuring of the sector. The Bank and the
Borrower agreed at the same time to use the outstanding balance of Loan 2130-IVC to support the
implementation of the sectoral adjustment program in rural areas (para. 6).
Project Objectives
iv.        The project's objectives were fivefold: (a) to optimize the use of existing water
production facilities by providing marginal additions for Abidjan and 52 other urban systems; (b) to
promote greater use of existing urban systems by providing social connections and standpipes in
poorer areas; (c) to assist the rational development of the village well subsector; (d) to assist water
sector institutions responsible for operation and finance in upgrading their technical and financial
management with the help of technical assistance (TA); and (e) to improve sector institutions and their
management and explore approaches to long-term streamlining of sector organization (para. 7).
Implementation Experience
v.         Project implementation can be divided into two phases, the first covering urban works
in Abidjan and secondary centers over a period corresponding roughly to the original project period
(1983-87), and the second covering rural water supply throughout the country (1988-92), which
required four extensions of the closing date. These two phases reflect developments on the



- ii -
institutional side and the linkage that was eventually established between the project and the sectoral
adjustment operation (para. 17).
vi.        The physical components of the project were satisfactorily implemented, ahead of
schedule and at a cost much lower than the appraisal estimates. The Borrower and the Bank then
agreed to use the remaining balance of the loan to expand throughout Cote d'Ivoire a pilot sub-
component of community-based maintenance of rural facilities which had been successfully tested in
1984-1987. The implementation of this national program to rehabilitate and transfer rural facilities
to villages required four extensions of the closing date (paras. 18 and 21).
Results
vii.       The project had a favorable impact on the development of water services in C6te
d'Ivoire, particularly valuable in a period where most of the social indicators showed a substantial
deterioration. The project supported the implementation of decentralized and innovative approaches
in rural areas. Most of the objectives of the project were attained or even exceeded by the
completion date, partly because of the synergistic effects of the simultaneous implementation of the
sectoral adjustment. The overall outcome is thus satisfactory (para. 32).
Sustainability
viii.      The sustainability of the urban water facilities constructed under the project is
unquestionable in view of the capacities and performance record of the private operator, SODECI.
In rural areas, follow-up actions to strengthen the village water committees will be required to
consolidate the operating performance (paras. 33-34).
Findings and Lessons Leamed
ix.        Most of the major lessons from the Bank's involvement in the Second Water Supply
Project have been already mentioned in the Program Completion Report of the WASAL operation:
(a)  the existence of substantial undisbursed amounts under the Second Water Supply Project
allowed to finance priority activities (the rehabilitation of rural water points and their
transfer to rural communities) supporting the policy reforms introduced under the
sectoral adjustment operation (paras. 6 and 21). This association of a SECAL operation
and of an ongoing investment operation is a practical alternative to an hybrid loan;
(b)   centralized maintenance of scattered rural facilities is not sustainable, even if it is
carried out by a private company. Community management of rural water points is the
only answer to maintenance issues in West Africa (para. 41);
(c)   a technical department of the central government deprived of financial incentives and
accountability should not be expected to manage and take responsible investment
decisions. Setting up to that effect pro forma indicators and tools, as attempted by the
project, is not a valid alternative to a genuine corporate structure (para. 29). This
lesson was taken into account in the first privatization operation supported by the Bank
group (Guinea Second Water Supply) where a public holding company was set up to
manage investments and to be the interlocutor of the private operator.



- iii -
x.          A final lesson refers to the ERR methodology that focus on water tariffs as a proxy for
the willingness to pay and relies on the incremental water consumption to measure benefits. This
methodology is strongly biased toward expanding production facilities or the availability of services
to large users. Projects that aim at developing the connection ratio and water services to the urban
poor should systematically measure the actual willingness to pay of low-income domestic users and
take into account the consumers' surplus (para. 31).






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
LOAN 2130-IVC
PART I. PROJECT REVIEEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. PROJECT IDENTITY
Project Name:       Second Water Supply Project
Loan Number:        Loan 2130-IVC
RVP Unit:           Africa Region
Country:            Republic of Cote d'lvoire
Sector:            Infrastructure
Sub-sector:         Water Supply
B. BACKGROUND
1.    As a result of Government's commitment to expanding infrastructure and basic services to
rapidly growing urban and rural populations since 1973, the Ivorian water supply sector was well
developed at the time of project appraisal and provided possibly the best service in West Africa. By
1980, Abidjan, Bouake and 91 other urban centers had piped water facilities serving 1.7 million or
55 percent of the urban population, up from 800,000 or 37 percent just five years earlier. A rural
water supply prograrn had increased the number of village wells from about 1,000 to 7,000 over the
same period, serving nearly three mnillion people or 66 percent of the rural population, up from one
million in 1975.
2.    By and large, the water sector of C6te d'lvoire was well-managed during the 1970s period
of rapid expansion, using a somewhat unusual division of responsibility among three institutions.
Civil works were planned and constructed under the Water department of the Public Works Ministry,
DCH (Direction centrale de l'Hydraulique, which became DE, Direction de l'Eau, in June 1984);
systems were operated and maintained and rates collected by a private company, SODECI, and debt
and capital finance were managed by the National Waterworks Fund, FNH (Fonds National de
l'Hydraulique), under the Autonomous Amortization Fund, CAA (CaisseautonomedAmortissement).
A similar and parallel structure prevailed in the sewerage and drainage sector. Particularly
noteworthy were: (a) the effectiveness of adopting a connnercial approach to operation, maintenance
and rates collection; and (b) the financing strategy which exclusively relied on borrowings (foreign
and local) to finance investments.



2
3.    In the early 1980s when the Bank's operation was being planned, the issues in the physical
development of water systems were: (a) the backlog of works which had accumulated in Abidjan
while water supply was being expanded elsewhere in the country; and (b) the relatively low rate of
house connections despite excess water production capacity, particularly in the secondary centers.
Lack of access to clean, affordable water by the urban poor was also a concern.
4.    After a long period of sustained growth, the Ivorian economy was facing a loss of dynamism
of the agricultural sector and public finances displayed signs of stress. The President's Report notes
"deficiencies in public investment programming" and a "reduced Government's ability to react to
changing economic circumstances", but did not question the country's economic outlook. High
growth was expected to resume under the first structural adjustment program set up in 1981.
Similarly, the water sector planners and the staff appraisal report (SAR No. 3610 of April 1, 1982)
did not question the basic assumptions made in the seventies regarding the very high growth rates of
urban water consumption and of the urban population.
5.    The SAR, however, evidenced more foresight by anticipating that the existing institutional
arrangements would need streamnlining such as contracting out civil works to SODECI, and phasing
out the FNH once the massive borrowing program to equip urban centers was out of the way. At
the time, this was seen as a long-term task. It was not until the project was underway that the
unfortunate consequences of the conjunction of the debt financing and tariff strategies and of the onset
of adverse macroeconomic conditions became clear. This led to a major Government sectoral
adjustment program, the preparation of which started in 1984.
6.    In 1987, the Borrower and the Bank reached a full understanding on the major features of
the sectoral adjustment program, namely: (a) to give investment responsibilities to SODECI under
a concession contract; (b) to decentralize the maintenance of rural water points under a community-
based system; and (c) to provide for the financial restructuring of the sector. The Bank and the
Borrower agreed at the same time to use the outstanding balance of Loan 2130-IVC to support the
implementation of the sectoral adjustment program in rural areas. The sectoral adjustment program
eventually received Bank support in the form of a Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Adjustment
Loan (WASAL, Loan 3240-IVC of June 29, 1990).
C. PROJECT OBJECTtVES AND DESCRIPTION
Project Objectives
7.    The project's objectives as stated in the SAR were fivefold, three of which were oriented to
increasing distribution of water to urban and rural residents, and two of which involved capacity
building:
(a)   to optimize use of existing water production facilities by providing marginal additions
for Abidjan and 52 other urban systems;
(b)   to promote greater use of existing urban systems by providing additional consumer
connections, including standpipes in poorer areas (social connections);
(c)   to assist the rational development of the village well subsector;



3
(d)   to assist water sector institutions responsible for operation and finance in upgrading
their technical and financial management with the help of technical assistance (TA);
and
(e)   to improve sector institutions and their management and explore approaches to long-
term streamlining of sector organization.
Project Description
8.    The Second Water Supply Project amounted essentially to co-financing of the 1982-1985
tranche of the Government's water supply investment program and consisted of the following
components:
(a)    Urban water supply, including: (i) expansion of production facilities (four treatment
plants), construction of five service storage tanks and laying 222 km of distribution
pipes in Abidjan (45 percent of project costs); (ii) expansion of distribution networks
(300 kin) and marginal increases of production and storage capacity in 52 secondary
centers (22 percent of project costs); and (iii) construction of 10,000 service
connections and 100 standpipes to develop services to the urban poor (6 percent of
project cost)
(b)    Rural water supply, including the drilling of 300 wells equipped with handpumps
in the eastern part of the country (9 percent of project cost).
(c)   Institutional reform  and management assistance, including: (i) a full-scale
institutional review of the sector; (ii) a substantial TA component to improve the
financial supervision and monitoring of the various sector institutions and to assist
DCH in investment programming and contract management; (iii) a training program
aimed at supporting the gradual replacement of expatriates within DCH (14 percent
of project cost).
(d)    Land registry, including purchase of computers, provision of consulting services and
local surveyor services to modernize the land registry system for Abidjan and
improve the collection of the property and drainage taxes which represented a major
resource for the sanitation sector (4 percent of project cost).
9.    Total project costs were estimated at CFAF 15.5 billion (US$57.3 million equivalent). Base
cost estimates were as of mid-1981, and price contingencies assumed annual inflation of 12 percent
based on the previous decade's trend; the slowing in the construction inflation rate during 1980-81
was seen as temporary. The Bank loan provided for US$43 million equivalent, equal to the foreign
exchange portion of project cost.
D. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
Project Concept
10.   The initial project concept was comprehensive and identified the main constraints of the
development of the sector, particularly: (a) the backlog in investing in distribution networks; and (b)
the sustainability of the financing strategy and the cross-subsidization of the capital and operating



4
costs of rural water services by urban water customers. The Bank's concerns on the impact of rural
water services on the financial situation of the sector were not shared by the government at the time
of appraisal. Those divergences--which later disappeared--are evidenced by the decreasing size of
the rural component, from one third of base costs in early drafts of the Project Brief to about
10 percent in the SAR. On the other hand, the Bank eventually endorsed the financing strategy of
the water supply sector, being satisfied that regular tariff revisions, combined with a high growth of
urban water consumption would cover the increasing financial requirements.
Preparation
11.   Technical preparation of the urban water component was undertaken on the basis of a master
plan for Abidjan and a study of secondary centers, both completed in late 1979. These studies were
supplemented by an urban poverty review and a survey of the situation of water, sanitation and
electricity services for the urban poor.
12.   Since the Bank had not been previously involved in rural water s-pply in Cote d'Ivoire, a
review of this sub-sector was carried out by a consultant in early 1980, jointly with a review of the
impact of previous rural water projects on public health. Both the rural water and health consultants,
who had worked independently, recommended that the pace of well construction be slowed in order
to introduce community participation and health education. More time was required to explain to the
villages the advantages of maintaining their pumps compared to traditional water sources. The
Government decided instead, in January 1981, to pursue its rural water program of rapid borehole
drilling without change. To avoid delaying the project whose urban components were ready, it was
agreed to include 300 wells in the project as well as a pilot sub-component to test the institutional and
financial options in the sub-sector.
13.   The timing of the preparation was nevertheless unfortunate in view of the reversal of
macroeconomic trends that took place between the completion of most of the preparatory work and
negotiations. The SAR was finalized on the basis of early consumption and population forecasts that
led to over-optimistic projections of sector revenues.
Roles and Responsibilities
14.   The project retained implementation arrangements which had proved to be efficient. DCH
was the executing agency of the water and institutional components, assisted by consultants for the
supervision of urban works. FNH managed disbursements and was the beneficiary of the loan under
a subsidiary agreement. There was no doubt on the absorptive capacity of FNH/DCH which had
carried out more than US$300 million of investments in the water sector in 1973-1980. The
institutional component was expected to bring forward a major reshuffle of sectoral responsibilities,
but it was assumed that the reforms would take place after the completion of the project. The Land
Registry component--added at negotiations at the insistence of the Ministry of Finance--was loosely
linked to the sector and had to be separately implemented by the Tax Directorate.
Impact on Successes and Failures
15.   The urban water supply component gave priority to the expansion of distribution networks.
The broad objective of the rural water supply component and the inclusion of pilot activities,
supported by the UNDP/Bank Water and Sanitation Program, allowed to test and then move to scale
innovative approaches to the operation and maintenance of rural facilities.  The institutional
component provided the timely opportunity to discuss reforms of the institutional arrangements and



S
of the financing strategy of the sector. In view of further developments and particularly of the
reforms brought by the sectoral adjustment program, the scope and scale of the project were
appropriate.
16.   The original financial and cost recovery covenants were, however, not suited to the actual
conditions of implementation. For instance, it is doubtful that the Bank loan itself would have passed
the test of the debt limitation covenant included in the Loan Agreement, had the actual figures of
water consumption and sector revenues been foreseen at the time of negotiations. In addition, the
project relied heavily on long-term technical assistance to establish a clear and consolidated picture
of sector finances and to strengthen the supervision of SODECI, even if TA had not proved to be
very efficient in this respect under the previous project.
E. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Overview
17.   The loan was approved on April 27, 1982 and became effective on June 7, 1983. Project
implementation can be divided into two phases, the first covering urban works in Abidjan and
secondary centers over a period corresponding roughly to the original project period (1983-87), and
the second covering rural water supply throughout the country (1988-92), which required four closing
date extensions from March 31, 1988 to March 31, 1992. These two phases reflect developments
on the institutional side and the linkage that was eventually established between the project and the
sectoral adjustment operation.
18.   The urban water component was implemented ahead of schedule, despite the 12-month delay
of effectiveness. The excellent performance and costs savings in both CFA franc and US dollars that
became evident by mid-1984 allowed to finance additional distribution networks (925 km of pipes
were laid, to be compared to the appraisal estimate of 635 kIn) and to equip six additional urban
centers, thus bringing the number of centers covered by the project to 58. The original rural water
component was also timely implemented, with the drilling of 455 boreholes (50 percent more than
the appraisal estimate of 300) equipped with handpumps.
19.   Before the start-up of the institutional study, a financial review carried out as part of the
February 1983 supervision mission revealed that FNH receipts fell in the first quarter of 1982, that
water consumption estimates needed to be revised downward because of "difficult economic
perspectives", and that despite the 1982 tariff increase, revenues would not cover debt service. By
the time the institutional study became available, FNH's financing gap had risen to the point where
the Bank finally had to conclude that the tariff covenant could not be complied with through normal
affordable tariff increases. FNH would require financial restructuring and the financing strategy
based entirely on debt was no longer sustainable. From that point, all aspects of sector reforms,
including the financial and tariff issues were taken over by the adjustment operation and were no
longer dealt with under the project, the financial covenants of which had become irrelevant.
20.   The management assistance component was initially implemented as scheduled, with the
provision of about 2.5 staff-years of one financial adviser to FNH, 11.5 staff-years of technical and
financial advisers to DCH/DE and about 86 staff-months of overseas training for DCH/DE staff.
Technical assistance was almost entirely discontinued after 1987 (excepted for the rural water supply
adviser), when another governmental agency, the Office for Supervision and Control of Major



6
Works, DCGTx (Direction et Controle des Grands Travaux, reporting directly to the Presidency) was
designated by the Head of State as the Bank's interlocutor in the sectoral adjustment dialogue.
Variances
21.   The most critical variance between planned and actual project implementation was the
transfer/rehabilitation of rural water points, added to the project in 1988. The notion of the Bank's
eventual involvement in rural water supply beyond simple investment in new wells was present from
the project's inception. The need to introduce community management of maintenance, as well as
the need to slow down the pace of execution of RWS projects to improve community participation
had been formulated and even recognized by DE. The latter, however, did not have enough influence
to convince the Government to shift from SODECI's centralized maintenance system to a community-
based system. However, during project implementation, a small pilot component ("Eau Toujours")
supported by the project with the assistance of a handpump expert provide hard evidence that village-
based mechanics would be able to repair pumps and that the commnunities would be willing to
organize themselves and to pay for services. This tiny component progressively expanded to cover
more than 1,200 villages by 1987, when a survey revealed that 40 percent of the rural facilities
maintained by SODECI were not in operating condition. The Government agreed then to discontinue
SODECI's involvement in rural areas and to extend the Eau Toujours experience through a
nationwide program of rehabilitation and transfer, on a voluntary basis, of the water points to the
communities. The Bank agreed to finance part of the program under the loan as no other donor was
available and as the program fitted into the broad objective of the rural water component.
External Factors and Actions
22.   The economic stagnation that started in 1980-1982 and endured thereafter resulted in: (a) a
sharp uecrease of urban growth; and (b) a decrease of urban water consumption, particularly for large
users. As noted above, such risks had not been contemplated in the SAR which had rated DCH's
forecasts as conservative. The reduced urban water demand had a devastating impact on the financial
position of FNH. Declining public revenues also forced the Government to discontinue its policy of
massive technical assistance in the ministries, while Ivorian graduates, previously attracted by the
private sector which offered better conditions, found very few opportunities of employment outside
the central government. The "Ivorization" of DCH thus took place much more quickly than
expected, independently of the project's outcome.
23.   The decision to process a sector rehabilitation (later renamed adjustment) operation had indeed
a major impact on project implementation and, to a large extent, the project served from 1987
onwards, to implement the sectoral adjustment in rural areas. The Government's decision to appoint
DCGTx in 1987 as the Bank's interlocutor in the sectoral dialogue also established DCGTx as the
actual project manager, even if DE and the Ministry of Public Works retained the contracting
authority. This shift was justified by the fact that DE had to carry out the transfer/rehabilitation
program largely on force account with the assistance of a number of suppliers that required
supervision from a separate public entity.
Procurement
24.   Procurement for project works, goods and consultant services generally went smoothly and
quickly. Most contracts for the first phase of works had been led within six months after negotiations
and activities begun three to six months ahead of the implementation schedule given in the SAR.
Nearly twenty disbursement requests were waiting to be paid at the June 1983 effectiveness date.



7
The Borrower followed Bank procedures correctly and the Bank task manager was prompt in his
review of bidding documents, evaluation reports and contracts. Contract management went also
smoothly and the only case of termination of a works contract was promptly handled.  The
procurement performance remained satisfactory in 1988-1992 when project management had to handle
a multitude of contracts and invoices with small contractors, instead of a limited number of major
contracts.
Project Costs and Financing
25.   Actual project costs show a 4.4 percent underrun when expressed in dollars (US$54.3 million
to be compared to the SAR estimate of US$57.3 million) and a 20 percent overrun in CFA francs.
The latter figure provides the best measure of the purchasing power of project funding as most of the
contracts were awarded to contractors of the Franc Zone. The overall figures result from: (a) the
appreciation of the dollar exchange rate vis-a-vis the CFA franc, peaking in 1985 at CFA franc 490;
(b) substantial cost savings (about 40 percent) in the contracts let before effectiveness, which allowed
to finance supplemental works in Abidjan and to increase the number of secondary centers; and (c)
the addition in 1988 of the transfer/rehabilitation of rural water points at a cost of about US$7.1
million. The financing mix is somewhat different from the one anticipated at appraisal. FNH did
not raise local loans to finance local costs and benefitted instead from BSIE's grants generated by the
CFA franc proceeds of SAL I and SAL III. The Bank did not object, with reason, to this change
which was justified by the financial position of the FNH.
Disbursements
26.   Because of the cost underrun in US dollars and the extension of the project, the disbursement
profile is stretched out.  The Bank demonstrated considerable flexibility to facilitate the
implementation of the transfer/rehabilitation of rural water points by: (a) establishing a Special
Account in May 1989 with an authorized amount of CFA franc 600 million; (b) increasing
disbursement percentages to cover 100 percent of expenditures in 1989 and 1990; and (c) extending
four times the closing date, originally set on March 31, 1988. The Government evidenced its
commitment by providing CFA franc 523 million to finance 100 percent of the incremental operating
costs (in addition to DE staff's salaries) required to implement the transfer. The loan was closed on
March 31, 1992 and the last disbursement was on June 25, 1992. A balance of US$13,770.68 was
cancelled effective June 25, 1992.
F. PROJECT RESULTS
Achievement of Objectives
27.   Although water consumption forecasts did not materialize because of the collapse of industrial
and commercial consumption, urban water services were expanded beyond the targets scheduled in
the SAR. It is estimated that 70 percent of the Abidjan population and 43 percent of the population
of secondary centers equipped by the project were served by direct connections in 1990--compared
to 63 percent and 37 percent respectively in the SAR. The distribution networks laid under the
project allowed SODECI--which received investment responsibilities after 1987--to construct more
than 50,000 service connections in 1988-1990.
28.   The impact of the project on rural water services went well beyond the SAR's expectations.
The original component of well construction financed 50 percent more villages than expected. More



8
importantly, the program to rehabilitate and transfer rural water supplies reached 9,200 villages of
which 85 percent volunteered to take over all operation and maintenance responsibilities. The
program trained and certified 470 village repairers, established a private network for the distribution
of spare parts and rehabilitated 10,900 pumps with the active participation of villagers.  At
completion, the availability rate of the handpumps reached 85 percent in the villages which joined
the program, against only 33 percent in the communities which declined to participate.
29.    The main contribution of the Second Water Supply Project to water sector institutional and
financial arrangements was the clarification, through the institutional study, of the various options to
reorganize the sector and to improve coordination and the global accountability of the fragmented
institutions. This outcome is consistent with the institutional objective of the project, which did not
call explicitly for an immediate reorganization. The management assistance provided by the project
was, however, largely ineffective in providing a better picture of sector finances and a better
supervision of SODECI. This failure was sanctioned by the Government's decision to appoint
DCGTx as the negotiator of the new concession arrangements with SODECI. The design of the
management assistance component was clearly flawed as it attempted to cause a department of the
central government to grasp and adhere to financial concepts more suited to a corporation (assets
register, revaluation, consolidated accounts), while at the same time this department had no incentive
to be financially responsible or accountable. There is no evidence of training or transfer of know-
how by the resident technical assistance, with the exception of the rural water adviser who brought
innovative approaches and had them adopted and implemented by the staff of the rural water division
of DE.
30.    The land registry component was adequately implemented with the installation of computer
equipment and software. Land survey services financed under the project enabled the issuance of
mortgageable titles which served as collateral for a substantial amount (about CFA franc 20 billion)
of housing loans.
Economic Rate of Return
31.    The economic rate of return of the urban water component, as recalculated after completion,
is estimated at 12 percent, compared to the appraisal estimate of 24 percent. The variance is
attributable to: (a) water sales much lower than expected; (b) tariffs that were deliberately decreased
in October 1987; and (c) investment cost savings. The ERR methodology did not take into account
the consumers' surplus which would have given a more complete measure of the actual impact of the
expansion of water services achieved under the project. The SAR did not provide estimates of the
ERR of the village wells. The ERR of the transfer/rehabilitation program is estimated at 10 percent
by using the savings in maintenance costs as a proxy for benefits (annual maintenance costs now
amount to about CFA franc 20,000 per pump against CFA franc 55,000 in the context of the
centralized system previously operated by SODECI).
Impact of the Project
32.   The project had a favorable impact on the development of water services in C6te d'lvoire,
particularly valuable in a period where most social indicators showed a substantial deterioration. The
project supported the implementation of decentralized and innovative approaches in rural areas. Most
of the objectives of the project were attained or even exceeded by the completion date, partly because
of the synergistic effects of the simultaneous implementation of the sectoral adjustment. The overall
outcome is thus satisfactory.



9
G. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
33.   There is no doubt on the sustainability of urban water facilities constructed under the project.
SODECI's operating performance has constantly improved since 1982 as evidenced by the decrease
of unaccounted-for water and its outstanding collection rate on private customers. As SODECI was
relieved of the almost impossible task of maintaining rural water points, it has also been given, as
part of the sectoral reforms, adequate resources and responsibilities to renew the installations and to
densify the distribution networks.
34.   To ensure the sustainability of the community-based maintenance system in rural areas will
nevertheless require additional efforts. The availability rate of these facilities decreased in 1994 to
about 72 percent, which is still remarkable in a context where the villages were left to themselves
without any support from the central government and were severely affected by the economic
recession. There is a need for complementary actions to strengthen and encourage the village water
committees, preferably through local NGOs rather than through the administration.
H. BANK PERFORMANCE
35.   The main strengths of Bank's performance on this project have been the quality of the
technical preparation, the dedication of the task manager during supervision and his receptiveness to
innovative approaches and the flexibility shown by the Bank to use the project as a vehicle to support
the sectoral adjustment. The Bank responded very quickly to the Government's decision to transfer
rural facilities to the communities, at a time when the processing of the WASAL was stalled by
divergences in the macroeconomic dialogue. What amounted to a major restructuring of the project
was achieved with a minimum of paper work as the additional component was clearly in line with
the initial objectives of the project. The quality of the technical supervision was quite satisfactory
as evidenced by the speed at which the original physical components were completed and also by the
intensity of field supervision during the three years of implementation of the transfer program.
36.   The failure of the appraisal team to detect the reversal of demand trends, as well as its
conviction that ever-increasing tariffs would cover any possible financing gap of FNH, are the major
weaknesses of the project's design. This failure was corrected during implementation, with the swift
decision to initiate the sectoral adjustment operation.  One may observe nevertheless that the
agreement between the Bank and the Borrower that the financial and tariff covenants were no longer
applicable was never materialized in a fornal waiver or amendment of the Loan Agreement.
1. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
37.   The main strengths of the Borrower's performance under this project have been the efficiency
of DCH/DE and FNH in implementing urban works and the eventual synergy between DCGTx and
DE in implementing the transfer/rehabilitation program. The major weaknesses arose from the
fragmented institutional setting and from the absence of feedback and coordination between FNH and
DCH/DE which had absolutely no incentive to adjust to the new economic setting. DCH/DE--which
was immune from any adverse repercussion of the financial performance of FNH--had rather a strong
motivation to continue to push for new investments in the urban water supply sector, while FNH was



10
deprived from using refinancing options that could have smoothed the peak in debt service generated
by the huge sector borrowings from the Central Bank in 1978-1980.
38.   Beyond the sector institutions, the Government should be commended for its determination
to pursue innovative solutions. When the institutional study (and the Bank) recommended to
consolidate the planning and financial responsibilities of the sector in one public entity, the
Government expressed its dislike for the creation of another parastatal and pushed for a more
dynamic solution that would give additional responsibilities to SODECI. Similarly, the Government
accepted considerable risks by deciding to remove SODECI from rural areas in advance of the full
implementation of the transfer program. This decision prevented the coexistence of two maintenance
systems in the field, but the immediate result was a quick decrease of the operating performance.
Almost 80 percent of the pumps broke down at the beginning of 1988, which led the communities
to start to organize themselves and facilitated the implementation of the community-based maintenance
system.
J. PROJECT RELATIONSHIP
39.   The relationship between the Bank and the Borrower went smoothly and benefitted from
intensive communications and dialogue between the task manager and the executing agencies.
Coordination between the public agencies involved in the project was, as noted above, more
problematic. However, after some friction during the 1987-1988 transition period, the reshuffle of
responsibilities initiated by the Government led to an effective working relationship between DE and
DCGTx.
K. PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
40.   This report was prepared on the basis of correspondence files, the project SAR and the
MOP/SAR for the WASAL, the 1987 Rural Water Strategy Note, and the Borrower's 1992
completion report regarding the rural water program. These files provided adequate background.
The supervision mission aides-memoires are particularly straightforward and detailed. The exceptions
to this are performance indicators, not found for any supervision reports.
L. LESSONS LEARNED
41.   Most of the major lessons from the Bank's involvement in the Second Water Supply Project
have been already mentioned in the Program Completion Report of the WASAL operation:
(a)   the existence of substantial undisbursed amounts under the Second Water Supply
Project allowed to finance priority activities (the rehabilitation of rural water points
and their transfer to rural communities) supporting the policy reforms introduced
under the sectoral adjustment operation. This association of a SECAL operation and
of an ongoing investment operation is a practical alternative to an hybrid loan;
(b)    centralized maintenance of scattered rural facilities is not sustainable, even if it is
carried out by a private company. Community management of rural water points is
the only answer to maintenance issues in West Africa;



11
(c)    a technical department of the central government deprived of financial incentives and
accountability should not be expected to manage and take responsible investment
decisions. Setting up to that effect pro forma indicators and tools, as attempted by
the project, is not a valid alternative to a genuine corporate structure. This lesson
was taken into account in the first privatization operation supported by the Bank
group (Guinea Second Water Supply) where a public holding company was set up to
manage investments and to be the interlocutor of the private operator.
42.   A final lesson refers to the ERR methodology that focuses on water tariffs as a proxy for the
willingness to pay and relies on the incremental water consumption to measure the project's benefits.
This methodology is strongly biased toward expanding production facilities or the availability of
services to large users and is very sensitive to a decrease of the consumption of the same large users.
Projects that aim at developing the connection ratio and water services to the urban poor should
systematically measure the actual willingness to pay of low-income domestic users and take into
account the consumers' surplus.



12
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
LOAN 2130-IVC
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
[Note: the following text is a translation of the last chapter of the detailed DCGTx's completion
report on the achievements of the transfer/rehabilitation program, sent to the Bank in September
1992, which is, to date, the only completion document received from the Borrower.]
The rural water supply restructuring program (the transfer/rehabilitation program) reached
its objective, which was to establish throughout the country a maintenance system from which the
Government would disengage and which would be entirely taken over by the beneficiaries. Thus:
all villages (7,886) equipped with at least one water point were inforned and
sensitized;
87 percent of the pumps (10,904 in total) were rehabilitated in view of the villagers'
commitment--evidenced by signing of a contract with the Government and the
establishment within the community of a water point management committee. 8,785
committees were set up, of which 7,814 (89 percent) were trained by the 57 project
teams.
only 6.7 percent of the existing water points had to be forsaken and excluded from
the rehabilitation program for technical reasons such as dry boreholes, conmmunity
move, subsequent installation of a piped system or because they were privately
appropriated or adequately maintained at no cost for the users.
a network of 480 private repairers was set up, of whom 470 were certified by DE.
Those repairers are competent and motivated.
twelve spare parts stores are presently operational and additional points of sale are
being established.
sixteen private reconditioning workshops for used spare parts are at the disposal of
villagers and repairers.
All the components of a functional system have been set up. However, there is not enough
record to assess the solidity and efficiency of the various components of the maintenance system.
Anyway, follow-up activities will be required to ensure sustainability.



13
The most fragile components are the following:
the community organizations must be strengthened, particularly as regards the village
cash on hand, whose amounts are low and whose replenishment is not easy.
additional efforts should be made towards village caretakers who are not yet
operational.  The tools which were purchased under the program  should be
distributed to the caretakers in the course of the follow-up activities.
the number of sales points is too low.
The last issue was largely discussed during the implementation of the program should be
carefully addressed to avoid failures. It is clear that it is the responsibility of the private distributors
themselves to assess the feasibility of expanding their activities whenever the sales of spare parts
would be adequately developed. Practically, the distribution network has entered a densification
phase and will be an essential objective of the follow-up program.
These actions will have to be complemented by offering discounts on the purchase of spare
parts to the repairers so as to encourage them to develop this business.



14
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 2130-IVC)
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Loan Title:         Loan 1484-IVC - Water Supply Project
Purpose:            To improve water services in secondary centers
Year of Approval:    1977
Status:             Completed in 1982
Loan Title:         Loan 1577-IVC - Abidjan Sewerage II
Purpose:            Extension of Abidjan sewerage and drainage systems
Year of Approval:    1978
Status:             Completed in 1983
Loan Title:         Loan 3240-IVC - Water and Sanitation Sector Adjustment Loan
Purpose:            To increase privatization of urban water supply; to restore
availability of basic rural services and financial autonomy of the
sector.
Year of Approval:    1990
Status:             Fully disbursed as of January 22, 1991.



15
Loan Title:           Loan 3155-IVC - Abidjan Environmental Protection Project
Purpose:              To provide adequate solution for the discharge of waste water, to
restore Abidjan's lagoon environment, and to expand sewerage
services.
Year of Approval:    1990
Status:               Ongoing
2. Project Timetable
Item            |Original Date |Revised Date IF Actual Date
Identification                 01/78                         06/78
Pre-appraisal Mission         12/16/79                      12/16/79
Appraisal Mission             05/27/80        03/12/81      03/12/81
Loan Negotiations             01/25/82                      01/25/82
Board Approval                04/27/82                      04/27/82
Loan Signature                06/18/82                      06/18/82
Loan Effectiveness            09/18/82                      06/07/83
Loan Closing                  03/31/88       03/31/89       03/31/92
03/31/90
03/31/91
I03/31/92   i
3. Credit Disbursement
A. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
Fiscal Year     FY83 FY84 FY85 FY86 FY87 FY88 FY89 FY90  FY91  FY92
Appraisal Estimate    2.50  15.20 30.00 38.00 41.50 43.00   -      -      -     -
Actual                 2.03  11.99  16.14 22.51 26.11  33.06 36.48 38.23 42.30  42.98
Actual as percent of  82%   79%   54%   59%   63%   77%   85%   89%   98%   100%
Estimate             I     I     I                                        _



16
B. Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(US$)
ORIGINAL            REVISED              ACTUAL
CATEGORY         ||_ALLOCATION           ALLOCATION          DISBURSEMENTS
(1) Equipment
(a) for DCH                     9,600,000           14,600,000         16,664,814.31
(b) for land register             700,000              900,000            780,486.57
(2) Civil Works                  17,400,000           18,300,000         17,256,350.94
(3) Consultants' services    [
and training
(a) for DCH                    6,100,000            6,500,000          7,185,466.33
(b) for land register           1,900,000            1,600,000         1,342,458.83
(4) Unallocated                   7,300,000            1,100,000          (253,347.66)
TOTAL       |_43,000,000_||                   43,000,000][      42,986,229.32
4. Project Implementation
Indicators             Appraisal Estimates    Actual or PCR Estimates
A. ABIDJAN
Treatment plants (No./capacity)         5 (4,400 m3/h)            3 (4,200 m3/h)
Storage Tanks (No./capacity)             6 (26,000 in3)           3 (15,000 m3)
Distribution network (km)                     225 km                   325 km
B. SECONDARY CENTERS
No. of centers                                    52                        58
Production wells (No.)                            17          26 + 2 small dams
Storage tanks (No./capacity)              4 (1,600 m3)             4 (1,600 m3)
Distribution network (km)                     410 km                    600 km
C. SOCIAL CONNECTIONS PROGRAM
House connections (No.)                        10,000                   10,000
Standpipes (No.)                                 100                       100
D. VILLAGE WELLS (No.)                           300                       455
TRANSFER OF RURAL WATER POINTS   Component  added  in  Rehabilitation  of  10,900
1988.                 handpumps, training of 470
village   mechanics,
establishment of  private
distribution  network  for
spare parts.



17
5. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
SAR Estimates                Actual Costs
Item               US$ Million   CFAF Million   US$ Million   CFAF Million
A. ABIDJAN
Works and equipment
. Production                         6.29          1 698          4.14           1 403
. Reservoirs                         4.10          1106           1.52            514
. E/W transmission line              2.31            623
. Distribution                      11.83          3 193         13.08          4 428
. Central control system             1.84            498          1.69            573
Sub-total       26.37          7 119         20.43          6918
Studies and supervision              3.63            981           1.13           382
TOTAL A                   30.00          8 100         21.56          7 300
B. SECONDARY CENTERS
Works and equipment                 13.23          3 573          11.60          3 928
Studies and supervision              1.34            362          2.34            792
TOTAL B                   14.57          3 935         13.94          4 719
C. VILLAGE WELLS
Works and equipment                  4.90          1 322          3.87           1 311
Studies and supervision              1.03            278          0.19             66
TOTAL C                    5.93          1 600          4.06          1 376
D. GENERAL
Social connections                   2.22            600          2.36            800
TA & institutional studies           1.15            310          2.12            719
TOTAL D                    3.37            910          4.48           1 519
E. CADASTRE AND PROPERTY
TAX ADMINISTRATION
Computer equipment                   0.88            237          0.95            322
Consulting services                  2.53            683          2.68            909
TOTAL E                    3.41            920          3.64          1 231
TRANSFER OF RURAL WATER
POINTS
Equipment, spare parts & works                                    4.70           1 593
Consulting services                                               0.85            289
Incremental operating costs                                        1.54           523
TOTAL                                                  7.10          2 405
GRAND totals may not add    57.28          15 465         54.79         18 552
Note: totals may not aup due to rounding.



18
B. Project Financing
(US$ Million)
Source of Funds      Planned (SAR Report)           Actual
IBRD Expenditure                          43.0           43.0
Categories
FNH Borrowings                            13.0           0.0
Govermment Grants                          1.3           13.8
TOTAL                             57.3           54.8
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Benefits                 SAR Estimates            Actual at Full Development
Increased coverage of water   59 percent of total population  70 percent of total population
services in Abidjan        directly served by 113,000 house  directly served by 124,000 house
connections in 1985 (57 percent  connections in 1990. Additional
in 1980 for 76,000 connections).  population  served:  612,000
Additional population  served:  people  (actual population  in
433,000 people (estimated total  1990: 2,150,000; actual growth
population in 1985: 2,209,000;  rate: 5.6 percent p.a.)
expected  growth  rate  of
|_______________________  population: 7.7 percent p.a.)
Increased coverage of water   52 centers selected. 33 percent of  Project covered 58 centers. 43
services in selected      total population directly served by  percent  of  total population
secondary centers          35,000 house connections in 1985  directly served by 42,000 house
(29 percent in 1980 for 23,000  connections in 1990. Additional
connections).  Additional  population  served:  186,000
populationserved: 136,000people  people  (actual population in
(estimated total population in  1990: 1,020,000; actual growth
1985: 1,170,000; growth rate of  rate: 4.5 percent p.a.)
population: 5.9 percent p.a.)
Increased water consumption   Domestic consumption to increase  Domestic consumption increased
annually at 8.5 percent in Abidjan  on average at 5 percent per year,
and at 10 percent in secondary  in line with urban population
centers.  Industrial  and  growth.  Industrial  and
commercial  consumption  to  commercial  consumption
increase at 8 percent per year.  decreased by more than 25
(forecasts  for  1985).  Total  percent over the project period,
consumption expected to increase  in  line with  macroeconomic
at 8.8 percent                situation and in reaction  to
excessive  tariffs.  Total
consumption increased at 1.7
percent p.a.



19
Benefits                   SAR Estimates            Actual at Full Development
Improved water services in    Construction of 300 wells and  455 wells constructed. Successful
selected villages           starting a pilot program.       pilot program expanded country-
wide. 7,500 villages (about 4
million people) enrolled in the
program.  Availability   of
handpumps increased from  50
percent in 1987 to 85 percent in
1991.
B. Economic Impact
(Economic Rate of Retum)
Component          Appraisal     Actual at Full
Estimate      Development            Underlying Assumptions
Urban Water Supply       24%             12%         Consumer's willingness to pay the existing
tariff as the minimum proxy for benefits.
Rural Water Supply   Not calculated      10%         ERR of the transfer/ rehabilitation program
calculated using costs savings as proxy for
benefits.
C. Studies and Consulting Services
Item        Purpose as Designed at            Status                   Impact
Appraisal
Design  and  Final  design  and  Finaldesigncompletedwell  Satisfactory  timing  and
supervision.     s u p e r v i s i o n   o f  ahead  of  effectiveness;  outcome.
construction.            continuous supervision of
works.
Water resources  Investigation of ground  No mention in files of
survey           water resources to meet  execution of this study.
long term  demand (for
Abidjan).
Institutional  Sector Study to assess  Study  completed  early  High  impact.  Study's
study            long term  needs of the  1985.                     recommendations  served
sector  and  appropriate                           as starting point of the
institutional and financial                        sectoral  adjustment
arrangements.                                     program.



20
Item        Purpose as Designed at            Status                   Impact
Appraisal
TA and training   Technical Assistance and  48 man-months of financial  Mixed results. Most of
training  for  DCH  to  TA and 96 man-months of  assistance to DCH/DE was
improve capabilities of  engineering  TA   to  substitution; those tasks
Ivoirian staff in project  DCH/DE. 86 man-months  were  carried  out  by
and contract management,  of  training   (mostly  DCGTx  after  1987.
financial management and  overseas).               Financial TA did not bring
supervision of SODECI.                             measurable outcome. TA
for rural water supply was
quite  innovative   and
effective.
C o n s u I t i n g  Software for property tax  Software installed in 1984.  Satisfactory   outcome.
services  for  administration and land  Surveys  executed  over  Updating of property tax
Cadastre  and  surveys by consultants for  1983-1986.               register; titling of urban
Tax Directorate  the Cadastre.                                      properties  allowing  to
release sizable amounts of
mortgages.



D. Financial and Operational Indicators
(Alternate Years)
1980              1982               1984               1986               1988              1990
Item
SAR    Actual    SAR    Actual       SAR    Actual      SAR    Actual      SAR    Actual   SAR   Actual
Water sales (million m3):
. Abidjan                        50.7      50.7     59.5     51.4      69.8     51.0      81.8     51.6      95.9     52.9   112.4    56.1
. Total C6te d'Ivoire            72.1      72.1     85.9     76.3    101.6      75.7    120.6      76.6    142.7      80.7   166.5    85.6
No. of customers (thousands):
. Abidjan                        75.6      75.6     88.8     82.7    104.3      87.9    131.8      91.0    153.7    105.8   166.0   123.5
|  Total C6te d'lvoire          130.5    130.5    155.2    151.6    184.7    167.4    226.8    175.3    263.5    212.6   292.9   243.7
Unaccounted-for water (%)                20.0%              16.0%              13.4%              12.0%              14.6%            14.0%
Average Tariff (CFAF/m3)          177       177      239      219       299      272       370      296      423       250     n.a.     245
Water Sales (CFAF million)     12 750   12 750   20 530   16 712   30 378   20 569   44 622   22 694   60 362   20 157               20 932
FNH/FNE (CFAF million)
Revenues from water surcharge    3 878    3 878    8 086    6582   11 956      9424   18 013   10 416   21 338    5 371              8 177
Debt service                   6 056    6 056    5 643      5643   12 434   11 565   17 319   13 377   18 248   16 372               7 014
Surplus (Deficit)                156      156      709       n.a.      64      n.a.      962  (3 126)    3 360   (9 081)             2 499
Memorandum items:
Price Index (1981=100)            89       95       112      108      135       119      169       130      190       139     238      140
Abidjan population             1 528    1 332    1 771     1 463    2 052    1 605    2 371      1 762    2 733    1 934   3 150    2 026
Source: Audited Accounts SODECI (1980-1990), FNH (1980-1987), FNE (1988-1990)



22
7. Status of Covenants
Section in
Loan                  Subject               Deadline for             Status
Agreement                                      Compliance
2.04     Procurement                        Continuous   Satisfactory. Procurement of
major  contracts  completed
before  effectiveness.  Some
delays in contract signing (not
exceeding 4 months) observed in
1985.
3.01 (d)    Counterpart funding. Borrower to   Condition of   Complied with some delays.
make available to FNH (now FNE)  effectiveness;  CFAF 2.3 billion made available
funds in an amount not less than US$    continuous   to FNH from proceeds of SAL I
13 M   and to make that money        after      before  loan  effectiveness.
available to DCH  (now  DE) in  effectiveness   Balance provided thereafter by
addition to the proceeds of the Loan            National  Investment  Budget
as follows: US$ 8.5 M before the                (BSIE) which was slow  in
start of the project and the balance            remitting funds, particularly in
when necessary to enable the latter to          1986 and in 1990-1991.
carry out the project.
3.02 (b)    Employment of Technical Assistance.   Continuous   Done.  TA   to   DCH/DE
Borrower to continue to employ one              discontinued  in  1988  when
financial expert within DCH and one             DCGTx  provided  relevant
in FNH to assist DCH and FNH in                 expertise.
tariff  reviews,  financial
administration of contracts and
financial management.
3.04 (d)    Completion Report. Promptly after    September    Partially complied with. DCGTx
the completion of the project and not    30, 1992  prepared a report for the village
later than six months after the                 water supply component only.
Closing date, Borrower to prepare a
completion report.
3.06     Institutional Study. After completion  December 31,  Done. Sector study was the
of the water sector study, Borrower   1983      starting point of the Water
to review in consultation with the              Supply and Sanitation Sector
Bank   the   findings   and                     Adjustment  (WASAL)
recommendations.                                operation.
4.03 (b)    Audits. Borrower to cause FNH and    Continuous   Complied  with.  FNH/FNE
SODECI to have their accounts for               audits delayed in  1989-1990
each fiscal year audited.                       following liquidation of FNH.
4.03 (c)    Audit Reports. Borrower to furnish    Continuous   Complied with. FNH/FNE audit
and cause SODECI to furnish to the              reports  timely  submitted,
Bank not later than nine months after           excepted  in  1989-1990.
the end of each fiscal year certified           SODECI's audit reports timely
copies of the financial statements.             transmitted to the Bank.



23
Section in
Loan                  Subject               Deadline for              Status
Agreement                                      Compliance
4.04     Assets Register. Borrower to establish    Continuous   Partially complied with. Register
during 1983 at the latest a register of         established and updated until
all fixed assets owned or operated by            1987. SODECI now in charge
SODECI. These assets are to be                  of keeping assets register under
revalued as of 01/01/83 and the                 concession  contract. Sector's
register to be kept up to date.                 consolidated   accounts  not
Borrower to establish global accounts           established.
for DCH.
4.05     Debt Limitation Covenant. Borrower   Continuous   Formally complied with, but
shall not permit FNH to incur any               FNH  unable to fully finance
debt, unless a forecast shows that the          debt service from 1985 to 1989.
balance of FNH's revenues and                   Consolidation   arrangements
expenditures for each fiscal year               were provided under WASAL.
during the term the debt will be
incurred will be at least equal to the
projected total debt service of FNH
for such year.
4.06 (a)    Tariff Covenant. By October of each    Continuous   Complied with until 1985. Bank
year, Borrower shall adjust water               and  Borrower  then  agreed
surcharges  to  assure  that the                (without formally amending the
estimated   proceeds  of  such                  Loan  Agreement)  that this
surcharges, to  be  collected  by               covenant could not be enforced
SODECI  in  the  calendar year                  in view of the size of FNH's
following  that  October  and                   financial  gap.  No  longer
transferred to FNH, together will all           applicable from 1987 onwards in
funds available to FNH  shall be                view of reforms of the tariff
sufficient to cover the debt service of         policy and of the financing
FNH in that following calendar year             strategy  introduced   under
and to build up a surplus fund.                 WASAL.
4.06 (b)    Tarzff Covenant. If it appears that the    Continuous   See 4.05 above. Under new
existing surcharge for the following            institutional  arrangements,
year will be sufficient for the                 SODECI  self-finances  all
requirements of (4.06(a)) above,                investments for urban water
Borrower to consult with the Bank on            supply.
the possible introduction of a general
water tariff policy based either on a
rate of return on net fixed assets or
on a certain net cash generation
objective.



24
Section In
Loan                    Subject                 Deadline for                Status
Agreement                                          Compliance
4.08      Tax  Exemptions.  Borrower  shall    Continuous    Complied with.
maintain the exemption of water
supply facilities of value added tax,
taxe sur les prestations de services,
or for the purposes of the project,
provide FNH each fiscal quarter with
budgetary grants equivalent to the
value added tax and the taxe sur les
prestations de services collected on
water supply facilities and operations.
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
(Staff Weeks)
Fiscal Year  FP78  FY79  FY80  FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  TOTAL
to
FY95
Preappraisal   0.2   3.1  19.6    --    --                                                                      22.9
Appraisal      -     --   4.3  32.6   9.5               -                                                      46.4
Negotiations         _   _              6.4   _                                             =                   6.4
Supervision          _             _    1.7   7.1   4.9   9.5   5.6   7.8   4.2  10.3   8.9   7.8   3.2   71.0
PCR                                      --    -      --    --    --    --    --   --    --    --  8.2    8.2
TOTAL   0.2   3.1  23.9  32.6  17.6   7.1   4.9   9.5   5.6   7.8   4.2  10.3   8.9   7.8  11.4  154.9



25
B. Mission Data
Month/    No. of   Days                     Performance
Activity       Year     Persons    in    Specialization     Rating           Comments/Issues
Field
Identification   01/79        3                E, EC, FA         n.a.
Preparation     02-06/79      3                E, EC, FA         n.a.
(3 missions)                                                                                          l
Preappraisal      12/79       3         6     E, FA, CONS        n.a.
Appraisal        05/80        3        15    E, EC, CONS         n.a.        Appraisal not completed
Post Appraisal   03/81        3        16      E, EC, FA         n.a.
Negotiations     01/82                                           n.a.
Supervision 1    06/82         1        6          SE             I
Supervision 2    01/83        2        11        SE, SE           1
Supervision 3     11/83        1       5          FA              2         Tariff covenants; financial
situation of FNH
Supervision 4    08/83         1       15          SE             1
Supervision 5    02/85        2        11        FA, SE           1         Delays in contracts signing;
FNH's funancial gap
Supervision 6    09/86        3         9     SE, FA, EC          2         Lack of counterpart funds
Supervision 7    02/89         1       15          SE             I          Supervision of transfer of
rural water points
Supervision 8     10/89        1       12          SE             I                   ditto
Supervision 9    05/90         1       12          SE             1                   ditto
Supervision 10   01/91        2        11       SE, EC            I          Lack of counterpart funds
Supervision 11   08/91         1        3         EC              1
SE = Sanitary Engineer   FA = Financial Analyst   EC = Economist
E = Engineer    CONS = Consultant









IMAGING
Report No:       15191
Type: PCR



