WICIAX1    OAN NUMBER 2130 IVC
I)CUTS
Loan Agreement
(Second Water Supply Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated             844At             , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2130 IVC
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated          Lowe,    (         , 1982, between
REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (here-
inafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from the Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique (hereinafter called the
Caisse) a loan in an amount equivalent to two and one-half billion
CFAF to assist in financing a related water supply project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called
the Caisse Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower
and the Caisse;
(C) the Project will be carried out by the Borrower's
Direction Centrale de l'Hydraulique (hereinafter called DCH) with
the cooperation of the Societe de Distribution d'Eau de la C8te
d'Ivoire (hereinafter called SODECI) within the framework of the
Conventions as hereinafter defined;
(D) the Borrower will use the proceeds of' the Loan to
finance the execution of the Project by DCH through the inter-
mediary of the Borrower's Fonds National de l'Hydraulique
(hereinafter called FNH) as hereinafter provided, which proceeds
FNH will repay to the Borrower in accordance with the FNH Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement (as defined hereinafter);
(E) upon completion of the Project, SODECI will manage and
maintain the Project facilities; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called
the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "FNA" means the Borrower's Fonds National de l'Assainis-
sement;
(b) "FNH Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the subsidiary
loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and FNH
pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedule to
the FNH Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c) "FNH Law" and "FNH Decree" means the Borrower's Law
No. 76-02 of January 2, 1976 and the Borrower's Decree No. 76-64
of even date, as amended from time to time, pursuant to which FNH
has been established and organized; and
(d) "Conventions" means the Contrat de Concession and the
Contrat d'Affermage dated July 20, 1959 and June 25, 1974, respec-
tively, between the Borrower and SODECI, as amended from time to
time.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or


﻿-3 -
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
forty-three million dollars ($43,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Ba'nk shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1988
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.0i. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts E and F
of the Project and shall carry out Parts A through D of the
Project through DCH and with the cooperation of SODECI with due


﻿- 4 --
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and public utilities
practices, and shall provide or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds (including funds to cover cost overruns, if
any), facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) relend to FNH the proceeds of
the Loan under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and FNH on condition that FNH shall finance
the execution of the Project by DCH, and upon such other terms and
conditions as shall have been approved by the Bank; and (ii)
exercise its rights under the FNH Subsidiary Loan Agreement
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
(c) The Borrower shall duly perform all its obligations
under the FNH Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Conventions and
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving the FNH Subsidiary Loan
Agreemett or the Conventions or any provision thereof.
(d) Without limitation upon paragraph (a) of this Section
the Borrower shall make available to FNH funds in an amount
equivalent to not less than US$13,000,000 and to make that money
available to DCH in addition to the proceeds of the Loan as
follows: an amount equivalent to US$8,50C,000 before the start of
the Project and the balance when necessary to enable the latter
to carry out the Project as scheduled.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, in order to
assist DCH, in consultation with SODECI in the preparation of
detailed engineering and the supervision of construction works
for the Project, and to carry out sector studies and surveys.
(b) The Borrower shall continue to employ one financial
expert within DCH and one in FNH to assist DCH and FNH in tariff
reviews, financial administration of contracts and financial
management.
(c) The employment of those consultants and the experts
mentioned in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be made


﻿-5-
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to
the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines on the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that DCH furnish
to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifi-
cations, reports, contract documents and construction and pro-
curement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.


﻿-6-
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction and SODECI's operation of the
facilities included in the Project and shall furuish to the Bank,
promptly when requested, evidence satisfactory tc the Bank that
such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
Section 3.06. After completion of the water sector study
included in Part E of the Project, the Borrower shall, on or
before December 31, 1983 (or such later date as the Bank may
agree) review, in consultation with the Bank, the findings and
recommendations included therein.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
I4


﻿- 7 -
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Ivory Coast. of any political or administra-
tive subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Ivory Coast or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Ivory
Coast provided, however, that for the purposes of this Section the
term "entity" shall not apply to Ivory Coast State Companies which
are organized as business corporations in accordance with laws and
regulations applicable to private companies and whose activities
are not reflected in the Ivory Coast budget, except that the
provisions of this Section shall apply to any such entity to the
extent that it would hold any foreign exchange assets on behalf of
Ivory Coast.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall use its best endeavors
to cause SODECI, within the framework of the Conventions to
operate and maintain the facilities included in the Project upon
completion thereof in accordance with appropriate administrative,
engineering and public utility practices and with due regard to
economy.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that DCH and FNH
maintain, and shall use its best endeavors to cause SODECI to
maintain, within the framework of the Conventions, records ade-
quate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices (including, without limitation,
appropriate depreciation accounting practices on fixed assets) the


﻿-8-
operations and the respective financial conditions of FNH and
SODECI.
(b) The Borrower shall cause FNH, and shall use its best
endeavors to cause SODECI, within the framework of the Conven-
tions, to have their respective accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Bank; in the case of SODECI, such
audit shall include the auditor's review of and comment on the
accuracy of SODECI's costing system, the appropriateness of the
allocation of overhead charges to its different activities and the
auditor's opinion that the amounts billed and collected by SODECI
on behalf of FNH and FNA during each month of the fiscal year
(including levies on private groundwater extraction) accurately
reflect the meter-reading registered and the correct tariff
categories.
(c) The Borrower shall furnish and shall cause SODECI to
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than nine months after the end of each such year: (i)
certified copies of FNH and SODECI's respective financial
statements for such year as so audited; (ii) the reports and
comments by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of
FNH and SODECI and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time
to time reasonably request.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall establish during 1983 at
the latest a register of all water supply fixed assets owned or
operated by SODECI; these assets shall be revalued as of Janu-
ary 1, 1983 and the register shall be kept up to date. The
Borrower shall also establish global sector accounts for DCH,
reflecting the recommendations of the study to be carried out
under Part E (ii) of the Project.
Section 4.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not permit FNH to incur any debt, unless a forecast
shows that the balance of FNH's revenues and expenditures for
each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred will
be at least equal to the projected total debt service of FNH for
such year. For the purposes of this Section:


﻿-9-
(a) "debt" means any debt incurred by FNH maturing more
than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
(b) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement or other instrument providing for such
debt or for the modification of its terms of payment, on the
date, and to the extent, the amount of such debt has become
outstanding pursuant to such contract, agreement or instrument;
and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered into but only to
the extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(c) "balance" means gross income of FMR from all sources
(excluding capital grants for works), less al. operating costs
of FNH.
(d) "debt service" means the aggregate amount of amortiza-
tion of, and interest and other charges on debt, excluding any
debt for which reimbursements are made by the Borrower to FNH.
Section 4.06. (a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section,
by October of each year, the Borrower shall adjust water sur-
charges to assure that the estimated proceeds of such surcharges,
to be collected by SODECI in the calendar yr Ar following that
October and transferred to FNH, together with other funds avail-
able to FNH shall be sufficient:
(i) to cover the debt service of FNH in
that following calendar year; and
(ii) to build up a surplus fund.
This surplus fund shall be in the books of FNH by making annual
fund allocations equal to 3% of FNH's debt service during
each particular calendar year to a surplus account in FNH's
books, until the aggregate allocations so made equal not less
than 10% of FNH's debt service.
(b) If during any review, as provided in paragraph (a) of
this Section, it appears that the existing surcharge for the
following year will be sufficient to meet the requirements set
forth in paragraph (a) (i) and (ii) above without adjustment, the
Borrower shall consult with the Bank on the possible introduc-
tion of a general water tariff policy which would be based either
on a rate of return on net fixed assets in service for which


﻿- 10 -
SODECI is responsible pursuant to the Conventions or on a certain
net cash generation objective, in accordance with the recommenda-
tions of the water sector study, to be carried out under Part E
(ii) of the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall continue to review and, if necessary,
adjust each year by October the basic water rate component of
the water tariff to assure that it will cover the cost of oper-
ation and maintenance of the water systems for which SODECI is
responsible in accordance with sound public utility practices.
Section 4.07. In the event that the Conventions, or any
provision thereof, are not renewed as and when they terminate in
accordance with their terms, the Borrower shall make arrangements
for the carrying on, under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, of the operations theretofore carried out by SODECI
pursuant to the provisions of the Conventions.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall maintain the exemption of
water supply facilities and operations of value added tax, taxe
de la prestation de service, or, for the purposes of the Project,
provide FNH each fiscal quarter with budgetary grants equivalent
to the value added tax and the taxe de la prestation de service
collected on water supply facilities and operations.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursaant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) The Borrower or FNH, as the case may be, shall have
failed to perform any of their tespective covenants, agreements
or obligations under the FNH Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(b) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that FNH shall be able to perform its obliga-
tions under the FNH Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(c) The FNH Law or the FNH Decree or the FNH Subsidiary Loan
Agreement shall have been amended materially, suspended, abro-
gated, rescinded, repealed or waived, without the Bank's prior
approval.


﻿- 11 -
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of FNH, or for the suspension of its operations.
(e) The Conventions between the Borrower and SODECI shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, rescinded or waived in
such a way as to materially and adversely affect SODECI's capacity
to operate and maintain the facilities constructed under the
Project or the ability of the Borrower to fulfill its obligations
hereunder, as the case may be.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following events are specified pursuant to para-
graph (h) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower and FNH; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (c), (d) or (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the FNH Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have been
duly signed by all parties concerned and authorized or ratified by
all necessary corporate and governmental action and all condi-
tions, if any, precedent to disbursement thereunder shall have
been fulfilled; and
(b) funds to an amount of at least US$8,500,000 equivalent
are available to FNH pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion to be furnished to the


﻿- 12 -
Bank, namely, that the FNH Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and FNH, and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and FNH in accordance with its
terms.
Section 6.03. The date, g4ePAW     21' "OZ, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Secti   12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere de 1'Economie et
des Finances
Abidjan
Ivory Coast
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINIFIN                             MINIFIN 747
Abidjan                             Abidjan
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-13-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties- hereto, actir  through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, ha\        caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names 'in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY. COAST
By (      ect-      ~~&
AutHorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment
(a) for DCH                  9,600,000   )    100% of foreign
)    expenditures
)    and 80% of
)    local expendi-
)    tures
(b) for land                   700,000   )
register                            )
(2) Civil works                  17,400,000        70%
including house
connections
(3) Consultants'
services,
technical assis-
tance and training
(a) for DCH                  6,100,000   )    90%
(b) for land register        1,900,000   )
(4) Unallocated                   7,300,000
TOTAL             43,000,000


﻿- 15 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied frpm the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of the
Borrower is also that of another country from the territory of
which goods or servic.es are supplied, expenditures in such
currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be
"foreign expenditures"; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 16 -
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of nay item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project will comprise the major part of the Ivory Coast
water supply investment program for improvement and expansion of
the existing systems, for the period 1982 through 1985.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Abidjan
(i) Supply and installation of 24 well pumps, pipe laying
and construction of four Ph adjustment plants to increase the
water production facilities of the North, West, North-East,
Anonkoua-Koute, Abobo-Baoule and Niangon-2 Zones;
(ii) construction of five ground level storage tanks of about
5 000 m3 each and one elevated storage tank of about 1000
m   to provide additional reservoir capacity for the North,
North-East, Anonkoua-Koute, Abobo-Baoule, and Niangon-2 Zones;
(iii) supply and laying of a transmission main pipe of about
7 km length and with a diameter of 600 mm, from Niangon to Adjame;
(iv) laying of about 90 km pipes of 200 mm diameter and about
125 km pipes of less than 200 mm diameter to expand the water
distribution system of Abidjan; and
(v) installation of central production and pressure control
systems.
Part B:   Other Cities
Supply and laying of about 300 km distribution extension
pipes, construction of about 17 production wells and additions to
existing production and storage facilities in approximately 50
cities other than Abidjan.
Part C:   House Connections Program
Installation of about 10,000 house connections and approxi-
mately 100 standpipes in Abidjan.


﻿- 18 -
Part D:   Village Wells
Drilling and equipping of approximately 300 wells in the
other region and provision of vehicles to supervise execution of
these works.
Part E:   Studies and Technical Assistance
(i) A study of ground water resources in the Abidjan
area to determine how best to meet long-term-water demands;
(ii) a study of the Borrower's water sector to assess long-
term development needs and the appropriate institutional arrange-
ments to meet them;
(iii) a study of a central water production and pressure
control system in Abidjan;
(iv) training for DCH's and FNH's staff; and
(v) strengthening of DCH's and FNH's management by the
provision of the services of experts.
Part F:   Establishing and Updating of a Land Register by:
(a) Supply and installation of a computer and related
equipment; and
(b) carrying out of land surveys for a government land
register.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1987.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning September 15, 1986
through   September 15, 1998               1,655,000
On March 15, 1999                               1,625,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 20 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                  2.05%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                                  4.10%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                  7.50%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                                 10.25%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                                 11.60%


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding
as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
-ublic of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The 'Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.        (i)  Bidders for the civil works included in Parts A and
B of the Project shall be prequalified as described
in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines;
and
(ii) contracts for civil works, laying of pipes and the
supply of equipment and pipes will be grouped into
lots of sufficient size to attract both local and
foreign suppliers and contractors.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other


﻿- 22 -
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of 'the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in the
Ivory Coast may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and, the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groupst
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Ivory Coast if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in the Ivory Coast equal to at least
20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from


﻿- 23 -
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount. of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which, as a result of the comparison under paragraph.3, is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for equipment and contracts for civil works
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 and
$200,000 each, respectively, may be procured in accordance with
local procedures acceptable to the Bank; provided that the aggre-
gate amount of contracts, so procured shall not exceed the equiva-,
lent of $2,000,000.
2.   Installation of house connections will be undertaken
by SODECI under annual contracts to be negotiated with- that
company in an aggregate amount not. exceeding the equivalent of
$4,000,000.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:.
With respect to all contracts .procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding:
(a) Before bids are invited, the. Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform


﻿- 24 -
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids or price
quotations, as the case may be, recommendations for award and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank
shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was not
consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the arch, es of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  /  2    day of       , 198) 198
FOR SECRETARY


