                                         63494 v1
                      Document of
                   The World Bank


                                                 Report No:




                RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                        ON A

           PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                         OF
EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION ENHANCEMENT PROJECT (ECEEP)
                      PROJECT
                   LOAN NO. 7274-EGT

                BOARD APPROVAL DATE
                  15 FEBRUARY 2005

                       TO THE

               ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT


                     June 29, 2011
                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



ECEEP   Early Childhood Education Enhancement Project
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
NCB     National Competitive Bidding
EEP     Education Enhancement Program
SEEP    Secondary Education Enhancement Project
HEEP    Higher Education Enhancement Project
MOE     Ministry of Education
MOIC    Ministry of International Cooperation
GoE     Government of Egypt
KG      kindergarten
CIDA    Canadian International Development Association
WFP     World Food Program




         Regional Vice President:        Shamshad Akhtar
                Country Director:        A. David Craig
        Sector Manager / Director:       Mourad Ezzine / Steen Jorgensen
               Task Team Leader:         Mahmoud Gamal El Din



                                     2
                   EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF
     EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION ENHANCEMENT PROJECT (ECEEP)
                            P082952
                          CONTENTS

                                                                                                                       Page
A.   SUMMARY................................................................................................................ 4
B.   PROJECT STATUS.................................................................................................. 5
C.   PROPOSED CHANGES .......................................................................................... 6

Letter of Request for Amendment by MOIC is attached (Pages 7 & 8)




                                                             3
  EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION ENHANCEMENT PROJECT (ECEEP)

                             RESTRUCTURING PAPER

SUMMARY
During a recent review of the procurement plan of the project for 2010/11, it was found
that there is contradiction between the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) and the Loan
Agreement. While there is no mention in the PAD of using International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) in civil works, there is a threshold in the Loan Agreement for National
Competitive Bidding (NCB), after which ICB has to be used. Under previously financed
Bank projects in Egypt, ICB has not been proposed for school construction since 1995
when it was used in the Basic Education Improvement Project and no foreign bidders
were interested in participating in any of the bids. The education projects which came
afterwards did not include ICB as a procurement method for civil works. These projects
are: Education Enhancement Program (EEP), Secondary Education Enhancement Project
(SEEP) and Higher Education Enhancement Project (HEEP). This project (ECEEP) is
even much smaller than the above-mentioned projects (EEP was US$75 million, SEEP
and HEEP were US$50 million, while ECEEP is only US$20 million.

As a result, it has been agreed with the Ministry of Education (MOE) and Ministry of
International Cooperation (MOIC) to raise the threshold for ICB from US$2 million to
US$10 million. Also, and under the current circumstances after the January 25
Revolution, requests from MOE and MOIC to encourage the local market and local
manufacturers as well as bidders have been made and as a result, a request to raise the
threshold for ICB for “Goods” from US$500,000 to US$1.5 million (to be lowered to
US$1 million to go along with the Bank recommended threshold for Egypt) is included in
the letter of request to amend the Loan Agreement of ECEEP.

The Borrower has also requested an extension of the Closing Date of the project for 24
months, thus the new Closing Date would be June 30, 2014. This would be the second
such extension of Closing Date and, pursuant to OP 13.30, would require approval of the
RVP. The bases for the request for extension are delays with implementation, some of
which were beyond the power of the implementation unit. Delays in implementation
were exacerbated by the events of the Egyptian Revolution of January 25, 2011 and
ensuing implementation difficulties over the following months.

The requested extension will allow for successful completion of the project activities
especially those that require more time for proper implementation such as the curriculum
component or for proper measurement of the impact of the project activities which needs
data collection and observation in more than one (preferably several) school year.

The Ministry of Education (MOE) and the General Authority for Educational Buildings
(GAEB) are proven from previous education projects to be solid implementation agencies
(especially in the hardware activities such as school construction) and their performance
                                           4
has been, in general, satisfactory. The last few months, after the January 25 Revolution,
have been extremely difficult and implementation of the project activities has suffered
due several factors, one of which is the budget constraint. Allowing more time for
completing the project activities will result, no doubt, in achieving the developmental
objective of the project. The Project Unit has prepared an action plan and a procurement
plan for implementing and completing the remaining project activities which were
acceptable to the Bank. The Project has no outstanding or unsatisfactory audit reports.

Therefore, this Restructuring Paper seeks your approval to: (i) raise the threshold for ICB
for “Works” from US$2 million to US$10 million; (ii) raise the threshold for ICB for
“Goods” from US$500,000 to US$1 million; and (iii) extend the Closing Date from June
30, 2012 to June 30, 2014.

The proposed changes were requested by the Government in a letter from MOIC dated
June 28, 2011.

B. PROJECT STATUS

The ECEEP Project supports the Government of Egypt (GoE) in providing quality early
childhood education for four- and five-year-old children, particularly for the
disadvantaged. The project consists of three major components: (a) Increasing Access by:
(i) supporting the public construction and maintenance program, the Loan is constructing
750 classrooms under this activity; (ii) supporting expansion through the Ministry of
Social Solidarity (MOSS)-registered kindergartens (KG) and community-provided
facilities, the Loan is renovating 500 classrooms under this activity; (b) Improving
Quality by: (i) developing a child-centered curriculum and educational materials based on
national standards, the Loan is providing 2,000 classrooms with learning materials and
equipment; (ii) developing and delivering an effective teacher training program (MOE
with financing from the Canadian International Development Association, CIDA); and
(iii) linking nutrition and health to early childhood education (MOE & World Food
Program (WFP); and (c) Capacity Building by: (i) developing a system to implement KG
standards (MOE & CIDA); and (ii) supporting the MOE in building the capacity of the
KG Department (CIDA).

Under Component (a) (i) above, 461 classrooms have been selected to date for
construction which represents 61.5% of the total number of classrooms targeted under the
project (750 classrooms). Of the 750 classrooms, 369 classrooms are completed and
operational, which represents 49.2% of the targeted number.

Under Component (a) (ii) above, 424 classrooms have been selected to date for
renovation, which represents 84.8% of the targeted number under the project (500
classrooms). Of the 500 classrooms, 402 classrooms are completed and operational,
which represents 80.4% of the targeted number.

Under Component (b) (i) above, 900 classrooms have been provided with learning
materials and equipment out of 2,000 targeted, which represents 45% of the target. The
learning materials and equipment are in line with the newly designed curriculum.


                                            5
Disbursement has reached US$9 million, i.e., 45% of the total loan amount.




  C. PROPOSED CHANGES

   •   Procurement

       The Procurement Schedule in the Loan Agreement will be amended to remove
       reference to specified thresholds for procurement of goods and works using NCB
       procedures. New thresholds will instead be specified in the Procurement Plan as
       agreed with the Bank.

       Paragraph 1 of Part B, Section II of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement shall be amended
       to read as follows:

              “1. National Competitive Bidding. Goods and works may be procured
              under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive
              Bidding in the circumstances set out in the Procurement Plan and in
              accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.3, 3.4, 3.14 and
              3.15 of the Procurement Guidelines and as set forth in the Annex to
              this Schedule 4 required to comply with the provisions of the
              Procurement Guidelines.”


   •   Closing Date: As a result of the delays which took place partly because of the
       ministerial changes and partly because of the January 25 Revolution, your
       approval is sought for extension of the project Closing Date. The Government
       requested an extension of 24 months. Therefore, the new Closing Datewould be
       June 30, 2014. As explained earlier, this extension will allow the Borrower time
       to complete the project activities in accordance with the agreed action plan in
       order to achieve the project developmental objective.




                                             6
RP




     7
8
9
