 IEG
                                                                                             Report Number: ICRR14724

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 05/11/2015

               Country: Egypt, Arab Republic of
             Project ID: P082952                                                   Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Early Childhood              Project Costs (US$M):                  108.62               189.29
                         Education
                         Enhancement Project
                         (eceep)
  L/C Number:                                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                        20                19.25
      Sector Board:      Education                   Cofinancing (US$M):                     30.81                22.63

          Cofinanciers: CIDA, WFP                     Board Approval Date :                                 02/15/2005
                                                                Closing Date:           12/31/2010          06/30/2014
         Sector(s):       Pre-primary education (98%); Central government administration (2%)
         Theme(s):        Education for all (40%); Participation and civic engagement (20%); Education for the
                          knowledge economy (20%); Gender (20%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Ryotaro Hayashi           Judyth L. Twigg         Lourdes N. Pagaran         IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The original project development objective in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, p 5) and the Loan
    Agreement (p 12) was: "to support the Borrower in providing quality early childhood education to improve the
    school readiness of four and five year old children, particularly the disadvantaged."

    The project was restructured in January 2010. The revised objectives were: "to support the Borrower to increase
    access to early childhood education of four (4) and five (5) year old children, particularly the disadvantaged, and
    to equip kindergarten (KG) classes with learning materials."

    In this review, following IEG/OPCS guidelines, the project under both the original and revised objectives will be
    assessed over the entire project period, with the ratings weighted according to the percentage of the loan
    disbursed at the time of restructuring in order to arrive at the final outcome rating. The Bank had disbursed US$
    7.17 million at the restructuring, which is 37.2% of total actual Bank financing.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 01/29/2010

c. Components:

    The project had three components. Actual IBRD project cost by component was not included in the ICR.
    1. Increased Access (Appraisal: US$ 74.39 million of which IBRD US$ 18.89 million, Actual: US$ 114.23
    million), included three sub-components:
    Construction and maintenance of new KG: 1,988 new public KG classrooms were to be constructed by the
Bank and the government of Egypt (GoE) to improve access for 119,000 students.
 Renovation and maintenance of existing KG and community facilities: Existing KGs managed by
non-governmental organizations (NGOs) were to be renovated by the Bank, GoE and local communities. The
NGO-run KGs were to be registered by the Ministry of Insurance and Social Affairs (MISA), which was later
renamed as the Ministry of Social Solidarity (MOSS). The project intended to convert 1,750 community facilities
into KGs to improve access for 192,000 children.
 Provision of community grants: The preschool fee was to be reduced from LE 120 to LE 28 to facilitate
enrollment. Moreover, NGOs, community development associations, parent-teacher councils, and other
community-based organizations were to become eligible to receive technical and financial support to stimulate
access to KGs by developing community action plans. These activities were to be supported by the Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA) and GoE.

2. Improved Quality (Appraisal: US$ 28.45 million of which IBRD US$ 0.7 million, Actual: US$ 68.3 million)
included three sub-components:

    Development of a new KG curriculum and education materials: Technical assistance was to be provided by
the Bank, CIDA, and GoE to develop a curriculum with child-centered and activity-based pedagogical approaches
in accordance with national KG standards.
 KG teacher training program: Based on the new KG curriculum, teacher skills for early childhood
development, lessons learned from the pilot field work, and teacher training programs were to be outlined by
GoE. Training of trainers was also planned for 80 teacher trainers.
 KG school nutrition and health program: A school feeding program was to be provided by the World Food
Program (WFP) and GoE to support children's ability to learn. The WFP planned to provide an in-kind grant in the
form of milk and biscuits to seven governorates, and the Ministry of Education (MoE) was to cover the rest of the
project areas through the national school feeding program.

3. Capacity Development (Appraisal: US$ 5.77 million, Actual: US$ 6.76 million), included two
sub-components:

 Implementation capacity development: Technical assistance was to be provided by CIDA to design a system
to assess the quality of KGs in the field. Through participatory sessions with government agencies and NGOs,
this assistance was intended to develop national KG standards, including indicators for each standard and a
checklist for a progressive model of implementation.
 Capacity development of the MoE: Technical assistance was to be provided for MoE and other stakeholders
in managing, coordinating and monitoring project implementation by CIDA and GoE. For example, this
subcomponent was to include implementation of early childhood education (ECE) reform, intra- and
inter-ministerial coordination, and purchase of equipment and materials to manage the project.

During a Level-1 restructuring in 2010, the project maintained the basic structure of the three project
components. However, according to the project restructuring paper, some of the sub-components, particularly the
Bank-funded activities, were revised as follows:

1.   Increased Access

   Construction and maintenance of new KGs: 4,950 new KG classroom constructions were expected. The
Bank-funded loan planned to construct 750 new KG classrooms, and GoE aimed to cover the remaining 4,200
classrooms.
 Renovation and maintenance of existing KG and community facilities: 1,400 existing NGO-run KG classroom
constructions were expected. The Bank-funded portion was to support 500 NGO-run classrooms, and CIDA and
GoE intended to cover the remaining 900 classrooms.

2.   Improved Quality

   Development of a new KG curriculum and education materials: The Bank’s role was clarified to support the
production and distribution of new learning materials in 2,000 classrooms. CIDA and GoE were to assist in
developing KG standards, curricula, and teacher training.
   The project paper did not discuss the details of revised project sub-components parallel-financed by CIDA and
   the WFP.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Project cost: The project's cost at closure exceeded the original estimate by US$ 80 million (i.e., 174% of original
   estimate). The actual project cost was US$ 189.29 million, compared to the original appraised amount of US$
   109.03 million. Price escalation of construction materials, such as steel and cement, increased the first
   component related to increased access by US$ 40 million (i.e., 153% of original estimate). The second
   component related to improved quality was also expanded, which increased the cost by US$ 40 million (i.e.,
   240% of original estimate). This large increase was covered by the Borrower's increased contribution.

   Financing: 96.3% of the original Bank commitment was disbursed. In fact, US$ 19.25 million was actually spent,
   compared with a US$ 20 million IBRD financing commitment. The undisbursed amount of the IBRD loan was
   cancelled at closing. The Level-1 restructuring was conducted when the Bank had disbursed 37.2% of the
   eventual total. The total financial commitment of the Bank did not change through the restructuring.

   Two other agencies, CIDA and the WFP, provided parallel financing totaling US$ 22.63 million. CIDA disbursed
   US$ 13.5 million (i.e., 93.3% of the original financing estimate of US$ 14.47 million) for the capacity development
   component and community grants. The actual contribution of the WFP was only 55.9% of the appraisal estimate
   because of delays and reductions in funding (US$ 9.13 million actually spent to support the school feeding
   program in contrast to the appraisal estimate of US$ 16.34 million). Local communities were expected to
   contribute US$ 6.66 million at appraisal through donation of rooms and buildings when MISA-registered existing
   KGs were not available. However, information about the actual contribution of the local communities is not
   available (ICR, p 28).

   Borrower contribution : Far more Borrower contribution was provided than the original appraisal estimate. The
   Borrower contributed US$ 147.38 million, compared with the estimate of US$ 51.56 million (i.e., 285.8% of
   original estimate).

   Dates:
    January 2010: A Level-1 restructuring produced five changes. First, the environmental category was revised
   from "C" to "B". Second, the project development objectives and their associated project performance indicators
   were revised. Third, the project's scope was expanded from 18 to 19 governorates and from 152 to 165 districts.
   Fourth, the fixed amount of reimbursement for each new KG classroom construction was increased from
   LE100,000 to LE 150,000 due to increased costs. Finally, the project closure date was extended by 18 months to
   June 30, 2012.
    June 2011: Through a Level-2 restructuring, the closing date was extended by another two years to June 30,
   2014.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   Original Objectives : Substantial
   The original objectives addressed improved school readiness through early childhood education quality with an
   emphasis on disadvantaged children. The PAD (p. 5) and analytical work done in 2002 (Strategic Options for
   Early Childhood Education) implied that school readiness involves cognitive, language, and psychosocial
   development, which enables better transition to primary school. Disadvantaged children were addressed
   particularly through attention to gender, poverty, and disability (PAD, p 26).

   Improved school readiness was not explicitly included in the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Egypt
   at design and project closure. In fact, the Bank’s CAS in 2001 and current Bank strategy, Interim Strategy Note
   (ISN) prepared in 2012, did not discuss improved school readiness. However, both of the Bank strategies paid
   attention to disadvantaged children from the perspective of social inclusion. The ISN also discussed early
   childhood education as a means to increase relevance of education for labor markets, and planned to have policy
   dialogue on early childhood education to close the gap between rural and urban area.

   The government prioritized improved school readiness with the assistance of the Bank analytical work. In 2002, a
   Strategic Options for Early Childhood Education study was prepared by the Bank to improve school readiness,
   and improved quality of early childhood education was included as one of major challenges.
   In 2003, GoE’s National Educational Standards Initiative was launched, which included improved early childhood
   education, such as higher standards of teaching and curriculum.

   Revised Objectives : Substantial

   The revised objectives addressed limited access to KG, particularly for disadvantaged children, and also aimed
   to distribute KG learning materials. In relation to access, the MoE had outlined a strategy to expand early
   childhood education coverage from 13% in 2001 to 60% by 2010. This KG enrollment rate is very low compared
   with the near universal access to primary school. Moreover, this target was achieved neither by the time of
   restructuring in 2010 nor project closure in 2014, and this challenge appears to be continuing. Improved access
   to KG was also in line with the intention of the new constitution to improve equity in acquiring early childhood
   education. GoE’s Strategic Plan for Pre-University Education for 2014-2030 also supports improved access to
   KG. The Bank's CAS in 2001 did not acknowledge limited access to KG nor provision of KG learning materials as
   a challenge, but ISN 2012 acknowledges the importance of early childhood education to fulfill the key
   government objectives of increasing access to all levels of education, including pre-school. Yet, while the focus
   on disadvantaged children is relevant for the Bank strategy, the revised objective became less ambitious. In
   particular, the second sub-objective was entirely output-oriented.

b. Relevance of Design:

   Relevance of Design to the Original Objectives : Substantial

   Quality early childhood education has direct linkage with the second component of improved quality. In addition,
   the project logic of having three components, (i) increased access to KG, (ii) improved quality, and (iii) capacity
   development, was reasonable to collectively generate a favorable effect on school readiness, such as cognitive,
   language, and psychosocial outcomes. This approach consisted of supply-side inputs such as education and
   nutrition as well as demand-side measures of community grants. Knowledge, experiences, and resources from
   the development partners (i.e., CIDA and WFP) were mobilized to implement the activities.

   For disadvantaged children, the geographical targeting of poor governorates and districts was used as a proxy to
   improve their school readiness. This approach was reasonable because the PAD and the analytical work at the
   design stage showed a strong positive correlation between KG enrollment and GDP per capita by governorates.
   While it was still possible that KG students from relatively rich households were more likely to self-select to enroll
   in KG, the project carefully selected project participation districts based on poverty data, and deliberately
   included NGO-run KGs that specifically served the poor. The results framework (PAD, p 27) touched on
   accessibility for the disabled, but specific considerations for this group were not discussed. Specific activities
   related to gender were also not included in the results chain.

   Relevance of Design to the Revised Objectives : Substantial

   The objectives were revised to have a stronger linkage with the Bank-funded activities for better monitoring the
   progress to achieve project objectives. In fact, the results framework more closely connected the Bank-financed
   interventions and the revised objectives.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   Providing quality early childhood education to improve school readiness of four and five year old children ,
   particularly the disadvantaged (Original Objective ): Substantial

   Outputs:

        A new KG curriculum was developed based on national standards, and procedural manuals were also
         developed for teachers and other stakeholders.
        The Effective Teacher Competition was continued to honor KG teachers using effective practices.
        In-service training programs were organized through MoE directorates and teacher training institutions. 937
         supervisors, 1,474 KG directors and deputy directors, 21,269 community trainees, and 10,189 KG trainers
         were trained (ICR, p 17).
        At least 35,000 teachers were trained on national KG standards and the new curriculum by the GoE, which
         exceeded the original target of 14,200 teachers (i.e., 246% of the original target).
        The Bank-funded component supported the distribution of 1,762 KG learning materials, but no evidence was
         provided on the distribution of learning materials for non-Bank-funded classrooms.

   Outcomes:
        On average, based on classroom observation data (n=11) in 2013, 73% of KG time was spent on play-based
         activities in project targeted areas (ICR, p 22). The 2012 observation data also suggested that play-based
         activity time was higher in project-targeted governorates (i.e, more than 70% on average) than in other areas
         (i.e., 63% on average).
        All aspects of school readiness (i.e., physical, cognitive, language, and socio-emotional abilities) were
         improved from the initial stage of KG1 to end of KG2 for those who attended KG (ICR, p 35).
        The with and without analysis suggested that children with KG had better performance (i.e., Arabic
         language, English and math) in the first year of primary school.
        The teachers' observations were also more positive for primary school students with KG backgrounds.

    The before and after comparison of KG students does not necessarily provide evidence of improved school
    readiness, since the cognitive, language, and socio-emotional abilities of these children were enhanced as they
    grew regardless of KG enrollment. With and without study results did not address the self-selection bias, and
    improvements were not necessarily directly attributable to project interventions. However, it is plausible and likely
    that there were positive effects for those who enrolled in KG because of the improved quality of early childhood
    education.

    Increase access to early childhood education of four (4) and five (5) year old children, particularly the
    disadvantaged (Revised Objective): Substantial

    Outputs:

        820 new public KG classrooms were built in targeted areas by the Bank, which exceeded the target of 750.
        523 existing KG classrooms were refurbished in the targeted areas by the Bank, which exceeded the target
         of 500.
        All the above Bank-funded classrooms were constructed or renovated in the poor districts identified by the
         United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).
        The Borrower’s ICR (ICR, p 37) states that 6,722 classrooms were built under the project in total, which met
         the target of 6,350 (i.e., 4,950 new public KG classrooms and 1,400 existing NGO-run KG classrooms).
        An additional 11,668 teachers of early childhood education were employed between 2006/07 and 2012/13.

    Outcomes:

        An additional 35,823 KG students enrolled in KG, which met the target of 30,000 enrollments in the
         Bank-funded facilities (i.e., 120% of original target).
        The project team later reported that the central statistical bureau, Central Agency for Public Mobilization and
         Statistics (CAPMAS), has KG enrollment data by gender. Between 2004/05 and 2012/13, the proportion of
         girls in pre-primary education did not show any sign of improvement over time (i.e., the proportion is stable
         between 47.4% and 48.0% at the national level).
        Cross sectional CAPMAS data in 2012/13 by governorates also showed that all the governorates have more
         boys than girls in public KGs. In private KGs, most of the governorates have more boys than girls.
        No evidence was provided for disabled children.
        A 2013 evaluation study showed a 13% increase in the overall KG enrollment rate from 13% to 25.9% (2012
         statistics).
        It was not clear in ICR whether 19 governorates and 165 districts were actually covered at project closure.
         ICR indicator 3 (p.vii) describes coverage of 18 governorates, but elsewhere in the ICR (p.18, item 66 (i)) it is
         implied that key access indicators exceeded the target.

    There was increased access to KG classrooms in general, and the project specifically targeted poor
    governorates, but the evidence is slim for girls and disabled children.

    Equip KG classes with learning materials (Revised Objective): Substantial

    1,762 KG classrooms received learning materials produced by the Bank-funded component, which did not fully
    meet the target of 2,000 classrooms. Assembly of the packet of learning materials required a collection of small
    goods supplied by different vendors, and it took more time than anticipated to collect these materials and
    distribute the packets to KG classrooms. Nevertheless, the target was 88% achieved.


5. Efficiency:

    The estimated benefit-cost ratio in the PAD (p 65) was at least 2.3. Prior to appraisal, an early childhood
   education (ECE) economic analysis was conducted by an external consulting firm in 2001 supported by a
   Japanese trust fund, which became the basis of the economic analysis in the PAD. The economic analysis
   anticipated that the project would improve the primary and preparatory school enrollment rate, and that it would
   lead to improved productivity in the labor market. The PAD argued that these benefits were conservative because
   other individual and social gains (e.g., improved health) were not taken into account as benefits. The PAD also
   discussed an expected reduction in drop-out rate and projected that the targeted areas in poor governorates
   would experience a benefit-cost ratio greater than 2.3. A Net Present Value analysis was also conducted at the
   design stage, and it suggested that the benefit of investing in KG expansion would exceed the costs to increase
   enrollment rates and decrease repetition rates for schooling. The rate of return was, however, not calculated in
   the PAD.

   The economic analysis examined an alternative option for greater efficiency. The costs became prohibitively high
   to achieve the project objectives just through the construction of new KGs. Therefore, renovation of NGO-run
   KGs was included and also implemented under the project. However, the arrangements for obtaining financing
   from local communities were not clear, and therefore another opportunity for efficiency gains was missed. In
   addition, the efficiency of ECE investment compared with other early childhood development interventions (e.g.,
   nutrition and/or stimulation for the first 1,000 days, conditional cash transfers) to achieve the same objectives was
   not examined at design.

   The ICR did not re-calculate or analyze the benefit-cost ratio or rate of return at project closure. According to the
   discussion with the last TTL, this is because ECE intervention includes externalities that are hard to quantify as
   benefits. However, the actual benefit-cost ratio would be smaller if the same assumptions in the PAD were used
   for analysis. Due to price escalation of construction materials, such as steel and cement, the cost of the first
   component (i.e., improved access) required an additional US$ 40 million (i.e., 153% of original estimate). In fact,
   the fixed amount of reimbursement for each new KG classroom built by the General Authority for Education
   Buildings (GAEB) was increased by 150% (i.e., from LE 100,000 to LE 150,000). In addition, the project required
   an additional US$ 40 million (i.e., 240% of the original estimate) for the improved quality component to train more
   teachers. As a result, total project costs exceeded the original estimate by US$ 80 million (i.e., 174% of the
   original estimate) to achieve the project development objectives. The ECE economic analysis also assumed that
   the school enrollment rate would improve by 2%, but no evidence was provided to show that this key assumption
   was achieved.

   Extension of the project period by 3.5 years was another sign of inefficiency. Initial unavailability of the CIDA
   funding and insufficient coordination between MoE and MISA delayed the construction and renovation activities.
   Frequent leadership changes in the MoE project team also had an influence on increasing processing time for
   approvals on procurement and disbursement. These delays also provided spaces for price escalation.

   Efficiency is therefore rated as Modest.

a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                               Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

   Appraisal                       No
   ICR estimate                    No
                                      * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

   Project under the original objectives : Moderately Satisfactory

   The relevance of the original objectives and the relevance of design to the original objectives are both rated
   Substantial. Achievement of the original objectives (i.e., improved school readiness through quality early
   childhood education, particularly for the disadvantaged) is rated Substantial. Efficiency is rated Modest. These
   ratings suggest moderate shortcomings in the operation’s preparation and implementation, resulting in an
   Outcome rating of Moderately Satisfactory (corresponding to a rating of 4 on the 6-point scale).

   Project under the revised objectives : Moderately Satisfactory

   The relevance of the revised objectives and the relevance of design to the revised objectives are both rated
   Substantial. Achievement of the revised objectives (i.e., improved access, particularly for the disadvantaged, and
   equipping KGs with learning materials) is rated Substantial for both objectives. Efficiency is rated Modest. These
   ratings suggest moderate shortcomings in the operation’s preparation and implementation, resulting in an
   Outcome rating of Moderately Satisfactory (corresponding to a rating of 4 on the 6-point scale).

   According to OPCS/IEG guidelines for restructured projects, the final outcome rating is the weighted average of
   the disbursement rate before and after project restructuring. 37.2% of Bank funds had been disbursed at the time
   of the Level-1 restructuring. As a result, a final outcome rating is obtained as follows:

   Outcome, original objectives = Moderately Satisfactory (4) x 0.372 = 1.488
   Outcome, revised objectives = Moderately Satisfactory (4) x 0.628 = 2.512

   Total: 4 or Moderately Satisfactory

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   The current government's ownership of the project's objectives is strong. The financial commitment remains
   sound, based on MoE’s continued focus on ECE as stated in its Strategic Plan for Pre-University Education for
   2014-2030. The 2014 Constitution could also underpin the government’s focus on improved access to KG. The
   new KG curriculum has been prepared, and KG will continue to use packets of learning materials. The MoE has
   provided a large number of KG teacher trainings. In addition to these supply-side improvements, the demand for
   KGs is still high.

   Despite these strong commitments, political risk remains significant in Egypt. Political and social instability was a
   major concern during the Arab Spring movement. Even though the political turmoil has subsided gradually, risk is
   still significant. This risk could produce government leadership changes, which could bring financial risk. The risk
   associated with inter-governmental coordination between MoE and MOSS is also significant.


  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The Bank prepared the project based on a series of analytical works because of GoE’s weak analytical base
   for early childhood education. For instance, cost-benefit analyses and Strategic Options for Early Childhood
   Education were prepared, which became the basis to institute the project. The Bank also facilitated
   involvement of the CIDA and the WFP to collectively strengthen ECE in Egypt. The project's implementation
   mechanism was designed to utilize existing government functions.

   Despite these strengths, there were several shortcomings at entry. The Bank team incorrectly assigned an
   environmental category classification of “C” even though the project design included construction of new KG
   classrooms (see Section 11a below). The construction roll-out plan was not flexible. The initial roll-out plan
   expected six new governorates to start classroom construction every two years. However, this design did not
   fully take into account the heterogeneous project readiness in different locations and administrative KG units
   across governorates. In addition, the definition of some output indicators and their baseline data collection
   were left for the implementation stage. The Bank also failed to anticipate frequent changes of government
   leadership. While the Bank identified a risk of seniority-based appointments, the ICR (p 8) countered that
   there was no such risk.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   During implementation, the Bank took action to correct the shortcomings in design. For instance, the Bank
   corrected the misclassification of the environmental category through restructuring. The construction roll-out
   plan was also revised to allow flexibility. The Bank team had regular semi-annual supervision meetings to
   facilitate overall project success, including the components related to the CIDA and the WFP. During the
   unforeseen “Arab Spring” movement, the Bank team made efforts to complete the project, including financial
   management and procurement support.

   Taking into account that the three components were closely related to one another, there was a certain logic
   underlying the Bank's decision to wait for CIDA’s funding for capacity development. In this vacuum of two
   years, however, the Bank could have prepared other parts of the project, such as baseline data collection and
   reviewing of the roll-out plans, to accelerate the subsequent project implementation. The TTL at the time of
   restructuring had a dual role of overall project supervision and procurement review, which could be perceived
   as a potential conflict of interest. The TTL was also overloaded. The correction of the environmental category
   misclassification took more than one year after the error was identified.



  Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   The government's commitment to achieve the project development objectives was sound, but
   inter-governmental coordination had some weaknesses. The government's financial commitment became
   stronger over time. While the project experienced challenges in the initial stage, such as the unavailability of
   project management costs, the actual final Borrower’s financial contribution amounted to 2.86 times more
   than originally envisaged. The government also outlined an education sector policy that included the
   objectives of the project. However, inter-governmental coordination, particularly between MoE and
   MISA/MOSS, experienced challenges to identify, monitor, and upgrade NGO-run KG classrooms.


  Government Performance Rating                               Moderately Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   The project implementation unit (PIU) within MoE had experienced staff to handle the project. While the audit
   report at an initial stage was not submitted to the Bank in a timely manner as requested (see Section 11b),
   the financial management team provided timely reports after disbursement started. The procurement staff
   also made efforts to handle documentation during a politically unstable situation at a later stage of
   implementation. The GAEB had the necessary experience and expertise to construct KG classrooms. The
   project benefited from good relationships between MoE and GAEB through frequent communications.

   Despite the strong efforts of working staff, frequent changes of MoE senior management led to
   implementation delays. In fact, the MoE appointed nine different project directors for this project. As a result,
   there were delays in obtaining procurement and disbursement approvals.

   The monitoring and evaluation capacity of the MoE remained weak. The MoE could track the number of
   public classrooms built or renovated under the project, but the project team within MoE failed to monitor the
   progress of NGO-run KGs in a timely manner because MISA/MOSS supervised these KGs (see Section 10b).


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Unsatisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:
a. M&E Design:

   The original PDO indicator did not reflect the original project objectives. The original PDO indicator was “20%
   increased enrollment over baseline in KG1-2 of adequate quality in targeted areas (with particular emphasis on
   those who are disadvantaged by gender, poverty and disability)” (PAD, p 26), and it could not directly measure
   either quality early education or improved school readiness. The PAD (p 5) explained that these higher-order
   outcome indicators were difficult to assess at the initial stage. However, some common indicators were available,
   such as the Early Development Instrument and Wecshler Scales, to measure school readiness in terms of
   physical, cognitive, language, and socio-emotional abilities. In addition, distinction of outputs and outcomes was
   not clear in the results framework (PAD, pp 27-28). For example, the first component (i.e., increased access) had
   only outcome indicators, but the second component (i.e., improved quality) had only output indicators.

   The PAD did not discuss the details of the data collection methodology, but the data management approach was
   embedded in the existing M&E system. The KG department within the MoE was expected to take a leading role
   to integrate ECE data into the existing Education Management and Information System (EMIS) to monitor and
   evaluate the project's progress. However, baseline data for the output indicators was not available, and a data
   collection strategy was not discussed in the PAD except that all indicators in the results framework would be
   disaggregated by gender. A baseline data survey strategy, such as sampling, comparators, and timeline, was not
   included in the PAD.

b. M&E Implementation:

   No evidence was provided in ICR that baseline data for project output indicators was collected. The 2010
   restructuring revised the PDO and output indicators, but this revision had both positive and negative
   consequences for M&E. On one hand, this revision established stronger links with Bank-funded activities, and
   these activities were monitored for the rest of the project period. On the other hand, while the Bank team joined
   project meetings beyond the scope of the Bank-funded components, this revision missed the opportunity to
   officially monitor the progress of other related project components. The project failed to collect and analyze data
   on disadvantaged children. In addition, the project intended to build on M&E capacity of the MoE at design, but
   the ICR (p 11) stated that strengthening of M&E capacity did not take the form of specific project activities during
   implementation.

   The revised PDO indicator, the number of children enrolled in public KG, was overestimated by the PIU. The
   figure was estimated using the product of the number of classrooms built or renovated and the average number
   of children per classroom. This calculation provided an overestimation because the public classrooms completed
   in the middle of the fiscal year did not have any KG students until the next school year. (Relying on the EMIS
   instead was also not satisfactory as the EMIS did not include the upgraded classrooms managed by the
   MISA/MOSS.) In the end, reliable data was obtained through a concerted data collection effort by the PIU
   directly with the help of local MOE offices at the final stage of project supervision.


c. M&E Utilization:

   While the original indicators were not used to monitor the project, the revised indicators, though they were not
   precise nor complete, were used to monitor performance.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   At the design stage, the environmental category was misclassified as “C”, but because of the new classroom
   construction activities, the environmental category was restructured into “B” in 2010. The Environmental
   Assessment safeguard (OP/BP 4.01) was triggered through restructuring.

   Before the restructuring, an Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP) and Resettlement Policy
   Framework (RPF) were prepared by the GAEB. The selection criteria for new classroom constructions included
   "away from direct access to railroads, highways, high voltage power lines, rivers, uncovered waste water
    systems, garbage collection areas and cemeteries" (Project Paper in 2010, p 12). The mitigation measures
    against dust, noise and construction workers' safety were included in the ESMP. The ESMP and RPF did not
    anticipate any resettlement issues, but all bidding and construction works for new classroom constructions were
    suspended until they were cleared by the Bank. The renovation of existing classrooms was continued in
    accordance with the Bank safeguard policy. At project close, according to the ICR and discussions with the
    project team, the project complied with the Bank safeguard policy.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

    Financial Management : According to the ICR (p 25), timely reporting with accurate information was provided by
    the financial management team, and annual audit reports were submitted in a timely manner and were
    unqualified. However, the ICR should have provided more information on the initial challenges. For example, a
    2008 Aide Memoire (p 16) acknowledged that initial audit reports were not submitted by the GoE as requested
    because there was no disbursement from the Bank.

    Procurement: Procurement was supported by experienced staff, and procurement processes for the classroom
    construction were led by the GAEB. The ICR should have provided information on the procurement post review in
    2014, which found no serious deviation from the Bank's procurement guidelines and procedures, though there
    were some delays in processing procurement documentation.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

    None reported.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                Reason for
                                                                                    Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Significant       Political risk and inter-governmental
                     Outcome:                                                 coordination risk remain significant.

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    IEG has identified four lessons learned from this project. The first two lessons are drawn from ICR, with some
    adaptation of language. The third lesson integrates lessons from the ICR with those identified by IEG. The
    fourth lesson is drawn by IEG.

    Frequent changes in key leaders in government can critically delay project implementation . During this
    project's duration of 9.5 years, the project's leadership in the government changed nine times. These changes
    led to implementation delays because of discontinuities in knowledge and additional time for approval of
    procurement and disbursement documents. This risk and its mitigation measures can be clarified in the early
    stage of a project cycle.
    Smooth implementation of project roll -out plans requires flexibility , taking project readiness into account . In
    this project, the roll-out plans were not flexible. The project's design assumed a focus on six governorates
    every two years, missing opportunities for early intervention where the project sites were safe, ready, and
    consistent with the project's objectives. This lesson could have been reflected into project design if the project
    team had thoroughly reviewed similar education project experiences in the country.

    Assessment of a project 's heterogeneous impact (e.g., gender, poor, and disabled) requires a detailed data
    collection strategy at the design stage . The project did not collect timely and precise data on PDO indicators.
    A division of labor between MoE and separate national statistical bureaus could be one solution, but evaluating
    impacts on disadvantaged children, such as girls, the poor, and the disabled, could require additional MoE
    expenditure of effort, time, and expense, with a clear sampling methodology. This lesson could be particularly
    relevant if there are multiple parallel financing agencies, such as the CIDA and the WFP in this case, and the
    consequent need to assess their progress toward the shared project objectives.

    Improved school readiness (i.e., cognitive, language and socio-emotional abilities ) requires more than
    classroom construction . The ICR (p 27) states that increased enrollment is an appropriate measure of
    outcome because the Bank-funded intervention focused on KG classroom constructions. However, this project
    involved various ministries of the government and other donors (i.e., CIDA and WFP), and it addressed both
    demand and supply constraints. In fact, KG classroom construction, improved materials and teacher training
    based on a new curriculum, capacity development of the MoE, and KG fee reductions were conducted. While
    the 2013 evaluation study showed just correlation, this holistic approach could improve school readiness of
    children. A common metric, such as the Early Development Instrument, is available for evaluation of the impact
    of these multifaceted interventions.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR provides basic project information to assess its performance. The ICR includes candid views, such as
    admitting the shortcomings of environmental and social category at design. The ICR also collects information
    from relevant sources, such as previous Bank analytical works.

    However, ICR still lacks clarity and candor in some areas. no evidence is included on the project's impact
    disaggregated by gender, even though this information is available. In addition, the ICR does not sufficiently
    discuss relevance of objectives at the time of the ICR, particularly in view of the Bank strategy, as recommended
    in OPCS ICR guidelines. The economic and financial analysis at the time of the ICR is also weak.

    There are other minor errors and incomplete descriptions collectively made it challenging for readers to
    understand or accurately evaluate the project's performance. The environmental category of the data sheet is
    incorrectly specified as “C”. Important dates, such as the approval date of the Level-1 restructuring, are
    occasionally wrong (p 7). Contrary to what is presented in the ICR, all of the audit reports, particularly at the initial
    stage, were not submitted on time. Information about compliance with the Bank's procurement policies and
    procedures is not included in the ICR. The statement of the total actual project costs has minor inconsistencies in
    Annex 1 between the project's cost by component and financing (p 28).

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
