Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4244-YAR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIOIZ
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 9.0 MILLION
TO THE
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A
TIHAMA V REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 3, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be -disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 1/
Currency Unit = Yemeni rial (YRl)
Calendar year 1985                    December 1985
$1  =  YRls 6.41                      $1  =  YRls 6.48
YR1 1 =  $0.16                         YR1 1 =  $0.15
YAR FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km) = 0.62 miles
ABBREVIATIONS
ARA         Agricultural Research Authority
CACB        Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank
CPO         Central Planning Organization
FAO/CP      Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank Cooperative
Program
KFAED       Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
MAF         Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
O&M         Operation and Maintenance
SURDP       Southern Uplands Rural Development Project
TDA         Tihama Development Authority
UNDP        United Nations Development Programme
The exchange rate used in the project appraisal is the rate prevailing
at the time of appraisal, namely US$1 = YRIs 6.5.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Mi)
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TIHAMA V REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Yemen Arab Republic (YAR)
AMount:                Special Drawing Rights 9.0 million (about US$10 million
equivalent).
Terms:                 Standard
Prolect Description:  The key objectives of the project are to improve
agricultural productivity and farm incomes in the
Tibama region by propagating suitable technical
packages and improving irrigation water management, and
to strengthen the development institutions to ensure
sustainability of benefits envisaged under various
agricultural projects in the area. The project would
consist of: the establishment of a regional extension
network, veterinary and operations and maintenance
services for the Tibama region; irrigation development
in Wadi Sibam, including the construction of
demonstration farms to train farmers in improved
irrigation and agricultural practices; construction of
about 62 km of feeder roads; technical assistance and
training.
Benefits and Risks:   The project would benefit 44,000 farm families, or
about 220,000 people, through the development of
agriculture in the Tibama region. The main risks
include the possibility of inadequate local funding,
delays in appointing expatriate staff and a shortage of
qualified counterpart staff. To minimize these risks,
the Government has provided assurances that appropriate
and timely actions will be taken, including the
provision of annual budgetary allocations to cover
operating cOsts of the project.  Furthermore the
project has been accorded priority in the forthcoming
Five-Year Plan (1987-91).
Thi dwusent has a rnicteddistibution and nmy- be uud by rcpients only in the performance
of thr alciadutdie Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank auberiation.



- ii-
Project Costs 1/
Local      ForeiRn       Total
$ million
TDA Headquarters Support
(Technical Assistance)             0.2          1.9         2.1
Establishment of Regional Servies
Extension Including Veterinary    1.4           5.4         6.8
Operation and Maintenance          0.2          1.5         1.7
Irrigation Development                3.5          7.0        10.5
Feeder Roads                          1.2          1.8          3.0
Operating Costs                       6.2          3.1          9.3
BASE COST                            12.7         20.6         33.3
Contingencies
Physical                              1.1          2.2          3.3
Expected price increase               4.4          6.0         10.4
Subtotal                         5.5          8.2        13.7
TOTAL PROJECT COST                       18.2         28.8         47.0
Financing Plan:
IDA                                   2.9          7.1         10.0
Kuvwait Fund for Arab Economic
Economic Development                 4.0         11.0         15.0
Netherlands                           1.6          7.8          9.4
Government                            9.7          2.9         12.6
Total                             18.2         28.8        47.0
Estimated IDA Disbursement:
IDA FY           1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
$ million                      -
Annual          0.2      0.5     1.2      3.0     3.5      1.1     0.5
Cumulative      0.2      0.7     1.9     4.9      8.4     9.5    10.0
Estimated Completion Date: December 31, 1992
Rate of Return: 21 percent
Appraisal Report: Report number 5852-YAR, dated February 25, 1986.
1/ Cost estimates exclude taxes and duties from which the project is exempt.
Totals may not add up due to rounding.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMUENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC FOR
A TIRANA V REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) for Special Drawing
Rights (SDRs) 9.0 million (approximately US$10.0 million equivalent), on
standard IDA terms, to help finance a Tihma V Regional Agricultural
Development project. The Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development (KFAED)
and the Kingdom of the Netherlands are expected to participate in the
project's financing in the amounts of $15.0 million and $9.4 million
equivalent respectively.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      A report on domestic resource mobilization (No. 3554-YAR) dated
January 6, 1982 has been distributed to the Executive Directors. A Country
Economic Memorandum covering the period 1982-84 has been discussed with the
Government and will be distributed to the Executive Directors shortly. Its
findings are reflected in the following paragraphs. Country data are
attached in Annex I.
Introduction
3.      Over the last decade YAR has experienced far-reaching changes in its
socioeconomic structure and the material welfare of its citizens. The
republican government which came to power following the 1962 Revolution
succeeded in establishing within a surprisingly short period of time the
foundations of a modern state. Political integration and the build-up of
public institutions, while maintaining a liberal market orientation, have
provided the basis for rapid development of the public and private sectors.
Under the Three-Year Development Program (1973/74-75/76) and the First
Five-Year Plan (1976/77-80/81), the foundations of the country's physical and
social infrastructure were laid and expanded, and first attempts were made at
lifting agriculture, the mainstay of the economy, out of its medieval
setting; industrialization was also started, albeit on a small scale.
4.       Rapid domestic economic growth has been accompanied and enhanced by
the large inflow of remittances and transfers by Yemenis abroad, particularly



- 2 -
workers in Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States. These are estimated to have
increased from around $65 million in 1971/72 to a level that has fluctuated
around $1.2 billion per year between 1977 and 1983. Largely as a result of
these cash inflows, YAR's real per capita GNP has increased significantly
over the last ten years, reaching an estimated $510 in 1984 (World Bank Atlas
methodology). Although there are no reliable data on income distribution,
there are reasons to believe that the benefits from recent growth have been
widely distributed. Strong family and tribal ties ensure that many people
benefit from the increase in incomes.
Recent Developments
5.       In the late seventies, a noticeable deceleration in economic growth
set in mainly because of the leveling off in the inflow of workers'
remittances. The early eighties witnessed a marked deterioration in the
macrofinancial situation, as public investment and associated recurrent
expenditures exceeded the Government's limited resources, and growing imports
resulted in a widening balance of payments deficit. This deterioration wa
aggravated by the large reduction in official assistance from neighboring oil
exporting countries, caused by the decline in oil prices and the war in the
Gulf. Yet, inflation continued to be low in 1982 and 1983, mainly because
imports were cheapened by the appreciation of the Yemeni rial against most
currencies (except the US dollar to which it is pegged). But low inflation
was obtained at the cost of a sharp reduction in foreign reserves.
6.       In 1983 and 1984, the YAR economy slowed down considerably, as a
result of the Government's efforts to cool down the economy and adverse
exogenous factors, namely, the decline in external resources, the severe
earthquake that hit the Dhamar area in December 1982, and the drought that
prevailed over most of the country in 1983 and 1984, cutting the gross output
of cereals by more than half in 1983. However, increased grain imports kept
food availability at a normal level.
7.      In view of the shortage of investible resources, in 1983 the
Government started to scale down its investment targets by tightening
investment priorities, with assistance from IDA. This effort was
complemented by an endeavor to restrain recurrent expenditure growth and to
increase tax revenue. These measures resulted in a significant reduction in
the budget deficit in 1983 and 1984. Yet inflation was significantly higher
in 1984, rising to about 13 percent mainly because of the 30 percent
cumulative devaluation of the Yemeni rial. These devaluations, and the
import restriction measures taken by the Government, resulted in a large
decline in imports and a marked improvement in the balance of payments in
1984. However, the budget deficit still represented about 26 percent of GDP
in 1984 and official grants, which continued to decrease, are unlikely to
return to their previous high levels. The Government rightly intends to
continue its stabilization program and its efforts to increase domestic
resource mobilization, while maintaining the flexible exchange rate policy
adopted recently. This should help to continue to improve the external
finances and restore the competitiveness of local production, mainly in
agriculture.



- 3 -
8.      Oil was discovered in the eastern part of the country in 1984, and
it seems that exploitable reserves are large enough to justify exports of
crude oil starting possibly in 1989. In the meanwhile, the YAR Government
will face the challenge of continuing its stabilization program while
preparing for the oil era. The oil discovery could improve YAR's development
prospects, significantly, depending on the level of oil production and
revenue.
Malor Long Term Issues
9.       Increasing scarcity of water has emerged as a serious issue in YAR,
as a result of the rapid increase in household water consumption and the
development of irrigated agriculture. Recently, the drought has worsened the
situation through drastically lower recharges. The situation is particularly
serious around Sanaa where uncontrolled extraction of groundwater by farmers
has caused a large decline in the water table. A number of initiatives are,
therefore, called for to address these problems: (i) establishing a
comprehensive water resources data base; (ii) improving coordination among
the various agencies operating in the water sector; (iii) introducing
legislation to manage water use; and (iv) strengthening cost recovery
policies. At the request of the Government, IDA is expected to assist the
Government in the area of water resources management, and to provide the
required technical assistance.
10.     Despite the impressive achievements in the development of social
infrastructure, much remains to be done. The adult literacy and school
enrollment rates are still very low; the shortage of skilled and semi-skilled
manpower is an overriding constraint to development and limits the capacity
of the public administration to manage and implement a growing and
increasingly complex development program.  Health indicators depict serious
problems that call for an adequate policy framework and substantial efforts
and resources to improve the situation.
11.     YAR's population growth rate is very high, at about 3 percent per
annum, which could affect growth of per capita income and productivity.
Also, rapid population growth would reduce agricultural land per capita to
levels characteristic of overpopulated countries, as agricultural development
is severely constrained by the scarcity of agricultural land and water.
Furthermore, rapid population growth combined with an improvement in the
small (even by developirg countries' standards) coverage of YAR population in
terms of social services (e.g., health, education) would imply a heavy burden
on the already stretched Government budget. These adverse consequences of
rapid population growth require that, despite possible cultural constraints,
the Government develop an appropriate policy as soon as possible.
Capital Flows and External Debt
12.      Since the 1962 Revolution, YAR has received large amounts of foreign
assistance. Given the country's low per capita income and its UN classifi-
cation as a "least-developed country," most of the aid has been provided in



- 4 -
the form of grants and concessionary loans. Cumulative aid disbursements,
including grants, came to around $3.5 billion by the end of 1984. The
principal donors have been Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates,
Iraq, USA and the Federal Republic of Germany as well as IDA and the Arab
development funds.
13.     About one-half of the total assistance given so far was provided as
grants, mostly for food aid, technical assistance and, more recently, for
budget support, primarily from Saudi Arabia. Food aid has been provided
through the World Food Program and by a number of bilateral donors. A
significant part of official grants has been made available in the form of
technical assistance. Given the extreme shortage of skilled manpower in YAR,
this type of aid has high priority and will be needed by the country for many
years to come.
14.     Besides the grants, YAR received sizeable amounts of official loans,
chiefly for the financing of specific projects, with the main emphasis on
roads, agriculture, and utilities. YAR's external public debt outstanding on
December 31, 1984 was estimated at $2,398 million, of which $1,688 million
(about 44 percent of GDP) was disbursed. IDA credits accounted for $193
million or about 11 percent of the total disbursed and outstanding debt
reported. The terms of official loan assistance have been very favorable.
Western European countries have generally charged between 3/4 percent and
2-1/2 percent, while interest on USSR loans has varied from 2 to 4 percent.
Interest rates charged by Arab countries have varied from 0 to 4 percent.
Loan maturities range from 3 to 50 years, with an average of 20 years.
15.     Recently, comnitments dedreased sharply, by about 66 percent in 1983
and 44 percent in 1984, a decline that is related to the depressed oil market
and the Iran-Iraq war. Debt service amounted to $42.5 million in 1983 and
$67 million in 1984, hardly more than 5 percent of gross foreign exchange
earnings (including workers' remittances and private transfers). However,
the debt service is projected to increase substantially over 1986-92, and its
budgetary burden could become difficult to bear, depending on the level of
oil production and export revenues. These developments indicate that YAR
would have to rely increasingly on domestic resource mobilization.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS I/
16.     This credit would be the forty-third to YAR, bringing total IDA
commitments to $419.3 million net of cancellations. The main goals of IDA's
assistance in YAR have been threefold: (a) to develop the basic
institutions, skills and physical infrastructure which are prerequisites for
1/ Substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report (P-4191-YAR),
dated November 25, 1985, for the Technical Training project, *mplroved by
the Executive Directors on December 19, 1985.



- 5 -
development; (b) to develop production and income in the dominant productive
sectOr, agriculture; end (c) to support the Government in its programs to
meet basic needs in rural and urban areas. To achieve these objectives, IDA
has extended thirteen credits ($137.9 million) for agriculture, fisheries and
rural development; fifteen credits ($158.6 million) for infrastructure; seven
credits ($73.7 million) for education and training; three credits for
industry ($22.0 million); one credit for petroleum and geothermal promotion
and exploration ($2 million); a $10.5 million credit to strengthen and expand
the capability of the Ministry of Health to plan, staff and manage the
country's health care system and a $4.7 million credit to provide technical
assistance to strengthen the Central Planning Organization. The
International Finance Corporation (IFC) has made five investments in YAR:
(i) $2.4 million in FY78 to help finance a dairy and juice project;
(ii) $3.9 million in FY84, plus an additional equity contribution of
$0.4 million in FY85, for a dry cell battery project; (iii) $3.9 million
in Fm85 for a vegetable cooking oil and ghee project; (iv) $9 million in Fr86
to support the construction of an oil refinery in Marib; and (v) $2.4 million
in Fm86 to help finance a citrus orchard project. Further npportunities for
IFC involvement are being explored. Annex II contains a summary statement of
IDA credits and IFC investments as of September 30, 1985. The attached map
(number IBRD 19127) indicates the location of the IDA-financed projects in
YA.
17.     While IDA has recently been assisting the YAR Government in its
efforts to overcome the serious short-term budgetary and macrofinancial
problems (para. 7), the thrust of the IDA assistance strategy remains focused
on long-term development and fundamental structural, institutional and policy
issues. These include agricultural productivity; manpower development and
institutional support; water resources management; exploration for energy
sources and minerals; identification of viable industrial opportunities; and
maintaining, upgrading and expanding the physical infrastructure within the
constraint of available resources. Sector work complements both the economic
work and lending operations and serves to bridge the recommended short- and
long-term measures.
18.     YA's disbursement performance improved considerably in FY85,
although it was affected by a number of implementation problems, and it
compares favorably to the EMENA region's average. Among the recurrent
problems that are common to most countries at YAR's stage of development
are: delays in the recruitment of consultants, in the award of contracts and
in the resolution of contractual issues with contractors, and in finalizing
cofinAncing arrangements. In addition, other serious project-specific
problems have also been affecting the implementation of two projects:
Fisheries Development (Cr. 1025-YAR) and Ibb and Dhamar Water Supply
(Cr. 950-YAE); these problems have been discussed with the Government and
corrective action 6s being taken to resolve them. The Government and IDA are
holding country implementation reviews twice a year to monitor the recurrent
implementation problems more closely and to address them promptly.



19.     Future World Bank operations are expected to consolidate past
achievements in the main infrastructure subsectors, spread the benefits of
agricultural and rural development projects to new outlying areas, accelerate
assistance to the Government in the field of energy, and continue to meet the
large requirements of education and training. Particular attention will be
given to YAR's ability to implement projects by ensuring the availability of
key staff and technical assistance needs. A power distribution project, a
highways project and a technical assistance project for the petroleum sector
have been appraised. Another agricultural project, a water supply project
and a highways project are under preparation and future operations are
expected in the areas of agriculture, energy (including oil and gas
development), education, transport and health.
20.      YAR contributed an increasing portion of local currency financing
to IDA-assisted projects in the years when the budgetary situation was
favorable. However, in view of the tightness of the budget in recent years
and the fact that YAR remains among the least-developed countries, it still
requires special assistance through financing of a large part of project
costs, including local expenditures when appropriate. As in the past, the
costs of future projects are expected to be substantially higher than the
amounts that IDA can provide, and IDA will continue to cooperate closely with
other donors to maximize its catalytic role in stimulating cofinancing.
IDA-supported projects have so far led to about $370 million equivalent of
cofinancing from other aid donors.
PART Iri - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agriculture in the Economy
21.     With about 7 million (90 percent) of YAR's resident population
living in rural areas, agriculture remains the most important sector of the
economy, employing about 70 percent of the resident labor force and
accounting for about 35-40 percent of GDP. The largely subsistence-oriented
agricultural production varies considerably from year to year mainly because
of fluctuations in rainfall. Over the last decade, agricultural growth has
averaged only 1 percent, considerably less than the estimated population
growth rate of 3 percent. Productivity remains low because oa: inadequate in-
frastructure, insufficient support services and traditional, inefficient
techniques.
22.      In recent years, largely in response to free market forces, and
because remittances from Yemeni workers employed in neighboring oil-exporting
countries raised domestic disposable incomes, production of low-value tradi-
tional grain crops have declined, while production of higher value crops
(fruits, legumes and vegetables) has increased. The cultivation of qat (a
mild stimulant plant), which is very remunerative, has also increased, mainly
at the expense of coffee which used to be YAR's principal agricultural export
crop. Although the yield for all crops, including cereals, has increased
substantiallj over the last 10-15 years because of better techniques and
varieties, in 1983 cereal production fell to less than half the 1982 level
because of the continued drought. In spite of increasing yields, domestic



cereal production accounts for only 60 to 70 percent of YAR's total consump-
tion requirements. The shortfall is met through imports, which in 1982
represented about 30 percent of of the value of total merchandise imports.
Growth Potential and Maior Constraints
23.     Although limited endowment in water resources constrains the scope
for agricultural development, YAR has significant potential for agricultural
growth which may be reali.ed by improving technology in rainfed areas (which
account for over 80 percent of the cultivable area) and through improvements
in irrigated areas (accounting for the remaining 20 percent). The main con-
straints to the achievement of this potential include: (a) a shortage of
public funds and skilled manpower; (b) weak agricultural institutions and
marketing; (c) inadequate knowledge of the water resources potential and poor
water management; and (d) the lack of an effective operation and maintenance
(0&M) institution to ensure sustainability and full achievement of benefits
envisaged under various agricultural development projects. Despite these
constraints, there has already been some success in achieving higher yields
and switching to higher value crops due to the initiative and responsiveness
of Yemeni farmers, and, to some extent, in response to improved support
services in the areas of applied research, training, extension and credit,
often under the aegis of IDA-supported projects. Much more needs to be
done. To correct institutional weaknesses, the Government looks to external
assistance, relying heavily on IDA and attaching considerable significance to
the policy and technical advice received. The potential of the country's
surface and groundwater resources has not yet been fully assessed but a
study, with assistance from the Netherlands and partly supported by IDA under
Credit 978-YAR, is being carried out to do this for the entire Tihama
region. Similar studies are underway or are proposed for other regions of
the country and the Government has requested IDA's assistance in the broader
area of water resources management at the national level. The proposed
project would, by r gionalizing the extension service in the Tihama Region,
begin the integration of project-based extension services into a national
system and also includes the establishment of an O&M service in the Tihama
region, as a forerunner to extending this vital service to other regions of
the country.
Government Objectives and Development Strategy
24.      The Government's main objectives in the agricultural sector, as
articulated in the Second Five-Year Plan (1982-1986), include: (a) reducing
tbe dependence on food imports, and thereby reducing the trade deficit;
(b) raising the incomes of farmers; and (c) providing additional raw
materials for agro-industries. Public investments have focused on irrigated
agriculture in the coastal Tihama plains and in the northeastern part of the
country; on rainfed agricultural development in the Southern Uplands and
Central Highlands; and on institution building, including training. Agricul-
tural production is undertaken primarily by the private sector, with the
Government engaging in minimal regulatory intervention and playing a comple-
mentary supporting role. However, in an attempt to further encourage
domestic production of fruits and vegetables and as part of its effort to



control the deteriorating balance of payments position, the Government has
recently banned the importation of citrus fruits and apples and imposed a
100 percent import tax on vegetables. It is hoped that these measures will
be transitory and do not represent a departure from the Government's
long-standing commitment to an open economy.
IDA's Strategy and Operations in the Agriculture Sector
25.      IDA's strategy in the agricultural sector aims at assisting YAR to
attain its development objectives (para. 23), and specifically to help raise
the standard of living of the rural population through development projects
in areas of known potential. An IDA Agricultural Strategy Paper, which has
been discussed with the Government and will be distributed to the Executive
Directors shortly, is designed to help the Government further develop its
strategy for agricultural development. Its main recommendations are to:
(a) develop low-cost irrigation improvement projects, provided the cost
recovery arrangements can make them self-financing; (b) expand fruit and
vegetable production; (c) discourage the uneconomical production of cereals
in well-irrigated areas; (d) integrate project-based extension services into
regional extension services with coordidation by an adequately strengthened
Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAF); (e) develop a local
institutional capability, including that of MAF, through training and
technical assistance; If) improve the agricultural marketing infrastructure
to take account of ongoing changes in trade patterns; (g) prepare a water
master plan to ensure full development of the country's limited water
resources; and (h) establish operation and maintenance services for completed
projects with coordination at the MAF level. A new dimension of IDA's
strategy, in line with the recommendations of the Strategy Paper, is to move
in the direction of regional and national programs (especially in the areas
of extension, research, credit, operation and maintenance and water resources
management) and to depart from the earlier emphasis on area-specific projects.
Experience with Past Lendin'
26.      IDA has assisted or is assisting in financing 13 agricultural
projects in YAR, of which 6 projects totaling $56.9 million in IDA credits,
have been completed or are nearing completion. These 6 projects include 4
rural development projects, 3 of which were in the Tihama region and 1 of
which (SURDP I - Credit 545-YAR) was the first integrated rural development
project in YAR. Also completed are one project each for Grain Storage and
Livestock Development (Credits 636-YAR and 662-YAR respectively).
IDA-financed agricultural projects have attracted a number of cofinancing
agencies, mobilizing about $113.8 million in additional resources. In
addition to its lending operations, IDA is also the executing agency for a
Ui-02-iinanced project for institutional support to MAF.
27.      The economic rates of return of the Tihama I project (Credit
376-YAR) and the SURDP I (Credit 545-YAR) exceeded appraisal estimates. The
Project Performance and Audit Reports for both projects were generally
favorable about their achievements. However, these reports, as well as the
report on the Grain Storage and Processing Project (Credit 636-YAR) and the



Project Completion Report for the Livestock Development Project (Credit
662-YAR), which encountered significant problems, highlighted the following
difficulties in project implementation: (a) slow mobilization of the new
agencies; (b) shortage of technical and administrative staff; (c) escalation
in project costs because of delayed execution; (d) ineffectiveness of
monitoring and evaluation programs; (e) insufficient recognition of the
requirements of the local environment; and (f) inadequate infrastructure for
the timely marketing of agricultural projects.
28.      Ongoing projects include: 2 rural development projects (SURDP II,
Credit 1067-YAR and Tihama Development III, Credit 880-YAR), which build upon
the experiences of SURD? I and previous Tihama projects; and 2 institution-
building projects (Agricultural Credit, Credit 1308-YAR, designed to
strengthen the credit delivery system, and Agricultural Research and Develop-
ment, Credit 1259-YAR, designed to coordinate research at the national level
and make it more effective in meeting extension needs). These projects,
which are at varying stages of implementation, are making satisfactory
progress, generally after experiencing start-up difficulties due to
financing, managerial and staffing problems of varying degrees of severity.
The Fisheries Development project (Credit 1025-YAR) has, however, had serious
implementation difficulties and is behind schedule. The Central Highlands
Agricultural Development project (Credit 1453-YAR) is in the start-up stage.
A project for the agricultural development of Wadi Al-Jawf, located in the
northeastern part of the country, was approved by the Board in April and
signed in September 1985. As in earlier projects, cofinancing continues to
be an important source of funds for most of the ongoing projects.
29.      The lessons learned from completed and ongoing projects have been
taken into account, as far as possible, in designing the subsequent
projects. The proposed Tihama V project is modelled after some of the
successful agricultural projects in the country and is an element of the IDA
strategy of replicating such experience in various parts of the country with
sufficient development potential.
Project Justification and Rationale for IDA Involvement
30.      The proposed project, in line with IDA's assistance strategy in the
sector and with the recommendations of the Agriculture Sector Strategy Paper
(para. 25), will build on and carry forward the Government's program for
progressively developing irrigated agriculture in various wadis of the Tihama
region, cosiined with the provision of agricultural support services. The
interest of other financing agencies in this project is also a direct result
of IDA's involvement. It will be a continuation and intensification of the
Government's drive to increase agricultural production in the region, by
further improving existing technology for increasing agricultural production
through applied research and extension and disseminating it to bring
development to tne entire region. The appreciable success in increasing crop
yields through improved irrigation techniques and extension demonstrated
under earlier projects would also be propagated further by area development
in Wadi Siham (one of the three remaining undeveloped major wadis in the
region).



- 10 -
31.      Furthermore, now that project-based development has been initiated
in three of the region's main wadis, and similar activities are proposed to
be undertaken in Wadi Siham, the time has come to establish regional insti-
tutions for agricultural extension as well as for the operation and mainte-
nance of the infrastructure provided under previous projects. The initial
establishment of these regional services in the Tihama is a major component
of the proposed project and similar development in other regions would also
facilitate the eventual establishment of national agricultural extension and
O&M services, once MAF is institutionally strengthened.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
32.      Preparation of the proposed project was completed in March/April
1985, by the Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Programme in
cooperation with the Government. It was based on feasibility studies for
development of irrigation in the Wadi Siham Basin originally carried out in
1978 and updated in 1981, and financed by the Kuwait Fund and the Abu Dhabi
Fund. The project was appraised by IDA in April/May 1985. Negotiations were
held in Washington from February 13 to 19, 1986, with a delegation headed by
E.E. Dr. Hussein Abdullah Al Amri, Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries, and
which included other members of the Ministry of Agriculture (MAF), the Tihama
Development Authority (TDA), the Central Planning Organization (CPO) and the
YAR Embassy in Washington. A staff appraisal report entitled "Tihama V
Regional Agricultural Development Project" (No. 5852-YAR), dated February 25,
1986, is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. The main
features of the credit and the project are presented in the Credit and
Project Summary and in Annex III. A map of the project area is attached (Map
IBRD 19224).
Proiect Obiectives and Components
33.      The proposed project expands on the experience and lessons learned
from earlier IDA-supported projects in the Tihama region but incorporates in
its design an integrated regional, rather than project-based approach. The
primary objective of the proposed project is to increase agricultural produc-
tion and incomes in the Tihama region thereby reducing the dependence on
imports. To achieve this objective, the project aims to: (a) develop a
regional extension service in the Tihama; (b) establish a regional veterinary
service; (c) develop irrigation infrastructure in Wadi Siham to ensure effi-
cient use of water and land resources; (d) develop rural infrastructure
through the construction of feeder roads; (e) develop a regional operation
and maintenance (O&M) service; and (f) strengthen the Tihama Development
Autbority (TDA) by providing technical assistance and training. It is
designed to strengthen the institutional capacity of TDA and to minimize the
input of expatriate staff. The medium- and short-term on-farm credit needs
generated by the project have been estimated at about $8.6 million and would
be met directly by the Government through the Cooperative and Agricultural
Credit Bank (CACB).
34.      Regional Extension Service.  The project would establish a regional
extension service structure with direct responsibilities for all agricultural
extension activities in the Tihama. This service would also encourage and



- 11 -
support the extension program for rural women in the region (para. 35). It
would comprise the establishment of an extension division at the central
level (in Kodeidah), headed by an extension manager, and three subregional
sections (northern, central and southern), each headed by a section chief.
The extension manager would have overall responsibility for the region's
extension service. The subregional offices would be the centers of extension
activity and each agent would be responsible for providing farm families in
an assigned territory with the full range of crop and livestock improvement
services, through regular farm visits to contact farmers. These visits would
be supplemented by information transfer through mass communication and
audiovisual aids, strengthening the communication efforts and information
propagation efforts initiated under previous Tihama projects (Credits 805-YAR
and 880-YAR) and with UNDP assistance. To provide these services to the
estimated 45,000 farm families in the Tihama region, over 140 trained exten-
sion agents would be required, over 50 more than currently available. The
balance of the required agents would be provided for under the project.
Supervision would be provided by extension supervisors and technical support
and in-service training by subject matter specialists (SMS) operating from
subregional offices. A close relationship between extension services and
research would be established. TDA and the Agricultural Research Authority
(ARA) would institute joint extension and research groups with farmers'
participation at the central and subregional levels. To assist in estab-
lishing the regional extension service, the project would provide for the
construction of an information center, one subregional office, 18 extension
centers, 4 marketing centers and 2 irrigation wells for demonstration farms.
It would also provide for equipment and vehicles. Expatriate assistance in
the operation of the extension service will gradually be phased out, with the
responsibilities being taken over by local staff fully trained under the
project by the fifth year of project implementation. From the fifth year of
project implementation, sufficient funds would be included in TDA's annual
budget to ensure continuity of the operation of the regional extension
service.
35.      Rural Development for Women.  To assist in further developing TDA's
ongoing activities in encouraging the participation of women in rural
development, the project provides for a gradual increase of female extension
agents from 17 to 38 and that of supervisors from 1 to 7 over the project
implementation period. This increase would be undertaken at a pace
appropriate to the availability and acceptability of female extension agents
to undertake such work and of the capacity of the institutions to train such
agents. Because of the shortage of trained female technicians in YAR, the
project would provide 36 staff-months of expatriate experts and 108
staff-months of expatriate associate experts. These female experts would be
recruited from neighboring, more developed, arabic-speaking countries. The
agents would operate from the extension centers and would make regular field
and home visits to leader farmers, workers or housewives. A home economics
and nutrition specialist at the central level, in coordination with the
agricultural experts, would be responsible for the overall planning,
monitoring and evaluation of the program.
36.      Regional Veterinary Service.  To meet the requirements of the entire
region, the veterinary services provided under previous projects, and that



- 12 -
provided with ODA support, needs to be reorganized and expanded. Under the
proposed project, these services would be integrated into one service, to be
implemented by TDA in accordance with the livestock development policies and
veterinary regulations of MAF. The project includes the construction,
furnishing and equipping of a regional laboratory and 2 veterinary stations
as well as housing for 3 veterinarians. The structure of this service would
parallel that of the extension service with headquarters, laboratory and
quarantine facilities in Hodeidah, and subregional field services controlled
from three veterinary centers located in the region.
37.      Irrigation Development.  This would focus on improving effective
water management and operational efficiency, and on reducing water losses in
the existing conveyance and distribution systems of canals in the well and
spate-irrigated areas of Wadi Siham. The works would include: (a) construc-
ting permanent diversion works at Al Barquqah and Waqir, comprising diversion
headworks and a distribution network of main, secondary and tertiary canals,
drops, check structures and bridges; (b) downstream flood protection works,
comprising about 3.7 kilometers of dikes, to ensure flood protection of
adjoining towns and to divert surplus wadi flow to recharge the aquifer; and
(c) establishing, on government-owned lands, 4 new demonstration farms (2 in
Wadi Siham and 1 each in Wadis Mawr and Rima) and upgrading 2 existing farms
in Wadis Zabid and Mawr to demonstrate to the farmers improved on-farm irri-
gation practices to ensure efficient use of the scarce water resources. As
well as improved agricultural practices, these farms, to be operated by the
extension service, would demonstrate improved irrigation techniques,
including sprinkler and drip irrigation, for progressive adoption by the
farmers. Internationally recruited consultants would be employed to prepare
detailed designs and construction drawings for irrigation infrastructure.
The demonstration farms would be designed by the planning and design section
of TDA.
38.      Feeder Roads.  To provide access from the Hodeidah-Sanaa road to
major irrigation works and to main agricultural areas in Wadi Siham, the
project would include the construction of about 62 kilometers of feeder
roads. Final designs for the feeder roads have been completed.
39.     Regional Operation and Maintenance (O&M).  The project would provide
assistance to the Government to establish in the Tihama region a service to
carry out regular operation and maintenance of irrigation and rural
infrastructure and buildings already constructed or proposed to be con-
structed in future agricultural development of the region. This service,
under the direct control of the Director of the Engineering Department of TDA
and headed by a Chief O&M Engineer, would consist of a regular staff of O&M
and mechanical engineers, supervisors, foremen, a secretary and a storekeeper.
Other labor would be appointed as needed. A maximum of 12.5 staff-years of
expatriate engineering advisors would be appointed for a three year period.
The project would provide assi4tance for operating costs, including the
purchase of O&M machinery, four-wheel drive vehicles and motorcycles, for the
first four years of project implementation. This assistance would be phased
out by the fifth year and TDA would assume responsibility for maintaining the
O&M serx ce. Starting by the fifth year of project implementation, the



- 13 -
Government would provide TDA appropriate funds for: (a) salaries of local
staff; (b) operating costs and replacement costs of vehicles, machinery and
equipment; and (c) special repairs to infrastructure works as needed.
40.      Technical Assistance.  About 103 staff-years of technical assistance
would be provided to help strengthen the institutional capacity of TDA and to
assist in carrying out irrigation works, agricultural programs, in establish-
ing the O&M service and to assist TDA headquarters staff in handling project
tasks with the minimum of input of expatriate staff in line with the
objectives of having the Yemenis take over these tasks in due course. The
expatriates' terms of reference would indicate that training of Yemeni staff
and backstopping are their primary functions and that performance in these
respects would be monitored regularly. The expatriates would be located to
work directly with their counterparts rather than as separate teams. The
Government would appoint these expatriate experts and qualified counterparts
in accordance with the agreed schedule and in consultation with IDA. The
expatriate experts would gradually be phased out and replaced by their
national counterparts and other trained local staff. The local staff needed
for implementation of the project would be appointed in a accordance with a
schedule agreed with IDA. TDA's existing remuneration structure, which will
be maintained, is adequate to attract and retain suitable staff.
41.      Training.  On-the-job project-related training would play an impor-
tant part in preparing local counterparts and other staff to assume their
responsibilities. In addition, the project would provide for 80 staff-months
of higher education and training for TDA staff in engineering and 108 staff-
months of overseas training in agriculture. The training program would be
prepared by the technical and management adviser of TDA with assistance from
the three regional directors. This detailed training program, including
curricula and plans to retain trainees in the employment of MAF on completion
of training, would be submitted to IDA no later than June 30, 1987. The
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Unit, established under Credit 880-YAR,
working under the direct control of the Chairman of TDA, would be
strengthened under the proposed project and expanded to monitor and evaluate
activities in the entire region. The expanded monitoring system would be
established during the first year of project implementation.
42.      Agricultural Credit.  It is estimated that about 75 percent of the
small farmers in the project area would require medium-term credit for
investments to improve irrigation practices and for other on-farm
developments and that about 60 percent of total farmers would require
seasonal credit to finance additional costs expected to be incurred on
fertilizers, pesticides and seeds. Incremental credit needs would be
considerably reduced once production levels increase. The estimated credit
needs have not been included in the proposed project since they can be met
from local resources being made available to the Cooperative and Agricultural
Credit Bank (CACB). All credit requirements of the project would in fact be
fully met by CACB through resources that the Government is making available
to enable CACB to undertake the additional agricultural credit activities
generated by the project. The extension service of TDA would coordinate with
CACB to ensure that farmers' loan applications conform with the Government's



- 14 -
groumdwater plan for the region and that the proposed loans are for
technically sound projects. In particular, because of the need to regulate
the use of the aquifer, CACB will not finance any well irrigation schemes or
improvement of existing schemes unless their technical viability is first
approved by TDA.
Proiect Tmplementation
43.      Project preparation is at an advanced stage.  Engineering designs of
civil works for feeder roads and buildings, scheduled for construction during
the first two years of project implementation, are ready and the final
designs for feeder roads are available for the preparation of tender
documents. The Engineering Section of TDA will prepare the tender documents
and final construction drawings for the extension buildings from the detailed
designs. Consultants have also prepared designs in sufficient detail for the
preparation of cost estimates and bid documents for the irrigation
improvement works scheduled to be carried out during the first two years of
project implementation. Consultants would be employed in the first year of
project implementation to prepare detailed designs for construction works
scheduled to start in the third year of project implementation.
44.      The project would be implemented over a six-year period.  Responsi-
bility for implementation of the project would rest with TDA, which is
responsible for extension and operation and maintenance of irrigation and
rural infrastructure constructed in the region.  Established in 1973 as a
semi-autonomous body under the jurisdiction of the MAE, it has a Board of
Directors whose Chairmai and members are appointed by the Government.  Depen-
ding heavily on foreign technical assistance, TDA suffers from a shortage of
suitably qualified local staff and from a lack of local funds for O&M
requirements. It is, however, one of the best organized and most effective
organizations in the country and is responsible for the implementation of
four IDA-assisted projects, three of which are substantially completed
(Credits 376-, 805- and 978-YAR), and one of which is ongoing (Credit
880-YAR). Consultants carried out a study on the organization, structure and
performance of TDA in 1981-83 and the proposed organizational set-up of TDA,
which would establish three directorates, each headed by a Yemeni director
backstopped in the initial years by an expatriate advisor, takes account of
the recommendations of this study.
45.      The regional development activities would be carried out directly by
the Agricultural Directorate of TDA through the Agricultural Support Services
and Field Extension and Veterinary divisions. For the development of Wadi
Siham, a project office, headed by a local project manager, would be estab-
lished within TDA. He would be assisted by an expatriate project engineer
and an agriculturalist to oversee the execution of the project-financed
infrastructure and to carry out agricultural activities in coordination with
the regional extension service. On completion of these works, the project
office would function as the Central Subregion office under an
agriculturalist manager. Similarly, the project offices in Wadi Zabid/Rima
and Wadi Mawr would become the Southern and Northern Subregion offices
respectively.



- 15 -
46.      The CACB is also a semi-autonomous body under the jurisdiction of
HAF. It is the country's primary source of institutional finance for agri-
culture and has four branches operating in the Tihama region. It is at
present being assi8ted under IDA Credit 1308-YAR. CACB has experienced
difficulties in loan collection, shortage of trained manpower, shortage of
funds and lack of coordination between credit and extension, but these
problems are being addressed under the ongoing project. CACB has, however,
been fairly successful in achieving its objectives. Lending has increased
substantially during the last 4-5 years and the loan recovery rate has been
improving. CACB and TDA would jointly prepare work procedures to ensure
coordination between the two services. To this end, a plan to create the
necessary coordination between CACB and TDA to process and evaluate loan
applications for agricultural credit would be prepared and forwarded to IDA
before July 1, 1987. In addition, CACB has recently requested IDA assistance
to articulate a policy framework for its operations, and a medium-term
iending program.
Project Cost and Financing
47.      The cost of the project, including physical contingencies and
allowances for expected price increases, is estimated at $47.0 million, with
a foreign exchange component of $28.8 million or 61 percent of total cost.
The base cost is calculated using unit costs prevailing in similar ongoing
projects in the region adjusted to the first quarter of calendar year 1986.
Physical contingencies on construction and recurrent costs have been calcu-
lated at 10-15 percent and allowances for expected price increases on the
foreign exchange components at 7 percent annually in 1986 and 1987, and at
7.5 percent, 7.7 percent, 7.6 percent, 4.5 percent and 4.5 percent
respectively, in the years 1988-92. Allowances for expected price increases
on the local component have been calculated at 10 percent in 1986, 8 percent
annually during 1987-90 and 6 percent for 1991-92. The project will be
exe*pt from local duties and taxes. In addition to the above costs, the
Government has provided assurances that it will provide suffi_ient annual
budgetary allocations to ensure the operation and maintenance of the various
project components on their completion.
48.      The proposed IDA credit of SDR 9.0 million (equivalent to about $10
million) would finance about 25 percent of the foreign exchange component, 16
percent of the local cost and 21 percent of the total cost. The Kuwait Fund
for Arab Economic Development (KFAED) was active in the preparation of the
proposed project and has agreed in principle to provide about $15.0 million
equivalent, of which about $11.0 million equivalent would finance a further
38 percent of the foreign exchange component. The Kingdom of the Netherlands
has agreed in principle to provide about $9.4 million equivalent, of which
about $7.8 million equivalent would finance about 27 percent of the foreign
exchange component. The Government contribution would finance the balance of
the foreign exchange component and the local cost, which would represent
about 27 percent of total project cost. The signing of agreements between
the Government and the cofinanciers, and the satisfaction of conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of those agreements would be special
conditions of effectiveness for the IDA credit.



- 16 -
Procurement
49.      A procurement plan for items eligible for financing from the
proposed project is presented in the table below.  Procurement for all
project items would be carried out by TDA. The procurement for IDA-financed
construction works (main canals, the distribution network and appurtenant
structures), heavy machinery and vehicles for the operation and maintenance
service would be made through international competitive bidding (ICB).
Miscellaneous goods, which cannot be grouped and would cost less than $50,000
each, could be procured by local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures up to
an aggregate cost of $500,000 over the entire project implementation period.
These procedures, which allow foreign competitors to compete, are generally
consistent with the need for economy and efficiency in the execution of the
project. Agreement was obtained from the Government at negotiations on the
minor improvements to be made to YAR's LCB procedures to make them acceptable
Procurement Plan
---Procurement Procedure 1/--
ICB      Other 2/    NA          Total
($ millions)
Civil Works
Irrigation Development
(a) Canals & Distrib. Network    7.3 (7.3)                         7.3  (7.3)
(b) Diversion Structures
& Demonstration Farms                     9.3                 9.3
(c) Feeder Roads                               4.2                 4.2
(d) Buildings                                  2.2                 2.2
Goods and Materials
Vehicles for OM                  0.2 (0.2)                        0.2  (0.2)
Heavy machinery for O&M           1.2 (1.0)                        1.2  (1.0)
Vehicles & Machinery for
Extension Service                             2.5                 2.5
Vehicles & Equipment for
TDA Headquarters                              0.3                 0.3
Services
Engineering Consultants           1.3 (0.6)                        1.3  (0.6)
Other Consultants                              4.4                 4.4
TDA Headquarters Support                       0.8                 0.8
Fellowships and Training                                0.9 (0.9)   0.9  (0.9)
Supporting Services and
Operating Costs                               12.4                12.4
Total        10.0 (9.1)   36.1    0.9 (0.9)  47.0 (10.0)
Figures presented in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by
the proposed IDA credit. Costs include contingencies.
2/ Competitive bidding procurement procedures of cofinancing agencies.



- 17 -
to IDA for these miscellaneous goods to be financed from the IDA credit.
Standard IDA guidelines would be followed for the recruitment of engineering
and construction supervision consultants to be financed under the IDA
credit. For goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and
for civil works $200,000 or more, IDA would review and approve tender
documents and contracts before they are issued/awarded. Procurement of items
to be financed solely by the KFAED and the Netherlands would be in accordance
with the procurement procedures of the corresponding agency.
Disbursements
50.      The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed over seven years as
follows: 100 percent of total expenditures for civil works and training; 100
percent of foreign expenditures and 80 percent of local expenditures for
vehicles, equipment and spare parts financed by the IDA credit; and 50
percent of technical assistance financed by the IDA credit. This schedule is
generally consistent with the country profile although initial disbursements
are slower since full implementation of the IDA-financed components would not
occur until the third year of project implementation. The disbursement
period is also one year shorter than the profile to take into account the
fact that TDA is an experienced and well-established organization and as such
is expected to do better than the many less-experienced organizations in
YAR. Withdrawals from the credit account for all contracts under $10,000
equivalent in foreign exchange and $20,000 equivalent in local currency would
be on the basis of statements of expenditure. In order to expedite
disbursements, a Special Account (revolving fund) would be established at the
level of $1,000,000.
51.      Project Auditing. Monitoring and Evaluation.  TDA would maintain
separate accounts of project expenditures and CACB would maintain separate
accounts for short- and medium-term lending operations in the Tihama region.
Both the project and TDA's accounts would be audited annually by an
independent .auditor acceptable to IDA. Audited statements of these accounts
would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
TDA would also prepare semi-annual progress reports on all components of the
project and the Government would prepare a project completion report. In
addition, after the third year of the project, the Government would conduct a
mid-term project evaluation in which IDA and the cofinanciers would take part.
Cost Recovery
52.      The project would generate a significant increase in Government
revenues through the zakat 1 and cooperation tax, both of which are
calculated as a percentage of the gross value of production. In addition,
the Governmnt has developed a policy on cost recovery under previous Tihama
projects (Credits 880-YAR and 978-YAR) whereby the full capital and O&M costs
of public iuvestments in irrigation infrastructure would be recovered over 50
years, excluding interest, through a surcharge of 2 percent of the gross
value of production. This surcharge would be recovered with the zakat and is
simple to apply since it is consistent with the old zakat collection system.
1/ A tithe levied by the Government on the gross value of production.



- 18 -
If full production targets are met for the Wadi Siham area, the proposed
surcharge would be sufficient to recover these costs in 30 years. This cost
recovery policy would be applied in the proposed project.
Environmental Impact
53.     The project is not expected to have any detrimental effect on the
environment. On the contrary, on-farm investments to improve water use effi-
ciency in Wadi Siham could entail changes in cropping patterns through the
planting of tree crops and an increase in the area of vegetables, which would
improve the existing dry and dusty environment; improved irrigation
techniques would eliminate the hazard of uneven water distribution and lessen
damage caused by high floods both in the irrigation system itself and also to
lands and property in the project area. Use of agricultural chemicals would
be a very important component of the development techniques proposed, and a
considerable increase in the use of pesticides i8 foreseen. The inherent
dangers and the care required in their use would be an important part of the
training of village extension agents and the advice to farmers. Disposal of
chemical containers would be closely supervised by the extension service.
Riparian Issues
54.      All flows (spates and base flow) occurring in the Tibama region have
catchment areas within the political boundary of YAR; therefore, there is no
international water rights problem. Within Wadi Siham, development works
have been designed to take into account any impact on the farmers' water
rights.
Proiect Benefits
55.      The project is expected to directly benefit approximately 44,000
rural farm families or 220,000 people representing 39 percent of the rural
population of the Tihama region. These include an estimated 3,340 farm
families on 1,110 farms in Wadi Siham who would benefit from the additional
surface water resulting from the irrigation infrastructure works. The major
recipients of the project benefits would be the tenants and sharecroppers who
depend exclusively on agriculture for subsistence (estimated to be more than
50 percent of the farm families in the region) and landowner7s, the majority
of whom are farmers with small landholdings who also depend entirely on
agriculture for their livelihood. The proposed construction of permanent
irrigation works would reduce the danger of production losses and the need
for reconstruction and repair of earth diversion structures that exist at
present. The project would also create significant employment opportunities,
a large proportion of which would be met through the family labor force; the
balance would be met by hiring seasonal surplus labor and labor from the
landless rural population.
56.      Furthermore, the project would improve the general conditions of
rural life through the construction of feeder roads which would enable
improved access to major towns and market centers, improved agricultural
practices which would result in a more intensive and efficient use of land
and water resources, and through improved animal health services.



- 19 -
Economic Rate of Return
57.      The economic rate of return (ERR) based on the directly productive
components associated with investments in irrigation infrastructure in Wadi
Siham is estimated at about 21 percent. Sensitivity analysis indicated that
the ERR is affected by major increases in costs, reductions in benefits, or
both, and by a combination of delays in project implementation and increased
costs. A 20 percent increase in project costs, benefits remaining unchanged,
a 20 percent decrease in benefits, costs remaining unchanged, or a two year
delay in implementation would still result in an ERR of around 16 percent.
The ERR would remain above 12 percent despite large increases in costs (over
95 percent), decreases in benefits (a reduction of more than 49 percent) or
implementation delays of up to 5 years.
Risks
58.      There are no major risks associated with the project.  Long-term
projections indicate that there is a ready market for incremental production,
but there is a risk that existing marketing infrastructure to channel the
increased production of fruits and vegetables might be inadequate. However,
project investment in the construction of the rural road networks connecting
major production centers will provide access to markets and the modest
investment in the establishment of marketing centers is expected to improve
marketing sufficiently to handle increased production.
59.      Other risks which have affected other IDA-assisted agricultural
projects in recent years and which could affect project viability include:
(a) inadequate local budgetary support; (b) delays in appointing expatriate
staff; (c) difficulty in attracting sufficient number of qualified counter-
part staff; and (d) inadequate operation and maintenance of agricultural
infrastructure. To minimize these risks, the Government has agreed to
include annual budgetary allocations to cover operating costs of the project,
which has been accorded high priority in the forthcoming Five-Year Plan
(1987-91). Expatriate and local staff would be recruited in accordance with
a timetable agreed with IDA. Sufficient incentives to attract and retain
qualified local staff already exist and will be maintained (para. 40).
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
60.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and reconmend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
March 3, 1986
1573G



- 20 -                                                  ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
T A B L . IA
YCKEN. ARAI REP. OF    - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHC
EICN. ARAB REP. OF                   REFRCE  GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERARS)  a
MOST                     (HOST RECENT CETIMATZ) tb
IICCNT           MIDDLE INCOM           MIDDLE  rat
IUGOLb     19701.1  CSTrIiTilLb-    M. ArRICA * NSD CATT LAT. AMERICA * CAR
ARA (THOUSAD IQ. KM)
TWTAu                              195.0      195.0       195.n
AGRLCULTURAL                       96.6        97.3        97.9
cUP PER CAPITA (US)                     ..         ..        550.0            1134.9                    1575.9
qIEO  COUWTU PE  CATTA
(KILORAKS or OIL EQUIVALENT)        5.0        11.0        57.0             623.9                    993.6
POIUTl AMD YSL STATISIC5
POPULATION.MlD-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   *163.0     5258.0      7595.0 IC
URBAN POPULATION (2 o0 TOTAL)       3.4         7.5        W.l1              49.0                     67.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (CILL)                           12.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                             40.0
POPULATION MOMNTUM                                        2.0
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KI.                      21.3        27.0        38.9              37.6                      46.0
PER SQ. iO. AGRI. LAND           43.1        54.0        75.6             470.1                      91.1
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (E)
0-14 TRB                         42.4       43.0        45.4              43.5                      36.5
15-64 YRS                        54.4        53.8        51.2              53.0                     57.1
65 AND ABE                        3.1         3.1         3.3               3.3                      4.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (S)
TOTAL                             2.3         2.3         2.8               2.8                      2.4
URBAN                             8.1        10.2         7.5               4.4                      3.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)       49.7        4B.8        48.3              0.0                     30.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PCE THOUS)       28.9        26.5        22.0              11.5                      8.0
GROSS REPROUCrTION RATE             3.4         3.3         3.3               2.5                      2.0
FAMILY PLANNINC
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUS)          ..
USERS (C OF MARRIED WHEN)          ..         ..          3.0 /d           21.4                      45.3
000 Alll NlUTRIIO
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-LOO)                     119.0        84.0        75.0              95.1                    109.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (S OF REQUIREHENTS)     83.0        68.0        80.0             118.2                     113.2
PROTEINS (0RA1S PEE DAY)         67.0        53.0        60.0              77.8                     69.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        18.0       14.0        19.0 /.           17.5                      34.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE        61.1        48.9        33.0              12.8                      4.8
UALTU
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)      35.8        38.5        44.1              57.8                     64.8
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)     211.5       188.0       152.0              96.8                     59.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (SPOP)
TOTAL                              ..0                   27.0 If           67.2                     65.3
URB.                                         45.0       100.0 77           93.4                     76.5
RURAL                             ..          2.0        18.07-            45.8                     44.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(: OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..          ..          ..                5.9                     56.3
URBAN                              ..         ..         60.0 If           63.0                     73.4
RURAL                             ..          ..          ..               28.6                     25.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN       130090.0    24370.0    11670.0 /f           4331.0                   1909.7
POP. PER NURSING PERSON             ..          ..       4580.0 7f         1845.0                    808.2
POP. *PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2730.0     1430.0 Ig  1700.0 /f           621.8                    362.0
URBAN                              ..         ..        340.0 7F          545.0                    22.0
RURAL                             ..          ..       63d.0 77          2511.3                   2716.7
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..         ..         14.3 /f           25.7                     27.5
ISD0 C
AVERASE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             ..          ..
URBN                               ...
RURAL                             ..          ..
AVERSAE NO. OF FERSONS/RD0M
TOTAL                             ..          ..
URBN                               ..         ..
RURAL                             ..          ..
PERCETAGE OF DWELLINOS WITH ELECT.
TOTAL                             ..          ..
URUN
RURAL                             ..          ..



- 21 -                                              ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 6
T A  L . 3A
YECMN. AA  REP. OF    - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YEMEN, ARAB REP. OF                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEICHTED AVERACS) /a
MOST                      (HOST RECENr ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT            MIDDU. lNColl           MIDDLE INCOME
1960Lb      171Lk  ESTIMATrEK-     N. AeRICA A NIL  Asr       LAT. AMERICA L CAR
ADJUSTEO ENROLLMrNT RATIOS
PRIMARY.  TOTAL                     H.a         12.0        59.0               n9.R                     lu6.7
MALE                    14.0        23.0         9q.0              103.7                      108.5
FEMALE                   0.4         *,o         17.0               75.2                      lU4.o
SECONDARYt TOTAL                    ..          I.0          7.0               42.9                      44.2
ALEg                     .           2.0         12.0               5u.9                      42.7
FEMALs                   ..          0.!          2.0               34.6                      44..9
VOCATIONAL CZ OF SECONDARY)           3.2 lb      2.2          1.6               10.0                       13.3
PUPIL-TUACRZK RATIO
PRIMARY                            45.0 /h     51.u         46.0               29.7                       zY.9
SECONDAR                           24.0 7      24.0         16.0               18.6                       10.7
axmen
PASStNCCR CARS/THOUSAND POP           ..           .           .                 17.8                      46.u
RADIO RECE1VtRS/THOUSANO POP           ..         15.3 /L     16.2              175.9                      32nd3
TV RECEIVERSITKOUSAND POP              ..         ..           2.0               51.2                      112.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCUIATION
PER THDUSAND POPULATION              .           10.7         .                 37.2                       61.1
CINEM  ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA        ..          ..          2.1 /f             2.4                        2.4
LABO  FORE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)          1263.0       1481.0      1850.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    3.7         4.5          5.6               11.0                       23.6
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)              83.0         79.0        75.0 /f            42.4                       31.4
INDUsTRY (PERCENT)                  7.0         9.0         11.0 /f            27.9                      24.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              30.3         28.2        24.4               26.2                       33.5
HALE                               57.7         55.0        48.6               46.2                       51.3
FELC                                2.3         2.5          2.6                5.8                       15.9
ECONOMIC DcPENDENCY RATIO             1.5         I.o          2.0                1.6                        1.3
Iowa DRSTRIUmON
PERCENr o0 PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HICHGEST 5 OF HOUSEHOLDS                                               ..
HIGHEST ZO2  OF aSEhaOLDS           ..
LOWEST 201 OF  OUSEHOLDS            ..
LOWEST 40X 0F HOUSEHOLDS            ..
P0 s TS rEr OFs
ESTMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (uss PER CA.PITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..         366.0 /f           226.3                      288.3
RURAL                               ..           .           ..               134.0                      185.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           .4 ..                        431.5                      519.8
RURL                                ..          ..         157.0 /f           326.0                     359.7
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (I)
URBAN                               ..
RURAL                               ..          ..          ..                 29.0
NOT AVAILAILE
oTr APPLICAJLE
N o T e S
/a   The group svragea for each Indicator are population-vighted arithsetic mans. Coverage of countries
am*g the irdicator, depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to ay year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970' between
1969 and 1971; en data for "Msot Recent Estimate" betwean 1981 and 1983.
/c   Resident poplation Includes tgrant workarm abroad for lems than a year;  /d 1979; Le 1977;  /f 1S80;
/S 1972; /b 1962.
.JUNM. 1985



ANNEX 1
- 22-                                                    Page 3 of 6
CgVINMOtlS OF SOCIAL INDCATOR
Note: Ahbovgh the data am drwn rrom sours  urallyjudpd die mat authmstatiw and riabk it should alo be noted that the may not heC naitusally
comparbk buane of the lack of sandwrdiad deRinitnca ad caupa tued by duff.i ceomun  in  ceOnmg th datc. le doa ame mnetleek = uef,l to
dnenbe order of magnmtde. ndicat trend and chwaeuim stain mr dilNernis he   counie                             .
The memn ,ou)a antisE-w    c       pomp of themb  coutyaand(Ma mutry groupd wih somewbht higr age icme th Ithe country
goop: the subjoc  atc (pt for -ig lncoOil Eapo romp where Middle com Nonh Africaand Middlc Eao- ch   beoubuse osnrr
socio-culsual auities I6nienen proup dnatheavea an popu   wcwigb n t    etic mfor ec  dcaor and shown only when njaoty
ofrhecoDutriesina grouphadat hr thatindcator. Sinam sesaegofcountmncamowng*te indcapendu on seavadabiltyofdataasnot umnoran
cauton murt be esecd is rdaung avamorone tndictor to anodhe, Thwat sag an only meul i eompanng the value ooe inductir at a tun mins
th counup and mrFee pop
AREA (thousnd sq.kia.)                                        Crdire S     Am (s, rham.d)-Numberoflive births in the year
Ttvul-Tol surface area comprsing lnd area and ind watesm;     per thousnd of mid-year popuaio 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960,1970 and 1983 dat.                                       Cdr Dath Rav (per trheu)-N4umber of deaths in the year
AgrdeWuu'Estimate of agricultural are  used temporariy or     per tbousand of mid-year population; 2960. 1970. and 1983 data.
pemanendy for crops. pasure, mket and kitchen grde.s or to    Grow Repr        JCehl   Rme-Aveasge number ordaughters a woman
lie rfaow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                          will bear in her normal teprductive period if she experiences
present agespecific fertilit r     ualy fiv-ycar averags ending
GNP PER CAFITA (US)-ONP per capita estimates at current       in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market pnres calculted by same conveion method as World
Bank Atlas (1981-83 buisk 1983 dats.                          F&o f-    -Acpi0  Aam    (tasns-Ana _                 um-
loath Atas (2981-33 bais), 293 data.berof acceptors ofLidnh-control devims underausinpsesofrnational
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                 fmy pming progran
conmumption of anntecia prmary enrgy (coa ad lignit.    F1aadf Plmdq'-us" (pareafindd aru-The prcen-
petroleum  natual ps and hydro-. nuclar and geothnal ec-      tage of mnnied womnn of childbearing age who am pracicing or
trcity) in kilograms of oil eq6ivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  when  husbands are practicing any form ofcontraception. Worn
1982 data.                                                    ofchild-bearing ag art genealy women aged 1549. altbough for
some countr  contaeptive usae is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATStiCS                                groupL
T- l9 83afrdf, Aid-Yew (rhasdr)-As ofJuly ; 1960. 970,        FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data
CleAts hpmIafa. (ren  tf satuO-Ratio of turb ~lade. qfFa(Rrle PCo Clp(1f9-71 - 1100i-Index of per
population;ifferent defniton of uran d-areas may uraneto towpr  capit annual production of all food commodities. Production
pabiof. data amng coduntrie   96 u 9b 0 as  198 da...         excine animal feed and seed for agriculur  Food commodities
"ty of dmmong couuicx I %0 IM. aW  993        incluhde primary commodities (e.g. sugareane instead of sugar)
po __wi         h Awl-do-                                     which are edibk and contain nutnients (eg. coffee and tea are
hpsdwks in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.   exuded); they compnse ceal  rootcps. puls  oil sds.
made for each economy sepately. Sturting with information on  vetabes fruits nuts. sugaae and sugar beet livestoc:k and
total population by age and sx  fertility ratn  mortality rat  and  ivestock products. Agggpte production of eh country is based
intermationl migration in die bow year 1980, these pamters    on ntional averae producer price weights  1961-65 1970. and
were projected at fie-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data
aumpton until the popution became stationary.                  ArrCf       _SSS &Of Calof   pae .mfre odmeaesj-Cosnput-
Suafw   popredlanr-s one in which ag- and rn-speific mor-     ed from calorie equivalent of ne food supplies available in country
taliy rates have not changed over a long priod, wile a-specific  per capita per day. Available supples comprise domestic produc-
fcrtility rames bave simultaneousy remained at mrplacemnt levI  tion inports le  exports. and changes in sock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate- t). In such a populatio  the birth rate is  exdude anisal feed, seeds for use in ariculture quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate the age stmrture is also  rood processing, and losses in distributon Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary popult  estimated by FAO based on physological needs for nonnal activity
size was esimaed on the basis of the projected charteristic of  and bealth consideng enviromnenul temperature body waghts.
the population in the year 2000, and the rate of dedine of fertilty  age and sx distribution of population, and allowing 10 prcent for
rate to replacemnt leveL                                      waste at bousehold evde 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
puhaiown Me_senrnr-  the tendency for population growth tc    Pr C_ir S,*p of Pmroti (grams per dlk-Protcin content of
continue beyond the time that placmnt-vel fertility as been   per capita net supply offood per day. Net supply offood is defined
achieved: that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reacbed  as above. Requirements for aU countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year r is mesured as  provide for minimum allowas of 60 grains of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 gms of anima and pulsc protein, of wbich 10 grams
the yar t. givn the assumption that fenlity rmai  at replace-  should  e animl protein. Tbese standds a  lower than those of
ment level from year onward. 1985 data                        75 grms of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
POPA ria DMe*                                                 average for the wod,. Proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.t-Mid-yer populatton per square kilometer (100 bec-    Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total ara; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.               Per Cup.t hoewl Suppy &Iae Animmad eafl-Protein supply
Phr sq.tm. avicdiaral lad-Compused as above for agriculturl   offood derived from animals and pulses in gms per day: 1961-65
lnd only. 1960. 1970, and 1982 data.                          1970 and 1977 data.
Pepalia. Age Sternest (peerear)-Chikdren (0-14 years). work-  C)iMd(6q   1-4) Deat Rarwe (per ehosiad-Number of deaths of
ing age (5-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percente  children agd 14 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data,            group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
hp    iaria ww    Ae (percsr)-torsl-Annual growth rates of    from life tabksl 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total Mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 197083-   HEALTH
P1POW- CGiwt Rte (parceartj-wr-Annual growth rates            Life Erpecrsey - Birth (yen-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 195060. 190-70, and 1970483 dataL    infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortlity for all people



ANNEX I
-23-                                                Page 4 of 6
t the lim  of of its birth we  to smy the mm troughout its Hlfe;  p*.lewchw  tado - primay. md secm.d.r-Total students.
1960. 1970 and 193 data.                                     rolled in prmary and secooday lvwl divided by numben of
howiAt.Yp ate (per           Q -Number of innuts who die           s  ithe crrpoding levl.
before rechn oe yar of ap per thoand live birth in a given
year 1960 1970 ad 1913 data.                                 CONlSUMPTON
Arnias of Si*k 3kw  (pea   pel eU)m  Uid. 1sm&   -t    hdAumw  Cost (Per rhsieamdppiMma-segcars coi-
rm&-Number of pop  (touL ra  and ra) with reason               i moor cars satig Ins than eight paeso  excudes ambul
aess to safe wat  upply (cdes trad surbom watm  or           anc. bea     nd mlitay vehides
etisatd but   mstamln        w     ucxh a that f. prott      Nab Rwiwm (p. rhendpep mk-An type or recever
beholesaelg ad aniy web) u pecmtp of theirr ,,p,,            for radio broadcat to gearal puic per thousnd ofpopul
tw popukdouL In an urba -o a public fountain or standpost.    x        .-hm.    eceive iv n countries and in y     when
blcatd not -  th  200semosm   e  a oime may be conid         rmgstmtionof r dio sets ws in eect; data for recct yas may
a bei  within hsonehi -t aeo that houL In m                  notbe coEmpuarble sine most countrie abole licensig.
rusombiswmoms.wuld imply thatthe huwewife or  umemesorthe.
houseiold do nam have to spmnd a dlapmportinomt par of the day  rvf     b (pw    di mpkI - tw  ,V receiver for broadcas
a  Whng tdo *ar        water made.                           to enl public per toud popuatn excude unlicensed TV
Acae, to Eww  Db_wd (ptw                    .. f   _J_eeivm in counmesad in yea  wen restraio of    etg  ws
ned uWd-Nwnber or pople (ttL uran and _rul) served by        in effect.
exmdisposal as perenus or their respeciv populations.W (   IuFqi  hdik (p  rhmm pu)Shw the aver-
Excre  disposl may inde the collecon and diWpol i'ith or  .       cdiuAtlo. of "daily genral     newpwap. defid as a
without ennt_ of hmn ecra ad wasewater by water              peiodice publcatn devoted prm y to recording genea nes
bonel sy-sm  or dt  us of pit prvies and similar inslatios   It is _ condered to be dy if it appear bt leat four times a week.
FtI     op. Pidm-p la    divided by number of pm.            CG       A_  Aukadac per Cqea pw Y            -Based on the
tigphysiciansquaSld fiom a medical scbool el univerity klvL  number of ck  sold dung the ya  induding admios to
FlyhPIe perinsiWM A'in-N i paotio  divided by number of      dnve-n anemas and mobile umits.
PraCticg male Nd female grAdte   nunre. ASSItnt nuseF         IUOR    U
practi  nmum and nursng aw*uLaries.
I    PM BmyiI Bad-mid. womm ,    rr-4bpulation          FTal L4er F.m (eksom.ds)-Economically active persons in-
(totd. urbm  ud  urwa  drie by ther rsetve n           o     dudin armed rorcf and unemplyed but exludin houswives
hospitalbeds avalable inpublic ad pewstudgeneraland specoveasii     populatio  of all agps. Defin tions in
hositabs d ehabli m            Hospitalss r                                  r e_mpamabk 1960.1970 and 1983 dam.
pe-mently stid by at lest one physca  Estabhenat provA        h        ( ensr     e labor force - percentae of total labor
idt  pninaly custodial caa  not induded. Rural bospa         for
iowev icuedebealthandmdcle nonotpmaentysaffed                Agkuhrm (perctj-Labor force in fanmn  rorestry, buntng
by a physician (but by a medicl assta   nur  mnid    ec)     and fishin   prctag of tota labor forc; 1960, 1970 ad 1980
which ofe in-atient  _enodadon and provide a lmited rag      dataL
of medical bcih!iIL                                          iahb7 (p.'caJ-Labor force in mining. constrcion, mau-
Ad_ _  pAr HpipalW 514-Total number of adminssion to or      factrng an electricity, water and ga a pecage of wtol lbor
dcharie from bospitas divided by the number or beds.         force; 1960 1970 and 1910 data
-           buo-    Amireror-s4mma,   inbd- hticdpation
HOUSING                                                      or avity   r are computd a to  l, mLal and fem labor form
Am, - S e f ffh   (p.sm  p- hemmolmi-imAr  whmw.             as p,enra    of totaL mal ad fem    popuatn of all ai
idswd-A  .o.sbold concsi ofa  oup ofindividuaLwom e          rspecddly. 1960. 1970. and 1913 daa Thes a  basd on ILO's
lvng qurte  and tlir ma  meals. A boader or dger may or      particiton rae deting age-n s       eofre  poulion, nd
may not be included in the bouhold for stsc  purpos.         long tiMe trend. A few estimate  e from natnal sourtnn
Amwrq. N    w .lftsmor pw Reem-renI, wha, mod                Eo-nomic Dep.admov Rats-Ratio of popuatio  under IS. and
Averg number of persons per rom in all urban, and rurl       65 and oves to the working aP populaion (tho  aged 15-64).
occupied convent    dwellns repetvey. Dwedlin  ecud
non-pemanent struaures an unoccid prr                        INCOME DISTRIBUMON
F.cinqe of DWw         thWm Bk&iEeh-r.tdal wh1a,     rw-     hrcmq   of iiaaf Dip.ueM, Iwem  &hein -^ ash    kled)-
Conventiondwelinswtectricityin livingquarters as pa -        Accu   to pexcole grups of housholds ranked by total hous-
top of tal, urbL and rual dwelg reptvely,                    hold iname
EDUCATION                                                    POVERTY TARGEF GROUPS
A4W^W EdeA   Rd                                              The foEowing eimates are very approximate measures of poverty
A*ny fisdfl  - to *oak and fe-r-Gros w     m          d      levels, and should be interpreted with consi& '%ble cauto
fem    rolet of AlN a at the pimary levd a permnas of        Es_udx  Ahue&Perviy  em, Lewd ILWSS p e_ cep -rm
respcive prmsy school-a  populations. Whil many countie      and rws-Absalute poverty imeJevel is that income keid
condr primy schod  ag to be 6-11 years othas do noL The      bdow which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus esseal
diffe     in country prce in the a   and duration of school  zton-food requirements is not affordable.
ae rflected in the ratos give. For some countre with universal  stdmier,dRfiue Aery lme  LeW (fUSS par caprj-arhe
educai    o  enrolment may exceed 100 pmr stnce sm e         mA Fr-Rural reative poverty income evel is one-hird of
pupils ar below or above the country's  andard primary-school  avesage per capita personal income of the country. Urban levd is
age.                                                         derived from the rural evel with adjustment for higher cost of
Serudoy scod - rodt. nick and fJam-Computed as abov;         living in urba areas.
scdary education requim at ks four yea  of approved pri-     &sriind Pppkhie  Odo5w A&h. Pbi     I.e.. Le,l (per-
mary inuc     provides ena. voctionaL or  aer tining         c,)-,whma  d nwsl-- Pent of population (urban and rual
insruction for pupils uslly of 12 to 17 year of  ; correspond-  who am -absolute poor.-
am  ouras m generally excluded.
Vecadimu Evrodinervt (pezwor qfsecody)-Vocational i.stiu-              Comparative Analyi and Data Division
dons inIde technical iodustriL or other progrms which opeate         Economnc Analysis mad Projections Departmnt
independey or as depatments of econdary institutions.                                June 1935



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                       ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (Z)
1984                   (Constant Price)
(*m - Current Prices)         FY1977-83       1984
GNP at Market Prices                  3806                     6             2
GDP at Market Prices                  3354                     7             2
Imports of GNFS                       1673                     5            -9
Exports of GSM                         220                    15             1
Consumption                           4105                     4            -2
of which;  Government              (1333)                   20           -5
Investment                             702                     9            -8
Gross National Savings                 391                    -9           -16
OUPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY (1981)
Value Added    Resident Labor Force        V.A. Per Worker
* Mln      S    Thousand         S          $         Z
Agriculture              820       32        830        69          988      47
Industry                206        8          54         5         3815     182
Services                1492      60         318        26         4691     224
TOTAL/AVERAGE      2518      100        1202       100         2095     100
GOVERNMENT FTNANCE (YRIs Mln)
2 of GNP
1978/79 1979/80  1981  1982  1983  1984    1984
Current Receipts                 2161    2755  3329  3692  4401  4646          23
Current Expenditure              1847    2531  3325  5181  6201  5957         29
Current Deficit(-)/Surplus(+)   314        224      4 -1489 -1800 -1311       -6
Capital Expenditure              2618    2492  3683  4017  2944  3100         15
Extrabudgetary Expenditure          -      523   792  1764   922   967          5
Overall Deficit                   848    2333  2949  5262  4807  4609         23
External Assistance, Net          1904     976  2436  2851  1752  1563          8
(including Grants)
MONEY CREDIT AND PRICES
--YRls Mi llion Outstanding End Period----
1980      1981      1982      1983    1984
Money Supply                        9180      9905    12519    15967   20364
Domestic Credit                    4956        7273    11847    15980   20928
Of which:
Claims on Government            (2017)    (4039)   (8454)  (12361) (16168)
Claims on Private Sector        (2939)    (3234)   (3393)   (3619)  (4760)
-         ----Percentages--
1979/80   1981    1982       1983     1984
Money Supply as 2 of GNP               63        64      69        83      100
Anmual Increase (I) in;
Money Supply                       16         8      26        28       28
Consumer Price Index               11        5        3         5       13



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS ($ Mln)
1978179   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
Exports of Goods, fob                 3       13     10      5      10      9
Imports o. Goods, cif             -1250   -1915  -1748  -1952  -1765  -1403
Trade Balance                     -1247   -1902  -1738  -1947  -1755  -1394
Non Factor Services, net            -36     -21    -51    -37    -51    -45
Transfers and Factor
Income, net                       833    1084    788    924   1085    986
Official Crants                     312      148    337    468    186    142
Balance on Current Account         -138   -691   -664   -592   -535   -311
7 & LT Capital, net I1              104     452    205    188    197    150
Disbursements on loans         (114)   (467)  (262)  (i32)  (220)  (213)
Repayments of loans            (-10)   (-15)  (-57)  (-44)  (-23)  (-63)
Other Capital (including
errors and omissions), net        204     200    198      93    125      65
Overall Balance (- - deficit)       170     -39   -261   -311   -213    -96
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT                          DEBT SERVICES RATIO (1984) 2/
Q Sillion)                  1984                                        1
Total Outstanding             2398         Total Outstanding and
of which disb.ursed           1688         Disbursed                     5 1
I/  Based on figures published in the Central Bank's financial statistical
bulletins. These figures differ slightly from debt information
compiled on a loan-bv-loan basis.
2/  Workers' remittances and transfers included in denominator.
EM 1DA
October 1985



- 26-                                 ANNEX II
Page I of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
A.  Statement of IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1985) 1/
~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                  (less cancellations)
Number  Year      Borrower                Purpose                         IDA   Undisbursed
Fifteen credits fully disbursed                        118.9
794    1978    Yemen Arab Republic    Highways III                      11.5       2.6
80'    1978    Yemen Arab Republic    Tihama Agriculture II            10.5        0.8
837    1978    Yemen Arab Republic    Power Distribution               10.0        2.3
880    1979    Yemen Arab Republic    Tihamna Agriculture III           15.0       8.3
915    1979    Yemen Arab Republic    Education III                     10.0       1.7
950    1980    Yemen Arab Republic    Ibb and Dhamar Water Supply    12.0         11.5
978    1980    Yemen Arab pepublic    Tihama Agriculture IV              5.5       0.8
1025    1980    Yemen Arab Republic    Fisheries Development             17.0       7.8
1067    1980    Yemen Arab Republic    S. Uplands Rural Dev. II          17.0 2/    3.0 21
1122    1981    Yemen Arab Republic    Industrial Development            12.0       1.8
1202    1982    Yemen Arab Republic    Sanaa Urban Development          15.0        7.8
1203    1982    Yemen Arab Republic    Education IV                      12.0       7.2
1216    1982    Yemen Arab Republic    Petroleum & Geothermal Explor.  2.0          1.1
1259    1982    Yemen Arab Republic    Agr. Research and Development   6.0          2.5
1267    1982    Yemen Arab Republic    Highways IV                        7.0       2.6
1294    1982    Yemen Arab Republic    Health                           10.5        6.3
1308    1982    Yemen Arab Republic    Agricultural Credit               8.0        7.7
1340    1983    Yemen Arab Republic    Education V                      10.0        8.3
1361    1983    Yemen Arab Republic    Power III                        19.0       17.6
1413    1983    Yemen Arab Republic    Highways V                       13.0       11.1
1441    1984    Yemen Arab Republic    Urban II                          12.0      11.1
1453    1984    Yemen Arab Republic    Central Highlands Ag. Devt.        8.0       7.7
1470    1984    Yemen Arab Republic    Education VI                      10.0      10.0
1547 3/ 1985    Yemen Arab Republic    Industrial Development II          8.0       8.0
1556 3/ 1985    Yemen Arab Republic    TA to CPO                         4.7        4.7
1584 3/ 1985    Yemen Arab Republic    Wadi Al Jawf Ag. Devt.            10.0      10.0
Total                                                  394.54/
of which has been repaid                               1.3
Total now held by IDA                                  393.2
Total undisbursed                                                 164.3
1/ The status of projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
2/ Beginning with Credit 1067-YAR, credits have been denominated in Special Drawing
Rights. The dollar amounts in these columns represent the dollar equivalente at the
time of credit negotiations for the IDA amounts and the dollar equivalents as of
September 30, 1985, for the undisbursed amounts.
3/ Not yet effective.
4/ Excludes a credit of $12.7 million for the Technical Training Project which was
approved by the Executive Directors on December 19, 1985 but is not yet signed.



- 27 -
AUINEX II
Page 2 of 2
S.   Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1985)
(Amount in S millions)
Year             Oblisor            Type of Business    Loan    Equity    Total
1978    Yemen Dairy and Juice       Dairy Products       3.15       -        3.15
Industries Co. Ltd.
19831   Yemen Dry Batteries         Dry Cell Batteries  3.25      0.91       4.16
1985
1984    National Company for       Vegetable Oil         4.58       -        4.58
Vegetable Oil and Ghee
Industries
1985    Yemen Hunt Oil Company    Oil Refinery           9.00        _       9.00
Total Gross Comitments                          19.98     0.91      20.89
less cancellations, terminations,             2.35        -       2.35
repayments, sales
Total commitments now held by IFC               17.63     0.91      18.54
Total Disbursed                                  1.68     0.21       1.89
Total Undisbursed                               15.95     0.70      16.65
C.   Other Bank Group Activities
Two Bank grants of $200,000 each, and one of $120,000 were approved
in July 1971, September 1973 and January 1976 respectively to help finance,
jointly with the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Developm.nt, a team of
planning and economic advisors and later a management/administrative expert.
The Kuwait Fund provided grants of about S200,000, $300,000 and $425,000.



- 2B -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TIHAMA V REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)    Time taken by country to prepare
project:                                    3.5 years
(b)    The agencies which prepared the
project:                                    FAO/CP and MAP
(c)    Date of first presentation to IDA:            April 1982
d)     Date of departure of appraisal mission:       April 23, 1985
(e)    Date of completion of negotiations:           February 19, 1986
(f)    Planned date of effectiveness:                November 1, 1986
Section II: Special Implementation Action by IDA
Close coordination with the cofinancing agencies will be maintained during
project implementation and supervision. In particular, a mid-term
evaluation would take place in which IDA and the cofinanciers would take
part (para. 51).
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)    Condition of Effectiveness:
Fulfillment of conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
cofinanciers' loan agreements (para. 48).
(b)    Other Conditions:
{i)     Provision to TDA of sufficient funds to ensure the
continuity of the operation of the extension service and of
the O&M service from the fifth year of project
implementation (paras. 34 and 39);



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(ii)    appointment of expatriate experts and qualified
counterparts in accordance with an agreed schedule (para.
40);
(iii) submission to IDA of a detailed training program by June
30, 1987 (para. 41);
(iv)    establishment of an expanded monitoring system during the
first year of project implementation (para. 41);
(v)     provision by CACB to meet all credit requirements of the
project and no financing of new well irrigation schemes
or improvements to existing schemes without TDA's prior
certification (para. 42);
(vi)    submission to IDA by July 1, 1987 of a coordination plan
for TDA and CACE (para. 46); and
(vii)   mid-term evaluation to be carried out after the third
year of the project (para. 51).



(AAIA    .           
A RAEIA, ^                                                     YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TIHAMA V REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL
' r7 ' cWii   /                                         DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT AREA
\Prold C--prh
*   Re-ehcb Slotill.
A Sob-RoooIol OffiM Si..
A       /           \f                                  ~ \,~. Tihw Coohd                              A)
rh-  Cr Ro p.
D. p  &h,:  \             91 dE
Red Sea
Red Sea
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POL' DEM/RTI
AO.rV4   r                                     /   ,
w   -  I ~~~~~~~~I~~~u_r                     r     ~~~~~~~~e*             rSADIARBI
.A4'AA..                                                               R-Y
ITIIIIIIIA                                                                ETHIOPIA         00f.EAd.
\s>~~~~~~~r.                                                f r -f
DJIBOI                                            PEOPLES DEMOCRATIC
G2         W y REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
/,, ~~~~~~~~~~~\                 /-                                                 1220.01
* ~        ~        ,                                           j ADIAABA       _
;.,-  '        \" ~(/                                      --           I ,           AdS
ETHIOPIA                                                              7         ET,/~  , dHIOPIA   / Gfode
d/ DJIBOUTl \.                                  ,      ,. DJSOMALIA  



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TIHAMA V REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
WADI SIHAI DEVELOPMENTSCHEME                                                A,
-x  N.r.Cknl                        kAgioi;oo An B.f                                                                                                 '
=   W,.iAOfA-k-
_   D,k                             5n  /g 
T.od- . .W.D.iyA                                               Dei A I,, <,d,...                                    .
'-   '' 'f 0 < W t'~~~~-                  111
CAt.A DN\\                        /                                                                                                                I
I._   r   t   ~~   \  0_  !  //  ,  YEMEN ) /tEMEE
\                                       :             v               !                5                   o               ,r     / DJIEOUTf~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E.01  Gu fofAdel
\s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                             .                                                         p         (    ~
\ \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SfMALIA



f  I{Ps^Of AleMS4lAP                                              ~~~IDA  -ASSISTED    PROJECTS  BY  SECTOR
s^UDI^,^,^)-toMnSAUDI ARABIA.'::Anuen
4;~                                                  - -   - - --                                              hk CACB
f,R 2            HIRNt_ _Ha_M nnn
<                  7                     I l )7 PeQrfLANDSn
,    r /                                       <X                                               ^ G lemoleplnle
.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u  . so...d. EaI----
./      ,                                                                          cd ~~~~~      ~       ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aio.A-F
.   _    -_>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\sx                                                               R0~~~~~~~~~N1Em C.,;-D  



