Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5852-YAR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TIHAMA V REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 25, 1986
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
Agriculture 1 Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS AT APPRAISAL
US$1.00           =    Yemeni Rials (YRls) 6.5
YR1 1.00          =    US$0.154
YRls 1 million    -    US$153,846
(As of May 1985)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 millimeter (mm)      =  0.039 inches
1 meter                =  3.28 feet
1 square meter Cm2)    =  10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)       =  0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)         =  2.47 acres
1 metric ton (ton)     =  2,205 pounds
1 liter (1)            = 0.264 gallons
1 l/s                  =  One liter per second
1 m3/s                 = One cubic meter per second
1 Mm3                  =  One million cubic meters
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AMC      =     Agricultural Marketing Company
ARA      =     Agricultural Research Authority
CACB     =     Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank
CPO      =     Central Planning Organization
DCA      =     Development Credit Agreement
ECWA     =     Economic Commission for West Asia
EEC      =     European Economic Committee
FAO/CP   =     Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank
Cooperative Program
ICB      =     International Competitive Bidding
IDA      =     International Development Association
IFAD     =     International Fund for Agricultural Development
KFAED    =     Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
LCB      =     Local Competitive Bidding
M&E      =     Monitoring and Evaluation
MAF      =     Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
MECO     =     Military Economic Corporation
O&M      =     Operatian- 'nd Maintenance
ODA      =     Overseas Development Administration of the United Kingdom
PPF      =     Project Preparation Facility
SMS      =     Subject Matter Specialist
SURDP    =     Southern Uplands Rural Development Project
SURDU    =     Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit
TDA      =     Tihama Development Authority
UNDP     =     United Nations Development Program
YAR      =     Yemen Arab Republic
GOVERNMENT OF YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



YM    ARAB RUBLIC    FOR O°CAL U  OLY
TIRA  V - REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
I. BACKOrD . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
A. Project Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
B. The Agricultural Sector  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         2
II.  THE PROJECT AREA AND DEVELOPMENT POTENTIAL . . . . . . . .        10
A. Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        10
B. Potential for Agricultural Development . . . . . . . .        18
1II.   THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       19
A. Project Rationale and Scope  . . . . . . . . . . . . .        19
B. Detailed Project Features  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        21
C. Status of Project Preparation  . . . . . . . . . . . .        28
D. Cost Estimate  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        28
E. Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        29
F. Procurement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        31
C. Disbursement . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        32
H. Accounts and Audits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        34
I. Environmental Impact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        34
J. Riparian Issues  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        35
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        35
A. Institutional Arrangements . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         35
B. Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        37
C. Hbnitoring and Evaluation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        41
D. Progress Reporting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         42
E.  Lands for Project Facilities . . . . . . . . . . . . .       42
Project was prepared by FAO/CP in March/April 1985 and appraised by IDA in
April/May 1985. This report is based on the findings of the appraisal mission
to Yemen Arab Republic consisting of Messrs. S. Rana, Senior Irrigation
Engineer and Mission Leader; H. Nasr, Agriculturist; M. Woldu, Economist
(EMPA1); and Mr. D. Nasterton, (Consultant) Agricultural and Livestock
Production Specialist.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of tdoir officia dute Its contents may not otherwie be disclsed without World Bank authorization.



CPe No.
V. PROJECT BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS . . . . . . . . .    42
A. Production . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    42
B. Financial Analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    44
C. Taxes and Cost Recovery  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    46
D. Economic Analysis  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    48
E. Benefits and Justification . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    49
F. Project Risks  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    50
VI.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   50
TABLES IN TEXT
1.1    Agricultural Performance (Key Indicators)  . . . . . .    3
2.1    Landholding Pattern  . . . . . . . .a. . . . . . . .a .  11
3.1    Project Cost Estimate  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   29
3.2    Proposed Financing Plan  . .    .        . .  .   . ..   30
3.3    Procurement Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       32
3.4    Disbursement . .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . .     . . . . . . .  33
3.5    Disbursement Schedule   . . . . . . . .      .           34
5.1    Present and Future Crop rields. ...... .                 43
5.2    Present and Future Crop Production . . . . . . . . . .   44
5.3    Net Farm Income  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .45
5.4    Incremental Taxes  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   46
5.5    Rent and Cost Recovery . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   47
ANNEX 1:
Supporting Tables
I.    Production of Main Crops  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   53
2.    Number of Cropland Classes and Farm Families  . . . . . .   54
3.    Development Schemes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   55
4.    Sumary of Hydrology  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    56
5.    Project National Staff (Regular)  . . . . . . . . . . . .   57
6.    List of Vehicles, Heavy Equipment and Machinery . . . . .   58
7.    Irrigation Areas and Water Requirements-Wadi Siham , , ,    59
8.    Technical Assistance and Foreign Training . . . . . . . .   60
9.(a) Summary Account by Project Component . . . . . . . . . .    61
9.(b) Summary Accounts by Year  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   62
9.(c) Breakdown of Summary Accounts . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   63
10.    Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of IDA Credit  . . . .   64
11.    Distribution of Farm Families on Representative
Frm, Models . . . . . . . . . . .                . .      65
12.    Financial Crop Budgets Per Hectare-'Farm Types LA
and  1B    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..........66
13.    Crop Budgets Per Hectare -Farm Types 2A and 2B  . . . . .   67
14.    Crop Budgets Per Hectare-Farm Types 3A and 3B  . . . . .    68
15.    Crop Budgets Per Hectare-Farm Types 4A and 4B  . . . . .    69



Paige No.
ANNEM I (Continued)
16.  Net Farm Income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         70
17.  Increseatal Taxes and Recovery Charges   .    .  .  .   .         71
1B.  Cost and Rent Recovery at Full Development  . . . . . . .         72
19.  Fiancial and Economic Prices . .. .... ... ...                    73
20.  Quantifiable Economic Cost and Benefit Streams  . . . . .         74
21.  Sensitivity Tests . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         75
AMEX 2: Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project File  . . . . . . . . . . . ..            .  .       76
CEARTS
Vbrld Bank-27699: (a) Typical Well-Irrigated Farm and
(b) Typical Well- and Spate-Irrigated Farms .        77
Vbrld Bank-27761:  Crop Calendar  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      78
World Bank-27693:  Overall Implementation Schedule  . . . . . .      79
Wbrld Bank-27694:  Organization of Implementing Agencies  . . .      80
IBND 19224 - Tibama V Regional Development Project-Project Area
IBRD 19225 - Wadi Siham Development Scheme



YEN ARAB REPBLIC
TIM   V REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DLPMET PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CREDIT AN  PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower: Government of Yemen Arab Republic.
Amount: SDRs 9.0 million (about US$10 million equivalent).
Terms: Standard IDA.
Beneficiaries: Inhabitants of the Tihama Region.
Lmplementing Agency: Tihama Development Authority (TDA).
Project
Obiectives and
Description:     Improvement of agricultural productivity and farm incomes in
the Tihama region by propagating suitable technical packages
and improving irrigation water management; and strengthening
of development institutions to ensure sustainability of
project benefits. The Project would consist of:
construction of extension buildings and marketing centeis,
provision of vehicles, equipment and machinery and
appointment of staff to establish regional extension,
veterinary and O&M services for Tibama region; construction
of irrigation infrastructure to serve about 7,000 ha in Wadi
Sihai including well irrigation; construction of
demonstration farms and training farmers in improved
irrigation and agricultural practices (46,000 ha);
construction of feeder roads (62.4 km); provision of
technical assistance to strengthen TDA in extension,
engineering and monitoring and evaluation; and
project-related training.
Benefits
and Risks:       The project would benefit about 44,000 farm families
comprising about 220,000 people in the development of
agriculture in Tihamn region. The provision of marketing
centers and feeder roads under this project, and the keenness
shown by the Government of YAR to implement reconmmendations
of an ongoing study on marketing (Credit 805-YAR) are
expected to improve the marketing infrastructure which could
otherwise be inadequate for coping with the increased
agricultural production, particularly of fruits and
vegetables. The main risks include inadequate local funding,
delays in appointing expatriate staff and shortage of
qualified counterpart staff. The Government has undertaken
to take appropriate actions to overcome these problems.



- is -
Proiect Cost-'
Local         ForeiRn          Total
(US$ million)
TDA Headquarters Support (Technical
Assistance)                             0.2             1.9            2.1
Establishment of Regional Services
Extension Including Veterinary          1.4            5.4             6.8
Operation and Maintenance               0.2            1.5             1.7
Irrigation Development                        3.5             7.0           10.5
Feeder Roads                                  1.2             1.8            3.0
Incremental Operating Costs                   6.2             3.1            9.3
Total Base Cost                     12.7           20.6            33.3
Physical Contingencies                        1.1             2.2             3.3
Price Contingencies                           4.4             6.0            10.4
TOTAL PROJECT COST                     18.2            28.8           47.0
Financing Plan:
Other Financing Including
IDA         Government's Contribution
Foreign  Local    Foreign         Local
Item                            Costs   Costs       Costs         Costs     Total
(I$US million)
Civil Works
Irrigation Development          4.6    2.7          6.3           3.0      16.6
Feeder Roads                     -      -           2.4           1.8       4.2
Buildings                        -      -           1.3           0.9        2.2
Vehicles, Equipment
and Macainery
Extension Service                -      -           2.2           0.3        2.5
O&M Service                      1.2    -           -             0.2        1.4
TJA Headquarters                 -      -           0.3           -          0.3
Technical Assistance
Engineering Consultants          0.6    -           0.6           0.1        1.3
Other Consultants                -      -           4.0           0.4        4.4
TDA Headquarters Support         -      -           0.7           0.1        0.8
Fellowships and Training           0.7    0.2         -             -          0.9
Operatins Costs                    -      -            3.9          8.5       12.4
TOTAL                         7.1    2.9        21.7          15.3      47.0
Estimated Disbursements:                     IDA Fiscal Year
1987  1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
(US Million)
Annual                      0.2   0.5    1.2    3.0    3.5    1.1   0.5
Cumulative                  0.2   0.7    1.9    4.9    8.4    9.5  10.0
Economic Rate of Return: 21S
1/ Exclusive of taxes and duties from which the project is exempt.
Differences due to rounding.



YENE AMB REPULIC
TIM   V REGIONAL AGRICTURAL DELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
L BACKGROUND
A. Pro;et B--k*r-u-d
1.01      The Tibaua region (22,000 kim2), which covers the alluvial plains
formed by various wadis,l' namely, Wadi Hyran, Wadi Nakhla, Wadi Mawr, Wadi
Surdud, Wadi Siham, Wadi Rima, Wadi Zabid and Wadi Rasyan, and the coastal
area along the Red Sea, represents about 452 of the country's potential for
irrigated agricultural development (Map IBRD 19224). Since 1973, the
Government of YAR has been implementing a program for exploitation of that
potential in the major wadis of the region with assistance from various
financing agencies including IDA. Of the four IDA-assisted projects so far
undertaken for meeting this objective, Tihama I Project for Wadi Zabid
(Cr. 376-YAR) and Tihaba II and IV Projects for Wadi Rima (Cr. 805-, and
978-YAR) have since been completed while Tihama III Project for Wadi Mawr
(Cr. 880-YAR) is in an advanced stage of implementation.
1.02      In continuing its development drive in the region, the Government
started investigations and preliminary project formulation for development of
the three remaining major wadis, namely, Wadi Siham, Wadi Surdud and Wadi
Rasyan. IDA reviewed the status of these investigations and emphasized the
need for establishment of a strong, effective and unified extension service
for the entire TihAma region, with the integration, in the first instance, of
the services in the areas covered by the first four IDA-financed projects and
in the three remaining wadis to be covered under the proposed project. The
improvement of irrigation infrastructure in these three wadis could be carried
out in parallel, as and when the ongoing investigations demonstrate the
viability of such improvements.
1.03      Feasibility studies for development of irrigation in the Wadi Siham
basin were originally carried out in 1978-81, with joint financing from the
Kuwait Ebnd for Arab Economic Development (KFAED) and the Abu Dhabi Fund, and
were updated in 1981 by the same consultants2' in accordance with
suggestions from IDA. These investigations have shown that the water
resources and the agricultural production potential in Wadi Siham justify the
development of infrastructure to improve irrigation efficiency.
1/ In Arabic language, wadi is a valley. It is also used as a synonym for
stream or channel.
2/ SOGREAH Consulting Engineers, Grenoble, France (Societe Grenobloise
d'Etudes et Applications Hydrauliques).



-2-
1.04      The Government of YAR requested IDA to co-finance the proposed
regional development project with KFAED. Based on the updated feasibility
study of SOGREAR, FAO/CP prepared in April 1985 a regional development project
for Tihama region including irrigation development of Wadi Siham.
B. The AMicultural Sector
1.05      General:  YAR has an estimated resident population of 7.7 million
with an annual average growth rate of 3% (World Bank Atlas 1985). An
additional number, about 1.4 million, are migrant workers in the Gulf area,
mostly in Saudi Arabia. Of the resident population, 7.0 million (91%) live in
rural areas, and 5.4 million (70%) are engaged in agriculture. In 1983, the
GNP at market prices was estimated at US$ 3.9 billion, giving an average GNP
per capita of about US$510.
1.06      The total land area of YAR is estimated at 20 million ha, of which
approximately 3.5 million ha (18%) are cultivable, the rest being mostly steep
slopes and desert. However, only about 1.35 million ha are actually
cultivated annually, of which about 1.12 million ha (83%) depend on rainfall,
about 110,000 ha (8%) on spates and about 120,000 ha (9%) on wells, springs
and streams which provide perennial irrigation. The remainder, about
2.15 million ha, are marginal lands in low rainfall areas cultivable only once
every three to five years depending on the amount of precipitation. Although
limited endowment in water resources constrains agricultural development, YAR
has untapped agricultural potential in its four major agricultural zones (the
Tihama region, the Western slopes, the Eastern slopes and the Central,
Southern and Northern Highlands areas) where cereals, fruits, vegetables and
some industrial crops are grown.
1.07      The two important factors for YAR's economy are the level of migrant
workers' remittances and oil production in the country. The known remittances
reached an estimated US$1.0 billion in 1981 amounting to about half the GDP
and have stabilized since then. In view of the persistent economic slowdown
in neighboring oil exporting countries, remittances are expected to
stabilize. Oil was discovered in 1984 in the eastern part of the country, and
it seems that exploitable reserves may be large enough to meet local demand
and leave room for export of crude starting about 1988. Production, which is
estimated to range between 100,000 and 400,000 barrels per day (bpd), may help
achieve high economic growth (about 8% p.a.) if 400,000 bpd level is reached.
A4iculture in the Economy
1.08      Agriculture is the backbone of YAR's economy contributing about
35-40% of the country's GDP, and employing about 70% of the resident labor
force. The average annual growth of agricultural production during the past
decade is estimated at 1.0%, with large interannual variations resulting
mainly from fluctuations in rainfall. Despite their limited water resources,
the Yemenis have achieved a remarkable degree of agricultural efficiency,
applying traditional techniques in groundwater and surface irrigation dating
back to the Marib Dam era of the 7th century B.C.



-3-
1.09      Agriculture in YAR is mainly subsistence-oriented.  Domestic cereal
production accounts for about 60-70S of consumption requirements. The
shortfall is met through imports, which reached YRls 2.0 billion
(US$450 million) in 1982, representing about 30S of total merchandise
imports. The trends of agricultural performance in the overall economy of the
count-y are presented in Table 1.1.
Table 1.1: A43tral Performanee
(Key Indicatos) nl
1977        1979        1981    1983'-'-
YRls Million
Food and Live Animal ImportsLA          1,543        1,895      2,864       NA
Agricultural Value Added'               2,409        3,458      3,685    3,596
Percentages
Agricultural Imports as Percentage
of Total Imports                         NA           24         35        30
Agricultural GDP as Percentage
of Total                                 36           39         38        32
/1 Source: Central Planning Organization.
/2 In current prices.
13 Provisional.
1.10     The structural changes in the pattern of agricultural output which
have occurred in recent years due to the relatively free market forces are:
(a) a significant decline in the production of low-value traditional crops
(mainly sorghum and millet) and (b) an increase in the production of
high-value crops, the demand for which is income elastic (e.g., legumes,
fruits and vegetables), and qat.e' Wheat is gradually replacing sorghum as
the major cereal crop due to consumer preference. Oat is the most important
cash crop in the country and is estimated to be grown on about 40,000 to
50,000 ha (mostly in highlands). Because of low production cost and high
prices, it is the most profitable crop, competing with horticultural crops and
coffee production. Agricultural exports from YAR are practically nil.
Production of major crops is presented in Annex 1, Table 1. The steep
reduction in the production of cereals by more than 501 in 1983 is attributed
to drought conditions, manifesting their heavy dependence on rainfall. Being
irrigated by groundwater, tree crops are less affected by occasional droughts.
1.11     Livestock and Poultry.  Total livestock population in the country is
estimated at 0.9 million cattle and 3.8 million sheep and goats. Animal
production remains traditional and is handicapped by inadequate veterinary
1/ A mild stimulant plant. Value added derived from the production and
distribution of Sat is not included in GDP.



-4-
services and meager and uncertain local feed supplies which are largely
supported by imports. Based on increasing consumer demand, poultry production
shows considerable potential for further expansion, having already made a
significant contribution to the economy during the past three years. While
there were no modern poultry farms earlier, in 1984, there were 242 broiler
farms, with a combined annual output of about 30 million birds, two large
layer farms, and two hatcheries capable of producing 30 million day-old chicks
annually.
1.12     Forestry.  The limited forestry resources of YAR continue to be
depleted at an alarming rate, primarily to meet local fuelwood requirements.
A project, expected to be supported by bilateral financing, is presently under
consideration to develop a national forestry program that would include
existing forestry activities at Dhamar, El Hazel and Wadi Rima and the 18
forest nurseries which already exist at strategic sites throughout the country.
1.13     Fisheries.  The fisheries subsector is characterized by traditional
fishing technology, marketing and organization. At present, an estimated
3,000 full-time fishermen land about 11,600 tons of fish annually, which has
an ex-vessel value of YRls 67 million (US$10.3 million). The country's
sustainable potential has been estimated at about 30,000 tons annually. The
principal constraints in this subsector have been the lack of
fisheries-related infrastructure, low productivity of existing technology and
lack of technical and extension services. Under the IDA-financed on-going
Fisheries Development Project (Cr. 1025-YAR), the General Corporation for the
Development of Fisheries Resources (GCDFR), which is the Ministry of
Agriculture and Fisheries' (MAF) executing agency for fishery development
projects, has helped establish some infrastructure and is now initiating
efforts to promote artisanal fisheries through the provision of supporting
services, such as, credit and extension.
Agricu#wa    wt Seri
1.14     MAF is responsible for overall development of agriculture in the
country and functions through 9 central directorates and 11 regional offices
in the seats of all Governorates. Autonomous corporations, like GCDFR, and
semiautonomous organizations, such as, the TihAma Development Authority (TDA),
the Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank (CACB) and the Agricultural
Research Authority (ARA), also fall within the jurisdiction of MAF.
1.15     Extension.  There is no national extension service in YAR; the
extension activities at present are limited to those under individual projects
managed by the Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit (SURDU) and the Tihama
Development Authority (TDA), a center each in Sana'a and Dhamar both supported
by bilateral assistance, and two centers in Hodeidah financed by an FAO/UNDP
project. While the extension programs under TDA and SURDU have produced good
results, much less progress was made in reaching farmers with extension
services in other areas of the country, mainly owing to lack of skilled
personnel, low remuneration and inadequacy of local funding. However, the
Government recognizes the key role of extension service and is taking various
steps to strengthen the service. The main requisites are: (a) establishment
and strengthening of permanent institutions to provide an extension service on
a regular basis, and (b) promotion of linkages between the extension and



research services. These could be achieved by establishing a national
service, but MAF itself is not yet institutionally strong enough to handle the
additional responsibility involved. However, as an intermediate step towards
ultimate national integration, MAF should start integrating existing
project-based services into regional services.
1.16     Research.  Agricultural research at the national level commenced in
1973 and is presently organized under the IDA-assisted Agricultural Research
and Development Project (Cr. 1259-YAR). Under that project, ARA was
established (1983) to coordinate, inter alia, applied research being
undertaken at the local level under individual projects in different parts of
the country. ARA has made notable advances in: (a) developing improved
varieties and technical production packages for the main cereal crops and
vegetables, and (b) pest control to deal with banana fruit spotting, powdery
mildew, termites, blights, etc. Research contacts with the extension service,
particularly in the Southern Uplands, have steadily been increasing. Similar
steps are also underway in the Tihama region.
1.17     Credit.  Institutional credit f3r agricultural development is
provided by CACB, which is presently being assisted under IDA-financed
Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 1308-YAR). Lending has increased
substantially during the last four years from YRls 50 million in 1978/80 to
YRIs 165 million in 1984. Lending for farm machinery and on-farm irrigation
(mostly pumpsets) absorbed about 70S of the medium- and long-term loans,
followed by poultry projects (14X). At present, CACB chaiges 92 on short-term
loans and 10  on medium-term loans-'.  The major constraints to the
efficient operation of CACB are: (a) difficulties in loan collection which
have eased lately (para. 2.13), (b) shortage of trained manpower and funds,
and (c) lack of coordination between credit and extension.
1.18     Education and Training.  Vocational schools for technical level
in-country training suffer from poor facilities, under-funding and inadequate
curricula, and consequently cannot cope with the projected demand for
qualified staff in YAR. At the higher level, engineering and agricultural
faculties have been established at the University of Sana'a, but prospects for
meeting the demand of the sector in the near future are not bright as the
first batch of graduates will not be available until about 1989. The
Government still relies heavily on expatriate staff not only for implementing
projects, but also for managing various support services. Gradual replacement
of such staff by local counterparts, as anticipated, has not taken place in
the past due to the inadequacies in technical assistance programs. Overseas
training of Yemeni professionals, though beneficial for the country at large.
has not helped the public sector sufficiently due to (a) non-enforcement of
the obligation of trainees to work for Government upon their return and
(b) lower remuneration levels and often adverse working conditions compared to
the private sector. The lack of adequate manpower with the requisite skills,
therefore, continues to be a major constraint to agricnltural development.
There is an imperative need for the Government to evaluate the medium- and
long-term training needs at the regional and national levels and plan to meet
1/ Inflation rate in YAR has been 6-11 during the years 1981-1985.



-6-
them adequately through (a) project-based training and (b) freestanding
training programs. The proposed project incorporates this approach for the
Tihama region (para. 3.25).
1.19      Marketing.  Marketing of agricultural produce has been undertaken
essentially by the private sector, with Government intervention limited to
basic food imports and cottone The system is fairly competitive and includes
various channels through which farm outputs are marketed. Although there are
inefficiencies within the existing system (mainly inadequate storage and
packing facilities), farm produce continues to be distributed to rural and
urban markets throughout the country. The Agricultural Marketing Company
(AMC) was established in 1981 as a joint venture of public and private
organizations with the objective of buying, grading and selling agricultural
producs to wholesalers, but lately it has run into financial prollems due to
heavy expenditure on infrastructure and staff and over-concentration in
marketing of a single crop-tomatoes. In 1984, AMC became a subsidiary of
Military Economic Corporation (MECO).-'  Services provided by MECO are not
confined to the Armed Forces; it cooperates with other public and private
corporations in the fields of agriculture, industry and marketing. With the
experience and support of MECO management, AMC is expected to improve its
performance in marketing. Problems in marketing, particularly of fruits and
vegetables, and provision of infrastructure are being addressed in the Tibama
region through a study under Credit 805-YAR, expected to be completed y the
end of 1985 and followed up by appropriate action thereafter, and the
establishment of marketing centers provided under the proposed project
(paras. 2.35 and 3.19).
Major Constraints and Current Status
1.20      Major constraints to agricultural development include: (a) shortage
of public funds and skilled manpower, (b) weak agricultural institutions and
marketing. (c) inadequate knowledge of the water resources potential and its
poor unnagement, and (d) lack of an effective institution responsible for
operation and maintenance (O&M) and capable of ensuring sustainability and
full achievement of benefits envisaged under various development projects.
1.21      The shortfall in public investment funds could possibly be met by
increased on-farm investments by the farmers themselves. The rural savings
from remittances could be mobilized for investment, especially in the
improvement of vell irrigation schemes.  To overcome shortages of skilled
manpower, the Government should prepare and implement plans to train the
Yemenis in the related fields (para. 1.18).
1.22      The Government, which is aware of the institutional weaknesses in
the sector, looks to external financial and technical assistance to improve
the situation.  Establishment of a regional extension service under the
proposed project would strengthen extension in the Tihama region and pave the
way for establishment of a national extension service (para. 3.03). Also, the
steps being taken to improve marketing are expected to yield results in due
course. The IDA-financed Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 1308-YAR) is
l1 MECO was founded in 1973 to import consumer goods needed by the Armed
Forces.



-7-
designed to strengthen the capability of the CACB by improving loan appraisal,
supervision and recovery (para. 1.17). Similarly, the IDA-assisted
Agricultural Research and Development Project (Cr. 1259-YAR) is expected to
mke research more effective in meeting needs of extension. The establishment
of an O&M service in the Tihama region, as proposed in this Project
(para. 3.03), should provide a basis for gradually extending this vital
service to other regions of the country.
1.2.3    To date, the potential of surface and groundwater resources of the
country has not been fully assessed. The spatial distributiom of tubewells,
the amount of abstraction from the groundwater and the spate diversions in
various wadis and regions of the country were not systematically planned in
the past to ensure balanced abstractions and recharge   That situation is now
being corrected in areas which are being successively dereloped.  The
operation of Wadi Zabid Project (Cr. 376-YAR), completed in 1980, has -evealed
that imbalance between the aquifer abstraction and recharge is slowly but
steadily on the decline. Similar improvement is expected in Wadis Rima and
Mawr, where development projects are presently under implementation, as well
as in Wadi Siham, which will be covered by the proposed project. A study
currently being undertaken by the Government of YAR, with assistance from the
Government of The Netherlands, and partly slpported by IDA (Cr. 978-YAR),
would assess the potential of water resources toL the entire Tihama region and
make recommendations on further development. Similar studies are also
proposed under IDA supported projects in the Central Higb1.ands (Cr. 1453-YAR)
and in the Wadi Al-Jawf (Cr. 1584-YAR). Furthermore, the Government is also
coasidering carrying out a water resources study et the national level.
Government's Development Strategy
1.24     The Government's main objectives in the agricultural sector, as
articulated in the Second Five-Year Plan (1982-86), include: (a) reducing the
dependence on food imports and, thereby, reducing the trade deficit;
(b) raising the incomes of farmers, and (c) providing additional raw materials
for agro-industries. Public investments have focused on irrigated
agriculture, being developed in the coastal Tihama plains and more recently in
the Wadi Al-Jawf in the northeastern part of the country, on rairfed
agricultural development in the high rainfall areas of the Southern Uplands
and Central Highlands, as well as on institution building, including
training. The private sector is very active in agriculture with the
Government essentially playing a complementary supporting roiL  and engaging in
minimum regulatory intervention. Recently, however, the Government has banned
importation of certain fruits (citrus, bananas and apples) and imposed 1002
import tax on vegetables, principally on balance of payments considerations
and, to a limited extent, with a view to encouraging domestic production of
fruits and vegetables. It is expected that these measures will be transitory
and do not represent a departure from the long-standing commitment of the
Government to a policy of reliance on the private sector and an open economy.
1.25     An IDA mission (December 1984) has prepared a paper-' that would
help the Government in determining the scope and direction of agricultural
development in the future. Its main recommendations are to: (a) develop
1/ Yemen Arab Republic: Agricultural Sector Strategy Paper, The World Bank,
Report No. 5574-YAR (Green Cover) June 10, 1985.



-8-
low-cost, self-financing, irrigation improvement projects; (b) expand fruit
and vegetable production; (c) discourage uneconomic production of cereals in
well-irrigated areas; (d) integrate project-based extension services into
regional extension services, coordinated through an appropriately strengthened
NAF's Directorate of Agriculture; (e) develop local institutional capability
through training and technical assistance; (f) improve the agricultural
marketing infrastructure to reflect ongoing changes in trade patterns;
(g) prepare a water master plan to ensure full development of the country's
limited water resources; and (h) establish operation and maintenance services
for completed projects, coordinated by MAF.
EDA's Role in the          Seiicultul c Setor
1.26     Strategy.  IDA's strategy in the agricultural sector aims at
assisting the country in attaining its development objectives %para. 1.24),
and, specifically, helping to raise the standard of living of the rural
population through development projects in areas of known potential. Through
its economic and sector work, IDA has also been able to influence the
country's broad economic policy framework and public investment program.
While supporting regional agricultural development through its lending
operations, IDA has concurrently endeavored to assist the Government in
dealing with sectoral issues. While the recommendations made in the Sector
Paper (para. 1.25) are important elements of agricultural strategy for which
provision in the forthcoming Five-Year Plan and IDA support would be
justified, it is also necessary to tackle some of these issues and tasks in
future increasingly on the basis of a country-wide approach, drawing on the
experience gained, and institution-building achieved, through the past and
ongoing efforts made under the series of TIRANA projects and SURDP and other
area development, research and credit projects. There has, undoubtedly, been
a need initially to proceed on the basis of specific programs for limited
areas, but a stage is now being reached where it is necessary to review the
situation and the strategy in an integrated, country-wide perspective.
Illustrative of this approach is the ongoing program for institutional
strengthening of the Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank, alongside the
provision of funds for on-lending through the Agricultural Credit project.
MDA would assist Government in reviewing the agricultural aspects of the
national plan and, on the basis of past project experience and various studies
carried out under the different projects and with reference to the physical
and institutional constraints affecting the sector, determine the appropriate
courses of future action in the fields of water resource development,
maintenance, agricultural extension and research, marketing of agricultural
produce, training for agricultural staff, and strengthening the Agriculture
Ministry so as to enable it to fulfill adequately the planning and leadership
functions for the sector.
1.27     Completed and Ongcing IDA-Assisted Projects.  IDA has to date
assisted in financing 13 agricultural projects in YAR. The first, approved in
1973, tas the TihMma Development I project (Cr. 376-YAR). In spite of
start-up difficulties and cost overruns, the project was completed in December
1979. The second project, SURDP I (Cr. 545-YAR), the first integrated rural
development project in YAR, was started in 1976 and completed in December
1982. The Grain Storage and Processing project (Cr. 636--'"Atl), the Livestock



-9-
Credit and Processing project (Cr. 662-YAR) and the Tihama Development II and
IV projects (Cr8. 805-, 978-YAR) were completed in 1983, 1984 and 1985,
respectively.
1.28     Ongoing IDA-assisted agricultural projects include SURDP II
(Cr. 1067-YAR) and Tihama Development III project (Cr. 880-YAR) which build
upon the experiences of SURDP I and the previous Tihama projects. These
projects, which are at varying stages of implementation, are making
satisfactory progress, generally after experiencing start-up difficulties due
to financing, managerial and staffing problems of varying degrees of
severity. The Fisheries Development project (Cr. 1025-YAR) has, however, had
implementation difficulties in regard to support for artisanal fisheries
through completing satisfactorily the infrastructural components
(para. 1.13).  Two other agricultural projects-the Agricultural Research and
Development project (Cr. 1259-YAR) and the Agricultural Credit project
(Cr. 1308-YAR) have also entered implementation stage and the third, the
Central Highlands Agricultural Development project (Cr. 1453-YAR), is in the
start-up stage. A credit for the agricultural development of Wadi Al-Jawf,
located in the northeastern part of the country, was signed on September 24,
1985 (Cr. 1584-YAR).
1.29     Lessons Learned. Upon completion, the economic rates of return for
Tihama I (Credit 376-YAR) and SURDP I (Cr. 545-YAR) projects exceeded
appraisal expectations. The Project Performance and Audit Reports for both
projects were generally complimentary about their achievements. However,
these reports as well as the report on the Grain Storage and Processing
Project (Cr. 636-YAR) and the Livestock Development Project (Cr. 662-YAR)
which encountered serious implementation problems highlighted, in particular,
the following difficulties ancountered in project implementation: (a) slow
mobilization of the agencies being newly established, (b) shortage of
technical and administrative staff, tc) escalation in project costs because of
delayed execution, (d) ineffectiveness of monitoring and evaluation programs,
and (e) insufficient recognition of the requirements of the local
environment. The lessons learned from completed and ongoing projects have
been taken into account, as far as possible, in designing subsequent
projects. In particular, the proposed Tihama V Project would (a) cater to the
proven needs for strengthening institutions and providing agricultural support
services in the Tihama region; (b) be implemented by a well-established agency
(7DA); (c) have sufficient staff available for implementation released from
previous projects which have recently been completed; (d) have realistic
implementation period taking into account factors that may cause delays and
(e) be supported by internationally recruited consultants and advisers to
strengthen the implementation unit functions including monitoring and
evaluation.
1.30     IDA's role in the agricultural sector is viewed as a long-term
relationship designed to strengthen the institutional support for agricultural
development. The importance of such IDA involvement is underlined by the
achievements of the first two completed agricultural development projects. In
particular, the proposed project is modelled from the experience of earlier
successful agricultural projects and follows IDA strategy, consistent with the
recomuendations of the sector strategy mission (para. 1.25), of replicating
such experiences in other parts of the country which have sufficient



-10-
development potential. Furthermore, IDA has helped attract a number of
agencies to cofinance in agricultural development. MAF in particular, and the
Government of YAR in general, continue to rely heavily on IDA's assistance and
attach significance to its policy and technical advice they receive. As more
of the IDA-assisted agricultural projects reach their productive phases, a
momentum of agricultural growth would be generated that would have a
significant impact on the sector. It is important, therefore, to maintain
that momentum by appropriate follow-up to those projects with due
consideration for resource constraints, and by strengthening the institutions
essential for sustained agricultural growth. The proposed project is a major
step in that direction.
IL THE PROJECT AREA AND DEVELOPMENT POTENTAUL
A. Description
Physal Features
2.01     Location:  The Tihama region covers an area of 22.000 kmZ (about
400 km long and 30-60 km wide) of coastal plain, bourded on the west by the
Red Sea and rising to an elevation of 200 m where it joins the foothills on
the east (Map, IBRD 19224).  Administratively, about 16,000 km2 of the
region fall within Hodeidah governorate and the rest in Taiz, Hajjah and
Mahweet governorates. The plain is intersected by eight main wadis, namely:
Hyran, Mawr, Surdud, Siham, Rima, Zabid, Nakhla and Rasyan. These wadis
collect runoff from the highlands to the east making their way through deeply
incised valleys to debouch on the coastal plain, where the water is used for
spate irrigation and to recharge the alluvial aquifer for domestic water
supply and well irrigation. Rarely, small surpluses spill over into the Red
Sea. Wadi Siham, for which development of irrigation infrastructure is
proposed, covers an area of about 500 kmz from the port of Hodeidah on the
Red Sea to the piedmonts of Jabal Burah and Jabal Raymah on the east.
2.02     Climate:  The climate of the region is hot, windy and arid to
semiarid.  Monthly averag: temperatures range from 24°C in December-January to
35°C during May-August.  Rainfall varies with location-from only 50 mm in the
arid coastal strip to about 400 mm near the foothills, and occurs during two
periods--May-August (about 701), and December-January (about 30X). Relative
humidity varies from 501 to 70S and average annual evapotranspiration is about
2,300 mm.
2.03     Topography and Soils:  The region consists of eight sedimentary
deltas which have filled the depression between the coastal sand dunes and
foothills. The area is generally extensive and featureless except for some
rock outcrops and courses incised by the wadis. Soil texture ranges from
sandy silt to silty clay. Soils have a high pH, are deep and generally free
draining, low in organic matter (< 11 in the surface horizon), with high
calcium carbonate content and low nitrogen. All soils are easily cultivable
and, in general, have a good potential for sustained production of a wide
range of crops, when irrigated.



-11-
Demowag*k Features Lmid Tenure and Farm Size
2.04     Population.  The region has a rural population of 560,000 inhabitants
in 117,000 families out of a total of about 1.0 million people. Of the rural
families, 78,000 (66S) consisting of an average of 5.1 members are involved in
agriculture and are distributed through about 550 villages and hamlets.
Emigration of labor from the region to neighboring Saudi Arabia has been a
serious demographic feature in the past adversely affecting the availability
of farm labor. However, there are indications that the trend has stabilized
nov.
2.05     Land Tenure and Farm Size.  With the abolition of collective
landownership by tribes in the Tihama region, land is mostly in private
ownership. However, some state land (miri) and religious trust lands (waqf)
still remain. The ownership pattern of the land varies from wadi to wadi but
bears some correlation with the type of traditional land use as reflected
below:
Table 2.1: ImanhoIdib  Pattern
Average Farm          Average Household
Type of_Production Unit                   size (ha)           per Farm (ersons)
Rainfed Agriculture                         18.0                     3.0
Pump Irrigation                             10.5                     5.0
Pump and Spate Irrigation                    6.0                     3.6
Regular Spate Irrigation                     3.0                     2.0
Irregular Spate Irrigation                   6.0                     1.0
The approximate distribution of farm types and number of farm families per
wadi are shown in Annex 1, Table 2.
2.06      Within each of the above categories, there is a very wide range of
pattern of landownership. Less than 50X of agricultural families are
landowners, the remainder being either tenants (sharecroppers) or laborers.
The general tendency for the more extensive rainfed and exceptional spate
areas is to be owner occupied, while in the irrigated areas, only an estimated
20-25S of the farm families own their lands.
2.07      The Government is carrying out a study under Credit 805-YAR, through
ECWA1-', of crop sharing in the region where customary arrangements exist for
the sharing of crop income among tenant, landlord and well-owner. For
spate-irrigated lands, the tenant and the landlord, and, in the case of pump
irrigation, the tenant, the landlord and the pump-owner share the incomes
equally after deducting taxes (para. 5.06). Relations between farm-owners and
sharecroppers have generally been cordial.
1/ Economic Commission for West Asia.



-12-
Organiation and Alicuhua1 Support Services
2.08      Tihama Development Authority (TDA):  The Tibama Development
Authority was established by the Government of YAR in 1973 as a semiautonomous
body for the development of the Tihama region. Subsequent legislation enacted
by the Government in 1981 to streamline functioning of various corporations
and public authorities curtailed some of the autonomy, originally enjoyed by
TDA, by giving more powers to the ministry in charge. TDA has a board of
directors whose chairman and members are appointed by the Government. TDA is
the implementing agency for agricultural development projects in the region
and is also responsible for extension, and operation and maintenance of
irrigation and rural infrastructure. This institution has been functioning
with help from expatriate experts, under various technical assistance
programs, but suffers mainly from shortage of suitably qualified local staff
(para. 3.24) and lack of local funds for operation and infrastructure
maintenance (para. 4.04).
2.09      Extension: Agricultural extension services in the Tihama region
began on a small scale in the Wadi Zabid in 1973 under TDA, were strengthened
in 1975 under IDA-financed Tihama I ProJect (Cr. 376-YAR), and subsequently
extended to Wadi Rima (Tihama II, Cr. 805-YAR) and Wadi Mawr (Tihama III,
Cr. 880-YAR). Parallel to this, but on a much smaller scale, MAF's extension
activities were initiated in other major wadis (Siham, Surdud, Hyran and
Nakhla) of the Tihama region receiving support from the FAO-executed UNDP
projects (YEM/771003, YEM/82/001 and YEM/84/002). While both the programs are
currently being administered by TDA, there is little coordination between the
two due to the absence of an institution to deal with extension on a regional
basis.
2.10      The agricultural extension service is characterized by shortage of
staff, lack of subject matter specialists (SMS), and substandard extension
agents. Also, the service does not have adequate facilities for audiovisual
aids. Of the 86 extension agents (54 in Wadis Zabid, Rima and Mawr and 32 in
other wadis), only 101 have secondary education in agriculture; the remainder
have elementary (402) and secondary (501) levels of nonagricultural
education. This is largely due to shortage of agricultural graduates, as the
output from the existing institutions in the country has been low. However,
since 1982 and 1984, the two secondary level schools at Tbb (Central
Highlands) and Surdud (Tihama), respectively, are annually producing 30
graduates each and the situation is, therefore, improving. The agents are
currently operating from 45 extension centers, of which 18 are in rented
premises. Ten centers are under construction in Wadis Surdud, Hyran and
Nakhla with assistance from FAO/UNDP. The rented premises are inadequate and
facilities similar to those constructed under earlier IDA projects are needed.
2.11      Women in Development.  Recognizing the need for increasing the role
of women in agriculture in order to cope with the shortage of male family
members, who have emigrated in large numbers to the neighboring Gulf states,
and to improve rural living standards, TDA initiated, in 1979, services for
rural development for women as part of the extension program. These services,
supported by IDA Credit (978-YAR) in Wadi Rima and by FAO/UNDP (YEMJ84/002) in
Wadi Siham, include training in agriculture as well as in nonagricultural



-13-
skills, such as, cooking, nutrition, hygiene, sewing and embroidery. The
program is modest with a staff of 2 expatriate associate experts, 1 female
supervisor and a total of 17 extension agents. The lack of national
counterparts and the slow pace in recruitment of female extension agents are
due mainly to reluctance of parents to allow their daughters to engage in
activities outside their homes. Nevertheless, this attitude is slowly
changing. The induction of women into rural development, therefore, has to be
gradual, with properly planned training and education and sensitivity to
aspects of local culture (para. 3.09).
2.12      Agricultural Research:  A regional research station for Tihama was
established at Girbah, supported by two substations in Zabid (17 ha) and
Jarabeh/Surdud (16 ha). Experimental work covers industrial crops, cereals,
vegetables and fruits (bananas, papaya, etc.).  Recommendations for farmers'
applications have been developed in the areas of (a) improved varieties in
sorghum, cotton, okra, bananas, papayas and maize; (b) fertilizers; and
(c) pest control. Despite these achievements, areas in research, related to
irrigation technology (methodology and frequency), fertilizer applications,
particularly, the use of potash and phosphate, seeding techniques, livestock
management and nutrition, require more attention. Also, given the ad hoc
nature of contacts between extension and research staff and the lack of an
effective two-way flow of information, research-extension linkages need to be
formalized and regularized. ARA is addressing these issues in close
collaboration with TDA.   The proposed project would ensure continuity of
these efforts.
2.13      Agricultural Credit:  The primary source of institutional finance
for agriculture in the region is CACB (para. 1.17). Four of the CACB branches
operate at Hodeidah, Zabid, Bayt-el-Faqih and Al Zuhra. In 1984, these
branches provided 73i and 34% of short- and medium-term loans
(YRls 19.2 million and YRls 43.4 million) respectively of the total CACB
lending in the country of YRls 165 million. The loan recovery rate in the
region was about 702.
=wigation and Rura Infrastructure
2.14      Irrigation Infrastructure:  Irrigation systems (Annex 1, Table 3)
have been completed in Wadis Zabid (1979) and Rima (1985) to serve 17,000 ha
and 12,000 ha of irrigation, respectively, and an irrigation system to cover
26,000 ha in Wadi Mawr is currently being constructed. These systems are
designed to replace temporary diversion, conveyance and distribution
structures constructed by the local population, and to provide assured
supplies for maximizing irrigation potential. The operation and maintenance
of these systems up to the tertiary turnouts rests with TDA. Out of about
7,000 irrigation wells in the region, there are an estimated 4,300 in Wadis
Mawr, Siham, Rima and Zabid, all privately owned. Each is fitted with a slow
speed diesel engine driving a turbine pump delivering an average discharge of
8 liters per second (l/s) from wells and 10 1/s from boreholes.
2.15      Roads:  A total of 200 km of rural and feeder roads provide access
to irrigation areas and agricultural centers in Wadi Zabid (94 km) and Wadi
Rima (106 km) from the two main national highways, Sana'a-Hodeidah and



-14-
Taiz-Jizan (Saudi Arabia). Another 148 km are under construction in Wadi
Mawr. Wadi Siham is accessible from the two national highways but suffers
from lack of an internal road network.
2.16      Water Supgly: The supply of potable water to the rural population
of Wadis Zabid, Rime and Mawr (presently under construction) was provided as
part of IDA-supported agricultural development projects (Crs. 376-, 880-,
978-YAR) cofinanced by the Kuwait Fund and by the Federal Republic of Germany
through KfW. However, the supply of drinking water in rural areas not yet
developed agriculturally (Siham, Surdud and Risyan) remains primitive. A
significant part of the population in these areas draws drinking water from
shallow dug wells and streams which are contaminated and unfit for human
consumption.
2.17      Social Services:  Government has provided health and schooling
facilities in the region but only in places close to the main towns. There is
an international airport at Hodeidah. Industrial activity in the region is
increasing and currently consists of factories for cement, cigarettes, ginning
and ice cream, and plants for mineral water processing and vegetable
processing.
Water Resourees
2.18      Surface Water:  Total mean annual flow entering Tihama region is
estimated to be 700 million cubic meters (Mm3), of which 89S (620 Mm3 )
occurs in the major wadis of the region (Annex 1, Table 3). Approximately
half of the total flow is base flow. In Wadi Siham (Map IBRD 19225), which
has a catchment area of 3,000 kM2, the base flow at the entrance to the
plains (upstream of Barquqah) is 27 Mm3 and that at Waqir (lower diversion
point) is 8 Mm3 (Annex 1, Table 4).
2.19      Groundwater:  Along the eastern border of Tihama plain, the
elevation of the groundwater table is between 30 m and 80 m below ground
surface; elsewhere, it is between 15 m and 25 m. Total annual recharge in the
region is estimated to be about 670 Mm3. Estimates, which are not reliable,
indicate that extractions from the aquifer are higher than the recharge. In
Wadi Siham, the total recharge is estimated at about 80 Mm3, whereas the
existing pumpage capacity is about 90 Mm3 and more wells are being added.
Consequently, the aquifer under marginal lands along the coast is constantly
being depleted. Further depletion would affect water supply for the
productive lands.
2.20      Water Quality:  The surface water diverted from the various wadis is
of excellent quality and very suitable for irrigation. The quality of
groundwater, however, varies. In areas east of the Taiz-Jizan road, the
quality is good with conductivity values less than 1,000 mmhos/cm equivalent
to a salt content of 775 mg/liter which presents an acceptable salinity hazard
for irrigation. Towards the coast, salinity gradually increases to more than
4,000 mmhas/cm which requires oroper water management for irrigation to ensure
adequate leaching. Overexploitation of the groundwater resources is fraught
with the danger of salt water intrusion from the sea and deterioration of
groundwater quality (para. 4.26).



-15-
2.21      Water Rights:  Water rights in Tihama, as elsewhere in YAR, follow
the principle that it is free of charge for human and animal consumption. The
use of water for irrigation, whether from perennial flow or from wells, is
under private ownership. In spate-irrigated areas, the upstream landowners
have priority to divert and use the water up to their full requirements,
without abuse. The irrigation systems are designed to regulate and distribute
the available surface water accordingly.
Irrigation Practices
2.22      Surface Water Irrigation:  This category includes:  (a) Regular
Spate Irrigation-in areas close to wadis having first use of spates and base
flow receiving six or more waterings annually, (b) Irregular Spate
Irrigation-in areas further away receiving two to five floods annually,
(c) Exceptional Spate Irrigation-in areas distant from the wadis receiving
water in exces!: of that which could be used in (a) and (b) above, and (d) Pump
and Spate Irrigation-in areas which receive spate irrigation and have an
exploitable aquifer for supplemental pump irrigation. Surface water
irrigation is practiced by the construction of diversion structures of various
types consisting generally of simple traditional structures of uncompacted
earth embankments and stone or brushwood dykes in wadis on which permanent
structures have not yet been constructed. Due to their fragility, these types
of structures are periodically damaged or washed away, necessitating repair or
reconstruction before the successive flood. Only in two wadis, namely, Wadi
Zabid and Wadi Rima, have permanent structures already been constructed, while
in Wadi Mawr similar construction is in progress.
2.23      The conveyance and distribution systems in wadis, other than those
developed by the Government, are rudimentary and inefficient. The
distribution of irrigation water beyond the secondary canals to each area is
carried out, in rotation, from basin to basin-usually 0.5 to 0.6 ha in size
for field crops and much smaller for vegetables. Where tertiary canals
deliver water to the fields, the turnout is simply closed once the basin has
been filled and another is opened. Where the fields are not served directly
by the distribution system, the water is simply gravitated to the next basin
in turn. The basin system of irrigation is used for most crops. However,
responding to extension advice, some farmers are now adopting furrow
irrigation. Furthermore, the demonstration farms to be established and
operated under the proposed project together with the technical guidance
provided by the extension service and the provision of credit by CACB would
encourage the farmers in improving on-farm works to ensure better water
management.
2.24      Spate irrigation, if not applied systematically, gives very uneven
results. In addition to the sporadic nature of floods, the damage they cause
to the system reduces effectiveness of irrigation and adds considerably to the
labor needed for irrigation. The breaching of bunds to distribute water from
one basin to another results in deltoid deposits of sediment which severely
upset the levels, and since these are not immediately restored, water
application is uneven. The existing irrigation efficiency is estimated at
20-25X, comprising 65-752 for conveyance and 55-652 each for distribution and
application.



-16-
2.25      Well (Pump) Irrigation:  Water from pumps is conveyed through
unlined and uncompacted earth ditches to basins which vary in size according
to the topography and the crops grown, ranging from 25 mz to 100 ma where
flood irrigation is practiced. Water losses due to seepage, poor regulation
and field application are high and irrigation efficiency is low, of the order
of about 40X (701, 851 and 65Z for conveyance, distribution and application,
respectively).
,Adicutural Practices
2.26      Cropping Pattern.  Of about 165,000 ha cultivated land in the
region, an average of 50,000 ha remain fallow. For the rest (115,000 ha), the
cropping pattern is as follows: sorghum (661), millet (151), industrial crops
(141), vegetables (21) and tree crops (3S). During recent years, as a result
of the installation of pumps, and improved marketing opportunities for some
crops (tobacco, tomatoes, fruits and vegetables), there has been a noticeable
change in cropping pattern. Although cereals, particularly sorghum, remain
dominant, areas planted with tomatoes, fruits and vegetables have increased
considerably (Annex 1, Table 1).
2.27      Farm Inputs:  Over 70Z of farmers and sharecroppers are expected to
use tractors in the region for ploughing. The majority of farmers use seeds
produced by themselves. However, limited quantities of seeds for improved
varieties of maize, millet, sorghum and cotton, being produced under the Seed
Multiplication Project (managed by the Government with assistance from EEC),
are also available. Vegetable seeds are mostly imported. The use of chemical
fertilizers is confined to high-value crops in regular spate and
pump-irrigated areas. Some use is made of insecticides and, as the
complexities of high-value crops are more widely understood, the use of both
insecticides and fungicides is likely to increase. TDA currently applies most
pesticides used by farmers; but as pesticide use becomes more widespread,
farmers will need to be trained in self operation so that TDA is relieved of
this responsibility. Despite availability of technology for the use of
agricultural chemicals and the availability in the local market of such
chemicals, their application has been limited to the few progressive farmers.
The extension service has yet to play a significant role in demonstrating to,
and convincing, farmers in the region of the use of such inputs.
2.28      Agricultural Production and Crop Yields:  Agricultural production in
the project area, for both crops and livestock, has been essentially
traditional and yields have been below world averages for similar ecological
conditions. However, with the improvements in infrastructure, research and
agricultural services introduced through four IDA-assisted projects and other
assistance in the region, farming methods have begun to change. It is clear
that some farmers are beginning to intensify cropping and to adopt improved
practices, such as, the use of machinery, pesticides and improved varieties,
giving higher yields. Increases in producer prices for fruits and vegetables
have also encouraged this development and have generated interest in
agricultural development on the part of a new entrepreneurial class of
commercial farmer. The present and expected yields of the crops grown in the
region are shown in Table 5.1 (para. 5.03).



-17-
Livestock DeveloDment
2.29      Resources:  Livestock, which are kept for meat and milk production
and for draft purposes, are of indigenous breeds and well adapted to
conditions in the area.  About 44,000 far households are reported as cattle
owners, weetly of small herds kept primarily for draft purposes, and
30,000-40,000 households have sheep and goats. The main resources available
for livestock feeding are: (a) grazing over an estimated 35,000 ha of low
production rangeland, (b) stubble grazing over a crop area ranging from about
120,000 ha to 180,000 ha, (c) stover or forage from 80,000-130,000 ha of
cereal, and (d) agro-industrial by-products which include about 6,500 tons of
cottonseed hulls and 2,300 tons of sesame seed cake.
2.30      Production:  Livestock husbandry practices are traditional and
production suffers due to poor nutrition.  There has been no livestock
production resesrch in the region to date. However, the extension service has
demonstrated the introduction of forage legumes within a cereal rotation which
has found some acceptance among farmers. Improved feeding methods have also
been successfully demonstrated, while breed improvement programs have been
initiated. The region's livestock sector holds considerable development
potential for which research and extension will have to be coordinated in
order to introduce development techniques best suited to the local conditions
and the environment. Also, veterinary services, provided by previous
IDA-assisted projects and with ODA1' support, need to be supplemented to
meet the region's requirements.
Operation ad M      e
2.31      There is no organization in the region, or even in the country, to
carry out regular operation and maintenance (0&M) of the infrastructure
constructed in the agricultural sector. Provision of funds was made in all
previous IDA-assisted projects in the region for equipment and machinery for
maintenance of the systems, but due to (a) shortage of trained staff, (b) lack
of realization by the authorities of the importance of operation and
maintenance, and, consequently, (c) low priority attached by the Government to
the allocation of funds for purposes other than capital investment, this
important institution has not yet come into being. The only activity in the
region in this field is the appointment of an expatriate engineer provided by
KFAED for operation and maintenance of the Wadi Zabid infrastructure
(Cr. 376-YAR), but due to the above-mentioned reasons, his accomplishments
have also been limited. To augment the dwindling staff and other resources
after completion of the Wadi Zabid project, TDA has been relying upon the
staff and equipment provided under the repeater projects in the region, but
those would terminate with the completion of the projects. This issue would
be addressed under the proposed project by establishing a permanent O&M
service in the rerion to be extended subsequently to other regions of the
country (para. 3.20).
1/ Overseas Development Administration of the United Kingdom.



-18-
B. Potential for AyricuItura1 DeveloDment
2.32      Infrastructure.  Land suitable for sustained crop production is
plentiful and the climate of Tihama region is suitable for year-round
production of a wide range of crops. The main factors determining the
potential are the amount of water available for irrigation and the way in
which this is applied. Construction of irrigation infrastructure in three
major wadis (Zabid, Rima and Mawr) has already led to more efficient water
distribution and has, consequently, reduced the danger of production loss due
to floods causing damage to traditional structures. Similar improvements
could be made in the remaining wadis including Wadi Siham. In spate-irrigated
areas, the irrigation efficiency could be increased from the existing 20-25Z
level to at least 35-40S by improving the irrigation infrastructure and
adopting appropriate practices (para. 2.24). Similarly, in well-irrigated
areas, by improving conveyance, distribution and water application, the
irrigation efficiency could be raised from 40S, as estimated at present, to
about 60X (para. 2.25). These improvements could lead to availability of
additional water for irrigation at the farm level, which would result in an
increase in crop area or a switch over by farmers to higher water demanding
cash crops.
2.33      Practices:  Improved technology is available for all crops grown in
the region (para. 2.12). Improved varieties of most of the main crops are
already available and increasing in use. Further improvements are possible
and, in addition, some new crops, like soybeans now under test, could in
future have a place in crop rotations of the region. Improved seeds are
becoming more readily available through the Seed Multiplication Project
(para. 2.27), and improved seedlings for tree crops are available in
sufficient numbers from regional nurseries.
2.34      Present use of chemical fertilizers is extremely low, but research
and field demonstrations have established recommended rates for all crops
which under normal conditions yield large benefits. While further research on
fertilizer use is urgently needed to optimize response under different
conditions, the results already available can serve as the basis for the first
generation of extension recommendations. Research has produced solutions to
many of the plant pest problems, opening opportunities for substantial yield
increases of existing crops as well as introduction of new crops which could
not previously be grown economically. Extension recommendations based on the
proven cultivation practices and irrigation methods and frequency for most
crops have been prepared. These technologies and recommendations have,
however, reached only a small percentage of farmers to date, primarily because
extension services are in their infancy, are not well structured nor fully
organized and have weak links with research. By putting the region's
extension service on a firm footing, ensuring its -roper linkage with research
and establishing a regular O&M service, agricultural production can be boosted
and livestock developed in the region.
2.35      With the exception of cotton, producer prices for most crops allow
attractive returns to producers which would remain attractive even with
significant price reductions. The best returns per hectare and per work day
are for tobacco, vegetables and fruits. Agricultural development in the



-19-
region would call for providing an adequate marketing infrastructure to handle
the increased production, particularly of the perishable commodities, e.g.
fruits and vegetabies. Modest investments would be needed to provide market
centers, at this stage at least, in the major towns of the region to handle
production on a weekly or daily basis. The marketing study undertaken under
Credit 805-YAR (para. 1.19) is expected to help the extension service focus x-n
crops which have secure markets and also suggest investments to improve
marketing.
M. THE PROJECT
A. Project Ratonale ad Scope
Prjec Rationale
3.01      For the agricultural sector to play its traditionally vital role in
the economy of YAR, it should continue to grow substantially, and the growth
should be sustainable. It is important, therefore, that: (a) agricultural
production should be made profitable and less risky for the farming commtmity
through the introduction of appropriate technologies and practices, and
provision of necessary inputs, credit and marketing facilities; (b) the
country's limited water resources should be exploited in a prudent manner
through their proper management for irrigation; and (c) the institutions which
are needed to continue to provide supporting services for the agricultural
production and development efforts should be streamlined and strengthened.
These considerations underlie the approach set out in the Agricultural Sector
Strategy Paper (para. 1.25) and constitute the basis for the proposed project
in the Tihama region of YAR, which has the largest potential for agricultural
development in the country. The project will build on, and carry forward, the
program already launched by the Governmene of YAR, with IDA support for
progressively developing irrigated agriculture in various wadis of the Tihama
region, combined with the provision of agricultural support services
(pars. 1.28).
3.02      Technology for increasing agricultural production, which already
exists in a part of the TihAma region covered by previous projects, should be
improved further through extension and research and disseminated to extend
development to the entire region. Appreciable success in irrigation
development and extension under these projects is evidenced by the increase in
irrigated areas as well as in crop yields. Also, some techniques for
improving the application of irrigation water at the farm level, including
making conjunctive use of spate and groundwater, which have already been
demonstrated and are being implemented on a limited scale, should be refined
and propagated further. Area development in Wadi Siham (one of the three
remaining major wadis in the region) on the above lines and provision of
extension services in the region as a whole, together with some augmentation
of marketing facilities, as envisaged in the proposed project, would thus be a
continuation and intensification of the Government's drive to increase
agricultural production in the region.



-20-
3.03      At present, other than some limited support provided under the
existing projects, there is practically no institution in the country to take
over the important functions of 0&M after the project implementation units are
disbanded. Likewise, the MAF's regional offices are not strong enough to
assume extension service responsibility after the projects' support is
terminated. Now that project-based development has been initiated in three
main wadis of the region, and similar activities are proposed to be undertaken
in Wadi Siham, the time has come to establish regional institutions for
agricultural extension as well as for O&M of the infrastructure provided under
these projects. The initial establishment of these regional services in the
TihAma region, and similar development in other regions, would also facilitate
the eventual establishment of national agricultural extension and O&M
services, once MAF is institutionally strengthened (para. 1.22). Experience
to be gained with organizational arrangements for 0&M would also provide the
basis for replication in other parts of the country. Thus, the rationale of
the proposed project is basically to undertake these institution-building
activities in the favorable circumstances of the Tihama region as a major step
towards a similar country-wide effort.
Project Sw
3.04      The primary objectives of the proposed project are to:  (a) increase
agricultural production in the country. (b) improve utilization of the
available land, water and human resources, (c) help substitute for
agricultural imports, (d) strengthen the region's agricultural extension
service, and (e) establish a regional operation and maintenance service.
Within the framework of these objectives, the proposed project would finance
technical assistance, infrastructure, equipment and machinery to assist and
strengthen TDA in carrying out the regional development. The project
components would include the following:
(a) Agricultural Extension:
Ci)    construction of extension buildings;
(ii)   provision of vehicles, equipment and machinery;
(iii) provision for field demonstrations and establishment of
nurseries; and
(iv)   appointment of staff and training required to establish the
extension service.
(b) Veterinary Service:
(i)    construction and equipping of a regional laboratory, two
veterinary stations and housing for staff;
(ii)   provision of a mobile clinic and transport; and
(iii) appointment of additional staff required.
(c) Irritation Development:
Ci)    construction of two diversion structures on Wadi Siham, two
wadi crossing structures for the main canals and a network of
92 km of main, secondary and tertiary canals and appurtenant
structures to irrigate about 5,760 ha;



-Z1-
(ii) construction of downstream flood protection works; and
(iii) establishment of demonstration farms.
(d) Infrastructural Development:
(i)   construction of 62.4 km length of feeder roads; and
(ii)   construction of marketing centers in four major towns in the
region.
(e) Resional O&M Service:
Ci)   appointment of three expatriate advisers and appointment and
training of Yemeni staff to establish a permanent service in
the region, and
(ii)   purchase of vehicles, equipment and machinery.
(f) Credit: (To be provided directly by the Government of YAR through
CACB)
(i)    provision of medium-term credit for improvement of
well-irrigated farms, planting of tree crops and purchase of
farm machinery; and
(ii)   provision of short-term credit for farm inputs.
(g) Technical Assistance and Training
Ci)   appointment of experts and consultants to strengthen TDA in
engineering and extension, and monitoring and evaluation; and
(ii)   overseas training of Yemeni staff in engineering (80 m/m 1/)
and agricultural specialization (108 m/m).
B. Detafiled Project Features
Ra0al  DI' iltul Extension Service (Base Cost US9.A Milim) 2/
3.05      Aim:  Until recently, the agricultural extension service in the
Tihamn region has been provided by TDA and NAF. TDA's activities have been
restricted mainly to Wadis Zabid, Rims and Mawr where irrigation development
projects have been initiated. The MAF's extension activities with the
FAO/UNDP project have been restricted to other wadis in the Tihama region
(para. 2.09). The project would aim at unifying and strengthening the
regional extension program covering all wadis of the Tihama.
3.06      Structure and Methodology:  The project would establish an extension
service structure with a single line of command and with direct
responsibilities for all agricultural extension activities in the Tibama
region including rural development for women. This would comprise the
establishment of an extension division at the central level (Hodeidah) and
three subregional sections (northern at Al Zuhra, central at Bajil and
southern at Zabid) (Map IBRD 19224). The service would support two
complementary and mutually reinforcing approaches to extension and information
1/ Man-months.
2/ Includes cost of Marketing Centers (para. 3.19).



-22-
transfer based on personal contacts between the extension agents and farmers,
and field demonistrations on the one hand and the use of mass comrunication and
audiovisual aids on the other.
3.07      To adequately provide extension services to the estimated 44,000
farm families for whom proven improved technology packages exist, about 140
trained extenm.ion agents would be required, based on a ratio of about one
extension agent to 250-300 farm families in intensively cropped areas (pump
and regular spate irrigation) and to 500 in irregular spate-irrigated areas.
These criteria are based on experience under previous IDA projects in the
Tihauma as well as on the intensity of farming and travel distances involved.
There would be an increase of 53 extension agents from the present situation
(Annex 1, Table 5). Two to three agents would operate from one extension
center. Each agent would be assigned a specific territory within the area
serviced by a center and would be responsible for providing to resident farm
families assistance in all aspects of the farming system. The agent's
activities would mainly comprise of field demonstrations (0.1-0.3 ha plots in
farmers' fields) and regular farm visits to 8-10 contact farmers. Also, each
agent would conduct field days (farmers gathering in field demonstration plots
to discuss improved technology) with the participation of farmers and the
research organization. The agents' activities would be regularly supervised
by extension supervisors, employing about one supervisor to ten agents. The
agents would also receive technical support and in-service training from
subject matter specialists (S1S) on livestock, horticulture, irrigation,
agronomy, field crops, plant protection and mechanization, operating from the
subregional officc;... This face-to-face extension method would be supplemented
by information transfer based on the use of mass communication and audiovisual
aids. Under the proposed project, the communication and information
propagation efforts initiated on a limited scale in some parts of the Tihama
region under previous IDA projects (Crs. 805- and 880-YAR) and UNDP would be
strengthened to fully complement the regional development program.
3.08      Linkages with Research:  Close interrelationship of the extension
service with research would be developed through an intensive schedule of
interactions between the extension and research staff in research fields as
well as farmers' fields, where verification trials and field demonstrations
are conducted. Extension agents would thus become more acquainted with
research findings, and the research st-aff with field applications of such
findings and with farmers' problems. To ensure strong linkages, TDA and ARA
would institute joint extension and researcL. groups (on the same lines as
being developed in SURDU) with farmers' participation at both the central and
subregional levels to review progress and impact of extension and the adequacy
of technological packages and to identify farmers' problems to be addressed
through research.
3.09      Rural Development for Women.  The proposed project would assist in
further developing TDA's ongoing activities in rural development for women
(para. 2.11). This would be undertaken at a pace appropriate to the
availability and acceptability of female extensiqn agents to undertake such
work and the capacity of the institutions to train such agents. The project
would provide for a gradual increase in the number of female extension agents
from 17 to 38 and extension supervisors from 1 to 7. The agents would operate
from the extension centers and carry out regular field and home visits to



-23-
leader farmers, workers or housewives, one agent helping about 8-10 women.
The contacts would continue to cover a full range of activities both in
agricultural and nonagricultural fields (para. 2.11). The female extension
supervisors, at a ratio of 1 to 6-7 female agents, would assist in the
preparation of work programs and would supervise their implementation. At the
central level, a home economics and nutrition specialist in coordination with
agricultural specialists would be responsible for the overall planning,
monitoring and evaluation of the program for the rural development for women.
Because of the shortage of trained female technicians in YAR and in order to
launch the program effectively, the project would provide 144 m/m of
expatriate specialist technicians.
3.10      Sand Dune Stabilization:  A pilot sand stabilization program
patterned on the same lines as in Tihama IV Project (Cr. 978-YAR) would
incorporate shelter belt plantations covering about 750 ha. Seedlings of
various varieties of plants for this program would be made available from the
existing nurseries in the Tihama region. The annual capacity of these
nurseries estimated at 100,000 seedlings is adequate to meet the project
requirements.
3.11      Investments under this component would include those for civil
works, equipment including vehicles and technical assistance. Civil works are
estimated at about US$2.2 million including contingencies and would include an
information center, one subregional office, 18 extension centers and 2
irrigation wells for demonstration farms. The vehicles and equipment
(Annex 1, Table 6) and furniture are estimated to cost US$2.5 million
including contingencies. The total incremental operating costs of the
extension service including nurseries and rural development for women through
year 4 is estimated at YRls 19.9 million (US$3.1 million). The total annual
operating cost for the extension service subsequently is estimated at about
YRls 14.0 million (US$2.2 million).
Regional Vetermnary Service (Base Cost US$0.8 Mhlion)
3.12      Aim: The services presently being provided by HAF with ODA
assistance (para. 2.30) and those provided on a project basis would be
combined in one service under TDA, which would assume full responsibility for
aaimal health and nutrition in the region in accordance with the veterinary
regulations and livestock development policies of MAF.
3.13      Structure and StaffinR:  The organization for veterinary service
would be structured in parallel with that for livestock production research
proposed for agricultural extension-with headquarters, laboratory and
quarantine facilities located at Hodeidah, and subregional field services
controlled from veterinary centers located at Al Zuhra, Bajil and Zabid. The
unified service, in coordination with agricultural extension service, would
advise farmers on improving livestock feed and provide for improved diagnostic
and quarantine capability and an expanded field service for rinderpest and
sheep pox vaccinations, animal treatment and disease reporting.
3.14      Investment:  The component would include construction, furnishing
and equipping of a regional laboratory, 2 veterinary stations and housing for
3 veterinarians, provision for a mobile clinic and 18 motorcycles. The



-24-
additional staff would include 3 veterinarians for headquarters, 6 veterinary
assistants and 12 vaccinators. The annual operating costs are estimated at
YRis 1.0 million.
h'muiton Develozment (ase Cost US$10.5 Mil)irl
3.15      Aim:  Irrigation development would aim at (a) construction of
control structures and irrigation canals to ensure effective water management,
(b) improvement of conveyance and distribution systems and field application
in spate- (5,760 ha) and well-irrigated areas (1,260 ha) in Wadi Siham
(Annex 1, Table 7) and 3,690 ha in the rest of the region and (c) reduction of
infrastructure maintenance cost by ensuring efficient operation of the system.
3.16      Irrigation Works:  These would include permanent diversion works on
Wadi Siham at Al Barquqah and Waqir; improvement of existing spate canals;
construction of new main, secondary and tertiary canals to deliver about
34.3 M'3 of water at fanm inlets to serve regular, irregular and spate
irrigation in conjunction with groundwater; and construction of embankments to
divert surplus wadi flow for recharging the aquifer at desired locations (Map,
IBRD 19225), as follows:
(a)   Al-Barpugah Scheme
i)  Diversion Headworks:  These would comprise a 150-meter long
reinforced concrete weir and closure dykes containing a
breaching section (fuse plug) to handle a 20-year flood of
1,500 m3/s. an offtaking canal regulator with a capacity of
10 m3/s and a sediment control structure. The fuse plug
would be designed to restore normal Lunctioning of the
headworks soon after the flood, causing its collapse, recedes.
(ii)  Distribution Network:  The system would maintain traditional
water rights of users upstream as well as those of precedence
in the use of water. The desi, would allow that: (a) lands
currently irrigated would be given priority; (b) the right to
regular floods would be reserved for upstream lands, while
flood flows would be used for lands furthest downstream;
(c) additional available water would be allocated on a
priority basis for irrigation intensification in the
downstream direction; and (d) water distribution would be
organized on a rotational basis, with upstream areas having
priority over the downstream areas. To meet the above
operation criteria, the distribution network would comprise:
(a) a main canal, about 15 km long, having discharge capacity
of 10 m3/s in the upper reach and 5 m3/s in the lower;
(b) two secondary canals, one 4 km long and the other 5 km
long; (c) a 5 m3/s capacity wadi crossing (siphon or
aqueduct) to convey irrigation water from the main canal on
the right to irrigation areas on the left of the wadi;
(d) tertiary canals totalling about 12 km; and (e) drops,
checks, bridges and constant flow offtakes (turnouts), as
needed.



-25-
(b)   Waqir Scheme:
(i)   Diversion Readworks:  These would include an 80-meter long
reinforced concrete weir and a closure dyke containing a
breaching section (fuse plug) to handle a 20-year flood of
1,400 m3/s, an offtaking canal regulator of 10 m3'J
capacity and a sediment control structure.
(ii) Distribution Network: Designed on the same criteria as for
Al-Barquqah scheme [para. 3.16(a)(ii)], it would include
(a) three main canals (totallinf 13.5 km) with discharge
capacity ranging from 10 to 4 m /s; (b) four secondary
canals (10 km); (c) a 4 M3/s capacity wadi crossing to
convey water from the left bank to the right side of the wadi;
(d) tertiary canals (totalling 33 km) and (e) drops, checks,
bridges and turnouts, as needed.
(c)   Downstream Flood Protection Wbrks:
To ensure flood protection to the adjoining towns of Marawa and
Qutay downstream of Waqir and diversion of flood flows to recharge
the aquiffr in the godeidah water supply well fields, the following
works (earth and rockfill embankients) would be constructed:
Wssset Embankment: This 1-km long dyke would prevent spillage from
Wadi Qutay back to Wadi Siham.
Dar-ul-Hiba Interdune Closure: A 700-meter long plug in the
interdune passage would prevent flood flows from entering the
Hodeidah area and divert these to recharge the aquifer of Bayda
well fields.
Marawa Interdune Closure: Two dykes (2 km) would protect Marawa
town from flooding and divert wadi floods to Marawa plain for
exceptional spate irrigation.
(d)   Demonstration Farms:  Improvement in the on-farm irrigation
practices is vital to ensure efficient use of the scarce water
resources of the region. However, success in adopting modern
practices would depend upon the acceptance by the farmers of those
practices which would be demonstrated in four new demonstration
farms (10 ha each) to be established, two in Wadi Siham and one each
in Wadi Mawr and Wadi Rima and in the two existing farms in Wadis
Zabid and Mawr which would be upgraded. These farms, to be
established on Government-owned lands and run by the project,
typically as shown in ChartL' (World Bank-27699), would
demonstrate: (a) techniques for laying out tertiary canals to
divert spate flows to fields without causing damage to bunds and
grades of fields, (b) sprinkler and drip irrigation, and
(c) improved irrigation practices for making conjunctive use of
1/ Design criteria were discussed with TDA and are included in the Project
File.



-26-
spates and groundwater. These farms would also demonstrate improved
agricultural practices, would be operated by the extension service
and maintained in coordination with the Engineering Section of the
project.
Ibfastructure DeveloDment
3.17      Feeder Roads (Base Cost US$3.0 Million):  In order to provide access
from Hodeidah-Sana'a highway to major irrigation works and to main
agricultural villages and market centers, feeder roads (62.4 km) would be
constructed as follows (Map, IBRD-19225):
Sector 1:  Qutay-Waqir-Khalifa                     - 11.6 km
Sector 2:  Bajil-Ad Dhiman-Al Barquqab-Mahal
(Dar) Shuma-Sakla-Khalifa               = 27.9 km
Sector 3: Marawa-Malakdiya-Suleymaniya-Dawn-
Kurd-Khalifa                            = 22.9 km
3.18      Desion Criteria:  The height of compacted embankment of the roads
above the natural ground surface (stripped by 10 cm) would be 0.9 m in spate
irrigation areas and 0.6 m in well irrigation areas. The gravel surfacing of
the 4.5 a wide roads would be 0.15 m thick. Cross drainage pipes and culverts
would be provided under the roads at regular intervals of 200 m in irrigated
areas and at about 600 m spacing for the remainder of the roads. Other
criteria including grading of gravel would be the same as those being applied
in Wadi Mawr (Cr. 880-YAR) and in accordance with the specifications of the
Highway Authority of YAR, which are satisfactory.
3.19      Marketing Centers (Base Cost US$0.2 Million):  These facilities
would be constructed at Bajil, Marawa, Al-Zuhra and Zabid to provide outlets
for production in the region and would be operated and maintained by the town
councils. Each marketing center (200 .2) would comprise permanent sheds for
display and storage of agricultural produce with facilities for grading,
weighing, packing, loading and unloading (para. 1.19).
ReiXonal ODeration and Maintance (0&M) Service (Base Cost UE$5.7 Mllion)
3.20      Aim:  For reasons explained earlier (para. 2.31), ar.sistance would
be provided to the Government of YAR for the establishment of a regular O&M
service for the Tihama region, under TDA, for carrying out operation and
maintenance of irrigation and rural infrastructure, including feeder roads and
buildings constructed previously and of those proposed to be constructed in
the future for agricultural development in the region. TDA would assume
responsibility for this service.
3.21      Organization:  The TDA's O&M organization (Chart, World Bank-27694)
would consist of a regular contingent of a Chief O&M Engineer, two Senior O&M
Engineers, a Senior Mechanical Engineer, four Assistant O&M Engineers, two
Assistant Mechanical Engineers, four Field Supervisors, two Mechanical
Foremen, a secretary and a storekeeper. Gate operators and daily labor would
be appointed, as needed. Expatriate advisors consisting of a Chief OWM
Adviser, two Senior O&M Advisers and a Senior Mechanical Adviser would be
appointed for a period of 3 years for a total of 12.5 man-years.



-27-
3.22      Investment:  In addition to the appcintment of above-noted advisers,
the project would provide for purchase of (a) machinery comprising 3 crawler
tractors, 1 hydraulic excavator, 3 motor graders, 1 wheel loader, 2 dump
trucks, 2 water tankers and a mobile workshop; (b) 4WD vehicles, including 2
long-wheel base and 2 pickups; and (c) 30 motorcycles (Annex 1, Table 6).
3.23      Operating Costs:  The project provision would cover (a) salaries for
local staff (YRls 6.1 million) and (b) operating costs of vehicles and O&M
machinery and equipment (YRls 20.5 million) over a period of four years until
the establishment of the service. For subsequently continuing the service,
the Government would provide funds to TDA for (a) salaries of local staff
(YRIs 2.0 million per year), operating costs of vehicles, machinery and
equipment and replacement costs (tYRls 6.5 million per year); and (b) special
repairs to infrastructure works as needed (estimated at about YRls 2.5 million
per wadi- per year (in 1985 prices) (para. 3.30).
Technical Assdstance and lining
3.24      Technical Assistance:  The project would provide about 103 man-years
of technical assistance (Annex 1, Table 8) for carrying out irrigation works,
agricultural programs, establishment of O&M service and support to TDA
headquarters staff (para. 2.08). Technical assistance has been designed such
that the expatriate experts would gradually be phased out and replaced by
their national counterparts over 4-5 years (para. 4.03).
3.25      Training:  In addition to on-the-job project-related training
received by the local counterparts and other staff from experts appointed
under various technical assistance programs, the project would provide 80 m/m
for higher education and training-of TDA staff in engineering (water
resources, d&M and construction management) and 10Ob m/m of foreign training in
agriculture comprising 96 m/m of degree training and 12 m/m of study tours
(Annex 1, Table 8).
Agicultuall Credit
3.26      Following successful demonstration of improved irrigation and
agricultural practices in the demonstration farms [para. 3.16(d)], the farmers
would be expected to adopt those practices on their fields. For that purpose,
the farmers would require credit for tree crop development, on-farm
development, livestock development and farm machinery. It is estimated that
total farm development investment costs would amount to YRls 67.1 million
(US$10.3 million). Experience to date has shown that a considerable part of
farm development is financed by the farmers from their own resources or from
sources other than CACB. However, considering large investments required for
farm development, it is expected that about 751 of the farmers comprising
small farmers would require medium-term credit. On each farm, the quantum of
credit granted would represent 752 of investment cost, so that medium-term
credit would be about 562 of the above investment cost amounting to a total of
about YRls 38.0 million (US$5.8 million).
3.27      Adoption of improved practices will involve additional costs for
cultivation, fertilizer, pesticides and others. It is estimated that 601 of
the farmers will require seasonal credit amounting to 1002 of incremental



-28-
input cost in the first year of development, reducing to 401 over a period of
5 years. On this basis, total incremental short-term credit needs of those
farms are estimated at YRIs 18 million (US$2.8 million). Assurances were
obtained from the Government at negotiations that it would provide CACB with
necessary resources, facilities and personnel to undertake the additional
agricultural credit activities generated by the Project, including livestock
development [para. 6.01(a)].
C. Statu of Projeet Prepsration
3.28      Engineering designs of civil works for feeder roads and buildings,
scheduled for construction during the first two years of project
implementation, are ready. The final designs for the feeder roads prepared by
SOGREAN are available for preparation of tender documents. For extension
buildings, standard designs of TDA as used in Wadis Rima and Mawr are
satisfactory and would be adopted. The Engineering Section of TDA
(para. 4.03) will prepare tender documents and the final construction drawings
for these works from the data and details drawn from the final designs for
feeder roads and type designs for extension buildings.
3.29      SOGREAN has prepared designs for irrigation improvement works as
part of updated feasibility study for Wadi Siham (para. 1.03). These designs
are in sufficient detail for cost estimation and preparation of bid documents,
scheduled to be carried out during the first two years of project
implementation. However, the Government of YAR will employ consultants during
the first year in consultation with IDA and other concerned financing agencies
for preparation of detailed designs for construction (para. 4.03) which is
scheduled to start in the third year of project implementation (Chart, World
Bank-27693).
D. Cost Estmte
3.30     The cost of the project, including physical contingencies and
allowances for expected price increases, is estimated to be YRls 305.5 million
(US$47.0 million), with a foreign exchange component of US$28.8 million or
611. The base cost estimate is calculated using unit costs as prevailing on
similar ongoing projects in the region adjusted to the first quarter of
calendar year 1986. The costs for vehicles and machinery include necessary
provision for spare parts. The project is expected to be implemented over six
years, with disbursement period extending to seven years (paras. 3.41 and
4.07). Physical contingencies on construction costs have been calculated at
10-15Z and allowances for expected price increases on the foreign exchange
components at 71 annually in 1986 and 1987 and 7.51, 7.71, 7.61 and 4.51 in
years 1988, 89, 90 and 91-92, respectively, and on the local component at 101
in 1986 and 8S annually during 1987-90 and 61 in 1991-92.  Average cost of
consultants is estimated at US$5,600 per man-month. The estimate does not
include taxes from which the project is exempt. The Government agreed at
negotiations to provide YRlf, ?3.5 million in 1985 prices annually for
continuing the regional extension, veterinary and O&M services after these
services are established and YRls 2.5 million per annum in 1985 prices for
special repairs to irrigation infrastructure in each wadi where such
infrastructure has been constructed [para. 6.01(b)]. The cost estimate is
summarized below and the details of expenditure schedules are presented in
Annex 1. Tables 9(a, b and c).



-29-
Table 1.1:  re       oset  ,Est rimte 
tR1u tNilltann           111sf tlIl1inni     Foreign Saso
Loepi  Pareim, Tntal  Lncsl  Fermign  Total  tyCbMn2L_ CQsta
r. fflwstmflt Cot.
A.  TA H  dquaartes Support"2                1.1    12.6    13.7    0.2       1.9      2.1      92       7
*.  Tstabl1 I    t of Reginal Services
Extansain'                            8.6    32.8    41.4    1.3       5.1       6.4     79       19
Veterinary                            6.,      1.9      2.5    0.1     0.3       6.4     76        1
Operation and Maintepance!2            1.0     9.6    15.8    0.2       1.5      1.7     91        S
C.  Irrigtion Develon _t                    22.9    45.2   t8.1    3.5        7.0     10.5      66      31
D.  Feeder aods                              7.8    11.7    19.S    1.2       1.8      3.0      66       9
II.     40-5tal Cfrato C.ts                      £       23        i      LI       3        la        2      21
122. Total gasaline Costs (I, 111 .l    JI 1  ZIAS  J12                         33.1     Ila       f3     233
Physical Contingencies                     7.0    14.1    21.1    1.1       2.2      3.3      67      10
Price Contingencies                       2A3     ILl    °L        Li      Lll    124         55      31.
IV. Total Projwt Cost3                          118.1   167.4   305.5   18.2    26.3       47.0      61     141
ai Differnces dW to rounding.
i  2ncludes Technical Assistance mounting to YTis 31.96 millten (U554.9 million as baes  cst . and training
*unmting to SIls 3.52 million (USS0.54 smllion).
a    s  not includ  Credit enrnonent estimated to cost VRIs 56.0 million (USs8.S) to be financod directly
by CACS.
E. F 
3.31           The IDA credit of SDR8 9 million (US$10 million equivalent) would
finance about 251 of the foreign exchange component and 16S of local costs or
about 211 of the total cost. The balance of the project cost (US$37 million)
would be financed by other cofinanciers (KFAED and the Government of the
Netherlands) and the YAR Government (para. 3.32).  The borrower of the IDA
credit would be the Government of YAR, which, through MAF and TDA, would
utilize the credit in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in a
Development Credit Agreement (DCA).
3.32           During negotiations with the Government, a project financing plan
was agreed upon, in principle, as follows:



-30-
Table 3.2: Pronosed Financina Plan
IDA            KFAED         Netherlands    YAR Government
Forelgn/Local   Foreign/Local   Foreign/LAocal   ForeignLl/Local   Total
Civil Wrks
Irrigation Development
Canals & Structures            4.6    2.7                                                           7.3
Diversion Works. Wadi
Control & Demonstration
Farms                                        6.2    2.2                                 0.9       9.3
Feeder Roads                                      2.4    1.8                                          4.2
Buildings                                                          1.3    0.9                         2.2
Vehicles. Equipment and
nachiner
Extension Service                                                  2.2    0.3                         2.5
O01 Service                      1.2                                                         0.2      1.4
TDA Headquarters                                                   0.3                                0.3
Technical Assistance
Engineering Consultants          0.6              0.6                                        0.1      1.3
Other Consultants                                                 4.0    0.4                          4.4
TDA Headquarters Support                          0.7    0.1                                          0.8
Fellowships and Trainina           0.7    0.2                                                           0.9
_ZjRonrtina Services &
Operating Costs                                     1_                               2,                ILA
TOTAL                         Z.1    La        OIL9   L4a       Z. L   L& k     22i
GRAND TOTAL                      10.0             15.0             9.4              12.6          47.0
These Include imported Items. e.g. fuel. lubricants and spare parts procured locally.



-31-
3.33      Special Account:  Provision has been made that TDA may open and
maintain a US$1.0 million special account for funding the items to be financed
by IDA (para. 3.32). The IDA financing would be channelled through a
commercial bank of the choice of the Central Bank of Yemen. The special
account would be operated on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. IDA
may, however, accept in appropriate cases withdrawal applications directly, in
excess of US$50,000, for direct payment and agreement to reimburse.
F. Procurement
3.34      Procurement of all items under the project would be carried out by
TDA and, for items to be financed by IDA, in accordance with IDA's Guidelines
for Procurement of August 1984 and Guidelines for Use of Consultants of August
1981.
3.35      Works:  The construction of main canals, distribution network and
appurtenant structures estimated to cost US$7.3 million (IDA financing:
US$7.3 million) including contingencies would be procured by international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank's procurement guidelines.
3.36      Goods.  The procurement of heavy machinery (Annex 1, Table 6) and
vehicles for 0&M service estimated to cost US$1.4 million (IDA financing:
US$1.2 million) including contingencies would be made by ICB.
3.37      Miscellaneous.  Items of miscellaneous goods, which cannot be
grouped and would cost less than US$50,000 each, could be procured by local
competitive bidding (LCB) procedures up to an aggregate cost of US$500,000
over the entire project implementation period. LCB Procedures of YAR are
generally consistent with the need for economy and efficiency in the execution
of the project. Rowever, in order to make these procedures fully consistent
with IDA's procurement guidelines, assurances were obtained from the
Government that (a) all bidders shall be treated equally in terms of the
requirement of furnishing bid or performance security and (b) bids arriving
after the stipulated deadline for the submission of bids shall not be
considered [para. 6.01(c)].
3.38      Services:  For recruitment of engineering consultants, for design
and construction supervision of civil works, estimated to cost US$1.3 million
(IDA financing: US$0.6 million), IDA guidelines for use of consultants will
be followed.
3.39      Contract Review:  For goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$100,000 or more, and for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$200,000 or more, IDA would review and approve the text of invitation to
bid, tender documents and contracts before they are issued/awarded. IDA would
thus carry out prior review of procurement documents and awards for at least
US$8.6 million out of total cost of US$10.0 million (IDA financing
US$9.1 million) for procurement of goods, works and services.
3.40      The procurement methods to be followed for project elements to be
financed by IDA would be as follows:



-32-
Table 3.3: Procurement Plan
Procurement Procedure  /1
/2      Not
Items                              ICE      Other      Applicable   Total
(US$ million)
Civi - Works
Irrigation Development
(a) Canals and Distribution
Network                      7.3  (7.3)                          7.3 (7.3)
(b) Diversion Structures and
Demonstration Farms                          9.3                  9.3
(c) Feeder Roads                                  4.2                 4.2
(d) Buildings                                     2.2                  2.2
Goods and Materials
Vehicles for O&M                  0.2  (0.2)                          0.2 (0.2)
Heavy Machinery for O&M           1.2  (1.0)                          1.2 (1.0)
Vehicles & Machinery for
Extension Services                              2.5                  2.5
Vehicles and Equipment
for TDA Headquarters                            0.3                 0.3
Services
Engineering Consultants           1.3  (0.6)                          1.3 (0.6)
Other Consultants                                4.4                  4.4
TDA Headquarters Support                         0.8                 0.8
Fellowship & Training                                      0.9 (0.9)   0.9 (0.9)
Support Services &
Operating Coats                     _             12.4                 12.4
TOTAL                       10.0  (9.1)   36.1      0.9 (0.9)  47.0 (10.0)
/1 Figures presented in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by
IDA credit. Costs include contingencies.
/2 Procurement procedures (involving competitive bidding) of the concerned
cofinanciers.
G. Disbursement
3.41      The proposed IDA credit of SDRs 9.o million (US$10.0  million
equivalent) would be disbursed in seven years in accordance with the IDA
guidelines for withdrawal of proceeds of loans/credits as follows:



-33-
Table 3A: Disbursement
Category                                  Expenditure to be Financed
Amount                   S
(USS million)
a) Construction of Canals and
Distribution Network              6.55       100S
b) Vehicles and Machinery for O&M       1.15       100S of Foreign Expenditure
and 80S of Local Expenditure.
c)  Technical Assistance                0.55       50S of Foreign Expenditure
d)  Training                            0.75       100S
g)  Unallocated                         1.0
TOTAL                                  10.0
3.42      Full documentation is necessary for all foreign currency denominated
contracts above US$10,000 equivalent and US$20,000 equivalent for local
currency. For all contracts under US$10,000 equivalent in foreign exchange
and US$20,000 equivalent in local currency, however, withdrawals from the
Credit Account will be carried out on the basis of Statement of Expenditure
(SOS). Related contracts and supporting documents such as invoices, bills of
lading, receipts, etc. would be retained by TDA and made available for review
by IDA staff on supervision mission. Disbursements with the SOE procedure are
not expected to exceed US$500,000.
3.43      The estimated schedule for disbursement of the proposed IDA credit
(Annex 1, Table 10) given below is generally consistent with the country
profile except that the period of disbursement is one year shorter than the
country profile to take into account the fact that the project implementing
agency (TMA) is well established and experienced and as such is expected C3 do
better than many organizations in YAR. Also, disbursements during the first
three years will be slower, because main components to be financed by IDA "ill
not go into full implementation stage until the third year of project
implementation.



-34-
Table 3.5: DibursemetSchedule
Disbursements                                 IDA Fiscal Year
1987   88     89      90     91     92    93
(US$ Million)
Annual                      0.2   0.5    1.2    3.0    3.5    1.1   0.5
Cumulative                  0.2   0.7    1.9    4.9    8.4    9.5  10.0
Profile (2)                 2     7     19      49     84     95   100
Actual Profile (Years)      1     2       3      4      5       6     7     8
YAR (Z)                   4    16     34      54     72     86    95    100
EMENA Agriculture (Z)    3    15      33      52     69     83    92    100
PL Accounts and Audits
3.44      TDA would maintain separate records and accounts, adequate to
reflect the financing sources' receipts and expenditures undertaken for the
project, clearly identifying the goods and services procured and works
performed. TDA has the experience and resources to maintain the accounts in
accordance with sound and consistently applied accounting principles as
demonstrated in the cases of previous Tihama projects (Crs. 805-, 880- and
978-YAR). Also, CACB would maintain separate accounts for the short- and
medium-term lending operations in Tihama region.
3.45      The accounts of both the project and TDA would be audited annually
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The auditor's report would include,
inter alia, a statement that the funds advanced by IDA for the special account
were used for the purpose for which they were provided. Though the past
experience of Government's handling of accounts and audits of IDA-supported
projects in YAR has varied, the experience has been favorable in the cases of
TihAms projects. Assurances were obtained from the Government during
negotiations that only those auditing firms whose qualifications and
experience are acceptable to IDA would be employed for this project and that a
certified copy of audited accounts, together with the auditor's report, would
be submitted to IDA within 6 months of the close of each fiscal year
[para. 6.01(d)].
L Environmmental  pact
3.46      Except in Wadi Siham and on farms where investments would be made to
improve water use efficiency, no major changes in croppiag pattern or land use
are expected. Where changes in cropping pattern are made, these would entail
the planting of tree crops and an increase in the area of vegetables.
Production of these crops and sand dune stabilization program are expected to



-35-
improve the existing dry and dusty environment. Improved techniques, such as
furrow irrigation for vegetables, will result in uniform application of
irrigation water eliminating hazard of uneven vater distribution. Irrigation
infrastructure works in Wadi Siham will improve the control of spates and
lessen the damage caused by high floods both to the irrigation sy3tem itself
and also to lands and property in the project area.
3.47      Use of agricultural chemicals would be a very important component of
the development techniques proposed, and a considerable increase in the use of
pesticides is foreseen. The dangers inherent in, and the optimum use of, farm
chemicals would be an important part of the training of village extension
agents and of the advice to be. given to farmers. Proper disposal of chemical
containers by farmers will be closely monitored by the extension service.
J. Riparian hewe
3.48      All flows (spates and base flow) occurring in the Tihama region have
catcbment areas within the political boundary of YAR; therefore, there is no
international rights problem in the use or regulation of these flows for
agricultural development of the reg-ion. Within the project area, the
development works have been designed not to interfere with the traditional
water rights of the farmers.
IV. ORGASNIZkTION AMD MANAGEMENT
A. Isual Arrangemets
4.01      Implementing and Executing Agencies:  Tihama Development Authority
(TDA) (para. 2.08) would be responsible for all aspects of project
implementation including, but not limited to, field investigations, planning,
design, procurement, construijtion a-;d O&M. TDA would need regular staff
(Annex 1, Table 5) to carry out these responsibili,!s under the proposed
project. CACB would handle the short- and medium-term credit requirements for
agricultural development of the region. The organizational structure of these
inatitutions is presented in Chart (World Bank-27694).
4.02      A study of the organization, structure and procedures of TDA was
carried out by the Sudanese Consultant Bureau in association with PA
Consulting Services Limited during the years 1981-83. The study focussed
exclusively on the organization within TDA and suggested improvements in the
functions of various sections within the Authority. The proposed
organizational se_up of TDA takes those recommendations into account. The
study, however, did not deal with the relationship between TDA and other
governmental agencies.
4.03      TDA is responsible for the implementation and operation of
agricultural development projects in the region (para. 1.27). The Authority
has a regular staff of about 500 and had a total budget of YRls 80.0 million
in 1984. Although the Authority was established in 1973, it still depends
heavily on foreign technical assistance in  nagement and engineering.
Nevertheless, this is one of the best organizec and effective institutions in
the country. Its Engineering Section is well staffed and capable of preparing



-36-
final designs for buildings and roads (para. 3.28). However, for complex
designs of major irrigation works, TDA needs engineering support
(para. 3.29). Under this project, the technical assiLtance component has been
designed to (a) strengthen the institutional capacity o; T74) to handle
Tihama V implementation tasks with minimum input of expati'.te staff and
(b) support the process of "Yemenization" by phasing out expatriates whose
functions will be gradually taken over by the local counterparts and staff
trained on-the-job or under a separate training program in related fields
(para. 3.24). Most of the local staff needed for project implementation
(Annex 1, Table 5) are expected to be available from projects being completed
within the region (Crs. 805-, 880- and 978-YAR) and other sources within the
country. Assurances were obtained from the Government at negotiations that
the staff needed for implementation of the project would be appointed in a
timely manner and necessary incentives would be provided to the staff to
attract and retain them in the project [para. 6.01(e)].
4.04      TDA's effectiveness could be enhanced by overcoming certain
institutional constraints. These are: (a) TDA is not fully authorized to
independently hire and retain staff which causes skill gaps at all levels;
this is further aggravated by lack of salary incentives. (b) TDA has to go
through lengthy and cumbersome procedures for hiring and seeking governmental
clearances for the expatriate staff and in dealing with other agencies of the
Government (mainly Customs, Manpower and Immigration). (c) The availability
of local funds is not assured in a timely manner. (d) TDA is not effectively
involved in the approval of contracts by the Government's High Tender
Committee resulting in abnormal delays in arriving at decisions to conform
with the procedures agreed with outside financing agencies. The Minister of
Agriculture gave assurances during negotiations that TDA would be allowed to
exercise its autonomy to the extent permitted by law, in particular, with
regard to overcoming the above constraints (para. 6.01(f)].
4.05      The Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank (CACB) would provide
insti.utional credit for regional agricultural development. Despite various
difficulties and problems faced in its working, CACB, assisted by IDA
(Cr. 1308-YAR), has been reasonably successful in its objectives. CACB and
TDA would jointly prepare a work procedure which would ensure coordination
between the two services in processing and evaluation of loan applications for
agricultural credit. The Government will forward the coordination plan to IDA
by July 1, 1987. Assurance to this effect was received from the Government at
negotiations [para. 6.01(g)].
4.06      The regional development activities would be carried out directly by
TDA through various departments as shown in the organization chart. For the
development of Wadi Siham, a project office would be established under TDA
headed by a local Project Manager. He would be assisted by a Project Engineer
and an agriculturist (expatriates) to complete the irrigation infrastructure
and feeder roads and to carry out agricultural activities in coordination with
the regional extension service. On completion of Wadi Siham project, this
project office would continue functioning as the Central Subregional office
under an agriculturist Manager. Similarly, the project offices presently
functioning for Wadis Zabid/Rima and Wadi Mawr would, on completion of those
projects, become the Southern and the Northern Subregional offices,
respectively.



-37-
B. Proiect ImDlementation
4.07      Project implementation is planned for six years, with the seventh
year provided to complete all disbursements, as shown in Chart (World
Bank-27693). Project mobilization would be completed and procurement actions
for construction of Al Barquqah Scheme and feeder road Sector I initiated
during Year 1. All procurements including those for major civil works, except
downstream reclamation works, would be completed during the first three
years. This period includes about six months for project mobilization, about
one year for finalization of designs where needed, and preparation of tender
documents, and about one year for tendering and award of contracts, and is
based on the past experience of similar projects carried out by TDA.
4.08      Irrigation Infrastructure:  The construction of irrigation
improvement works for surface water irrigation comprising diversion,
conveyance and distribution canals of capacities 1 m3/s and above would be
done through contracts. Designs for all works were prepared by SOGREAH,
engineering consultants, which would form the basis for preparation of tender
documents (para. 3.29). The rate of progress for implementation of irrigation
works has been derived from the past experience of similar works in Wadis
Zabid and Rima and ongoing works in Wadi Mawr. The construction of headworks,
estimated to take a maximum of two years for completion at both sites, would
start simultaneously with the construction of canals. Area development would
thus commence within two years of the start of civil works and would cover
2,000, 4,000 and 7,000 ha at the end of FY 1990, 1991 and 1992, respectively.
The design of demonstration farms would be prepared by the planning and design
section of TDA in coordination with the extension service.
4.09      Feeder Roads:  The designs for the feeder roads (62.4 km) have
already been prepared by the consultants. The approximate alignments of the
roads are shown on Map IBRD 19225. The site-specific details after strip
surveying of the actual alignments would be worked out and contract documents
prepared by the design section of TDA for award of construction contract.
More than 50Z of the feeder roads comprising access roads to the work sites
would have been completed by the time construction of irrigation works
commence.
4.10      Buildings:  TDA has established design criteria, construction
standards and typical layouts for residential and office buildings and
extension centers on previous projects in Wadis Zabid, Rima and Mawr with the
help of various consultants. These criteria and standards are acceptable to
IDA and will be applied for the construction of similar buildings, including
marketing centers, under the proposed project. All construction will be of
block masonry, with reinforced concrete roofs and concrete floors.
4.11      Agricultural Extension.  The proposed project would establish an
Extension Division in TDA at the central level and through Subregional Offices
at field levels (Chart, World Bank-27694).
4.12      The Subregional Offices would be the centers of activity for
extension, including rural development for women. Each office would be
staffed with one section chief (extension specialist), one deputy chief



-38-
responsible for training and linkages with research, 2-6 SMSs dealing with
irrigation agronomy, plant protection, field crops, horticulture,
mechanization and livestock, and 4-6 extension supervisors and male and female
extension agents. The support staff would comprise one communication
assistant, administrative staff, drivers, machine operators and nursery staff.
4.13      At the central level, the Extension Manager would be responsible for
the overall planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of extension
service for the region. The support staff would comprise one deputy
manager/liaison officer/training coordinator, six SMSs, one communications
specialist and two communications assistants, three subregional supervisors,
administrative staff and home economics/nutrition specialist.
4.14      Veterinary Service:  The proposed regional service, with
headquarters at Hodeidah, would be headed by a Veterinary Diagnostician,
assisted by a veterinarian, and would, in keeping with national policy,
consist of four sections, namely, Field Programs, Quarantine, Meat Inspection
and Diagnostics. Working under the direction of the chief, one veterinary
officer would be responsible for the field program and quarantine, another
would be responsible for meat inspection and two would be responsible for the
diagnostic laboratory. Two veterinary assistants would assist the field and
quarantine sections and another would assist with administration.
4.15      Regional O&M Service:  This service would be established under the
direct control of the Director of the Engineering Department of TDA and headed
by a Chief O&M Engineer, with headquarters at Hodeidah. He would be bupported
by (a) two Senior O&M Engineers, one for the northern region at Hodeidah
covering wadis north of, and including, Wadi Siham, and the other for the
southern region at Zabid covering the area south of Siham; and (b) a Senior
Mechanical Engineer with headquarters at Hodeidah. Each of these senior
engineers would be assisted by qualified junior engineers and necessary
support staff who would be assigned jurisdictions of responsibility within
their respective fields. In addition, daily labor would be employed as
necessary to carry out seasonal tasks.
4.16      The Chief O&M Engineer, in coordination with the design engineers of
the Design and Construction Division, would prepare O&M guidelines for new
works and update those prepared previously for the completed works. The rules
and operation criteria for diverting spates into canals and regulating flows
in the system would be established with assistance from the wadi managers and
in consultation with and agreement of the farmers by taking into consideration
their confirmed water rights. These diversion criteria and regulation rules
would be notified by the Government by December 31, 1990, and would not be
altered without the prior approval of the Minister of Agriculture. The field
O&M staff would ensure that the rules are followed strictly. Assurance to
that effect was obtained from the Government at negotiations [para. 6.01(h)].
4.17      The maintenance would be of two types:  routine and special
repairs. The routine maintenance would include minor repairs to diversion
structures and to correct usual wear and tear of canal banks, service roads
and structures, and removal of moderate volumes of sediments from waterways to
keep them operative up to the designed capacities. These would be carried out
by the O&M service using equipment and machinery (Annex 1, Table 6) and



-39-
employing departmental labor on daily basis. Special repairs would be needed
in cases of super floods causing major failures of works or collapse of
structures due to other abnormal conditions. The departmental resources would
be supplemented in such cases by contracting additional labor and machinery
locally. The rmpairs to the buildings would be carried out by force account.
4.18      Technical Assistance:  For the engineering component, technical
assistance would comprise: (a) assistance for design and construction
supervision of irrigation infrastructure work and feeder roads, and
(b) institutional support to T"A for establishment of required O&M service,
design and construction of buildings, construction management and management
of water resources in the region. A suitably qualified and experienced
consulting engineers' firm would finalize designs of irrigation works, prepare
contract documents and construction drawings, and assist TDA in construction
supervision. Prior to the preparation of final designs, and within 3 months
of appointment, the firm would prepare an inception report detailing the
design data, concepts, criteria and methodology, which would be reviewed by
TDA and IDA to establish the basis for the final designs. The consulting
engineers would be responsible for updating the construction drawings, as
deemed necessary, during implementation of the project.
4.19      In agriculture, the experts (Annex 1, Table 8) would assist TDA at
the central level and provide technical support and training to SMS's
extension supervisors and extension agents at the Subregional and village
levels.  The associate experts (396 W/m), who are middle level technicians,
would complement the technical ass 'stance in the above fields at the
Subregional level. The agricultural economist jointly with other specialists
would assist in monitoring and evaluation of the extension service.
4.20      The experts' and consultants' terms of reference would emphasize
that training of Yemeni staff and backstopping are their primary functions and
that the performance in these respects would be monitored regularly. For
technical assistance directed towards institutional support and particularly
on-the-job training, consultants would be located to work directly with their
counterparts rather than as separate teams. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the Government will appoint qualified and experienced
experts (Annex 1, Table 8) and counterparts (Annex 1, Table 5) in accordance
with the agreed schedule [para. 6.01(i)].
4.21      Training:  The project would provide prerequisite as well as
in-service training. The thrust would be on project-related technology
through special courses, in-service training and foreign training. The
training program would be prepared by the Technical and Management Adviser of
TDA, who would also be responsible for institutional development, with
assistance from the respective directorates. The experience on previous
projects has indicated that qualified local staff are not available in
sufficient numbers in MAF to undergo training programs, and thoEs available
are not always willing to return after training to work in the public sector
(para. 1.18). Assurances were obtained from the Government at negotiations
that a detailed training program, including the curricula, the biodata of
trainees and plans for retaining them in MAF's employment on completion of
training, would be submitted to IDA by June 30, 1987 [para. 6.01(j)].



-40-
4.22      Due to lack of institutions within the country, training in
engineering subjects (water resources, construction management and OLM) would
be either on-the-job or through related courses at foreign universities. The
expatriate staff for technical assistance (10.5 man-years of engineering
consultants and 30.5 man-years of other experts) would train the counterpart
staff as part of their assistance at various stages of project implementation
(para. 4.20). For training overseas, arrangements would be made with suitable
overseas universities for water resources studies (54 m/m, 3 degree-level
graduates); the training in construction management and O&M would be arranged
at institutions similar to the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation (26 mlm for 4
trainees).
4.23      TDA would continue to arrange courses of 9-10 months' duration for
nonagriculture extension candidates focussing on major agricultural aspects of
Tihama region. Training in project orientation and extension methodology
would be given to all extension technical staff, agents, supervisors and SMSs,
totalling about 170. The courses would be of about 6 weeks duration and would
focus on project objectives and methodology, communication techniques, farmer
survey, technology transfer, and the use of audiovisual aids. It would be
given at the Subregional level by senior extension staff and experts and
coordinated by the deputy chief(training coordinator. A total of about 6 such
courses would be given with about 30 trainees per course. The courses would
begin in Years 2 and 3 of the project implementation period. Training in
project-related technology would be given to extension agents at the
Subregional level by the SMSs, assisted by the local research staff. The
training would consist of a series of courses related to the recommended
extension packages, which would include irrigation techniques and water
management, crop production, tree production, plant protection, mechanizati
and animal husbandry.
4.24      In addition to the above-mentioned training, extension agents would
receive regular fortnightly in-service training on typical subjects related to
the following month's work program. This would be given by the extension
supervisors and SMSs at the Subregional level. Additional assistance would be
enlisted, as needed, from other sources, such as, research, credit, input
supply and marketing institutions. Also, seasonal workshops would be
organized in coordination with the research organization for keeping SMSs
abreast of agricultural research developments.
4.25      The proposed foreign training (108  /im) would comprise 96 m/m of
degree training (MSc) and 12 m/m of study tours.  The degree training would
involve 4 trainees at 24 m/m each in the fields of irrigation agronomy,
horticulture, field crops and mechanization. The study tours would involve
visits by senior extension staff to countries where successful extension
programs are under implementation.
4.26      Agricultural Credit:  All short- and medium-term credit requirements
generated by the project would be met by CACB (para. 3.26). The extension
service of TDA will coordinate with CACB in appraising the farmers' loan
applications to ensure that (a) these conform with the agricultural
development strategy of the region and (b) the farmers' plans for development
of the area to be financed from CACB loans are technically sound. Of
particular importance is the need to regulate extraction from the aquifer for



-41-
well irrigation (paras. 2.19 and 2.20). CACB would not finance a new well
irrigation scheme nor improvement of an existing scheme in the region unless
its technical viability had first been certified by TDA. The water resources
study being carried out in the Tihama region by the Government with bilateral
assistance from the Dutch Government partly funded by IDA (Cr. 978-YAR) is
expected to produce a mathematical model for the surface and groundwater
resources of the region which would provide the basis for TDA to regulate the
use of the aquifer and to determine where and to what extent the potential
exists for additional exploitation of groundwater. Assurances were obtained
from the Government at negotiations that CACB would not grant loans to farmers
in the region for any new well irrigation schemes or existing scheme
improvement unless the scheme has the prior approval of TDA (para. 6.01(k)].
C. Monitoriny and Evaination
4.27      This function would be performed by a Monitoring and Evaluation
(M&E) Unit established under Tibama Development Project III (Cr. 880-YAR),
working under the direct control of the TDA Chairman and assisted by the
Technical and Management Adviser. The Unit was organized by an expatriate
rural sociologist assisted by a junior technician. Under the proposed
project, the Unit would be strengthened to cope with the activities of the
entire region. The functions of the M&E Unit would include: (a) monitoring,
in physical and financial terms, of project inputs, such as, staff
recruitment, training and institutional development, procurement, farmers'
visits, field demonstration activities, implementation of civil works, etc.,
against the annual work program; (b) monitoring of the impact of the extension
service in terms of adoption of specific recommendations by farmers and the
project inputs; and (c) monitoring of the status of surface and groundwater
resources. For project input monitoring, each subregion would submit
periodical reports to the Directorates of Agriculture and Engineering at the
central level. Such reports would indicate both financial and physical
progress against annual plan targets. For project output monitoring, each
subregion would report annually, on a set of indicators, .which would measure
progress towards specific objectives. Adoption rate and yield surveys
developed by the Extension Division would be annually undertaken at the
subregional level for assessing the impact of the technological packages
disseminated under the project and thus the impact of the project on the
farming community. The Subregional Supervisors, with the assistance of SMSs,
would collate and summarize the information of the different subregions and
would prepare semiannual progress reports which would highlight achievements,
problems and recommendations for consideration by the Extension Division.
They would also maintain data obtained over time on adoption rate and yield
surveys as the basis for evaluating the benefits derived by farmers from the
technological packages.
4.28      During the first year of project implementation, the monitoring and
evaluation system would be established for the whole of Tihama region,
including collection of baseline data and organization of data flow. Baseline
data would include stratification of landholders and sharecroppers (farmers'
families) by farming system, and detailed summary of resources, potential and
constraints, and would be utilized by the Extension Service in devising
packages suitable to farmers. The status of groundwater and response of the



-42-
aquifer to pumping (including water quality) would be monitored on a monthly
basis and evaluated. This information would form the basis for regulation by
TDA of groundwater use in the project area (paras. 2.19, 2.20 and 4.26).
4.29      A mid-term in-depth analysis of the impact of the project would be
carried out at the end of the third year of project implemert.ation.
Assurances were obtained from the Government at negotiations that (a) the
existing monitoring and evaluation system would be strengthened within the
first year of project implementation and (b) a mid-term review of the project
would be carried out at the end of 1989 [para. 6.01(l)].
D. Progress Reporting
4.30      TDA would prepare progress reports at least once every six months in
accordance with a format satisfactory to IDA and submit them to IDA within
three months following the report periods. The reports would be
comprehensive, covering all aspects of project implementation. The Government
would prepare a Project Completion Report (PCR) on the lines suggested by IDA
and submit it to IDA no later than six months after the credit closing date,
or by such later date as the Government and IDA may agree upon. Assurances to
those effects were obtained from the Government at negotiations
[para. 6.01(m)].
E. Lands for Project Facilities
4.31      The Government owns enough land in the project area needed for the
construction of extension buildings and demonstration farms and would allocate
the same to the project through necessary notification. The land required for
the access roads and irrigation improvement works, not belonging to the
Government, if any, would be acquired by the Government for the project well
ahead of the time of construction. The Government assured IDA at negotiations
that all lands required for the construction of project works would be
acquired in a timely manner and that the Government will take all actions
necessary to preclude delays in the implementation of project works
[para. 6.01(n)].
V. PROJECT BENEFrIS. JUSTIFICAIION AND RISKS
A. Production
5.01      Production increases on the farms would be achieved essentially
through (a) strengthening and expansion of extension services and
(b) improvement in water availability for irrigation. The increase in water
availability would permit an expansion in crop area; this, coupled with the
effects of the improved agricultural extension service, is expected to result
in significant yield increases (Table 5.1).
5.02      For each type of farming system, the future with the project
situation has two variants: (a) future with improved extension service (FW)
without changes in water use efficiency, and (b) future with improved



-43-
extension service and on-farm investment leading to water conservation and
thus availability of increased quantity of water for crop use (FWI). The
farms under (b) have higher cropping intensity and also a yield increase
greater than those under (a) because of increased water efficiency and
availability.
5.03      The present and projected yields at full development, which are
consistent with projections made under similar IDA-financed projects in the
Tiha*a region, would be as follows:
Table 5.1: Present and Future Crop Yieldsq-
Present /2 FWO /3   FW /4   FWI 15
(tons/ha)
I. Regular Spate- & Well-Irrigation
Sorghum (Grain)                         1.8      2.1     2.6      3.0
Sorghum (Forage)                      18.0      21.0    28.0    32.0
Maize                                   1.4      1.6     2.1      2.5
Cotton                                  1.4      1.7     2.4      2.5
Tobacco                                 1.2      1.5     2.1      2.3
Summer Vegetables                      6.0       7.0     9.0    10.0
Winter Vegetables                       8.0     10.0    12.0    14.0
Tree Crops                             15.0     21.0    28.0    30.0
II. Irregular SEwate
Sorghum (Grain)                        0.9       1.1     1.3      1.8
Sorghum (Forage)                        9.0     11.0    14.0    15.0
Millet                                  0.8      0.9     1.1      1.2
Sesame                                 0.6       0.7     0.8      1.0
/1  Estimated on the basis of data from field experience in similar ongoing
irrigation projects in Tibama.
/2 Weighted averages for the whole area.
/3 Future without project takes into account development under ongoing
projects.
14 Future at full development with improved extension only.
/5 Future at full development with extension and irrigation improvement.
5.04      The project is expected to generate a considerable volume of crop
production as sulmmarized below.



-44-
Table 5.2: Present and Future Crop Production nI
Production
Cropped /2             With /3 Without
Crop                         Area        Present  Proiect   Project   Incremental
('000 ha)                   ('000 tons)
Sorghum (Grain)              16.0           22       44         26         18
Sorghum (Forage)             14.4          235      400        276        124
Maize                         3.0            5         7         6          1
Millet                        2.0            1        2          1          1
Sesame                        1.9            0        1          1          0
Cotton                        2.0            2        5          2          3
Tobacco                       4.5            5       10          5          5
Summer Vegetables             3.2           15       30         18         12
Winter Vegetables             4.0           26       52         32         20
Tree Crops                    1.0            3       30          5         25
52.0
/l  Takes into account yield, cropping intensity and area developed under the
different farming systems.
/2  Future at full development.
/3  Comprises 34,900 ha of extension development and 10,700 ha of extension
and irrigation improvement.
B. FinancialAalysis
5.05      To illustrate the financial viability of farm investments and
expected impact on the income of participating farmers, four farm models
(Annex 1, Table 11) reflecting situations under pump, pump and spate, regular
spate and irregular spate irrigation systems have been analyzed. Each farm
model has two variants-A and B. System A reflects development resulting from
extension and System B reflects development due to extension and improvement
in water use efficiency or increased water availability resulting from project
irrigation infrastructure works in Wadi Siham. In total, eight farm models
representing the different types of development expected have been analyzed.
These are shown in Annex 1, Tables 12-15.
5.06      Due to the prevalence of sharecropping arrangements in the project
area, sharecropping has been assumed in all models. The most common type of
sharecropping arrangement is for the tenant to provide all labor required
while the landowner provides farm inputs and water.  The gross output, or its
farmgate value after deducting taxes, is shared by the landowner and tenant in
accordance with the prevalent sharecropping arrangements (para. 2.07).
5.07      Most of the farm labor requirements are expected to be met from the
farm family and hiring would be necessary only during peak harvesting
periods. In the past, emigration of labor to Saudi Arabia had seriously
reduced labor availability and led to increases in daily wages. This trend
seems to have been reversed and wage rates have declined appreciably.
However, impact of oil discovery on the economy (para. 1.07) is expected to



-45-
affect the wage rates. For land preparation and levelling, draft animals,
which are available in sufficient numbers in the project area, will be
generally used though some farmers will hire tractors.
5.08      Farm Incomes.  Present and projected net farm incomes derived from
cropping activities in the representative farm models are detailed in Annex 1,
Tables 16-17, and summarized below. For each category of farm model, net
returns are attractive; landowners and sharecroppers will receive a
significant increase in income. With the exception of cotton, producer prices
for most crops allow attractive returns. The best returns per hectare are for
tobacco, vegetables and fruits. Production would remain attractive even with
a significant reduction in crop prices or increase in production costs. Net
farm incomes are high because most of the labor and draft animal requirements
provided by the farm family do not involve any financial outlay. Investment
and O&M costs of the irrigation schemes have also not been charged to the
beneficiaries as they are borne by the project and recovered through the
arrangement indicated in para. 5.13. Those farmers who invest in tree crops
and improved livestock production would generate an additional net income
estimated at YRls 33,000 and 16,600 per year, respectively (Working Paper B.2,
Project File).
Table 5.3: Net Farm Income"
Future            Future With
Future     With       Net    Extension &   Net
Without  Extension  Return  Irrigation   Return
Farm Type       Size  Present  Project    Only       per ha  Development  Per ha
(ha)                          ('000 YRls)
1: Pump Only    10.5    89.7      97.5       135.6     12.9      207.7       19.8
2: Pump &
Spate        6.0    55.5      58.7        80.1     13.4      147.9       24.6
3: Regular
Spate        3.0    30.1      35.5        45.9     15.3      69.3        23.1
4: Irregular
Spate        6.0    11.4      12.6        14.8      2.5      27.1         4.5
/1 After deducting taxes and recovery charges.
5.09      Farm budgets indicate that net farm income per hectare is the lowest
in farm model 4 representing farming on a 6 ha irregular spate irrigated
land. This model represents 1,910 farm units (23S) covering 11,460 ha (25X)
of the total project area.  Some 210 of these farm units (1,260 ha) in Wadi
Siham would have additional water available as a result of irrigation
infrastructure to be carried out by the project. This would make it possible
to bring additional 1.5 ha into production for a crop intensity of 100l. With
improved water frequency and extension service, yields would increase. Net
farm income after taxes would increase by 100l from YRls 13,600 at present to
YRls 27,100 at full development. Net farm incomes for other farm models are
substantially higher than in model 4. Such attractive returns are expected to
generate interest in area farmers to adopt improved practices and increase
production.



-46-
5.10      Marketing.  YAR imports large quantities of agricultural products
reflecting the substantial gap between local production and demand
(para. 1.09). As domestic demand for agricultural products is expected to
grow more rapidly than domestic supply, the projected incremental production
will meet only part of the projected aggregate demand for food. Apart from a
small proportion of cereals and vegetables that would be kept by the farmers
for human and animal consumption, the bulk of the incremental production would
find a ready outlet in the large markets of Sana'a and Hodeidah in addition to
being absorbed by the tomato processing, cigarette producing and cotton
ginning factories located in the region. The Tihama region is served by a
relatively efficient network of marketing channels through which the bulk of
marketable surplus is sold in the region and in the major markets of the
country. Farmers can sell their produce to traders at farmgate or through
agents in the market. The proposed infrastructural developments (paras. 3.17
and 3.19) are expected to further facilitate transportation of the produce,
especially for perishables, from producing areas to the major urban market
centers.
5.11      Prices.  Input and output prices used in the farm models are
financial farmgate prices during 1984-85 in the local markets of the project
area. Adjustments have been made for transport costs between farms and the
markets. Due to the drought situation over the past few years, prices of
cereals are relatively high and appropriate adjustments have, therefore, been
made to reflect demand and supply in a normal year and future trend. Due to
high labor and transport costs, inefficient marketing, preference for local
produce, and restrictions on the importation of fruits and vegetables
(para. 1.24), financial prices are considerably higher than the economic
prices. These marked price differentials are expected to stimulate increased
production. Net returns for most crops would remain attractive even with a
significant reduction in producer prices.
C. Taxes and Cost Recovery
5.12      Taxes.  The project would generate a significant increase in
Government revenues through zakat and cooperation tax.  Revenue from zakat1'
and cooperation taxesA2 expected to be generated at full development is
detailed in Annex 1, Table 18 and is summarized as follows:
Table 5.4: A nental Taxes /L
Well Irrigation         Spate Irrigation         Total
(YRls million)
Zakat                          8.2                    10.9                19.1
Cooperation Tax                4.7                     2.1                 6.8
Total                    12.9                    13.0                25.9
/1 Annual, at full development.
1/ 5% and 10X of gross value of production in pump and spate
irrigated farms, respectively.
2/ 2.51 of gross value of production.



-47-
5.13      Cost Recovery.  The Government has agreed to adopt for all Tihama
projects a policy on cost recovery for irrigation works as developed in
cooperation with IDA following a study by ECWA and TDA for Wadi Zabid Project
(Cr. 376-YAR). An assurance was obtained from the Government at negotiations
that the same policy-to recover full capital and operation and maintenance
costs in real terms excluding interest through a surcharge of 2% (which would
be reviewed at least every five years and adjusted, if necessary) on the gross
value of production over a period of 50 years would apply in the case of the
proposed project (para. 6.01(o)]. The system of cost recovery is consistent
with the old zakat collection system and is simple to apply as a surcharge
recoverable along with zakat. Cost recovery indices given in Annex 1,
Table 18, are summarized below.
Table 5.5: Rent and Cost Recovery
Farm Types        Siham
2_     3B     4B      Only  /1
(YRls Million) -
Gross Value of Production /2                   57.5   12.3    3.9      73.9
Rent/Surplus                                   35.8    7.6    1.6      45.2
Recovery Charges 13                             1.2    0.2    0.1       1.5
Taxes and Recovery Charges                      9.9    1.7    0.6      12.2
-   )
Rent Recovery Index                             3      3       6        3
Cost Recovery Index                            13      9       3       10
/1  1,110 farms (5,760 ha) in Wadi Siham on which public investment in
irrigation infrastructure will be made.
/2 Incremental, at full development, with investment in irrigation
infrastructure.
13 This represents revenue from a 21 surcharge.
5.14      The present value of incremental (zakat and cooperation) taxes and
cost recovery surcharge1' generated from the Siham area is estimated at
YRls 25.3 million. The present value of the recovery charge alone is
estimated at YRls 5.3 million. This represents 101 of the Wadi Siham
investment and operating costs in irrigation infrastructure (NPV =
YRls 52.0 million). The proposed surcharge would, therefore, recover the full
capital and annual O&M cost of the irrigation infrastructure in Wadi Siham in
about 30 years.
1/ 21 of gross value of production in spate irrigated area.



-48-
D. Econonic Analysis
5.15      The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) calculation was based on the
directly productive components associated with investmen , in irrigation
infrastructure in Wadi Siham. The following assumptions and parameters
underlie the ERR calculations:
(a)  Investment and recurrent costs of the Wadi Siham irrigation
infrastructure are based on unit rates derived from similar
irrigation works in YAR.
(b) All values are expressed in units of the local currency at the
official exchange rate at appraisal-YRls 6.5 = US$1.
(c) Crop yields are estimated on the basis of available data from field
experience in similar ongoing irrigation schemes in the Tihama
region.
(d) Incremental production is phased on the basis of anticipated rate of
acceptance of the new technical package by project area farmers and
buildup of development on each farm resulting from additional
surface water.
(e) The economic life of the project is 30 years.
5.16      Costs.  Investment and recurrent costs of the irrigation
infrastructure, cost of the extension service apportioned based on area
benefitted, incremental cost of production on 1,100 farm units under spate
irrigation covering 5,760 ha in Wadi Siham and investment and recurrent costs
of feeder roads are included in the analysis. These costs represent about 51S
of the total project cost.
5.17      Benefits.  Quantifiable project benefits would be derived from
incremental production of cereals, cotton, tobacco, vegetables and tree crops
and from avoidance of production loss due to flood protectilon resulting from
the proposed irrigation infrastructure. Production loss is estimated at
one-third the annual level of production in a normal year. Cost savings in
reconstruction and repairs, however, have not been included.
5.18      Prices.  For internationally traded goods (cereals, cotton, tobacco,
fruits and fertilizer), economic farmgate prices were derived from the Bank's
commodity price projections for 1990 expressed in 1985 constant dollars with
appropriate adjustment for transport, handling and quality differential.  For
nontraded goods (vegetables, straw, stover, labor and draft power), economic
prices were derived by applying the standard conversion factor (SCF) estimated
at 0.80 to the 1985 domestic prices. These prices are adjusted to remove any
distortions arising from quantitative import restrictions. Economic prices
have not taken into account the strong preference of the population for
domestically produced goods. The comparison between financial and economic
prices shows that domestically grown products are priced as much as two to
three times the imported products of comparable quality (Annex 1, Table 19).



-49-
5.19      On the basis of the above assumptions and parameters, the ERR is
eatimited to be about 212 (Annex 1, Table 20). The net present value (NPV) at
the estimated opportunity cost of capital of 121 is about YRis 78 million
(US$12 million).
E. Benefits and Justifcation
5.20      Beneficiaries.  The project is expected to directly benefit
approximately 44,000 rural farm families or 220,000 people representing 39S of
the rural population of the Tihama region. These include an estimated 3,340
farm families on 1,110 farms in Wadi Siham who would benefit from the
additional surface water resulting from irrigation infrastructure works
carried out by the project (Annex 1, Table 7). It is estimated that more than
501 of the farm families in the project area are tenants and sharecroppers and
depend exclusively on agriculture for subsistence. Of those who own land, the
majority of farmers have small landholdings and also depend entirely on
agriculture for their livelihood. These groups would, therefore, be the major
recipients of the project benefits.
5.21      The proposed construction of permanent irrigation works would reduce
the danger of production loss resulting from floods damaging the traditional
earth diversion structures that exist at present. It would also reduce the
need for reconstruction and repair of the damages in the diversion structures
which occur once every two-three years. The project would also create
significant employment opportunities. Area farmers would be able to meet a
large portion of the incremental labor requirements through the family labor
force; the balance would have to be met by hiring labor from the landless
rural population and the seasonal surplus labor.
5.22      The project is expected to improve the general conditions of rural
life by more than what is simply reflected in increased incomes and employment
opportunities. The feeder roads to be constructed under the project would
benefit the population through better counection of major villages enabling
improved access to major towns and ma-ket centers. The agricultural practices
fostered by the project would result in a more intensive and efficient use of
land and water resources. In addition, large quantities of forage and crop
by-products woutld be produced which would be used as animal feed.  Farmers in
the project area would also benefit from animal health services provided under
the project.
Sens&tvty Analsis
5.23      A sensitivity test was carried out to assess the sensitivity of the
project's ERR to variations in important parameters, normally related to cost
overruns, decrease in benefits or delay in implementation.  The results
indicate that the project would still remain viable on those assumptions.
With a 20X increase in costs or decrease in benefits, the ERR would be 19% and
181, respectively; and 17Z with a 2 year delay in implementation. The results
of the switching value analysis also indicate that the ERR would remain above
12S despite large increases in costs (+1001) or decrease in benefits (50X) or
implementation delays (5 years). Sensitivity analysis is shown in Annex 1,
Table 21.



-50-
F. Project Ps8ks
5.24      There are no major risks; however, the inadequacy of existing
marketing infrastructure to channel the increased production of fruits and
vegetables could be a possible risk. Long term projections for consumption
and production of agricultural produce indicate that there is a ready market
for incremental production. The incremental output is expected to fill a
substantial gap between production and consumption. Project investment in the
construction of the rural road networks connecting major production centers in
the project area will provide access to markets. Besides, the modest
investment in the *:stablishment of marketing centers under the project is
expected to improve marketing which would be adequate to handle increased
production.
5.25      Other risks which could affect project viability which other
IDA-assisted agricultural projects in YAR have faced in recent years include
(i) inadequate local budgetary support for project implementation and
subsequently for carrying out operation and maintenance of infrastructure
constructed to ensure sustainability of benefits, (ii) delays in appointing
expatriate staff and (iii) difficulty in attracting sufficient number of
qualified counterpart staff. The Government has agreed to include annual
budgetary allocations to cover operating costs of the project, which has been
accorded high priority for implementation in the forthcoming Five-Year Plan
(1987-91). The risk of inadequate local funding is, therefore, minimized. In
regard to the other risks, agreement was reached with the Government that
Ii) expatriate staff will be recruited as agreed upon (para. 4.20), and
(ii) additional allowance would be provided as incentives for hardship service
(para. 4.03).
VL AGAEEMENiS AND RECOMrMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained and agreements reached
with the Government of YAR that:
(a) it would provide CACB with necessary resources to undertake
additional agricultural credit activities generated by the project,
including livestock development (para. 3.27);
(b) it would provide funds on an annual basis for continuing the
regional extension and O&M services after these services are
established and for special repairs to infrastructure (para. 3.30);
(c) necessary changes would be made in the LCB procurement procedures
for miscellaneous goods to be purchased out of IDA credit
(para. 3.37);
(d) only those auditing firms with qualification and experience
acceptable to IDA would be employed for the audit of project
accounts (para. 3.45);



-.51-
(e) the staff needed for implementation of the project would be
appointed in a timely manner and necessary incentives would be
provided to the staff to attract and retain them in the project
(para. 4.03);
(f) TDA would be allowed autonomy to the extent permitted by law in the
employment of its staff and expatriate experts in dealing with the
governmental agencies directly and in deciding of contract awards by
the Government (para. 4.04);
(g) the Government would take effective action to coordinate work
procedure between CACB and TDA in processing and evaluation of loan
applications for agricultural credit and forward a coordination plan
to IDA by July 1, 1987 (para. 4.05);
(h) the Government would prepare diversion criteria and regulation rules
for irrigation supplies by December 31, 1990 (para. 4.16);
(i) consultants and experts would be appointed in accordance with the
agreed schedule (para. 4.20);
(j) TDA would prepare and submit to IDA a detailed training program,
including the curricula and biodata of staff, by June 30, 1987
(para. 4.21);
(k) CACB will not grant loans to farmers in the region for farmers' new
well irrigation schemes or existing scheme improvement until the
scheme has the prior approval of TDA (para. 4.26);
(1) the existing monitoring and evaluation system would be strengthened
within the first year of project implementation and a midterm review
of the project would be carried out at the end of 1989 (para. 4.29);
(m)  the Government would prepare a Project Completion Report (PCR) for
submission to IDA not later than six months after the credit closing
date, or by such later date as agreed upon with IDA (para. 4.30);
(n) all lands required for the construction of project works will be
acquired in a timely manner (para. 4.31); and
(o) the Government would apply the same principle as on previous Tihama
projects to recover investment and O&M costs of irrigation
infrastructure in Wadi Siham over a period of 50 years without
interest by levying an initial surcharge of 21 on the gross value of
production (to be reviewed every five years if necessary) to ensure
full recovery (para. 5.13).
6.02      The condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit would be the
compliance with conditions precedent to effectiveness of cofinancing
agreements by the Government with other agencies to fill the financing gap
(para. 3.31).



-52-
6.03      Subject to the conditions set out above being met, the project is
suitable for an IDA credit of SDRs 9 million (US$10 million equivalent) on
standard terms. The Borrower would be the Government of Yemen Arab Republic.



- 53 -
ANN   1
Table 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TIRAMA V REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Production of Main Crops
('000 tons)
Year
197112     1977/8      1979/80    1981       1983
Crop
Sorghum, Maize and Millet         581.0     628.0       680.0       688.0     299.0
Wheat                              30.0      45.0        63.0        70.0      34.0
Barley                            109.0      39.0        45.0        58.0      30.0
Tobacco                             5.0       4.9         7.0         6.3        5.7
Cotton                             15.0       3.9         2.8         5.0       6.5
Dry Legumes                        60.0       77.0       80.0        80.0      40.0
Potatoes                           58.0     107.0       127.0       138.0     163.0
Vegetables                        137.0     226.0       254.0       291.0     326.0
Fodder                             37.0      41.0        43.0        45.0      49:0
Grapes                             35.0      45.0        56.0        64.0       72.0
Other Fruits                       33.0      76.0        83.0        87.0      91.0
Coftee                              3.5       3.9         3.6         3.5       3.3



- 54 -
ANNEX I
Table 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TIRAMA V REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Number of Cropland Classes and Farm Families
Area
Regular   Irregular
Pump & Spate     Spate       Spate                  Number of
Wadis        Irrigated    Irrigated      Irrigated   Irrigated    Total    Farm Families
('000 ha)
Hyran            2.0           0.3          5.0          2.0         9.3         5,030
Mawr             1.5           3.6          7.3          9.8        22.2         9,720
Surdud           6.0           0.7          0.7         14.5        21.9         6,180
Siham            6.4           6.8          1.7          3.0        17.9         7,730
Rima             3.5           3.0          3.2          4.0        13.7         6,320
Zabid            2.5           2.0          4.0          5.0        13.5         5,910
Nakhla           1.5           0.6          1.6          1.5         5.2         2,350
Risyan           0.6           0.3          0.5          0.2         1.6           860
TOTAL      24.0         17.3          24.0         40.0       105.3        44,100
Doc. 1837C                   4



- 55 -
ANNEX I
Table 3
YqEN LEAR REPUILIC
TrHANA V REGrONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
fevnlooment Schemes
-Hailr Wadis
Wadi       Wadi       Wadi LI   Wadi LI       Wadi a      Wadi LI
Zab1d      Rima       Mbwr       Siham       Surdud      Rasyan
Catchnent Area ('000 kn2)               4.3        2.3       7.9         3.1          2.7         0.6
Mean Annual Flow (HkO)                 140.0      80.0     230.0        65.0         70.0        35.0
Project Area (@000 ha)                 20.0       24.0      72.0        so50          -           -
Irrigatian Service Area ('000 ha)      17.0       12.0      26.0        10.0          -          -
Average Diverted Flow (lbO)              -        49.0      224.0       57.0          -           -
Wadi Diversion Structures (Number)       5.0       1.0        1.0        2.0          -           -
Main Canals (New) (kn)                 52.0       20.0       71.0       92.0          -           -
Old Canals (Rehabilitated) (km)        40.0       3S.0      68.0         -            -           -
Feeder/Access Roads (kI)               94.0      106.0      148.0       62.4          -           -
Date of Project Co pletion           6/30/79   6/30/85         -          -
Cost of Develop ont (S million)        39.2       60.3      88.0        1S.8'4        -           -
Esti1 ted Numer of
Irrigation Wells                  1.000      1.100     1.000       1.200
LI Under Implementation.
LZ Proposed under this project.
LI Development not yet undertaken.
LI Out of total project cost of US$47.0 million for Tihuma regional development.
Doc. 1837C



- 56 -
ANNEX 1
Table 4
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TIHAMA V REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Hydrology
Return Period
Average
Years                    2      5       10       20      5       100   Annual
Barquqah Site
Peak Discharge (m3/8)    588.0  956.0  1,276    1,663.0  2,140    2,500
Flood Flow (Mm3)           34.0   52.0     62.0      72.0      -         -   38.0
Drainage Flow (Mm3)         6.5    7.4       7.8      -        -         -    6.5
Base Flow (Mm3)            20.5   22.3     23.0       -        -         -   20.5
Waair Site
Peak Discharge (m'3J)    428.0  751.0  1,057.0  1,403.0  1,383    2,160
Flood Flow (Mm3)         14.0   27.0     36.0      44.0      -         -    18.0
Base Flow (Ma3)           8.0    9.2      9.8       -        -         -     8.0



- 57 -
MNEX I
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC                    Table 5
TIHANA V REGrONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proiect National Staff,"
(Regular)
Number                Number Available                   Proiect Years
Position                              Reouire.d    To Date    Prenrolect   Increnmental    1    2    3    4    S
Chief Hl Engineer                           1          -           -              1         1
Administrative Officer                     4           3           3              1         _    1    -    _    _
Monitoring A Evaulation Officer             2          1            1             1-                  -    -    -
Accountant                                 4           3           3              1         1    -    -    -    -
Hydrogeologist                             2           1            1             1         _    1    -    _    _
Field Inspector                           20          16          16              4         -    4    -    -    -
Secretary/Typist                           4           2           2              2         1    1    -    -
Dra tsmn                                   8           4           4              4         2    2    -    -    -
Survey Crew                                3           2           2              1        -    1    -    -    -
Surveyor                                   3           2           2             1         _ I1       -    -    -
Subtotal:                            51         34           34             17        S   12    -    -    -
Extension Servce
Management and SMSs                       32          14          21             11         2    3    3    3    -
Extension Supervisor                      21           7           9             12        2    2    2    3    3
Rale Extension Agent                      144         86          91             S3         S    8   10   iS   1S
Fanale Extension Agent                    38          17          19             19        2    3    4    4    6
Nursery Technician                         a           6           6              2         -    1    1    -    -
Comunications Assistant                    5           4           4              1         -    1    -    -    -
Acuinstrative Officer                      4           2           2              2         -    1    1    -    -
Adininstrative Assistant                   4           2           2              2         -    1    1    -    -
MaL.snery Operators                        9           4           4              5         -    1    2    2    -
Drivers                                   44          13          iS             29         -    5   10   14    -
Nursery Laborers                         3-6         -2          _za-A                         __ 2    3    3 _-
Subtotal:                           345         181         201            144       12   28   36   44   24
Veter1narv
Chietf eat Inspector                        1          -           -              1         -    I    -    -    -
Laboratory 0iagnostician                   2           -           -              2        -    1    1    -    -
Veterinarian                               7           5           5              2         -    -    -    -    2
Veterinary Assistant                       7           1            1             6         2    4    -    -    -
Vaccinators                               44          Q           4
Subtotal:                            57         46           46             1i        2    6    1    -    2
UbS Service
ON Engineer                                2           -           -              2         1    1    -    -    -
Mechanical Engineer                         1          -           -              1         1    -    _    -    _
Junior 0IM Engineer                        4           -           -              4         2    2    -    -    -
Junior Mechanical Engineer                 2           -           -              2         1    1    -    -    -
Mechanical Forman                          4           -           -              4         2    1    1    -    -
Field Supervisor                          10           2           2              8        2    4    2    -    -
Secretary                                  1           -           -              1         1   -    -    -    -
Storekeeper                                1           _           _              1       _     =    =
Subtotal                            __                       ..2          .21li                 A     =
TOTAL:                         478        263          283            195       30   55   40   44   26
Ll  Does not Include existing staff of categories not shown. Existing TOA staff number about 500.



- 58 -
ANNE 1
Table 6
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TIHAMA V REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Vehicles. Heavy Equipment and Machinery
Number
Agriculture
Project       Extension     Enginering and
Item                      Management      Service      OM Service       Total
Long Wheel Base
Land Cruiser (4WD)           4             17               6            27
Short Wheel Base
Land Cruiser (WD)            6             17               6             29
Pickup Truck (4WD)             1              7               5             13
Bus (25 seats)                 -              3               -              3
Truck (3 Ton)                                 5                              5
Mobile Vet Clinic              -              1               -              1
Motorcycles                   10             91              30            131
Tractors                       -             10               -             10
Ditcher                        -              2               -              2
Thresher                       -              6               -              6
Combine Harvester              -              6               -              6
Backhoe                        -              2               2             4
Crawler Tractor                -              -               3              3
Motor Grader                   -              -               3              3
Hydraulic Excavator            -              -               1              1
Wheel Loader                   -              -               1              1
Dump Truck                     -              -               2              2
Water Tanker                   -              2               2             4
Mobile Workshop                -              -               1              1
Doc. 1837C



- 59 -
ANNEM 1
Table 7
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TIKA t V tEGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation Areas and Water Requirements
Wadi Siham
I. Type of Irrigation
Water Requirement
at Farm Level
Area                         Spate
(ba)             - (Mm3)
Pump Irrigation                       3,360             29.9          -
Pump and Spate                        5,880             23.1         16.4
Spate                                 4.425               -          17.4
TOTAL                           13,665 ;           53.0         33.8
Available Water                                         53.OL2       34.3
II. Available Flow. Comparison of Surface Water Availability.
Existing             Future "With" Project
Flow      Efficiency        Flow       Efficiency
(Mm3)        ()             (Nm3)          (M)
Inflow into Siham          65.0                         65.0
At Distribution Point      37.2           70            45.8           80
At Farm Inlet              24.0           60            34.3           75
Crop Use                   14.4           60            23.0           67
/ Areas benefitting from Project are:
Extension Service:              6,645 ha
Irrigation Improvement:
On-farm Development:         1,260 ha
Irrigation Infrastructure:   5.760 ha
TOTAL:   13,665 ha
/2 Tentative Estimate.



- 60 -
ANNEX l
Table 8
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TIHAMA V REGIONAL AGRICULTLUAL OEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Foreign Training
A. Technical Assistance
Expertise                     Number          Man-Years      Date of Appointment
Engineerina Consultants:
Chief Design Engineer           1                  1.S         January 1, 1987
Chief Construction
Engineer                      1                  2.5         January 1, 1987
Oestgn Engineer                 1                  4.0         January 1. 1987
Field Engineer                  1                  2.5         January 1. 1987
TOA Headouarters Supnort
Project Engineer                1                  4.0         January 1  1987
Nonitoring & Evaluation
Consultant (Agricultural
Economist)                    1                  2.0         July 1. 1987
Oesign Engineer                 2                  7.0         January 1. 1987
Field Engineer                  1                  3.0         January 1. 1987
Hydrogeologist                  1                  4.0         July 1. 1987
Extension Planning              1                  3.0         July 1. 1987
Irrigation Agronomist           1                  3.0         July 1  1987
Plant Protection Specialist    1                   2.0         July 1. 1987
Field Crops Specialist          1                  2.0         July 1. 1987
Horticulturist                  1                  3.0         July 1. 1987
Mechanization Specialist        1                  3.0         July 1. 1987
Livestock Specialist            1                  2.0         July 1. 1987
Counications Specialist         1                  2.0         July 1. 1987
Veterinary Diagnostician        1                  2.0         July 1. 1987
Haem Economist/Nutritionist    1                   3.0         July 1  1987
Sand Dune Expert                1                  2.0         July 1. 1987
Chief Operations and
Maintenance Advisor           1                  3.5         January 1. 1987
Subregional Extension Service
Extension Planning
and Training Specialist       1                  3.0         July 1. 1987
Irrigation Agronomists          3                  6.0         July 1. 1987
Horticulturist                  1                  3.0         July 1. 1987
Plant Protection Specialist    2                   4.0         July 1. 1987
Home Economist/Nutritionists   3                   9.0         July 1. 1987
Field Crops Specialist          1                  2.0         July 1. 1987
Mechanization Specialist        1                  3.0         July 1. 1987
Veterinarian                    1                  3.0         July 1. 1987
Onerations and Maintenance
Senior Operations and
Maintenance Advisor           2                  6.0         January 1. 1987
Senior Mechanical Adviser       1                  3.0         January 1. 1987
B. Foreign Trainina
Exoertise                     Number            Man-Years        Period
AQricalture
Irrigation Agronomy              1                  2          10/86-9/88
Horticulture                     1                  2          10/86-9/88
Field Crops                      1                  2          10/87-9/89
Mechanization                    1                  2           10/87-9/89
Study Tours                      6-8                1          10/87-9/90
Eng1necring
dater Resources                  3                  4.5         1/89-6/90
Construction Management          2                  1.2         1/88-12/89
Obm                              2                  1.0         1/90-12/90



YEMEN ARID REPUBLIC
TIHANA V REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL OEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Stwiry Account by Project C~onernt
IRiyals I 0003
REGIONAL SERVICES                                                          Physical
TDA                                          ----------------------- ContIngencies
HEADQUARTER                          OPERATION AND  IRRIGATION                                  ------------
SUPPORT    EXTENSION VEIERINAS?  MAINTENANCE   DEVELOPMENT  FEEDER ROADS   total               I    hunt
:.susta:zs: :u    =.=Xsssas 3..........::s:333==: 333:333:n33n:3:=:3n333 333333:  333333333  3333 33333333
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
_ ............
A. CIVIL NORMS                                         -    9,215.0    1, 125.0                -     58, 138. P.     19, 490. 0   97. 58. 6  14.3 14. 030. 6
S. VEHICLES                                     1, 690.0    4. 770.0       158.0          650.0              -                    7278. 0   2.4    250.8
C. MACHINERY B EQUIPMENT                          400.0    7,280.0       1,250.0        S,395.0              -               -   15.325.0   5.5    848.8
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
.. _... ..._ ..... _..
EXPERTS                                     9, 975.0    9,120. 0            -        3, 749.              -              -   23, 440.0   9.2  2. 151. 1
ASSOCIAIE EXPERTS                                  -    7,920.0                            -              -                    7.20.0  10.0    792.0
SHORT-TERM CONSULTANTS                             -       600.0            *-                            -              -        00.0  tO.0      80.0
-- - -   -      -- - -    -- - -- -    -------------_   _    . ... _. _ _.__... -- - - - -  . .. ......  --- _ -_ _ -__ -__-__-
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                  3,975.0    18,240.0            -        3,745.0              -               -   31.950.0   9.4  3.008.6
E. FELtONSHIPS 8 TRAINING
OVERSEAS TRAINING A TRAVEL                  1,5.BOO0    1.00,. 0                                                       -    2.680.0  10.0    268.0
LOCAL TRAINING                                     -       840.0            -              -                                     840.0  10.0      84.0
Sub-Totsl FELLOWSHIPS A TRAININIG               1,100.0     1,320.0                           .-             -              -    3,520.0  10.0     352.0                             o
. . ... ......    ......  _.._.    .. ... _..._..  ... ........  .... ...            -- -- -    ---     --------
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                            13.665.0   41.425.0    2,543.0          10.790.0       68. 138.6      19.490:0  156.051.6  11.8 I8.490.39
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. INCREMENTAL SALARIES A ALLOWANCES           8, 8935.0   10, 471.0    1, 402.0       6s.o-.0                                  26,823.0   0. 5    140.2
S. VEHICLE OPERATION A MAINIENANCE             1,934.0    4,887.0         277.5        1,532.0                              -    8,630.5  10.0    863. 1
C. EQUIPMENT OPERATION A MAITENIANCE                 -    1,785 4        751.0        18,883.0                             -   21,419.4   5.6  1,197.8
0. OFFICE A BUILDING MAINTENANCE               '.000.0       714.2                                                                  1 -  -    1714.2  10.0    171.4
E. DEMONSTRATION FARS                                -    2,0.20.8                                                               2,020.8  10.0    202.1
Total RECURRENT COSTS                             11, 829. 0   19,5 78. 4    2. 430. 5    26. 470.0             -               -   60, 607.9   4. 2  2,574.5
Total EASELINE COSTS                               25,494.0   61, 303.4    4,973.5         37,260.0       68, 138.6      19,430.0  216.659.4   3.7 21,065.4
Physical Contingencies                           1,659.9    4,523.0         553.6        1, 669.4      10. 220.8       2. 338.8   21,0 55. 4   0.0      0.0
Price Contingencies                              7, 319. 4   14, 921.2    1. 317. 1      9, 623. 5    23,392.4         5. 243. I   57. 822.5 S.4  5. 35L 8
......    .....              .......     .._...........    ............    ..........    ........    .  ___..___.  . ... ... .____
Total PROJECT COSTS                                34, 473.3   80,3 47. 5    6,8 44. 2     48, 558. 9    107, 751. 8     27, 071.3  305,547.5   3.0 27.422.2
Taxes                                              582.4      1,311.4       176.5          358.4       5.357.5         1,353.5    3 177.8  10.3    944.4
Foreign Exchange                                20,365.7   47 771.4    3,591.1          28, 490.4     70,570.5        15,398.3  117,389.0   3.7 la.806.8
October 3. 1985 22:55
oUl



YEMEN ARAB REPUIlIC
TINMA V REGIONAL ASRICULIURAL DEVELOPIIENT PROJECT
Sumary eccounts bY Year
Totals Including Contingnclua                                              totals Including Contlr'ganln
IRNyals '0001                                                                (USN m@00
66/87   87/81    1/839    89/00    20@/1    91/32    92/33   Total             86/67  87/SU    U1/69    a9/go    miOt    91/S2  32/93  Tatal
2322222tSsW 23223323 32223322 2233232* 233332s::r:: 22232sl   =S:X 2222222   33223           S 232:323 22222322 2332332 33 :2:22  $ 222223  2233  222222
1. INVESTMENT COUTS
................
A. CIVIL NORKS                                    -  8.63.9 25,253.0 37. 115.e 50.521. S 27. 154.5           - 148.144.8        - 1 369.2  3.65. 1 5,710.1  7.712.5 4, 177.6           - 22.314.6
e. VEHILLES                                   906.4  5 160.4    995.7  1 508.4             -         -       -   & 571.0  139.4   733.9    153.2    232.1              -        -      -  1. 31L6
C. NBCHINERY A EQUIPIIENT                     114.0  3 852.0  9.481.5  5,352.6             -                 -  193411.1   17.5   534.3  1 456.7    315.8              *        .      -  2.386.2
0. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
,.... . . . . . . . .
EXPERTS                                   675.0  7 713.3  9358.3  8,263.4  323U.5  1.452.0                -  31. 182.5  103.1 1.1U.7  1t 40.7  1.272.2    520.5   223.4            -  4  973.3
ASSOCIATE EXPERTS                              -  3,520.0  3. 778.2  3,050.2           *         -        -  10,348.4        -   541.5    581.3    469.3            -        -     -  1,532.1
SHORT-TERN CNSULTANTS                          -    244.4    262.4    262.4            -         -        -      79.2        -    37.6      40.4      43.5          -              -    121.4
....... ......... ..... ...... ............. ........ ........... ........ ........... ... ... ....... .......... ......... ............ .. ....... ....... .......... ............__... ......... ...... ........_
S-Totael TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                 575.0 11,477.7 13 729.6 11 W52. 1  3,53.5  1 452.0             -  42.320.2  103.1 1,755.1  2.112.3  1.714.3    520.5   223.4             -   5t510.8
E. FELLOWSHIPS 8 TRAINING
OVERSEAS INAININO 8 TRAVEt                  583    402.0  1, 110.   1 138.8    550.8    320.6             -   3, 61.4   10.5    61.1    170.3    175.2    10. 1    43.4                  567.3
LOCAL TRAINING                            242.6    254.3    285.4    308.2             -                  -    . 100.5   37.3    40.7       43.3      47.4                      -        INS. 3
....... ........ ..... ........ ........ .......  ......    ....    ..    ...   ........   ...............
Sub-Total FELLOWSHIPS A TRAINING              310.9     566.3  1 ,34.0  1. 44. I    510.8    320.8           -     .4731.3   47.8   102.5    214.:    222.6    ;00. ;    43.4          -    73i.2 
....... ......... ........ ........... ........ ........... ........ ........... -----.......... ...  ....... ....... ..  ....._......... .....     ----  -----  ------  -------  ------  ----- --------
Total INVESTMENT  OUSTS                        2. 008.J3  0, 067. 3 50,SO6. I 57 625.1 54, 555.3123.927.5        - 224.036.3  308.7 4.625. 7   .7624.0  1U65.5  8,393.2 4.450.4           - 34,467.5
II. RECURRENT COSTS
...............
A. INCREIIENIAL SALARIES A ALLOWANCES  1, 76.4  5,363.6  7, 61A3 10,954.7  7 143.0  1, U7.4                 -  34, 11.6  271.8   825.2  1, 14.0  1, 65.3   18 39   259.6                 5.324.3
L  VEHICLE OPERATION 8 MAINTENANCE           423.3  1. 5324  2.7U3.2  3 259  3 230.1     196.1                  12, 121.6   65. 1   236.4    426.2    501.4    604.5    30.3          -  1 56E 0
C. EQUIPMENT OPERATION A MAINEINANCE          21.8  3.U6.1  6,223.0  72073.65  3, W.0  1. 518.7   641.0  23.355.3    6.0   536.0    358.2  1 083.0  1.532.6   223.7   tS  4*516.2
0. OFFICE A WILDOING  AINTENANCE              57.5    201.2    237.3    503.0    542.9    511.1   435.5   2.617.7             .91    20.9      45.8      77.4      53.5    19.2  67.0    402.7
E. DEMONSTRATION FAIRS                       324.1    423.1    51.16    591.4    760.1             -        -   2.735.4   49.3    65.2         90.7    107.3    117.0          -     -    430.1
.... .... .. ....... ......... ........   ........... ........    .......... .... ..... .. ... .. -------... -------     --------. -----     ----     ----     -------- ... ,, ..... .. .. . ..,............. ...._.....
Total RECURRENT COSTS                          2.10.1 11, 412.1 17 5f. 1 22, 42.7 22,339.5  2 S32.1 1. 071.S  11, 50.6  401.1 1 755.7  2.706S. 2,460.4  3.436.9   612.7 165.6 12.539.1
2333333 33333333s 2"2ss3s 333333   2,2233 2,23232  2233223 333323333  32,33, ,2*333 332   22,223,  332                       2,,,,, : .::::213333 32 322
Total PROECT COSTS                              4,115.4 41 479.4 5        8451.1 680. t5 1619,5.5 32.910. I 1,071.5 2051547.5  710.2 62 11.4 10,530.3 12.325.9 11.130. I 5,03. 1 165.6 47,007.3
332222x  3333s323  2ss22z33   2     22223S 22 8  22332222 22  32283 233323232  32332322332S 22232 88823         23 28220*8 WSMS  :223233 2s32x  s22222x2
Oatcer 3, 1345 22:55
09%



TEINE Al" 11P36tLC
1INKW  V REGIONAL  uICWLhUhlAL KUItifEU   1I30I01
MA1660   Of SIMuI  A0000TS
Physical Cyltiiemfete
Sen Cootta..................                                                 Price Contitqmgeeie                         fetal mcil. Cant.
tocal (lt.l. butites 6                      Itwo),  bille, a                      Local (fail, bites I                      Local (fact, titles I
for. Each.    Taweal    fares    Vital      rot. Euch. lws"  t laes    fitle   Foe. Each,    eatse         ewces    Total   lo. twuc,    vtesn)       Tawns   Toale
I. INVESTAIKI costs
A. CIVI l NUS                            v2. iN. I    20,571.1  4.691t4  u1imam     6,132.0 4.390.0    10l.1S 149030.0  21,sit3          1158.S.1  16141.3 36,345.15  93134.4      41. A342 7.3 44712 140.6Mt,6
L. VEHICLES                               0,550.1         fitI         -  1118. 0       125.1   15.1              2M.5I       318.0        1SO.2            L694t1     161U7.I         1113.1I      -  6111.10
C. MOCINIKEI  a EIfulp(l                 I1. 731.5      1.53.5            is, 325.0     76339   £4.1         -     6(6.     1.644.4        31.5            3,137.3   t7,400.6       1010.3          -  IL.41l1. I
C. TECHNICAL £SMARIiC(
flETS                                 tIIS          1,.LO 2344.0   -1.3.440.0       1,341.1  ItIL?           2. s,10.    4.114.3        671.1 5. 5,58.6I   115.IS.3              3.312.2         - II, 116.S
A550031EAIMI E TS                      71.0           73L 12.0     -  1,20.0         7116    19.2         -    131.0      1. 43LI       13.1             1,693L4    3.21115       t.Ofl.S          it 0,46.
ISVT-TEE ESULTANTi                       5400.    0    IL$         -     N60.0        54.0   L10                60.0        113.5        Is.? I           12.1I       107.5         0I.7 I-            VOL3
kb-foItl IEcoUIEI  ASSISTANCE            11164.0       3,111,0           3 21.IG.00   2,101.3   300.3           3. 0O13     6,464.5        61311.          7,351I. 4    37.39311.4  483.6           - 4121. n.3
(OVERLSES I6AIUIU  S T36VIL            2660.0                      - . 1,660.0       266.0 a                   v".60       743.4          10.0            141.4    S.ULl.               -        -£0.
LOCA1 TRAINING                               .         4640 .0            400                  4.0        -      4.0           -        11L.       .      16.             -      1.100.5 S           I, 100. 5      i
Sih-lotaI FEUESJIIPS a TRAINIKG           2 1680.0       £40.0        .3.5)0. 0         266.0   £4.0         .   Y5S'0        143,4         tILlS            3)l.9     161.8        I. taO. 5          413.1".
Vital IKVESTNEI  ecsfI                     113,3336      37, 167.4  461U. 4 IS. 56,0.6    133104.5 4,61614.6 A 101.1 16,430.0    33,460.61    14. 161.5  1£41.3 49. 416.4   10. 311.1  51)L0M. 73.441.) 1240, $3.
II. EIOIMIN WMTS
A. INEMINITAL SAUlIES A ALLWMNCES        1.340. 0    1j.3141.9  l.341.1  26,6823. 0         - 133.1       tO    140.2        02411. S.103,39   36124  7,546.4    2.16 IS          ff39.14.3  1,130.6  34UlLS.
*  WIIICLE OKEATtON A NAINIINUACI        4,114.1      4,1.1is            IL 6630. 5    451.5   4)1.6        -    S111       I. 230.2     1, 315.0         1,535.1     1 2216       S,0.1 M.2I 12L I1
C. EOUIMIWU   M913 O1   A AINIKEVNtMC   1t52S.86      5 6t.53I          21,413.4       6611 I iI.? 71. 131.6    3,161.0                 3,170.0           IL lt1311   I 160,160    It.53.) 23,351.3
3L OfFFIc  a MINIMn MAVITEAICE             341.6       1, 111.3      - . L14.1          34.3   137.1        -    111.4       lit12        6053s        .    32.1 I      S03.3      2.114.3             L 1611.1I
E. Kf116*IION fASS                         40K.)       1,6116.I   1,020.6               40.4   161.1        -    M0.1         3 7.6       474.3        -   511.         5421)      3. 351)            6.114
Vital HEUSIIIENT WITS                       20,1Ill.1    31,1In..0  1.2341.)  60,607.3    1.21113 135.2       tosisiI          1 676.145  .1SB     12.265.1   313.4 IL 32LI   II.01M11  32,160.0  I.1*6  811546.6
Total                                       134. 1134     16,3A0.4  6,133.61 216,653.4    14.1116.  6,140.1I   108.15 11N. ".4   39, IS&$8    164244.1  1,2.I.1 61.62116   161.363.0    101360.7I 3.7768 369,147.3
Ctuuber 3, 165 12:155



- 64 -
ANE  1
Table 10
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TIHAMA V REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of IDA Credit
IDA Fiscal Year                 Biannual          Cuiulative
and Semester Ending             Disbursements      Disbursements      Percentaxe
(US$ million Equivalent) -             (S)
1987
December 31, 1986                     0.1                0.1               1.0
June 30. 1987                         0.1                0.2               2.0
1988
December 31, 1987                     0.2                0.4               4.0
June 30, 1988                         0.3                0.7               7.0
1989
December 31, 1988                     0.5                1.2              12.0
June 30, 1989                         0.7                1.9              19.0
1990
December 31, 1989                     1.0                2.9              29.0
June 30, 1990                         2.0                4.9              49.0
1991
December 31, 1990                     2.0                6.9              69.0
June 30, 1991                         1.5                8.4              84.0
1992
December 31, 1991                     0.6                9.0              90.0
June 30, 1992                         0.5                9.5              95.0
1993
December 31, 1992                     0.3                9.8              98.0
June 30, 1993                         0.2               10.0             100.0
Closing Date: December 31, 1993
Doc. 1837C



TIHAM&A V IEAIOUL lhaLU*   (L09MT Pm.IIeT
Olstrlbutimn at fgrm Fmal is an Dearman ltltv   Far. models,"
IJWadis
dirmm aa                                         lib.                Rigsm                           bakhJ          EzusnnIte
_-__-_-____---------------_--_-------_---_------------- imumbers -----------------------------------------------------------
FAMX TVDe/z
Model IA            8o (170)          600 (120)    2,600 (S20)    1,110 (290)    1.410 (290)    1OS0 (210)               SS0 (110)       200 (40)      a.410 (1.7501
i 10              150 130)          100 (20)        agO (50)         400 (60)         200 (40)        150 (30)         130 (30)        100 (20)     1l500 (300)
IC                 -                 -               -              900 (300)          -                -               -               -             900 (300)
A                190 (50)       2,230 (600)        410 (120)    I,IS0 (310)    1,640 (440)    1,000 (270)             300 (80)        ISO (50)      7,150 (1,928)
*   2B             70 (20)         300 (80)           -            2,490 (670)        220 (60)        220 (60)          40 (10)          -           3,340 (9O0)
*   3A         3,440 (1,670)   4.860 (2,430)    460 (220)            540 (22lI     2,140 (1,070)  2,640 (1,J0G)  1,060 (530)           240 (170)   lS,100 (7,61S)
*   3S              -                 -               -              600 (100)          -                -               -               -             600 (300)
*   4A            220 (330)      1,630 (1,630)  2,420 (2,420)    250 (265)           670 (670)        830 (820)        250 (250)        20 (30)      6,410 (6,425)        I
4 4                 -                 -               -              250 (210)          -               -                -               -             250 (210)         0
ITtal      5,030 (2,270)   9,720 (4,880)  6,180 (32340)  7,730 (2,650)  6.320 (2.570)  5.910 (2,730)  2,350 (1,010)    60 (310)   44,100 (11,760)
iaU:  System A reflects development due to extension, and
System I reflects development due to extension and water use efficiency or increased water availability.
Hodel IC represents about 200 farm units supporting 900 families.
Li  Figures in parantheses are rnwber of farm units.
L&  Model 1 represents Pump irrigated farms;
model 2 represents Pup and Spate irrigat.id farms;
Model 3 represents Regular Spate Irrigated farms; and
Model 4 represents Irregular Spate irrigated farms.
Ooc.1637C



-66-                                AMNE3CI
Table 12
YDU AMRA REPD
TIMHAA V REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL OEVEL PINIT PR0JECT
Financial Cron Eudgets Per Haetare
Farm Tv. lA 110t hal ai
Gross                         Inmt                               met                 Farm
Return   Ferti11zr    other       Labor LZ  Draft Li lilaw     Rturns       Area    ZIRUB
- -   -   ------------------- tlsha-----                            -       (ha)    YIlle
Sorghum Grain    10,530       420        3.770       0         0      4.190   6.340           3.5    21,968
Sorghum Forage   14.000       420        4.520       0         0      4.940    9.660          4.0    36,149
maize             7.350        420       3.980       0          0      4.400    2.9C0         1.S    4.337
millet                0          0           0       0         0           0        0         0.0         0
Sesame                0          0           0       0         0          0        0          0.0         0
Cotton                0          0           0       0         0           0        0         0.0         0
Tobacco          25.200       480        2.645       0         0       3.125   22.075         1.S    32.450
Sumer Veg. 11  22.S00         600        5.035       0         0      S.63S   16.86S          1.1    17.708
Winter Veg. LA   30.000        600       3.140       0          0      3.740   26.260         1.S    38,602
Tree Crops            0          0           °       0         a           0        0         0.0         0
Totals:
Farm (TRIs)     207.920     S.966       50.800       0         0     56.70S                         IS.21S
L.1  Future with extension services.
Z No hired labor or draft animal used.
Li Representative crop (sweet melon).
JI Representative crop (tomatoes).
Financial Crop Budgets Per Hectar.
Farm T. 13 f110.5 ha) Li
Gross                          unat.                            met                  farm
Return  Fertilizer      Other    Labor        =t      T o.tal   Return   QCa        IDC
~ -~~~~~~-~~ - ~~-~-VRI&--A- --                                    (ha) ------ -- hRltts}
Sorghum Grain    12.465       420         2.7S0     201        0        3.371     9.094    3.5        31.511
Sorghum Forage   16.000       420         3.215       0        0        3.63S     1236S    5.5        67.S13
maize             8.7S0        420        2.900     231         0       3.551      5199    1.5         7.643
millet                0          0            0       0         0           0         0    0.0             0
sesam e                         0             0       0        0            0         0    0.0             0
Cotton                0          0            0                0            0         a    u.0             0
Tobacco          27.600       480         2.036     314        0        2.830     2470    2.5         62.421
Summer Veg       2S.000        600        3.625       3        0       4.228      20772    2.0        41.441
Winter Veg.      35.000        600        2.348     S31         0       3.479     31521    2.S        79.434
Tree crops            0          0            0     307        0          307      -307    0.0             0
Totals:
Farm (YRI)      3S1.041     8.285        49.625    3169        0      61.079                         289.962
LI Future with extension services and on-farm ieproveent.
L_.- no draft animal used.



- 67 -
ANNEX I
Table 13
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TIHAMA V REGION5' AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Budgets Per Hectare
Farm TZl_Z A t6 hal La
Gross      _nputS                                                   Net             Farm
Return    Eertilizer   Other    Labor LI    Draft a        Tonal   Saturn  Area   Incon
--------------------------- YRls/ha) ----------------------------  (ha)   (YRts)
Sorwhum Grain         10,S30        420      2.690     0            0          3.110    7.420   2.0   14.692
Sorgku  Forage        14,000        420      3.230     0            0          3.650   10,350   2.0   20.493
maize                  7.350        420      2.900     0            0           3.320    4.030   0.7    2.902
millet                     0           0         0     0            0               0        00.0            0
Sesime                     0          0          0     0            0               0        00.0            0
Cotton                 8.880        450      3.230     0            0           3.680    5.200   0.7    3.744
Tobacco               25.200        480      2.036     0            0           2.516   22.684   0.7   16.332
Suinr Vegetables    22.500          600      3.610     0            0           4.210   18.290   0.5    8.779
Winter Vegetables    30.000         600      2.330      0           0           2.930   27.070   0.5   12.994
Tree Crops            75.000        600      8.750     0            0           9.350   65.650   0.2   11.817
TOTALS:
Farm (YRI)           117.099      3.319    22.027      0            0          25.347                   91.752
LI  Future with extension services.
LZ no hired labor or draft animal used.
Cr.O 3udaets Per Hectare
Farm Tre 2L f6 hal La
Gross                        InnUtS                                 Net             Farm
Return    Fertilzer   Other    Labor Li    Drat La    Total   Raturn  Arma   Incoa=
-  (YRls/hal  ------              -----------------  ha)   (YRls)
Sorgkn  Grain        ,2.1S0         420      2,273     0            0           2.693    9.457   2.0   18.72S
SorguJ Forage        16.000         420      2.654     0            0           3.074   12.926   2.0   2S.593
Htuze                 8,750         420      2.408      0           0           2.828    5.922   0.4    2.487
Millet                    0            0 °              0           0               0        0°0.0           0
Sesme                     0           0          0     0            0               0        0  0.0          0
Cotton                9.2s0         450      2.654     0            0           3.104    6.146   0.7    4.425
Tobacoo              27.600         480      1.760     0            0           2.240   25.360   1.0   25.867
Sumar Vegetables   25.000           600      2.944     0            0           3.544   21.456   0.8   16.736
Winter Vegetables   35.000          600      1.967      0           0           2.567   32.433   1.0   33.082
Tree Crops          75.000          600      7.121     0            0           7.721   67.279   0.6   40.367
TOTALS:
Farm (YRl)          194.424       4,093    23.048      0            0          27.141                  167.283
LI  Future with extension services and irrigation improvement.
Lz No hired labor or draft animal used.
DOc. 1837C



-68-                        ANNEX I
Table 14
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TIHAMA V REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL O VELOPMENT PROJECT
Cron Budgets Per Hectare
Farm Type 3A f3 ha] LI
Gross                         Inputs                                  Net             Farm
Rhturn    Fertilizer   Other    Labor La    Draft LI    Total   Return  Ar=a   XnGm
--------------------------- (YRls/hal ---- ---------------------  (ha)   (YRlsa
Sorghum Grain        10.530          420        740     0            0           1.160    9.370   1.0    9.276
Sorghum Forage       14.000          420        740     0            0           1.160   12.840   1.2   15,408
Kaize                 7.350          420        800      0           0           1.220    6.130   0.3    1,839
millet                    0            0          0      0           0                0         0°0.0           0
Sesame                    0            0          0      0           0                0        0   0.0          0
Cotton                8.880          480        740      0           0           1.220    7.660   0.3    2,298
Tobacco              25.200          600        860      0           0           1.460   23.740   0.4    9.259
Summer Vegetables   22.500           600        760      0           0           1.360   21.140   0.3    6,342
Winter Vegetables   30.000           600        680      0            0           1.280   28.720   0.3    8,616
Tree Crops                0            0          0      0           0                0         0°0.0           0
TOTALS:
Farm (YRls)          57.672        1.784      2.850      0           0           4.634                    53.038
LI Future with extension services.
LZ No hired labor or draft animal used.
Cron Budaets Per Hectare
Farm Tvje 3B 13 ha) LI
Gross                         Inputs                                  Net             Farm
RetUCn    Fertilizer   Other    Labor LI    Drat Ll    Total   Return  Arna   mimE
--------- ---Y7S ----- - ----- ----/ha  -                            -- -    thal   (rRIS)
Sorghum Grain        11.790          420        740      0           0           1.160   10.630   1.0   10.524
Sorghum Forage       16.000          420        740      0           0           1.160   14.840   1.S   22.260
maize                     0            0          0      0            0               0         0   0.0         0
millet                    0            0          0      0            0               0         00.0            0
Sesame                    0            0          0      0           0                0         0   0.0         0
Cotton                9.250          480        740      0           0           1.220    8.030   0.2    1.686
Tobacco              27.600          600        860      0           0           1.460   26,140   0.5   13.331
Sumer Vegetables   25.000            600        760     0            0           1.360   23.640   O.S   12.056
Winter Vegetables   35.000           600        740      0            0           1.340   33.660   0.6   20.196
Tree Crops                0            0          0      0           0                0         00.0            0
TOTALS:
Farm (YRls)          85.441        2.119      3.268      0           0           5.387                    80.054
LI  Future with extension services and Irrigatton tnprovement.
_Z No hired labor or draft animal used.



-69 -                                     ANEX 1I
Table 15
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TIHAMA V REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVE-OPHENT PROJECT
CroR Budgets Per Hectare
Farm Tyne 4A (6 ha) La
Gross                         Inputs                                  Net             Farm
Return    Fertilizer   Other    Lkabr          Draft        Total   Return  Area   Ilm.
---------------- (YRls/hal ----------------------------  (ha)   (YRlsI
Sorghum Grain         5.265          240        710     3S8          330         1.637    3.628   1.5    5.442
Sorghm Forage         7.000          240        890     389          256         1.775    S.225   1.0    5.330
Maize                     0            0          0        0            0             0        0   0.0          0
Mil1et                4.235          210        630      232           39         1.111    3.124   1.0    3,186
Sesane                5.040          120        620     285          153         1.178    3.862   1.0    3.940
Cotton                    0            0          0        0            0             0        00.0            0
Tobacco                   0            0          0        0            0             0        0   0.0          0
Summer Vegetables         0            0          a        0            0             0        0   0.0          0
Winter Vegetables         0            0          0        0            0             0         0   0.0         0
Tree Crops                0            0          0        0            0             0        0   0.0          0
TOTALS:
Farm (YRl)           24.49u          941      3.248   1.460          952         6.601                     17.897
LI Future with extension services.
Cron Budgets Per Hectare
Farm Type 4B (6 hal LI
Gross                         Inputs                                  met             Farm
Return    Fertilizer    flther    Labor        Oraft        Total   Return  Arma    nc=m
=-- -----           --        (YRls/hal ----- -   (ha)   (YRlsl
Sorghum Grain         7.290          240        710     879          332         2.161    5.129   1.5    7.693
Sorghum Forage        7.500          240        710     952          236         2,138    5.362   2.0   10.617
Maize                     0            0          0        0            0             0        00.0             0
millet                4.620          210        630      573           36         1,449    3.171   1.5    4.757
sesame                6.300          120        620     684          115          1.S39    4.761   1.0    4.856
Cotton                    0            0          0        0            0             0        00.0             0
Tobacco                   0            0          0        0            0             0        0°0.0            0
Summer Vegetables         0            0          0        0            0             0        0   0.0          0
Winter Vegetables         0            0          0        0            0             0        0   0.0          0
Tree Crops                0            0          0        0            0             0        0°0.0            0
TOTALS:
farm (YR1)         39.141        1.273     4.048   4.762         1.136        11.218                    27.923
Li Future with extension services and Irrigation 1mprovement.
Doc. 1837C



YEMEN ARAB REPUILIC
TIHAHA Y AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJEtCT
Not Fars Income
(YRls '000)
Pump Only_          PLm  A Spate'4         Reaular SUate         Irreaular Snate
FWO      FW     Ri!    FWl       FWd    FW      FWO      FW     PW!    FWO    rd      FWI
Gross Returns                          161.2   207.9  291.0    89.0   117.1  194.4    44.4    57.7   85.4   19.3   24.5   39.1
Taxes,1                                12.1    15.6   21.7       7.7    11.7   19.4      5.6     7.2   10.7    2.5    3.1    4.9
Cost of Production/2                   51.6    56.7   61.6    22.6    25.3   27.1        3.3     4.6    5.4    4.2    6.6    7.1
Not Return after Taxes                 97.5   135.6  207.7    58.7    80.1  147.9    35.5    45.9   69.3   12.6   14.8   27.1
A. Landar  Incm.:
Gross Return after Tax             99.9   12858  180.6    51.2    73.6  102.3    19.4    25.2   37.4    8.4   12.4   17.1
Liii cost of inputs                12.2    16.1   18.2      6.6      9.3   10.1     3.3      4.6    5.4    4.2    6.6    7.1
LeS5 cost of water                 39.4    40.6   39.7    16.0    16.7   18.4       -        -      -      -       -      -
Less cost of recovery charge LI      -               -      o.s    J.I   _.L        Li      -.L     1.7   A04   A.L    AA
Net Return                    48.3    72.1  122.7    28.1    46.4   72.0    15.2    19.4   30.3    3.8    5.3    9.2                 0
S. Sharecwanars rnema
Gross Return after Tax             49.2    63.4   88.9    30.1    43.4   72.7    19.4    25.3   37.4    8.4   10.7   17.1
Len cost of land preparation    S-d    -L1    Li9    .1.            -la     Li      -1.    J...1   _16A    L      LI   _2_z
Not Return                    45.1    59.3   83.0    27.7    41.0   69.8    18.1    24.0   35.8    6.8    9.1   14.9
Net Return per ha LI                9.3    12.9   19.8      9.8    13.4   24.6    11.8    15.3   23.1    2.1    2.5    4.5
LI  Zakat (5% on well irrioation and 10% on spate irrigation) and cooperation tax 2.5% on gross value of production.
LI  Including cost of water estimated at YRL 0.30Im2; excluding cost of family labor and animal draft owned by households.
1I  2% of the gross value of production in areas under spate irrigation.  At present there is no charge on returns from
well-irrigated lands.
L9 At present 76% of water requirement is provided from pump; and in future, it is expected that about 50% will be provided
from spate.
LA  Farm sties are:  Pump Only. 10.5 ha; Pump and Spate, 6.0 ha; Regular Spzte, t.0 ha; and Irregular Spate, 6.0 ha.
I.!



- 71 -
AMX 1
Table 17
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TIHAMA V REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Increoental Taxes and Recovery Charges 1
Cooperation      Recovery
Zakat         Tax            Charge           Total
Farm Type                                       (YRls Million)
Well Irrigation
1 A                          2.7          1.3              -              4.0
1 B                          2.7          1.3              -              4.0
Well & Spate Irrigation
2 A                          0.9          0.4              -              1.3
2 B                          6.5          2.2              1.2            9.9
Regular Spate Irrigation
3 A                            4.0          1.0              -              5.0
3 B                            1.2          0.3              0.2            1.7
Irregular Spate Irrigation
4 A                            0.7          0.2              -              0.9
4 B                            0.4          0.1              0.1            0.6
TOTAL                         19.1          6.8              1.5           27.4
/l Annual, at full development from farms in project area.



- 72 -
ANE  I
Table 18
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TIRAKA V AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost and Rent ecover
At Full Development
Farm Types            Siham
2B       3B       48        OnlY
-          (YRis Million)
1.    Incremental Gross Value of Production           57.5      12.3      3.9        73.9
2.    Input Cost                                       2.2       0.6      1.5         4.3
3.    Net Incremental Income                          55.3      11.7      2.4        69.6
4.    Less imputed value of family Labor              13.9       2.9      0.6        17.4
5.    Less imputed value of Mgt. & Risk '              5.6       1.2      0.2         7.0
6.    Rent/Surplus (3-4-5)                            35.8       7.6      1.6       45.2
7.    Recovery Charges L' & Taxes
A. Cost Recovery Charges                         1.2      0.2       0.1        1.5
B. Zakat tax                                     6.5      1.2       0.4        8.1
C. Cooperation tax                               2.2      0.3       0.1        2.6
Total                                      9.9      1.7       0.6       12.2
8(a)  Rent Recovery Index (7AW6)                        32        32       6S          32
(b)  Rent Recovery Index (7/6) /4                     282       22Z      38S        27S
9.    Net Incremental Income Recovery (7/3)            181       15S      252         171
10.    Public Investment"
- Irrigation works                               8.6      2.1       2.9       13.e,
- Operation and Maintenance                      0.7      0.1       0.2        1.0
Total                                       9.1      2.2       3.1       14.6
11(a)  Cost Recovery Index (MA/M)                       132        92       3S         101
(b)  Cost Recovery Index (7/10) /4                   1092       77S      191        842
/1   From 1,110 farms (5760 ha) in Wadi Siham on which public investment in irrigation
infrastructure will be undertaken.
/2   Assumed at 101 of net incremental income.
/3   At present, on average 761 of the total irrigation water available on these farms
is pumped; the balance is delivered on spate flow. In future, it is expected that
501 of water requirements would be provided from spate flow. Recovery charges have
been calculated on that basis.
14   All incremental revenues that accrue to the public sector as a result of the
project are considered recoveries.
/5   Cost of irrigation infrastructure estimated at YRls 68.1 million (Babe Cost) is
phased over five years.



-73 -                            ANNEX 1
Table 19
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TIHAMA V REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial and Economic Prices
Financial               Economic
Output (YRls/ton)
Sorghum Grain                                3,150                    1,025
Sorghum Stover                                  150                     120
Sorghum Forage                                 500                      400
Maize                                         3,000                   1,050
Maize Stover                                    250                     200
Millet                                        3,850                   1,025
Sesame                                       6,300                   2,325
Cotton                                       3,700                    1,420
Tobacco                                     12,000                   14,010
Sumier Vegetables /1                         3,100                   2,480
Winter Vegetables /2                         3,100                    2,480
Tree Crops /3                                2,500                   1,970
Inputs
Labor (YRI/day)                                 45.0                     36.00
Fertilizer (YRls/ton) /4                     3,000.0                 1,980.00
Pesticide (YRls/kg)                             60.0                     48.00
Mechanization (YRls/hr.)                         80.0                    64.00
Water (YRls/m2)                                  0.3                      0.34
Draft Animal                                     90.0                    72.00
/1  Sweet melon.
/2  Tomato.
/3  Banana and papaya.
/4 Average for Urea and TPS.



- 74 -
EX 1
Tabl e 20
YEMEN ARAB REPURLIC
TIIMMA V REWOUAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ouantiPiable Econamie Cast and Benefit Stream
(YRls million)
Casts                             Benefits
Irrigation      Extension      Feeder         Crop          Other LI       Net
Years        Infrastructure    Serv1ies         RLad      Production       Bene1ts       BDenefit
1                   -               0.36         -              -              -           -0.36
2                    1.01           8.32         1.38           -              -          -10.71
3                   4.91            5.41         9.97           -              -          -20.29
4                   17.06           4.38         8.73           -              -          -30.17
5                  33.29            1.83         0.25           2.00           -          -33.37
6                   16.60           0.64         0.2S           7.00           -          -10.49
7                   0.97            0.24         0.25          14.00           -           12.S4
a                    0.97           0.24         0.25          24.00           2.28        24.82
9                    0.97           1.24         0.25          32.00           2.28        32.82
10                  0.97            0.24         0.25          38.00           2.28        38.82
11                  0.97            0.24         0.25         41.00            2.28       41.82
12-30               0.97            0.24         0.25         43.00            2.28        43.82
LI  Avoidance of production loss due to flood protection resulting froe the proposed
Irrigation infrastructure.



- 75 -
ANNEX lI
Table 21
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TIHAMA V REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sensitivity Tests
NPV as a X
Present           of Present         Internal
Value at OCC        Costs of OCC       Rate of
Test Cases       Test Case Variations             of 12.00t           of 12.00t          Return
Base Case                                             78                  101X              21%
Test Case I      Costs Up 20X                         63                   68X              19%
Test Case 2      Benefit Down 20X                     47                   61X              18%
Test Case 3      Costs Up 20% &
Benefit Down 20X                    32                   34X              16X
Test Case 4      Benefit Lag 2 Years                  47                   601              171



- 76 -
ANNEX 2
YEMbE ARAB REPUBLIC
TIHAMA V REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
A. Reports Relating to the Project
A.1   SOGREAH Consulting Engineers, Grenoble France.
Wadi Siham Feasibility Study (December 1981)
Updating of Wadi Siham Feasibility Study (April 1985)
A.2 FAO/CP - Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project
Preparation Report (50/85 CP-YEM 21) dated April 25, 1985
B. Working Documents
B.1   Engineering and Cost Estimate
B.2   Agricultural Development
B.3   Extension Service
B.4   Economic and Financial Data



77-                                                 Chart I
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
IIKAM V REGIONAL AGRICULlURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(o)  pl  WHlfMblgoled Fom
Propond L
Area = 8-0 ha
DI'hoge -6.l0 Vs
Bbd PVC leunr
(4- di. 6 br)              Han
Reid qs
P Olr Dold h_
p~~~~~~~~PapM DO$p*rrpppp*p7 i"A
36D-381 m
(b) TVpcd Well and Spol84eUio   Fanms
Prop    Layut
Aeoa =l2 ha
(TWo 6ho FoMns)
DischoW = bV8I/s
se "ocerck/Inlet
F md                               (0Q m high)
Vd ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Be
P%C "~eIna
WON           (ao4 d. 6 bar)
_LVSS,                                                  E
|'  ~~~~~~~ 5mm~~~~~a  -   *ih
1  No51o DmB-k-27oW
NoNt" to scaleq~w-26



chart 2
- 78 -
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TIHAMA V REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Calendar
MOONT  JA       F       MAA    AN      MAY   JUN    _i        AU      uP    OcT   MN        Mc
1. RSUA SPATE& W.L
So "||                             "e   "| ck"-  s  "  " > _
MAd.                                                                onin   _    PMiPiJ z ,
Cottn                     11101111l                                             V Ai W0
TabOCCO                      logo1m    ~            ~~ UI                               
Summer WgskoiIeI 111 I I   XdI5 UIuI on
11. IRREGUR5PATE
h5EllIEl a1ndo PrepYoton& Seedng
-s_ _ -
Wioud B.uPc-27761



N I                 q   N - U U U                       -
5                    a           U
a     *                    a            a
-  -                 S           a
41                          a           a
Id                          U           a
U                           a           a
-                   a           S
S           S
a           S
LII     n                   I            U
I          U _________  S                I
-       a                                         a
w       U*                                        I
a
-                             _                   I    ___
-' -        - - - --    a a  a          1
-                          J                                   U
0               a    a  a    I     a
I _            iii                a
_                         I     I _
3?        --                ......L.. __ - - -  a  a
-if                        -I              a
-                               I         I             a
a                          a
- ___                           I         a           I
_______                              -    -  - -  --  - - -
-                   I                                -
w                                                    I
I          I                            III_
_____I________
-if       I          I              I - - -  - - -    - - -  --I-;-
I                                          ii
q       I           I              I      I,           I      I
__________ I ______________ L - -   IiA........IJ.i..... - I  I
III  I           -I-- --I--
-   1   g                           Iii   '          I  I    I  I
I
II                                                       ii    j   III
iii  Ii                       II     I        jIiI jIII
Iftn 
ill IiJiIiiIiJiIJIIf,IIiiii liii IIIii, liii I
-    id                               aS          ad



CnM 4
r------------ 
ID I~~~~~~~~~~~~~
it              lit    et IIIIiIi
IL I ii''i* "I



SAUDI          )
ARic; ,, .t;d:9 9SABDIA  )                                        X                                     YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TIHAMA V REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL
:- :::  ,i'  / \                                                      )                       DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
tC    t/  \                                                S                                      PROJECT AREA
N;  \   \  \                                              (I                                                Prolesf Components
Abs   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~0 Exfension Centers
l   Research Stations
I \              %                                                                                          *A   Sub-Regional Office Sites
Existing.
AlL                     A                                                                                                            Agriculturol Development Project (World Bank)
t   -HenmuIoa't .~ v    4¢5ozp                                                                                             Tihomo Coastal Plain
; ' SAI4utali  MP         i      - \60                                                                                  *   Extension Centers
Akhr 0,  Al-Ocrowis  ~ ~ ~     ~         ~        ~        ~        ~- Main Roads
0.:>  \   |  \  ^14X- ---  Secondary Roods
I                                                                                                    -~~~~~A-lwia  . -- Wadis
Jgl   0   t  /| t   AI Ata*,yoh                       ~                        SANA'A                     a   Notional Capital
Al MwaVrah          D       hj/                                                        \                           o   Towns
/    AMl  -International Boundaries
*- f  f   e      iCr  Al-zaloran   ) ~~~~~Al-MonXrb 
.15  >    q      * ' v'  s& iAIoI>IBmi  >  |                                         _Ds 19225+                                                 O       rltuiam DR
1e,;.t , AX .......... \,,, f: t ......... ~-                                                          /WETI
~~*,  *~~~~~~-~~~  ~ ~ ~   ~~~  A:Fc4



11wSA  .,X.S-  j                                                  H.         \                                                      I~~~A140ara
AlZn~vmi Al .                                                                          2 .irm4i
,, h . SJ .> z ! .\ t Sorok < r@a' $                                                               _  _  _      _ _ _b
Al-Outhmi   "N D,'aiR'w
y;:                             Gc: .i )    9H*   
*AJ.Fo juh
.1,;R 6"4 ,    . C    .        , d       \
.!S,.,'.r,,'.,',,',,,'.'',',,.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~r4m "''Yoi&w *rJo°'   oroww 'Ned'z  8. Ob~   4HN   0n
Al.Mj,ollo)'   \  \Ii                                                     . '       ADAB_(ARA)
Jabal Ras,  -*"
SL , DJ!BOUTI\: 00-' iv~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. '..,.................                                                             xud*  ;1{4 
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Hi
Al-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
Short Alyaib
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC
Ta's        2             ~~~~REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
A;.Twfth    %I
2                     ~~~~~~SAUDI ARABIA
I?  sea    YEME I./
-      ~~~A. R. ~/P.D.R. YEMEN4
ETHIOPIA                     .ETHIOPIA
DJIBOUTI :*                                                                                 .bioT 



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TIHAMA V REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
WADI SIHAM DEVELOPMENT SCHEME
Project Components.                             Existing:
-~--  New Canals                                      Irrigation Area Boundary
Siphon                                          Spate Irrigated Area
o=    Weirs and OfFtokes                              Flood Flow Area
Dikes                                          Canals
s- - -  Feeder Roads                                     Highways
Traccks
0     Towns or Villages
Wadis
4P .      -    .  .          *                                            .     Consolidated Dunes
iWFd                                                                        Intermat-i Boundaries
OUTAYc(
.,   ,  ,                        /                 ,   .<'\;.' ;-'.:~~0k, *iw.
Suleyrmniyc
Makikdia 
WA,O SCHEMF'



IBRD 19225
Al
Al Khmodh                       /
/   \                         >~Ad Dhinan
Deir Almudawar/      g     y     h                
)/ ~ ~      Md Sih  'SqA                   \
/ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -Jbz                       - - - - - -                               dir
/Wat                                   I 3                     11  ,                                  X~t 
_r/uq h
\N~;t ,i lf to ,L,, ( S > jS!
.j.OLKO SCHEM5
~~~~~~.  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   I......PD R
..* ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~.
..                  __         I         -- -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....
SAUDISARABIA
/                   '~~~~~  -N~~~~~    /    P.D*~~~OCOBR. 196






