Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15620
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TIHAMA V REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1667-YAR)
May 17, 1996
Natural Resources, Water and Environment Division
Middle East Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1 (at appraisal, 1986)   =  6.5 Yemeni Rials (YRls, official rate)
US$1 (between 1991/95)    =  12 Yemeni Rials (YRls, official rate)
US$1 (at completion, 1995) =  50 Yemeni Rials (YRls, official rate)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System vs British System
1 meter (m)           =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (kIn)     =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 sq. kilometer (m2)    =  0.386 sq. miles (mi2)
1 cubic meter (m3)    =  35.315 cubic feet (ft3)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AREA        Agricultural Research and Extension Authority
CACB        Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank
CPPR        Country Portfolio Performance Review
EEC         European Economic Commission
FAO         Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FAO/CP      FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
FAO/UNDP FAO/United Nations Development Programme
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IDA         International Development Association
IFAD        International Fund for Agricultural Development
KFAED       Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
MAWR        Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
O&M         Operation and Maintenance
ODA         Overseas Development Administration of the United Kingdom
PDRY        Peoples Democratic Republic of Yemen
ROY         Republic of Yemen
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
SMS         Subject Matter Specialists
TDA         Tihama Development Authority
UNCDF       United Nations Capital Development Fund
WID         Women in Development
YAR         Yemen Arab Republic
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICL41 USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TIHAMA V REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1667-YAR)
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY .....................                                         ... i-v
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT.                                              1
A. Introduction                        ....
B.  Project Objectives         ...................                                      2
C. Achievement of Objectives .                    -            . . .   3
D.  Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project.                      8
E.   Project Sustainability    ....... ...................   9
F. Bank Performance ..... . . ......... 10
G. Borrower Performance                      . . . .11
H. Assessment of Outcome                      . . . .12
I. Key Lessons Learned .12
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments ..... ............... 14
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans/Credits          ........................16
Table 3:     Project Timetable ................... 18
Table 4:     IDA Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .19
Table 5 (A): Key Indicators for Project Implementation - December 1995 .20
Table 5 (B): Planned and Actual Recruitment of Technical Assistance .21
Table 5 (C): Foreign and Local Training Program (1988-95) ......  ........ 23
Table 6:     Project Costs and Financing
- Part A: Project Cost ......  ..          .     .............. 24
- Part B: Project Financing ................  25
Table 7:     Project Results ................                                         26
Table 8:     Status of Legal Covenants  ................  27
Table 9:   Use of Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .28
Table 10:    Use of Bank Resources: Missions ........................ 29
ANNEXES:
A. ICR Mission Aide-Memoire                     . . . .30
B. Economic Analysis                       ....32
C.  Tihama Development Authority: Recurrent and Investment Budget (1992-1995)  . 46
D.  Project Review from Borrower's Perspective    ..................... 47
E.  Comments from Government on ICR  e...........                    ......  ... 60
Map IBRD No. 19224
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TIHAMA V REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1667-YAR)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Tihama V Agricultural
Development Project in the Republic of Yemen, for which an IDA Credit (1667-YAR) in the
amount of US$10 million or SDR 9.0 million equivalent was approved on March 20, 1986
and declared effective on December 7, 1987.
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1995, after it was extended three times from
its original closing date of December 31, 1993. US$1.5 million of the Credit was cancelled
as a result of the May 1995 Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) consultations
between IDA and the Government, which took into account the status of commitments under
the project and the outlook for project completion by the agreed closing date. The remainder
of the Credit was fully disbursed in 1996. Cofinancing for the project was provided by the
Government of the Netherlands (DFL23 million, US$11.2 million equivalent in 1991) and
the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development (KFAED) (US$15 million). KFAED
disbursed US$0.5 million, but the remaining funding was discontinued in 1991 as a
consequence of the Gulf War.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Tijan M. Sallah, Economist (MN2NE), and reviewed
by Mr. Salah Darghouth, Chief (MN2NE), and Ms. Tufan Kolan, Acting Project Advisor
(MN2DR). The Government of the Republic of Yemen provided comments on the report
which are included as Annex E to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR began during IDA's joint supervision/completion mission in
November 1995, which included Mr. Nejdet Al-Salihi, Senior Irrigation Engineer (MN2NE)
and Huub Stoetzer, Consultant Agronomist (Netherlands Government). The [CR is based on
material in the project files, discussions with the task manager and Borrower representatives,
field visits to project site, and project data provided by the Project Implementation Authority.
The Borrower contributed to the ICR by providing their own evaluation of the project's
preparation and execution, which is included as Annex D.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TIHAMA V REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1667-YAR)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The Tihaina V Regional Agricultural Development Project is the fifth among a series
of area development projects in the Tihama Region of Yemen, a region representing 45
percent of the country's potential for irrigated development. IDA assistance has supported
the Republic of Yemen's (ROY) strategy to exploit all six major wadis (valleys, water
catchments) in the region for agricultural development with provision of a range of rural
development services. Tihama I (rated satisfactory) concentrated on Wadi Zabid; Tihama II
and IV (rated satisfactory) on Wadi Rima; Tihama III (rated unsatisfactory) on Wadi Mawr,
and Tihama V on Wadi Siham. Tihama III was rated unsatisfactory because the sophisticated
permanent diversion structures built in Wadi Mawr have by themselves not been
economically viable, and the volume of incremental water diversion and the size of the
cropped area have not been significant. Also, with only one diversion point upstream,
farmers upstream benefitted at the expense of those downstream.
Project Objectives
2.    The objectives of the project were to improve agricultural productivity and farm
incomes in the Tihama region by: (i) propagating suitable technical packages; (ii) improving
irrigation water management; and (iii) strengthening institutions to ensure sustainable project
benefits.
3.    The above objectives were to be achieved by: (i) unifying and strengthening regional
extension services with facilities and staffing; (ii) establishing regional veterinary services for
livestock development; (iii) constructing irrigation infrastructure to serve 7,000 ha in Wadi
Siham and constructing marketing infrastructure and 62.4 km of feeder roads; (iv)
establishing regular O&M service for the region; and (v) strengthening the Tihama
Development Authority (TDA).
4.    A number of credit covenants were agreed in support of project objectives, directed at
ensuring timely reporting, recruitment of staff, establishment of specific extension facilities,
reorganization of Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) unit, preparation of a training program,
and overall smooth implementation of project activities. All thirteen covenants have been
complied with, of which 5 experienced delayed compliance (Table 8).



Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project                              ii
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    The project succeeded in establishing 705 ha (against the 750 ha appraisal target) of
shelterbelt plantation in Zabid, Rima and Siham to stabilize sand dunes and established a
number of literacy, health, nutrition and home economics programs to assist rural women.
The pre-existing parallel extension services of the Ministry of Agriculture and Water
Resources (MAWR) and the Tihama Development Authority (TDA) were unified under a
single line of command; as a result, the approach to extension became more coordinated and
duplication of efforts was reduced. An extension division at TDA headquarters linked to
three subregional (north, south, central) extension units was established. The number of
extension agents was increased, and was surpassed in the case of women extension agents.
Over 80 percent (38,110 farm families) of the target 44,000 farm families were reached by
extension activities under the project. Extension, however, suffered, at times, from
inadequate operating funds, poor mobility, unsuitable and unresponsive technical packages,
and weak linkage with research. Generally, extension staff were better trained and more
experienced than their counterparts in research (AREA). Despite these problems, extension
under the project made substantial positive headway in transferring the experiences of
successful farmers to others; thereby increasing yields among Tihama farmers.
6.    The project unified the veterinary services provided by the Ministry of Agriculture
and Water Resources (MAWR) with that by TDA and placed them under TDA's supervision.
However, this component has only been partially satisfactory because of lack of adequate
equipment, veterinary drugs, and shortage of operating funds. Shortage of foreign exchange
impacted negatively on procurement of quality vaccines and thereby hindered campaigns
against rinderpest (endemic to the region), and against sheep and goat pox.
7.    The project achieved its objective of improving land and water management as well as
farm incomes through irrigation development. However, the achievement was partial in the
sense that only one of the two irrigation schemes proposed at appraisal was completed.
Kuwait Fund financing was discontinued due to the Gulf War and, as a result, the Al-
Barquqah scheme was postponed for future possible funding. The EEC has picked up this
scheme for financing to be completed in 1997. IDA and part of the Netherlands Grant funds
earmarked for the Al-Barquqah scheme were reallocated for use in the construction of the
Waqir scheme. The Waqir scheme comprised irrigation works for an area of 4,200 hectares
(against 7,000 hectares for the two schemes at appraisal) and unlined main and secondary
canals 21 km long. The scheme has only been recently completed after considerable delays,
and all works have been carried out at a high standard of construction. The incremental
water diverted as a result of the Waqir scheme is expected to result in substantial incremental
benefits to Tihama irrigation farmers.
8.    Under the project, the number of demonstration farms envisaged at appraisal
(4 ten-hectares farms) have been surpassed (18 demonstration farms), and the demonstrations
have been situated on farmers' plots with much greater impact than on government-owned



iii                               Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project
plots, as proposed at appraisal. On-farmer's plot demonstrations have also encouraged
greater participation from farmers.
9.    Also, under the project, 35.7 km of asphalt roads and 12.6 km of gravel roads,
totalling 48.3 km of access roads, were constructed (against the appraisal target of 62 km of
gravel roads). The actual reduction in the combined total length of roads compared with the
appraisal target was a result of optimization in designs during implementation. Although
construction suffered from implementation delays, the constructed roads have been made with
better and more durable material, better earth embankments, and have greater width than
proposed at appraisal. The asphalt roads have facilitated farmer access to markets and to
social services, and considerably reduced the adverse health effects of dust pollution from the
previous unpaved dirt paths.
10.   The project established three regional operation and maintenance centers, as envisaged
at appraisal, and provided them with staffing and equipment. The centers have been
performing O&M functions for irrigation and feeder roads under the TDA at an acceptable
standard. Budgetary shortages, however, have sometimes made it difficult to attract adequate
competent staff to fully utilize the equipment purchased for use in O&M.
11.   Substantial training and technical assistance have been provided under the project.
Gains in these areas have resulted in the gradual phasing out of expatriate assistance and their
replacement with national counterparts. However, technical assistance and training for
monitoring and evaluation capacity have been underestimated and have therefore been
inadequate and require further strengthening. Overall, the objectives of the project were
substantially achieved, although after considerable delays of over three and a half years.
12.   During implementation, the government's worsened budgetary situation also impacted
negatively on the implementation of the project, resulting in inadequate and delayed
availability of operating funds. Government funds to the TDA were held at the 1992 level
even while the Riyal had depreciated, and TDA's investments in infrastructure and
agricultural services have expanded. These raise the key question of project sustainability.
Sustainability of investments would depend on TDA's efforts to improve cost recovery,
commercialize some of its services, and reduce dependence on government and external
funding support.
13.   The project has been overall satisfactory, with an ERR of 20.6% (against the
appraisal estimate of 21%). The actual total costs of the project was estimated at US$30
million (against an estimated S$47 million at appraisal) (Table 6). The difference is due to
withdrawal of Kuwait Fund (KFAED) financing and shortage of government counterpart
funds. Actual financing was provided by the IDA Credit (US$11.57 million against the SAR
fmancing plan of US$10 million), the Netherlands grant (US$12.68 million against appraisal
plan of US$9.4 million), the KFAED (US$0.5 million against the appraisal plan of US$15
million), and Government (US$5.25 million against the appraisal plan of US$12.6 million).



Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project                                 iv
14.   Overall, Bank performance in the project has been satisfactory in the sense that
regular supervision missions were carried out, in addition to a mid-term review. The Bank
remained flexible and realistic in providing advice and helping resolve difficult issues, and
extended the project closing date three times to allow for completion of major works, and
realization of development objectives. Bank shortcoming has been failure to use realistic
yield data in the appraisal economic analysis and setting ambitious cost recovery objectives.
15.   Borrower performance has been partially satisfactory. TDA coped with tough
circumstances beyond its control and complied generally with all the legal covenants. Due to
the difficult economic situation, shortage of Government counterpart funds at times adversely
affected TDA's program of implementation.
Key Lessons Learned
16.   The key lessons learned under this project are listed below.
(i) Using realistic data at appraisal facilitates the evaluation of project achievement.
Therefore, emphasis is needed on quality at entry. Under Tihama V, the
substantial overestimates of agricultural yields at appraisal made them unrealistic
for use as comparator for measure of project achievement (para. 1.30).
(ii) Flexibility to reallocate resources is necessary to ensure substantial achievement
of project goals when a major and dependable cofinancier (e.g., Kuwait Fund)
discontinues funding due to unanticipated circumstances, such as the Gulf Crisis
(para. 1.14).
(iii) Extension cannot function fully effectively without research. If research (AREA
in Yemen) does not have adequate staffing, operating budget, and superior
competence to produce suitable packages, then its input into extension is likely to
be limited. Moreover, extension cannot be effective without adequate operating
funds (para. 1.8).
(iv) The design of a cost recovery system should be based on a realistic appraisal of
what is workable and achievable given local circumstances. The full cost
recovery objective under the project was ambitious. The zakat (religious) cost
recovery system is prone to misuse. There is no objective means of assessing
farmers' declarations; hence farmers understated their income and thereby the
resulting zakat religious tax, without penalty (para. 1.28).
(v) Inadequate counterpart funds have been a major limitation to project
implementation. This suggests that new projects should be undertaken only after
a careful review of their incremental demands on the government budget (para.
1.31).



v                                  Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project
(vi) Although TDA is a competent authority, sustainability of project benefits is likely
only if TDA pushes for greater cost recovery, commercializes some of its
services, and reduces its dependence on government and external support (para.
1.25).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TIHAMA V AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1667-YAR)
PART I
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Introduction
1.1   Agriculture accounted for about 19 percent of Yemen's 1994 GDP (estimated at
US$4,122 million) and employed 58 percent of the workforce. Critical to Yemen's
agricultural development is the Tihama region (22,000 km2), which represents about 45
percent of the country's potential for irrigated agriculture development. For centuries, the
people of the Tihama have irrigated the otherwise semi-desert region with locally constructed
temporary structures that divert a portion of the intermittent floods (or spates) onto the
adjoining land.
1.2   Since 1973, the Government of the former Yemen Arab Republic (YAR), which
united with the Peoples Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) of the South in 1990 to
form the Republic of Yemen (ROY), has pursued a strategy, supported by external
assistance, of exploiting all the major wadis (valleys, water catchments) in the Tihama region
for agricultural development. This involved investments in surface irrigation in the form of
permanent diversion structures in the wadis, investments in groundwater development, roads,
and a range of support services. IDA has assisted with five Tihama projects, the
performances of which, except for Tihama III, have been satisfactory. Tihama I Project
(Wadi Zabid), and II and IV (Wadi Rima) were rated as satisfactory at completion, and
Tihama III (Wadi Mawr) was rated unsatisfactory. The latter was rated unsatisfactory
because the sophisticated permanent diversion structures built in Wadi Mawr have by
themselves not been economically viable (an ERR of 4.5-9.5 percent against the SAR
estimate of 16 percent), and the volume of incremental water diversion and the size of the
cropped area has not been significant. Also, with only one diversion point upstream, the
farmers upstream captured the benefits at the expense of those downstream.
1.3  IDA's strategy in Yemen's agriculture sector has been to support area development
projects, providing a range of rural development services. Successive Tihama projects (para.
1.2) have been in line with this, but so have the relatively successful Southern Uplands II,
Northern Regional Agricultural Development Project, FY88 (board date), Southern Regional
Agricultural Development Project, FY87, and the more difficult, problem-ridden projects of
Central Highlands, FY84, and Wadi Al-Jawf, FY85. In addition, IDA has begun to support



Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project                              2
programs that strengthen national services to the agriculture sector (Agriculture Sector
Management Project, FY92), that support area/irrigation development (Wadi Hadramawt III
Project, FY89) and that tackle the pressing issues of land and water management (Land and
Water Conservation Project, FY92).
B. Project Objectives
1.4   The project objectives under Tihama V were to improve agricultural productivity and
farm incomes in the region by propagating suitable technical packages and improving
irrigation water management; and strengthening of development institutions to ensure
sustainable project benefits. To accomplish these objectives, the project was expected to:
(i) support regional agricultural extension services through construction of extension
buildings, provision of vehicles, equipment and machinery and appointment of
staff to strengthen extension services, and provision of particular support for rural
development for women;
(ii) establish regional veterinary services for livestock development;
(iii) improve land and water management as well as farm incomes through
construction of the Al-Barquqah and Waqir irrigation schemes to serve 7,000 ha
in Wadi Siham, as well as construction of 62.4 km of feeder roads, flood
protection works, demonstration farms and marketing infrastructure;
(iv) establish regular operations and maintenance (O&M) service for the Tihama
region; and
(v) strengthen the Tihama Development Authority (TDA) and related regional
development institutions through provision of technical assistance in extension,
engineering, monitoring and evaluation and through provision of project-related
training.
Evaluation of Objectives
1.5   The foregoing objectives were realistic. Recognition was made of limited water
resources (and therefore the need to optimize usage and management) and poor access to
suitable agricultural technologies as key limiting factors to agricultural development and
economic growth. However, the objective of sustaining project benefits, whereas desirable,
is one of the most difficult to achieve since, despite TDA's institutional competence, it
depends considerably on the timely availability of adequate financial resources.



Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project
C. Achievement of Objectives
Regional Agricultural Extension Service Component
(a) Extension Structure and Methodology
. 6   Compared to the pre-project situation of limited coordination, unification of extension
services under a single line of command has been fully achieved under the project [para.
I 4(i)]. The two parallel extension services of the Ministry of Agriculture and Water
Resources (MAWR) and the Tihama Development Authority (TDA) have been combined
under a single line of command. The two extension services comprised those under Tihama
l, II, III, and IV covering specific wadis and supported by IDA credits, and those under the
MAWR covering the remaining wadis in the Region, supported by three FAO/UNDP
projects. An extension division at TDA headquarters in Hodeidah has been established, with
three subregional sections at the northern (Al-Zuhra), central (Bajil), and southern (Zabid)
levels. Regional extension programs covering all wadis have been strengthened. The
aippraisal targets in terms of number of extension agents and farm families have been mostly
achieved (e.g., 124 agents against SAR target of 150 agents; and 38,110 farm families
reached against SAR target of 44,100 farm families). The number of women extension
agents also exceeded appraisal targets (58 agents against SAR target of 38 agents).
i 7   However, unification alone is not sufficient for an effective extension. In terms of the
key requirements for an effective and efficient extension service, there is need for: (i) use of
an appropriate extension method, (ii) well-trained and motivated staff, (iii) easy access to
means of mobility, (iv) availability of suitable and responsive technical packages, (v) close
and active relationship with research, and (vi) availability of operating funds. Under the
project, these were not always fully achieved or available. TDA's professional staff and
subject matter specialists were generally better trained and experienced than their
counterparts in the Agricultural Research and Extension Authority (AREA). They generally
hiad better technical and social skills, but their morale has been undermined by lack of an
adequate operating budget. This made mobility of extension agents a serious problem. Until
July 1992, when a consignment of new motorbikes arrived, about one-third of the extension
agents were without transportation. Problems with mobility were some times worsened by
iack of spare parts (including availability of inner tubes) for the imported motorbikes. In
many instances, extension agents had to share one motorbike; as a result, this reduced their
frequency of contacts with farmers.
1.8   Also, the Training and Visit (T&V) system has been the operative method of
extension, but it suffered from lack of suitable technical packages, which have been difficult
to generate because research through AREA has generally had less experienced and trained
staff and inadequate funding compared to extension. Research recommendations have,
iherefore, been generally poor and outdated. Research staffing suffered from high turnover
ow ing to staffs' preference for living in Sana'a. Despite these problems, some of which



Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project                            4
were resolved under the project, considerable progress was made by the local extension
service agents in reaching over 80 percent of the target 44,000 farm families and in
transferring the experiences of more successful farmers to others; thereby increasing farmer
yields.
(b) Rural Development for Women
1.9   The objective of supporting TDA's agricultural and non-agricultural activities for
women [para. 4(i)] has been partially achieved. As noted in the preceding text (para. 8),
appraisal targets to increase the number of female extension agents has been surpassed; but
actual numbers fell short of the target in the case of female extension supervisors (3 against
the SAR target of 7). The increased number of female extension agents have helped boost
rural women programs to such an extent that now TDA operates such programs through
three Women in Development (WID) sections in the northern, central and southern
subregional levels respectively. The WID activities had covered 51 villages, and over 612
female participants had benefitted from literacy courses. From 1988-1993, the WID
activities were supervised and coordinated by an expatriate WID expert (Egyptian home
economist/ nutritionist) at TDA headquarters; thereafter, they have been headed by a Yemeni
woman.
1.10 Under the WID subcomponent, programs were expanded to include subjects such as
female literacy, handicrafts, home economics, primary health, agriculture and animal
husbandry. Beneficiary training and surveys were also carried out. Three extension centers
for females were built under the project to facilitate the dissemination of extension messages,
but their use was limited due to the restricted mobility of village women. Disseminating
extension messages by individual home visits and demonstrations became more successful in
the case of women than through the use of extension centers. A drawback to fully realizing
objectives has been the unbriddled expansion of WID activities in the context of limited
operating funds, which caused resources to be thinly spread and diluted program
effectiveness. Programs were drawn with no funding provided; and training sometimes
concentrated on what rural women already knew (e.g., milk processing) and so, in these
cases, provided little incremental knowledge to rural women. Moreover, some simple
equipment, material, and operating budget which were necessary to make the program more
practical were not adequately provided. The 144 s/m of expatriate specialist technicians
identified in the appraisal report were only partially provided (60 s/m) due to the success of
training local staff; thus eliminating the need for expatriate technician level staff. In
retrospect, the achievement of the rural development for women programs were significant
for Yemeni conditions, but they could have been more effective if they were built around a
clearly defined objective and strategy..



S                                  Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project
(c) Sand Dune Stabilization
1.11  Shelterbelt plantations covering about 705 ha (against appraisal target 750 ha) have
been established under the project in Zabid (506.2 ha), Rima (126.8 ha) and Siham (72.0
ha). This significant achievement has helped reduce the severity of the problem of
encroaching sands, and the indiscriminate removal of woodland for fuelwood, charcoal and
crop production, particularly in wadi beds. The sand dune stabilization program commenced
in 1988 when funds became available, and included planting of Azadirachta Indica (Neem),
Prosopis, Acacia, Balanites, Tamarix and Eucalyptus species. The program was, however,
adversely affected by the periodic unavailability of polythene bags, lack of adequate staff of
experienced foresters, and insufficiency of wells for water. Access to well-water was a
problem because attracting contractors to dig wells in those remote areas where shelterbelts
were being established was difficult, which delayed implementation. Despite delays, the
capacity for seedling production expanded under the project, and the present capacity for
producing seedlings in the three nurseries in the Tihama region stands at about 400,000 tree
seedlings (against an estimated 100,000 seedlings at appraisal). With the substantial gains in
establishing shelterbelts and expanding seedling production, the appraisal target of stabilizing
sand dunes in the designated area was effectively met.
(d) Investments
1.12 The physical targets for the civil works of the regional extension services were all
achieved. They were financed from the Netherlands grant under the project. One mass
communication center with audio-visual material for training extension staff was built in
Hodeidah at TDA headquarters (in line with the appraisal target); one subregional office was
built in Bajil (meeting the appraisal target), and 23 extension centers were constructed in the
northern, central and southern subregions (exceeding the appraisal target of 18 extension
centers). Two irrigation wells for demonstration farms were constructed in the northern
(Wadi Mawr) and central (Wadi Siham) subregions, and were all financed through local
funds of TDA.
Regional Veterinary Service Component
1.13  Unification and strengthening of regional veterinary services have been partially
achieved under the project [para. 1.4(ii)]. Veterinary services provided by MAWR with
ODA assistance, since its inception in 1972, have functioned in parallel with those provided
by TDA. The TDA was to assume full responsibility for animal health and nutrition in the
region in accordance with the veterinary regulations and livestock development policies of
MAWR. Under the project, both were brought under TDA's overall supervision.
Unification of services has helped reduce duplication of veterinary activities and combined
resources to focus on priority problems. This has resulted in average annual vaccinations of
about 61,000 cows against rinderpest, 51,000 sheep against sheep pox, in addition to
treatment against various diseases. As per appraisal, one regional veterinary laboratory has



Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project                            6
been built in Hodeidah, and 2 veterinary stations have been constructed in the central
subregion, Bajil and Zadia areas. Five veterinarians are in place (exceeding the appraisal
target of three), and one of these is at headquarters, 2 in the northern subregion, and 2 in the
southern subregion. These veterinarians have been diagnosing livestock diseases, prescribing
cures, and providing disease-prevention advice. However, equipment and veterinary drugs
have remained a major problem. Both the regional laboratory as well as the veterinary
stations suffer from shortages of drugs and supplies due to inadequate operating funds.
Vaccinations have been generally free of charge. But vaccination campaigns against
rinderpest, which is endemic to the region, and against sheep and goat pox have often
suffered from shortage of quality vaccines due to scarcity of foreign exchange. The limited
availability of drugs has on occasion led livestock owners to purchase scarce drugs (eg.,
antibiotics) meant for humans from local pharmacies to treat sick animals. A government
policy clearly needs to be formulated on cost recovery for veterinary services to empower
TDA to collect and retain proceeds from charges on drugs or sale of services and to use the
proceeds to provide better services to users; this is necessary for future financial and
operational viability.
Irrigation and Infrastructure Development Component
(a) Irrigation Development
1.14 Improving land and water management as well as farm incomes through irrigation
development has only been partially achieved in the sense that only one of the two irrigation
schemes was completed. Changes in design and delays in the implementation of irrigation
works have been a problem; a significant cause of the problem has been the cessation of
fiancing from the Kuwait Fund as a consequence of the Gulf War. In the SAR, IDA was to
finance the construction of the canals and structures for the Al-Barquqah and Waqir schemes,
and Kuwait Fund was to finance the remaining works for both schemes (i.e., the diversion
works, wadi control and demonstration farms) [para. 1.4(iii)]. When Kuwait Fund financing
ceased, the Al-Barquqah scheme was postponed for future possible funding, and IDA funds
earmarked for the scheme, together with some funds from the Netherlands Grant, were
reallocated for use in the construction of the Waqir scheme. The Barquqah scheme is now
being financed by the EEC, with related works expected to be completed by 1998.
1.15 The Waqir scheme financed under the project comprised irrigation works for an area
of 4,200 hectares (against 7,000 hectares for the two schemes at appraisal), consisting of one
diversion structure at Waqir site, with an off-take capacity of 22 m3/sec; 60-meter long
reinforced concrete weir; unlined main, secondary, and tertiary canals (23 km long), a wadi
crossing syphon, and the construction of two flood protection dykes. An international
contractor carried out the diversion structure and canal works with the support of local sub-
contractors. Despite delays in start-up and availability of funds, all works on the diversion
headwork and the distribution network have been substantially achieved and at a very high
standard of construction. The downstream flood protection works were directly implemented



7                                 Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project
by the TDA using own staff and IDA-financed equipment. The new water control structures
and canalization system will result in a higher level of water diversion and irrigation
efficiency over the previous system.
(b) Demonstration Farms
1.16 The objective of establishing demonstration farms [para. 1.4 (iii)] has not been
achieved as previously envisaged but has been fully achieved in its redesigned form. The
SAR envisaged the establishment of four demonstration farms each 10 hectares for trials of
improved irrigation and agricultural practices. However, such areas were difficult to locate
on Government land, and TDA did not establish these farms due to the difficulties of
operating and maintaining them in the public sector. Instead TDA established 18
demonstration units on farmers' plots, totalling 62 hectares, which encouraged greater farmer
participation. TDA also operated two demonstration farms at Al-Hussainia and Wadi Mawr.
In a sense, it could be argued that SAR targets have been more than achieved (18 units
against the appraisal target of 4), and in a more effective way by doing it on-farm, involving
user participation, rather than as originally proposed on government-owned and operated
units, which would have been a centralized public sector undertaking.
(c) Feeder Roads
1.17  The project has almost substantially achieved the physical targets for the construction
of about 62 km of roads envisaged at appraisal [para. 1.4(iii)], with some modification
resulting from optimization in length and design. The Qutay-Khalifa access road, located in
a sand dune area difficult to reach, has been completed, covering 9.3 km asphalt (against the
SAR target of 11.6 km gravel). The Bajil-Mahal Shuma-Khalifa segment has been
completed, covering 26.4 km asphalt (against the target 27.9 km gravel). The Marawa-
Khalifa road has been the only one completed in gravel, covering 12.6 km (short of the
target 22.9 km). All the constructed roads have a greater width of 5 m (against the SAR
target of 4.5 m) which provides a better margin of safety, and have better earth
embankmnents than envisaged. The roads link the main Hodeidah-Sana'a Highway to sites of
major irrigation works and to the main agricultural villages and market center, and their
construction from asphalt instead of gravel results in a more durable solution that is also
more environmentally acceptable. The contract for the roads, financed from the Netherlands
Grant, was awarded to a local contractor in August 1991. Work on the 12 month contract
began in September 1991, but, despite the good quality of the works, there were substantial
implementation delays partly due to the high rate of inflation on the Yemeni riyal and the
fixed price nature of the contract; although now, all works have been completed.
(d) Marketing Centers
1.18  The objective to construct four marketing centers [para. 1 .4(iii)] to provide outlets for
increased commercial production under the project was never achieved because of lack of



Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project                            8
funds under parallel financing from the Netherlands grant funds. This was because the
Netherlands grant funds were redeployed (following cessation of Kuwait Fund financing) to
make up for some of the shortfall in the financing of the irrigation subcomponent.
Nevertheless, this subcomponent to establish a vegetable and fruit marketing center in
Hussainia has been picked up for financing by the United Nations Capital Development Fund
(UNCDF) which is administered by the UNDP with FAO as executing agency.
Regional Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Service Component
1.19 Three Regional Operation and Maintenance Service centers have been established as
envisaged in the SAR [para. 4(iv)] and provided with staff and equipment. These centers
have been performing the O&M functions related to irrigation and feeder roads under the
TDA.
Technical Assistance and Training Component
1.20 Most of the technical assistance activities identified in the SAR were carried out, with
some modifications. Table 5 (b) provides detailed summary of appraisal targets and actual
achievements in terms of staff-years and number of persons used. During the project
implementation, technical assistance staff were gradually phased out and replaced by national
counterparts who were provided training under the project. Table 5 (c) presents local and
foreign training achieved under the project, which helped significantly in building local
capacities. The shortcoming in training and technical assistance has been in TDA's
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, which needs considerable strengthening.
Agricultural Credit Component
1.21 Although agricultural credit was not financed under the project, CACB did carry out
the assurance it gave at appraisal to support project activities through term-credit. Credit
data from CACB between 1988-1994 shows that a total of about 14,220 beneficiaries in the
project area received short-term credit; 5,782 received medium term credit; and 951 received
long-term credit. Much of the credit was provided to farmers to complement their own
financing in farm development. Average recovery rates over this period for credit with
different maturities have been satisfactory: short-term (72 percent), medium-term (64
percent), and long-term (76 percent).
D. Implementation Record and Mgjor Factors Affecting the Project
1.22 The project has encountered considerable delays in implementation in general and in
the irrigation development work in particular. First, there was a delay of at least one year
due to cross-effectiveness requirements between IDA credit and Netherlands grant; the first
was signed in May 1986 but the second in May 1987. Second, there were delays of over
nine months due to modifications to original designs of the irrigation system requested by the



9                                  Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project
co-financiers. Third, there was a delay of one year due to suspension of disbursement by the
Kuwait Fund because of the Gulf Crisis. Fourth, there was delay of six months due to lack
of response from international contractors to the first round of tendering in 1991/92 for an
ICB contract to implement Waqir Irrigation works just immediately following the Gulf
Crisis. There were also delays of four months in 1994 due to the civil conflict between
North and South Yemen. All these added up to delays of more than three and a half years.
Because of these delays, the project's closing date envisaged at appraisal of December 31,
1993 was extended first to December 31, 1994, then to September 30, 1995 and finally to
December 31, 1995.
1.23 For the irrigation development works, in particular, in addition to the Waqir system
[para. 4(iii)], it was envisaged at appraisal that a permanent diversion weir across Wadi
Siham at the upstream site of Al-Barquqah would be constructed. When Kuwait Fund
financing ceased, implementation of the Barquqah scheme was halted, and available funding
from IDA and the Netherlands government were redeployed for implementation of the
downstream scheme alone at the Waqir site. The diversion capacity was modified to fit the
revised design agreed by TDA and the cofmanciers in early 1990 in which emphasis was
shifted from constructing a diversion structure upstream (Al-Barquqa) to downstream at
Waqir. Implementation of the Waqir scheme was further delayed by unsuitable foundation
materials (i.e., soils) encountered at the weir site which required changes in design and
additional works (para. 1.15).
1.24 In addition to these cofinancing and implementation delays in the irrigation
component, project implementation was affected by delays in processing procurement,
awarding contracts, and settling payments to contractors, which took time to resolve. For
instance, resolution of payment terms for the international contractor for the Waqir scheme
required extension of project closing date to allow for completion of the remaining works.
E. Project Sustainability
1.25  Sustainability of investments and benefits made under the project is largely subject to
timely availability of adequate financial resources. At present, TDA does not receive or
collect adequate funds to sustain its operations. This makes sustainability therefore
uncertain.
1.26 On the institutional front, TDA is relatively well-managed and, despite a few weak
areas and some overstaffing, it is one of the most competent regional authorities in
agriculture in Yemen. For this reputation to last, TDA would need to retain competent staff
and have access, as mentioned above, to adequate recurrent funding. It also needs to
strengthen its staffing in monitoring and evaluation to reduce its current dependence on
expatriate staff.



Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project                           10
1.27 On the resource front, project sustainability depends not on continued external
assistance and budgetary support from the Government but on TDA's ability to institute
sound cost recovery measures and develop alternative sources of financing. In the short
term, TDA could survive from three significant sources of foreign assistance: (i) IFAD is
due to finance a Natural Resource Management Project; (ii) the EEC has signed an
agreement to finance the Barquqa irrigation system, thus ensuring completion of the
outstanding component of Tihama V, postponed due to withdrawal of Kuwaiti funding; and
(iii) IDA's Land and Water Conservation Project has a large component for Tihama.
Government support is also critical in the short-term, even though government local
budgetary subvention to TDA has often been short, held at the 1992 levels (YR 104 million
in FY95), despite the fact that TDA's investments in infrastructure and agriculture have
expanded considerably over the years.
1.28 In the long term, however, sustainability of investments would require instituting
measures for recovery of cost for services provided and using collections to maintain or
provide better services. On this score, TDA has implemented measures to recover O&M for
water services from its completed irrigation infrastructure in Wadi Zabid and is planning on
widening coverage to other Wadis, but the revenues generated from this, although only about
5-9 percent of actual O&M costs, is not retained by TDA but forwarded to the Central
Government budget. According to a recently completed cost recovery study by the TDA, the
average irrigation fees collected is about 5 percent of potential collections, suggesting that
more can be collected given the profitability of farming in this area. Future sustainability of
these irrigation infrastructure, especially under the expectation of a more constrained
government budget in the future, would depend on: (a) persuading Government to allow the
TDA to retain revenues collected from services it provides (this should be put in the agenda
of IDA's country dialogue with the Govermnent and should address the same problem for
other RDAs); (b) raising awareness among beneficiaries by linking service benefits to
charges; this would require improving methods of assessing charges either away from the
current zakat (religious) system which relies on the farmer's declaration to a system based on
charges by crop and area, or introducing improvements to the zakat system through a system
of independent checks ( e.g., of crops grown); and (c) raising service charges and improving
revenue collection methods by making them transparent so that farmers know what they pay
for. There is also clearly a need for TDA to take a hard look at commercializing some of its
services (e.g., equipment rentals, veterinary services) to recover costs.
F. Bank Performance
1.29 IDA's performance in the project has been overall satisfactory. IDA carried out
regular supervision missions throughout the project, and a comprehensive mid-term review
between January 7-23, 1993. Despite delays mentioned above in project start-up and
implementation, IDA remained flexible but realistic, providing the needed leverage to ensure
that TDA and the contractors adhered tightly to the agreed project work schedule. IDA's
flexibility is demonstrated in the fact that the project was extended three times (December



11                                 Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project
31, 1993, December 31, 1994, and September 30, 1995) to allow for completion of major
works on which depended the major development objectives of the project. IDA
management has agreed, on an exceptional basis, to continue implementation of the irrigation
Component to April 30, 1996 to ensure completion of works. When Kuwaiti financing
ceased, IDA acted quickly to resolve the void in financing by agreeing to a re-deployment of
resources; this was supported by the very positive cooperation of the Netherlands
Government, which helped keep on course construction of one of the key irrigation schemes
and the rural roads components.
1.30  IDA's shortcoming has been with "quality at entry." Some of the agricultural data
aspects of the appraisal report appear to be off the mark. The yields presented in the
appraisal report were unrealistic, and were based on research results and not actual field
conditions. IDA also had ambitious expectations under the project with respect to full cost
recovery of capital and O&M costs in real terms through a surcharge of 2 percent on the
gross value of production recoverable with the zakat. Under present Yemeni conditions,
even full recovery of only O&M costs would be a remarkable achievement. IDA, at
appraisal, should therefore have worked out a more practical program with Government,
taking into account past experiences with agriculture projects in the country, in order to
achieve realistic cost recovery objectives. However, a cost recovery study was initiated
inder the project, which came up with useful recommendations which should be discussed
and implemented by government through TDA.
G. Borrower Performance
1.31  In general, borrower performance has been partially satisfactory. However, the role
of the central Government needs to be distinguished from that of the project authority. TDA
niad to implement the project in an environment of considerable delays due to circumstances
beyond its control. Owing to this, the Credit which was to originally close in December 31,
1993 was extended to the closing date of December 31, 1995. Compliance with the legal
covenants have been satisfactory but, in some cases, only after some delay. The
management of the project has benefitted from substantial expatriate assistance; however, the
project did make progress on the objective of gradually phasing out expatriate experts and
replacing them with nationals. A competent cadre of Yemeni staff have been trained and
progressively added to TDA's staff. Local budgetary shortages have been a problem in
terms of Government performance. Due to the difficult economic situation facing the
country, the local budget in subsequent years was set at the 1992 level regardless of TDA's
program and the purchasing power of the Yemeni Riyal. TDA faced serious cash flow
problems as a result, which adversely affected its program implementation. Distortions in
the exchange rate also caused problems, particularly in the context of the international
contractor's local currency component of payments, which hindered completion of the Waqir
irrigation works in a timely manner.



Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project                                12
H. Assessment of Outcome
1.32 The outcome of the project has been satisfactory. All thirteen covenants have been
complied with, of which five experienced delayed compliance. The project benefitted more
than 38,110 farm families over 94,450 hectares. Aside from data limitations and the over-
optimistic character of appraisal yields (which were based on research and not field data, and
therefore made them unsuitable as a comparator for measure of project achievement, the
project economic reevaluation was carried out. The recalculated ERR for the project based
on actual field data since project start-up is 20.6%. This ERR compares favorably with the
rate anticipated at appraisal (i.e., 21 %) and confirms the viability of the project. It should
be highlighted, though, that although appraisal yields for "with and without project cases"
were on the high side, the incremental yields were of the same order of magnitude as that
used in the ICR analysis. Sensitivity tests of the ERR to variations in benefit, cost, and
delay parameters show it to be quite robust. Switching value analysis shows that it would
take benefits to decrease by 29% or costs to increase by 42% for the ERR to fall below
12%, the opportunity cost of capital. Details of calculations of the ERR, sensitivity and
switching value analyses are in Annex B.
1. Key Lessons Learned
1.33 The major lessons learned from the project's implementation are listed below.
(a) Using realistic data at appraisal facilitates the tracking and evaluation of project
achievement. Therefore, emphasis is needed on "quality at entry." Under
Tihama V, the overestimate of agricultural yields based on research data at
appraisal made it unreasonable to use it as a comparator for measure of actual
project achievement (para. 1.30).
(b) Flexibility to reallocate resources is necessary to ensure the effective achievement
of project goals when a major and dependable cofinancier (e.g., Kuwait Fund)
discontinues funding due to unanticipated circumstances, such as the Gulf Crisis
(para. 1.14).
(c) Extension cannot function effectively without a responsive research authority. If
research lacks the staffing, operating budget, and the superior competence to
produce suitable technical packages, then its input into extension is likely to be
limited. The experience of TDA's extension services with the research authority,
AREA, under Tihama V corroborates this, and suggests that, despite the
admirable efforts of its extension services, extension work has been hampered by
lack of relevant technologies from research (para. 1.8).
(d) The design of a cost recovery system should be based on a realistic appraisal of
what works and can be achieved given local circumstances. The full cost



13                                 Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project
recovery of capital and O&M under the project was ambitious. The operative
cost recovery system, which is linked to the zakat religious tax, has been
ineffective because of the tendency by farmers to understate the value of their
output and the resulting zakat tax, without any independent verification of their
declaration and without penalties. In short, cost recovery objectives should
therefore be more modest, kept initially to a recovery of O&M costs in real
terms, and should use more objective and transparent criteria for assessing
charges, such as size of cropped area and types of crops grown (para. 1.28, para
1.30).
(e) Inadequate counterpart funds have been a major limitation to project
implementation. This suggests that new projects should be undertaken only after
a careful review of their incremental demands on the government budget (para.
1.31).
(f) Despite TDA's institutional competence, sustainability of project benefits is likely
only if TDA pushes for greater cost recovery, commercializes some of its
services, and reduces its dependence on government and external support (para.
1.25).



Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project                                        14
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TIHAMA V AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1667-YAR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1. Sulmmary of Assessments
A. Achievements of Obiectives       Substantial    Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                 DD                              W 5  [
Sector policies                        DDW                               D Fvl  F-I
Financial Objectives                   D         DWD
Institutional Development                WDD I        
Physical objectives                      WD                    D
Poverty reduction                        WD                              D F2 
Gender concerns                        DWD                               D F 
Other social objectives                D           WD1                   D
Environment objectives                 DD         D3 Cl 
Public sector management          [g                          g
Private Sector development             I          L     Z     Z          W
Other (specify)                        DD                                D F   E



15                                    Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project
Table 1 (continued). Summary of Assessments
B. Project Sustainability         Likely        Unlikely   Uncertain
D:u  n  [z
Highly
C. IDA Performance               Satisfactory  Satisfactory   Deficient
Identification                      DWD
Preparation assistance               DL 
Appraisal                         CC1
Supervision                                              D C  ]
Highly
C. Borrower Performance          Satisfactory  Satisfactory   Deficient
Preparation                         DD                 W 
Implementation                                W         Dl  C
Covenant compliance                 D        PI          F
Operation (if applicable)           DDD
Highly                                 Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome          Satisfactory . Satisfactory Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory
DwDF-lF    F]



Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project                                 16
Table 2. Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title                     Purpose                 Year of    Status
Approval
Tihama Development Project I   To provide irrigation and infrastructure  1973  Closed
(Cr. 376-YAR)                  improvements, agricultural services,
extension and credit for agricultural
development of 17,000 ha in Wadi
Zabid.
Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural    To build up infrastructure and         1976     Closed
Development Project (WHADP) I  institutions, carry out pilot
(Cr. 615-YDR)                  developments in area of the follow-up
WHADP II.
Tihama Agricultural Development  To provide irrigation, village water  1978    Closed
Project II                     supplies, extension, sand dune
(Cr. 805-YAR)                  stabilization, infrastructure and
development of state farms for
agricultural development in Wadi Rima.
Tihama Agricultural Development  To increase agricultural production in  1979  Closed
Project HI                     Wadi Mawr by effectively using spate
(Cr. 880-YAR)                  flows and helping recharge the aquifer;
strengthening agricultural support
services (research, extension credit),
building feeder roads, and providing
potable water to rural poor.
Tihania Development Project IV    To support the Second Agricultural  1980     Closed
(Cr. 978-YAR)                  Development in Wadi Rima through
provision of surface irrigation in the
form of permanent diversion structures
Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural    To increase agricultural production,   1983     Closed
Development Project II        raise farmer incomes, correct falling
(Cr. 1346-YDR)                 water table via use of deep-lying
aquifers, provide farm machinery and
technical assistance.
Central Highlands Agricultural    To improve farm incomes through     1984     Closed
Development Project            production and productivity increases,
(Cr. 1453-YAR)                 provide potable water.
Agricultural Research and      To strengthen agricultural research and  1985   Closed
Extension Project              extension capacity in Central Highlands,
(Cr. 1557-YDR)                 Tropical Lowlands, Southern Uplands
regions.



17                                  Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project
Loan/Credit Title                    Purpose                Year of    Status
Approval
Southern Regional Agricultural    To increase agricultural productivity  1987    Ongoing
Development Project           and farmer income in Southern Region
(Cr. 1772-YAR)                through strengthening agricultural
services in extension, credit and input
supplies, assist O&M of project
infrastructure and water, raise technical
capability of staff, provide assistance to
women farmers.
Northern Regional Agricultural    To improve agricultural productivity  1988    Ongoing
Development Project           through: (i) improved agricultural
(Cr. 1886-YAR)                services, (ii) better land management,
(iii) improved irrigation and agricultural
practices and improved health\
nutrition, establish regional extension
and O&M to ensure sustainability.
Eastern Region Agricultural   To provide extension and research     1989    Ongoing
Development Project           services, irrigation management,
(Cr. 1983-YAR)                institution building to improve
agricultural productivity and farmer
incomes in Marib Governorate,
particularly area around Marib Dam.
Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural   To follow up on WHADP II with         1989    Ongoing
Development Project III       intention of expanding irrigated area.
(Cr. 2045-YDR)
Agricultural Sector Management   To create within MAWR the          1992    Ongoing
Support Project               management basis for modern
(Cr. 2299-YEM)                agricultural sector, and to strengthen
agricultural research. Also to improve
general operations of MAWR.
Land and Water Conservation   To begin a national program to gain   1992    Ongoing
Project                       control over land and water resources
(Cr. 2373-YEM)



Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project                              18
Table 3. Project Timetable
Item             Date Planned         Date Revised        Actual Date
- Identification     December 1981                             June 1984
- Preparation                                                  April 1985
- Appraisal                                                    April-May 1985
- Board Approval     January 14, 1986     N.A.                 March 20, 1986
- Credit Signature                        N.A.                 May 9, 1986
- Credit Effectiveness  September 9, 1986    December 9, 1986    December 7, 1987
- Completion           _
- Closing            December 31, 1993   September 30, 1995   December 31,
1995



19                                 Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project
Table 4. IDA Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million equivalent)
1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994    1995   1996
Appraisal         0.2    0.7    1.9   4.9    8.4    9.5   10.0    -          -      -
Estimate
Actual            0.0    1.24   1.39   1.47   1.57   2.28   2.81   5.29   11.57*
Actual as % of
Estimate **        0      177    73     30      19    24      28     53    116%
Date of Final Disbursement
Comments:         * Disbursement as of December 31, 1995.
** Percentages are rounded.



Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project                                                                       20
Table 5 (A). Key Indicators for Project Implementation
December 1995
Appraisal Targets                  Actual Achievement
Item                                             Unit                    At Completion, June 1993               December 1995
Agricultural Extension
Farm  Families                                   No.                           44,100                               38,110
Area                                             ha                           105,350                              94,450
Agents                                           No.                               150                                  124
Sand Dunes Stabilization                         ha                                750                                 705
Women Extension Agents                           No.                                 38                                  58
Expat. Specialist (Subregional)                  No.                                 13                                    8
Headquarters                                     No.                                 12                                  10
Technician                                       SM                                144                                   75
Agricultural Yields
Sorghum                                          Tons/ha                         2.6-3.0                               1.0-1.6'
Vegetable                                        Tons/ha                        12.0-14.0                              11-11.1
Fruit                                            Tons/ha                        28.0-30.0                              18
Staffing
Consultants                                      Staff Years                       10.5                                7.8
Expat. Experts.                                  Staff Years                      103                                  94
Local Staff                                      No.                              478                               1,0622
Irrigation Works 2!
Diversion Structures                             No.                                  2                                1 (Waqir)
Canals                                           km                                   924'                             23 (Waqir)
Feeder Roads                                     km                                   62.4                             48.3
Overseas Training                                SM                                   108                              477
I/  Data as obtained at project closing.
2/ This doubling in the number of staff is not necessarily a positive achievement but an indicator of growth in TDA's recurrent budgetary
requirements.
3/  Works on Irrigation Schemes in Waqir commenced in February 1993, while that for Barquqa, Grant Agreement signed between EEC and
Govemment in March 1995 and works based parallel component expected to be completed by end of 1998.
4/ This included for both Barquqa and Waqir Irrigation Systems, total of 28.5 km. (Main), 19 kan. (Secondaries), and 49 km. (Tertiary). The
Tertiaries will be implemented by beneficiaries while the Main and Secondaries from Waqir (IDA/Netherlands-financed) was 24 km. reduced
to 20 km. due to a more efficient design. The Barquqa works are being financed by EEC (parallel financing) which has replaced the Kuwait
Fund financing.



21                                 Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project
Table 5 (B). Planned and Actual Recruitment of Technical Assistance
SAR                Actual
No.    Staff-Years   No.  Staff-Years
(A) Engineering Consultants
Chief Design Engineer                  1           1.5
Chief Construction Engineer            1          2.5         2        5.0
Design Engineer                        1          4.0         1        1.7
Field Engineer                         1          2.5
(B) TDA H.O. Support
Project Engineer                       1          4.0         1        6.8
M&E Consultant                         1           2.0        1        3.9
Design Engineer                        2          7.0         1        3.8
Field Engineer                         1           3.0        1        2.0
Hydrogeologist                         1          4.0         1        3.3
Extension Planning                     1          3.0         1        3.4
Irrigation Agronomist                  1          3.0         1        2.0
Plant Protection Specialist            1          2.0         0        0.0
Field Crop Specialist                  1          2.0         0        0.0
Horticulturist                         1          3.0         1        3.4
Mechanization Specialist               1           3.0        0        0.0
Livestock Specialist                   1          2.0         1        2.0
Communication Specialist               1          2.0         1        0.1
Veterinary Diagnostician               1          2.0         0        0.0
Home Econ/Nutritionist                 1          3.0         1        5.9
Sand Dune Expert                       1          2.0         1        5.8
Chief O&M Advisor                      1          3.5         2        4.0
SUB-TOTAL                                         61.0



Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project                           22
SAR                Actual
No.    Staff-Years   No.  Staff-Years
(C) Sub-Regional Extension Services
Extension Planning & Training Specialist   1     3.0        0        0.0
Irrigation Agronomist                 3          6.0        0        0.0
Horticulturist                        1          3.0        1        1.3
Plant Protection Specialist           2          4.0        1        2.4
Home Econ/Nutritionist                3          9.0        1        3.0
Field Crop Specialist                 1          2.0        1        2.0
Mechanization Specialist              1          3.0        0        0.0
Veterinarian                          1          3.0        1        2.0
SUB-TOTAL                                        33.0
(D) Operation & Maintenance
Senior O&M Advisor                    2          6.0        1        2.0
Senior Mechanical Advisor             1          3.0        1        6.4
SUB-TOTAL                                        9.0
Other Not Specified in SAR
Financial Expert                      -           -                  3.5
Range Management Specialist           -           -                  4.8
Pest Control Specialist               -           -                  3.0
Agric. Ext. Specialist (North)        -           -                  3.5
Agric. Ext. Specialist (Central)      -           -                  3.0
Hydrologist                           -           -         1        3.6
SUB-TOTAL
GRAND TOTAL                                     103.0                93.6



23                               Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project
Table 5 (C). Foreign and Local Training Program (1988-95)
SAR Target
Foreign Training
Expertise             Number          Staff Years        Period
Agriculture
Irrigation Agronomy              1                2         10/86-9/88
Horticulture                     1                2         10/86-9/88
Field Crops                      1                2         10/87-9/89
Mechanization                    1                 2        10/87-9/89
Study Tours                     6-8                1        10/87-9/90
Engineering
Water Resources                  3                4.5       1/89-6/90
Construction Management          2                1.2       1/88-12/89
O&M                              2                1.0       1/90-12/90
Actual Achievement 1'
Foreign Traininz          Local Training
Department          SM2'   No. of Trainees    SM      No. of Trainees
TDA Management             8.25           6                        5
Agricultural Affairs      313.25         92                        47
Engineering & Irrigation   69.25         50                        12
Demonstration & Finance    65.5          41                        20
Monitoring & Evaluation    20.75         14                        8
TOTAL                      477.0         203          224          92
Note: Training covered all disciplines.
" Actual training did not necessarily correspond with SAR targets because of modifications
during implementation to suit actual project needs.
2/ SM = Staff months.



Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project                             24
Table 6. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Cost
(US$ million)
Appraisal Estimate        Estimated Actual
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign   Total
TDA Headquarters Support           0.2      1.9    2.1      0.22     1.98     2.2
Establishment of Regional Services
Extension                   1.3      5.1    6.4      0.22     4.22     4.44
For Veterinary              0.1      0.3    0.4
O&M                         0.2      1.5    1.7    0.23       3.4      3.63
Irrigation Development             3.5      7.0   10.5    2.34       7.03     9.37
Feeder Roads                       1.2      1.8    3.0      1.18     3.55     4.73
Incremental Operating Costs        6.2      3.1    9.3      5.25              5.25
Total Base Line Costs             12.7     20.6   33.3      9.44    20.18    29.62
Physical Contingencies             1.1      2.2    3.3
Price Contingencies               4.4       6.0   10.4      =
Total Project Cost                18.2     28.8   47.0    9.44    20.18  29.62*
* The Barquqah irrigation scheme was postponed for future EEC funding and explains some
of the departure of actual total costs from the appraisal estimates.



25                               Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project
Table 6. Project Costs and Financing
B. Project Financing
(US$ million)        _
Sources of Finance                                                       I
Revised       Estimatedl
Original Credit/Loan    Credit/Loan       Actual
Agreement            Agreement       Financing
IDA Credit                      10.0                11.57           11.57
KFAED Credit*                   15.0                 0.5             0.5
Netherlands Grant               9.4                 12.68           12.68
Government of Yemen             12.6                 5.25           5.25
TOTAL                         47.0                 30.00          30.00
Comments: *Following Gulf War, KFAED financing was discontinued with only
about US$0.5 million disbursed and the Barquqah irrigation scheme was
postponed for future funding.



Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project                                             26
Table 7. Projects Results
A. Direct Benefits
Appraisal Estimate    Estimate at Closing
Date
Beneficiaries (farm families)      44,100                 38,110
B. Economic Impacts
[1                           I  Appraisal Estimate       ICR Estimate      1
Economic Rate of Return             21%                   20.6%
C. Studies
Study                            Purpose                  Status            Impact of Study
1. Pastoralists and Rangelands  (i)  assess present range           Completed   Indicator for planning on
in Tihama - 4 parts:              condition from pastoralists                  range management
Southern, Central,                viewpoint                                   improvement
Northern and the whole of    (ii) assess responsiveness of
Tihama                            pastoralists to participation
in improved range
management practices
(iii) assess herd size, type of
animals, and ownership
2. Land Cover Change in Tihama  (i)  assess change which took       Completed    Enable possible planning of
for the Period 1973-1990          place in land use during                    future management of natural
1973 (base year)-1990                       resources and implementation
(ii) depict change in percentage in              of environmental protection
different land categories                    measures.
(iii) draw updated maps for different
land forms and use patterns
3. Vegetation Classification    Register all natural vegetation and  Completed    - Gain insight on botanical
for Tihama - Establishment   record it by family, genus and species            diversity of Tihama to enable
of a Herbarium in TDA                                                          future planning of plant
H.Q.                                                                           resources of area and to
enable environmental
protection
- a herbarium was established
as a result of study, including
vegetation samples.
4. Evaluation of Cost           Analyze and document cost recovery   Completed    Basis for improvement of cost
Recovery Experiences in      experience in Tihama projects                     recovery in Tihama projects
Tihama



27                                       Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project
Table 8. Status of Legal Covenants
Section      Description of Covenant             Original   Revised      Status        Comments
Date       Date
Article II        Preparation of Local and Foreign    6/30/87                   C
Section 3.04      Training Program (13)
Section 3.05      Reorganization of M&E Unit (3)      6/30/87                   C
Section 3.06      Mid-Term Review Report to IDA (16)  6/30/90    06/30/92       CD      Late Submission
Section 3.06      Mid-Term Review (16)                12/31/89   12/30/92       C
Section 3.07 (a-d)   Coordination of Activities and   7/1/87                    CP      CACB constrained
provision of additional resources to                                 by limited source
meet incremental credit needs (16)                                   availability and
rigid procedures.
Article IV Section   Audit Report (1)                 9 months                  CD      Latest received for
4.01 (b)                                              after end                         FY93.
of each
FY
Section 4.02      Cost Recovery Measures (11)         Comple-                   CD      Irrigation works not
(a-b)                                                tion of                            completed; study on
Irrigation                       cost recovery
Works                            completed;
implementation
under way
Sech. 4, Sect. 1(b)   Progress Report (16)            Jan-June                  CD      Mid-Term Review
30, 1991                         Report issued Dec.
1992.
Sect. II, l(a)    Estab. of Central Extension Division    1/1/87                C
(13)
Sect. II,1(b)     Estab. of Sub-Regional Office (13)  7/1/87                    C
Sect. II, 3(a)    Appt. of Home Econ. and Nutrition   7/1/87                    C
Specialist (23)
Sect.Il; 3(b)     Female Extension Staff Increase (23)    6/30/89               C
Sect. III, 2      Enforcement of O&M Regulation (13)   12/31/90                 C
Status                                  Covenant Tvyes
C  = Covenant complied with              (1) = Accounts and Audit
CP = Complied with partially             (4) = Cost Recovery/Pricing
CD = Complied with after delay          (11) = Financial
(13) = Institutional
(16) = Project Implementation Arrangements
(23) = Studies/Technical Assistance



Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project                                           28
Table 9. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (Staff Weeks)
Stage of Project Cycle           Planned      Revised    Actual       Comments
Through Appraisal                            N.A.          -         53.2
Appraisal through Board Approval             N.A.          -          6.7
Board Approval through Effectiveness         N.A.          -          N.A.
Supervision FY1987                            13           -          4.1
Supervision FY1988                            15           -          8.7
Supervision FY1989                            19           -         16.4
Supervision FY1990                            15           -         28.5
Supervision FY1991                            14           -         10.4
Supervision FY1992                            17           -         12.1
Supervision FY1993                            16           -         19.0
Supervision FY1994                            11           -          6.6
Supervision FY1995                            11           -         12.2
Supervision FY1996                                                    0.4
Project Completion FY1996                     13           -         10.6
Sub-total from                                144          -        188.9
GRAND TOTAL                                  N.A.          -         N.A.



Table 10. Use of Bank Resources
B. Missions
Month/Year    No. of    Days in   Specialization    Performance    Types of           Comments
Persons    Field     Represented        Rating       Problems
Through Appraisal
Appraisal through Board
Presentation
Board Approval through
Effectiveness
Supervision 1                1987
Supervision 2                1988
Supervision 3               July 1989        4         3.2    IE, AgE, Ag           2
Supervision 4               Feb. 1990        2         5.8    IE, Ag.               2
Supervision 5               July 1990        5        15.6   IE, Ag, WID,           2            IA
l_______                             SO, M&E                                                             Q.
Supervision 6               Oct. 1990        1        0.4    IE                     2            IA                                e
Supervision 7               April 1991       2         1.9    IE                    2            P, F
Supervision 8               Dec. 1991                  1.4    IE, Ag.               2            P, F
Supervision 9               June 1992        2         5.0    IE, Ag.               2            P, F, IA
Supervision 10              July 1993        2                IE, Ag.               2            F, IA
Supervision 11              Jan. 1994        2        2.7    IE, Ag.                2            IA
Supervision 12              May 1995         1        4.1    IE, Ag.                    2        IA
Supervision 13           _
Supervision 14
Problem Types: P = Political, M = Managerial, F = Financial, IA = Implementation Arrangements
Performance Ratin,g: 1 = Problem free, 2 = Minor problems, 3 =- Major problems
Specialists Represented on Mission:  IE = Irrigation Engineer, Ag. = Agriculturist, Ag.E = Agricultural Economist, Ec = Economist,
So = Sociologist, WID = WID Specialist, M&E = Monitoring and Evaluation Expert



Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project                           30
ANNEX A
Page 1 of 2
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TIHAMA V REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1667-YAR)
AIDE MEMOIRE*
Introduction
1. A World Bank (IDA) mission comprising Tijan M. Sallah (ICR team leader) and Nejdet
Al-Salihi (Senior Irrigation Engineer) together with Mr. Hubert Stoetzer (Agriculturalist),
representing the Netherlands Government, visited Yemen between November 14 to 21, 1995
to review both implementation progress of the Tihama V project and to fialize data and
review of implementation experience to complete the Implementation Completion Report
(ICR). The mission held detailed discussions with project staff, carried out field visits to
sites of major works, and interviewed farmers about their experiences under the project. The
mission would like to express its appreciation to Mr. Ibrahim Al-Doumi, Chairman of the
Tihama Development Authority (TDA) and his staff, including especially the assistance of
his expatriate adviser, Dr. Hassan Damous, of the Monitoring Unit in facilitating the
mission's work.
mnpIementation ExDerience
2.   Apart from considerable delays in implementation of project activities, the project
succeeded in achieving most of its physical objectives. The Waqir Irrigation scheme has
been completed (covering 4,200 ha) and the Barquqah scheme postponed (after Kuwait Fund
pulled out due to Gulf war) for future funding. It is now being funded by the EEC for
completion in 1997. It is now being implemented funded by the EU. 48.3 km of feeder
roads have been constructed at a higher standard than projected at appraisal. Flood
protection dykes (Wasit and Bahluli) are being constructed to protect farmers in Wasit and
Marawa (Wadi Siham). Extension activities have been strengthened and have reached 38,110
farmers on 94,450 ha, and women have benefitted from these activities. 705 hectares have
been planted with trees to stabilize sanddunes. Virtually all of the project's covenants have
been complied with, and Borrower and Bank performance, except for disruptions due to the
Gulf war, civil conflict, and other similar shocks, have been satisfactory. Although, TDA's
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit has improved; it still needs further strengthening as its



31                                Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project
ANNEX A
Page 2 of 2
statistical collection, record keeping, and data analysis capacities are still not up to standard.
TDA has suffered also from inadequate counterpart funds to carry out its activities. In the
future, it needs to push for greater cost recovery from the wide ranging services it provides
and have the mandate to retain its revenues. This is key to its future viability and
sustainability.
*This brief Aide Memoire is extracted from the combined ICR and supervision mission Aide
Memoire of November 1995, carried out by IDA with Netherlands Government participation
and discussed with the TDA, and subsequently shared with the Government in a briefing to
the Minister of Agriculture and the Ministry of Planning. Because that Aide-Memoire was
lengthy and contained issues already discussed in this ICR, reproducing it here again in full
was considered needless duplication.



Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project                            32
ANNEX B
Page 1 of 3
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TIHAMA V REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1667-YAR)
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.    The main assumptions underlying the SAR estimate of the Economic Rate of Return
(ERR) were:
(a) Investment and recurrent costs of the Wadi Siham irrigation infrastructure were
based on unit rates derived from similar irrigation works in Yemen Arab Republic.
(b) All values were expressed in units of the local currency at the official rate at
appraisal-- YRIs 6.5 = US$1.
(c) Crop yields were estimated on the basis of available data from field experience in
similar ongoing irrigation schemes in the Tihama region.
(d) Incremental production was phased on the basis of anticipated rate of acceptance
of the new technical package by project area farmers and buildup of development on
each farm resulting from additional surface water.
(e) The economic life of the project was 30 years.
2.    The ICR reevaluation of the ERR of the Tihama project is carried out with substantial
limitation of data.
First, assumption (c) above is found not to be valid. The baseline yield data in the
appraisal report (SAR) were based on research and not field experience, and were
therefore overly optimistic.
Second, the data collected by the Tihama Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (M&E)
from actual field surveys since project start-up are not fully adequate.



33                                  Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project
ANNEX B
Page 2 of 3
Against this background, considerable judgement had to be exercised in recalculating the
ERR and coming up with an indicative measure of the project's incremental benefits.
3.    The SAR identified project benefits to come from: (i) strengthening and expansion of
extension services, and (ii) improvement in water availability for irrigation.
4.    The following assumptions and parameters underlie the ERR recalculation for the
ICR:
(a) Out of a total of 38,110 farm families (94,450 hectares) or 86 % of SAR target
actually reached by extension, 6,645 hectares are assumed to adopt improved
technological packages.
(b) 4,200 hectares are assumed to benefit from the additional surface water resulting
from the Waqir irrigation works.
(c) As per the SAR, four different farm models are assumed, representing the four
main types of farming systems in the project area. These include: pump irrigated
farm (average farm size of 10.5 ha); pump and spate irrigated farm (6.0 ha); regular
spate irrigated farm (3.0 ha); and irregular spate irrigated farm (6.0 ha). Benefits are
based on per hectare buildup to full development per farm model.
(d) Crop yields are based on actual field data provided in crop budgets by the project
authority. The yields presented for the "with" project case are the full development
yields, and yields are assumed to increase linearly over a ten-year period to the full
development yields shown in Table 2 of 11. Five years are assumed for the build-up
to full development for the benefits from the Waqir scheme by capitalizing on the
benefits of "learning."
(e) Crop yields without the project are assumed to be constant, which is a
conservative assumption given that yields were expected to decline in the absence of
flood protection works provided by the project.
(f) In the absence of data on cropping pattern changes, the existing cropping pattern
provided by the project authority is taken as reflecting the "with" and "without"
project situations.
(g) All values are converted to US$ at the 1995 market exchange rate of Yemeni Rials
(YR) 120 = US$1.



Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project                               34
ANNEX B
Page 3 of 3
(h) Investment and recurrent costs are derived from disbursement data kept by the
project authority but adjusted to 1995 constant dollars.
(i) An economic life of 30 years is assumed for the project.
5.    Costs. Incremental on-farm costs (investment and recurrent) with the project are
taken into account in calculating net-incremental benefit per farm model. 0 & M costs are
duly accounted for in the costs, and are expected to slightly increase in subsequent years
after the completion of the irrigation works in 1995.
6.    Prices. For the internationally traded goods (cereals, cotton, tobacco, fertilizer),
economic farmgate prices were derived from the World Bank commodity price projections
(Commodity Markets and the Developing Countries-- A World Bank Quarterly) of February
1996, expressed in 1990 constant dollars but adjusted for our purposes to 1995 constant
dollars. For non-traded goods (millet, forages, labor, draft power, etc.), economic prices
were derived by applying the standard conversion factor (SCF) estimated at 0.85 to the 1995
domestic prices.
7.    Results. On the basis of the foregoing assumptions and parameters, the benefits-
buildup was done on a hectarage basis, and, after factoring out costs, the net incremental
benefit stream for the 30 year lifecycle of the project was derived. The economic rate of
return is calculated at about 20.6%. This ERR compares favorably with the rate anticipated
at appraisal (which was 21 %) and confirms the viability of the project. Sensitivity tests of
the ERR to variations in benefits, costs, and delays in implementations show it to be quite
robust. The results of the switching value analysis show that it would take benefits to
decrease by 29% or costs to increase by 42% for the ERR to fall below the opportunity cost
of capital, which is 12%.



FARM MODELS. NUMBER OF FARMS AND AREA DEVELOPED                                                         ',
WADI SIHAM
Farm Size  Farms  Total Area
FARM MODEL                   (Ha.)    (No.)    (Ha.)
1. Pump Irrigated Farm          10.5      240      2520          Adoption of Improved Packages:      6645 Ha.
2. Pump and Spate Irrigated        6      310      1860          Irrigation Infrastructure (Reg. Spate):  4200 Ha.
3. Regular Spate Irrigated         3      225       675
4. Irregular Spate Irrigated       6      265      1590
TOTAL                                    1040      6645
CROPPING PATTERN
1. Pump Irrigated Farm      2. Pump & Spate Irrigabon   3. Regular Spate Irrig.   4. Irregular Spate Irrigaton
Share of Area        Ha.   Share of Area         Ha.   Share of Area    Ha.   Share of Area         Ha.
Sorghum G                       0.18               1.89      0.14              0.84          0.65     1.95      0.3                1.8
Maize                              0                  0      0.05                0.3         0.15     0.45     0.07               0.42
Millet                          0.11              1.155      0.03              0.18          0.02     0.06     0.19               1.14
Forages                          0.2                2.1      0.26               1.56         0.11     0.33     0.35                2.1         c
Cotton                          0.03              0.315      0.11              0.66          0.01     0.03     0.07               0.42
Tobacco                         0.08               0.84        0                  0            0         0        0                  0
Sesame                          0.03              0.315      0.03              0.18          0.08     0.24     0.03               0.18
Vegetables                      0.32               3.36      0.11               0.66           0         0        0                  0
Fruits                          0.04               0.42       0.1               0.6          0.01     0.03        0                  0
Other                                         _
Model Farm Size                                  10.395                        4.98                   3.09                        6.06
(D 
H 
0
Ht



YIELDS
Model 1         (tons) Model 2              (tons) Model 3              (tons) Model 4              (tons)
WO        W       ICR      W/O        W       ICR      W/O        W       ICR      W/O        W       ICR
Sorghum G       0.9        1       0.1      0.9      1.6       0.7      0.9      1.1       0.2      0.9      1.1       0.2
Maize             1      1.4       0.4        1        2        1         1      1.5       0.5        1      1.5       0.5
Millet          0.6      0.8       0.2      0.6      1.3       0.7      0.6      0.8       0.2      0.6      0.8       0.2
Forages          14       20        6        14       20        6       14        20        6        14       20        6
Cotton            1      1.7       0.7        1        2        1         1        2        1         1        2        1
Tobacco         1.2      2.3       1.1      1.2      2.3       1.1        0        0        0         0        0        0
Sesame          0.6      0.7       0.1      0.6        1       0.4      0.5      0.6       0.1      0.5      0.6       0.1
Vegetables        6     11.1       5.1        6       11        5         0        0        0         0        0        0
Fruits           10       18        8        10       18        8        10       18        8        10       18        8
Other
INCR. COSTS
Year         (Yr)
W/O        W     INCR.
Sorghum G               6055     8030      1975
Maize                   7555    10084     2529
Millet                  6383     7465     1082
Forages                                       0
Cotton                 14189    14238       49
Tobacco                21097    22865      1768
Sesame                  8906     9767      861
Vegetables                      34584    34584
Fruits                                       0
NET INCR. BENEFITS (at Full Development)
Model 1           Model 2            Model 3           Model 4
US$               US$                USS               USS
Sorghum                                  1.1225            106.608           35.1617            35.1617
Maize                                   58.5417            199.042           99.5208            99.5208
Millet                                  46.2333            193.375             55.25              55.25
Forages                                    425                425                425               425                                   HD
Cotton                                   1463.4           2091.15            2091.15            2091.15
Tobacco                                 2836.28            2851.02                 0                 0
Sesame                                  28.2417            141.667           35.4167            35.4167                                  
Vegetables                               1879.3              2125                  0                 0
Fruits                                  2266.67           2266.67            2266.67            2266.67
Other



37                                 Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project
Table 3 of 9
Exchange Rates, MUV Index and Derived Inflator
Year             Exchange Rate          MUV b' Index        Derived Inflator
YR per US$ i
1988                 11.00                95.327                 1.208
1989                 13.00                95.018                 1.212
1990                 16.18                 100.00                1.151
1991                 25.98                102.230                1.126
1992                 38.05                106.640                1.080
1993                 53.79                106.330                1.083
1994                 101.68               110.210                1.045
1995                 129.73               115.130                1.000
a/ Market exchange rates.
b/ World Bank Commodity Price Forecasts, February 1996.



Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project                              38
Table 4 of 9
Page 1
DERIVATION OF ECONOMIC PRICES OF INTERNATIONALLY
TRADED COMMODITIES
A.  AT EXPORT PARITY                               PRICES
US$ per ton
Cotton              Tobacco
Value fob exit port/i                     2129.35              2630.04
YR per ton
Value fob exit port                        255522               315604
Port dues and handling                       1104                 1104
Handling/transport/storage                   3000                 3000
Value ex-store/market                      251418               311500
Processing cost                                 0                    0
Processing ratio                                1                    1
Transport/handling                            480                  480
Farmgate price                             250938              311020
B.  AT IMPORT PARITY                     Sorghum             Maize      TSP
- - -- ---US$/ton  -- -   -   -   -
World price forecast 1/                   118.553             123.157    149.63
Quality adjustment factor                     0.9                  0.9         1
Adjusted fob value                        106.698              110.841    149.63
Freight and insurance                          50                   50        50
cif value at port of entry                156.698             160.841    199.63
--------- YR/ton    --------- ---------
cif value at port of entry                18803.7                19301   23955.6
Port dues and handling                       1104                 1104      1104
Handling/transport/storage                   3000                 3000      3000
Value ex-store/market                     22907.7                23405   28059.6
Processing cost                                -                    -         -
Processing ratio                              0.9                    1         1
Transport/handling                            480                  480       480
Farmgate price                              21097               23885   28539.6
Urea
--------- US$/ton
World price forecast 1/         211.784
Quality adjustment factor             1
Adjusted fob value              211.784
Freight and insurance                50
cif value at port of entry    261.784
--------- YR/ton
cif value at port of entry    31414.1
Port dues and handling             1104
Handling/transport/storage         3000



39                                 Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project
Table 4 of 9
Page 2
Value ex-store/market          35518.1
Processing cost                     -
Processing ratio                     1
Transport/handling                 480
Farmgate price                 35998.1
1/World Bank Commodity Price Projections, February 1996.
Prices converted from 1990 constant to 1995 constant terms,
using the MUV index.



Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project                                  40
Table 5 of 9
Financial and Economic Prices
Output Prices       Financial           Economic             Econ.  (US$)*       CF
-------- YR/ton   --------              --------             --------
Cotton                 29000              250938             2091.15              8.65303
Tobacco                40000              311020             2591.83               7.7755
Sorghum                30000               21097             175.808              0.70323
Maize                  17500               23885             199.042              1.36486
Sorghum Straw          10000                8500             70.8333                 0.85
Wheat Straw             1500                1300             10.8333              0.86667
Maize Straw             1500                1300             10.8333              0.86667
Pulses                 87500               40400             336.667              0.46171
Potatoes               40000               34000             283.333                 0.85
Vegetables             60000               51000                  425                0.85
Citrus                 40000               34000             283.333                 0.85
Input Prices
-------- YR/kg      --------
Cotton seed               29                  25             0.20833              0.86207
Tobacco seed              40                   31            0.25833                0.775
Sorghum seed              30                  21               0.175                  0.7
Maize seed                18                  24                  0.2             1.33333
Pulses seed               88                  40             0.33333              0.45455
Potato seed               70                  70             0.58333                    1
Vegetable seed           800                 800             6.66667                     1
Urea                      35                  36                  0.3             1.02857
TSP                       48                  29             0.24167              0.60417
Muriate of Potash         30                   22            0.18333              0.73333
Crop chemicals          1200                1200,                  10                    1
-------- YR/seedl --------
Citrus seedling          110                 110             0.91667                     1
-------- YR/day   --------
Labor                    400                 400             3.33333                    1
-------- YR/hour  --------
Tractor hour             500                 750                 6.25                 1.5
-------- YR/day   --------
Animal draught pe        500                 500             4.16667                     1
-------- YR/'OOOm --------
Irrigation water        1000                3000                   25                   3
*US$1 = 120 YR



Model 1 (Linear Build-Up)  Total Hectares: 2520                                 - USS -
YEARS                          1987      1988     1989     1990      1991     1992     1993      1994     1995     1996      1997 1998-2022
Phasing                           0       0.2      0.3       0.4      0.5      0.6       0.7      0.8      0.9        1
CROPS
Sorghum                           0  101.833   152.75  203.666  254.583    305.5  356.416  407.333  458.249  509.166
Maize                             0         0        0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0
Millet                            0  2563.17  3844.76  5126.35  6407.94  7689.52  8971.11   10252.7  11534.3  12815.9
Forages                           0    42840    64260    85680   107100   128520   149940   171360   192780   214200
Cotton                            0  22126.6  33189.9  44253.2  55316.5  66379.8  77443.1  88506.4  99569.7  110633
Tobacco                           0   114359   171538   228718   285897   343076   400256   457435   514615   571794
Sesame                            0  427.015  640.522  854.029  1067.54  1281.04  1494.55  1708.06  1921.57  2135.07
Vegetable                         0   303094   454640   606187   757734   909281  1060827  1212374  1363921  1515468
Fruits                            0  45696.1  68544.1  91392.1   114240   137088   159936   182784   205632   228480
Total (M1)                        0   531207   796811  1062414  1328018  1593621  1859225  2124828  2390432  2656035
Mdet 2                     Total Hectares =1860- US$.
Sorghum                           0  5552.14  8328.22  11104.3  13880.4  16656.4  19432.5  22208.6  24984.7  27760.7
Maize                             0  3702.18  5553.27  7404.36  9255.45   11106.5  12957.6  14808.7  16659.8  18510.9
Mitlet                            0  2158.07   3237.1  4316.13  5395.16   6474.2  7553.23  8632.26  9711.29  10790.3
Forages                           0    41106    61659    82212   102765   123318   143871   164424   184977   205530
Cotton                            0  85569.9  128355   171140   213925   256710   299495   342279   385064   427849
Tobacco                           0         0        0        0        a         0        0         0        0        0
Sesame                            0      1581  2371.51   3162.01   3952.51   4743.01   5533.51  6324.01   7114.52  7905.02
Vegetable                         0    86955   130433   173910   217388   260865   304343   347820   391298   434775
Fruits                            0  84320.1   126480   168640   210800   252960   295120   337280   379441   421601
Total (M2)                        0   310944   466417   6218t9   777361   932833  1088305  1243778  1399250  1554722
SJW
'tF3
(D
w   a
2



YEARS                           1987     1988      1989     1990     1991      1992     1993     1994      1996     1996     1997 1998-2022
Model 3                     Total Hectares s 675                                 - USS -
Sorghum                           0  3085.439  4628.16  6170.88   7713.6  9256.32    10799  12341.8  13884.5  15427.2
Maize                             0  2015.296  3022.94  4030.59  5038.24  6045.89  7053.54  6061.18  9068.83  10076.5
Ulbt                              0   149.175  223.763   298.35  3T2.938  447.525  522.113    696.7  671.288  745.875
Forages                           0   6311.25  9466.88  12622.5  15778.1  18933.8  22089.4   25245  284006   31556.3                                                                                    ft
Cotton                            0  2823.053  4234.58  5646.11   7057.63  8469.16  988.68  11292.2  12703.7  14115.3
Tobacco                           0         0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0         0
Sesame                            0  382.5004  573.751   765.001  956.251    1147.5  1338.75     1530  1721125   1912.5
Vegetable                         0         0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0         0
Fruits                            0  3060.005  4590.01  6120.01   7650.01  9180.01    10710    12240    137T0    1530
Total (M 3)                       0  17826.72  26740.1  35853.4  44568.8  53480.2  62393.5  71306.9  80220.2  89133.6
Model 4                    Total Hectares s 1590                                 - US$ -
Sorghum                           0  3354.426  5031.64  6708.85  8386.07  10063.3  117405   13417.7  15094    16772.1
Maize                             0  2215.333     3323  4430.67  5538.33      6646  7753.67  8861.33      9969  11076.7
Millet                            0  3338.205  5007.31   6676.41   8345.51   10014.6  11683.7  13352.8  15021.9   16691                                                                                 f
Forages                           0   47302.5  70953.8   94605   118256   141908   165659   189210   212861   236513                                                                                    f
Cotton                            0    48549  69823.5   93098   118372   139647   162921   186196   209470   232745                                                                                     Q
Tobacco                           0         0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0         0
Sesame                            0  337.5753  506.813  675.751  844.688  1013.63  1182.56   1351.5  1520.44  1689.38
Vegetable                         0         0         0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0
Fruits                            0         0        0         0        _                      0        _              0
Total (PA 4)                      0  103097.3  154646   206195   257743   309292   36Mi   412389          3938   S15487
TOTAL (M 1+M 2+M 3+M 4)           0  963075.4  1444613  1926151  2407689  2889226  3370764  3852302  4333839  4815377  4815377  4815377  4815377  4815377  4815377  4815377  4815377
Regular Spate (4200 Ha.)                                                                                                  55460.9  110922    221844   332765   443687   554609   554609
GRANDTOTAL INCR. SEN.             0  963075.4  1444613  1926150  2407688  2889226  3370764  3852301  4333839  4815377  4870838  4926299  5037221  5148142  5259064  5369986  5369986
I ~3
Q  01
(D H
(D
0
I-h
N%



Republic of Yemen
Economic Reevaluation of Tihama V Project
1995 US$ Million
1987    1988      1989     1990      1991     1992     1993      1994     1999     1996 1997-98       1999     2000     2001 2002-16
Incremental Benefits-    1.00                      1.40     1.90    2.40    2.90    3.40    3.90    4.30    4.80    4.90              9.00     5.10    5.30       5.40
Investment Costs-    3.70    2.40                           2.20     2.10    2.90    4.90    4.30    4.80    2.90               -         -        -        -         -
Operation & M4aint. Costs           -    0.20      0.20     0.20     0.20      0.20    0.20      0.20    0.20       0.40    0.40      0.40      0.40     0.40     0.40
Total Costs                         -    3.90      2.60     2.40     2.30      3.10    5.10    4.50    5.00    3.30          0.40     0.40      0.40     0.40     0.40
Incremsental Net Benefits           -   -2.90    -1.20   -0.50       0.10   -0.20   -1.70   -0.70   -0.70    1.50    4.50    4.60    4.70    4.90                 5.00
3/14/1996 15t31
:33
'-4
N
Ft
CD      f



Switching Values at 12.0%
...s"........ ......s.. ..as
Appraisal      Switching       Percentage
Stream               Value           Value          Change
B. TOr                24.54           17.31          -29.46t
C.INV                 15.33           22.57           47.16%
C.OM                   1.98            9.21          365.64t%
Total Costs           17.31           24.54          41.77%
Net Present Value at OCC   12.0  - 7.2
Internai Rate of Return - 20.6t
Coupon Bquivalent Rate of Return - 17.4%
-I
&
F-3
(D
OC
0
i-



Present Values of Net Stream at a Discount Rate of 12.0%
_.___.....____............................
LA
B.TOT    UP 10t    UP 20%    UP 50%  DOWN 10%  DOWN 20%  DOWN 50%
C.TOT       7.2        9.7       12.1      19.5        4.8        2.3      -5.0
UP lot       5.5        8.0       10.4       17.8       3.0        0.6      -6.8
UP 20%       3.8        6.2        8.7      16.0        1.3       -1.1      -8.5
UP 50%      -1.4        1.0        3.5      10.8       -3.9       -6.3     -13.7
DOWN 10%        9.0      11.4       13.9      21.2        6.5        4.1      -3.3
DOWN 20%      10.7       13.1       15.6      23.0        8.2        5.8      -1.6
DOWN 50%      15.9       18.3       20.8      28.2       13.4       11.0       3.6
B.TOT     LAG 1      LAG 2      LSG 3
C.TOT       7.2        4.6        2.3       0.2
UP 10%       5.5        2.9        0.5      -1.6
UP 20%        3.8       1.1       -1.2      -3.3
UP 50%      -1.4       -4.1       -6.4      -8.5
DOWN 10%        9.0       6.3        4.0        1.9
DOWN 20%       10.7       8.1        5.7        3.6
DOWN 50%       15.9      13.3       10.9        8.8
LAG 1          -       6.5        4.1       2.0
LAG 2          -         -        5.8       3.7
LAG 3          -         -          -       5.1
Internal Rates of Returns of Net Streams
B.TOT    UP 10%    UP 20%    UP 50%  DOWN 10t DOWN 20%  DOWN 50%
C.TOT    20.622    23.900    27.449    40.330    17.559    14.655         6.259                                                                                                       S
UP 10%    17.830    20.622    23.591    33.999    15.174    12.610         4.928
UP 20%    15.609    18.057    20.622    29.344    13.245    10.928         3.778                                                                                                       ^
UP 50%    10.928    12.779    14.655    20.622        9.081      7.212     1.049                                                                                                       O
DOWN 10%    24.280    28.281    32.707    49.408    20.622    17.230         7.839
DOWN 20t    29.344    34.493    40.330    63.303    24.759    20.622         9.775
DOWN 50%    73.275    92.380   116.447   248.581    57.937    45.582    20.622
B.TOT     LAG 1      LAG 2      LAG 3
C.TOT    20.622    16.364    13.849    12.117
UP 10%    17.830    14.486    12.396    10.916
UP 20%    15.609    12.910    11.147       9.868
UP sot    10.928      9.350      8.223     7.364                                                                                                                             H3
DOWN 10%    24.280    18.654    15.568    13.515                                                                                                                               pb
DOWN 20%    29.344    21.533    17.651    15.174
DOWN 50%    73.275    37.913    28.130    23.026                                                                                                                               (D
LAG 1         -    20.622    16.364    13.849
LAG 2         -          -    20.622    16.364                                                                                                                              'O
LAG 3         -                     -    20.622                                                                                                                             0
ft



ANNEX C
Tihama Development Authority
Recurrent and Investment Budget (1992-1995)
(A) RECURRENT BUDGET
Equivalent Expenditure at
Year      Approved Budget        Amount of Expenditure         Parallel Market Rate       Approximate Parallel
(YR Million)             (YR Million)                in USS Million         Market Exchange Rate
1992             58.43                    65.89                        2.20              1.0$ = 30 YR
1993             91.75                    93.92                        1.57              1.0$ = 60 YR
1994             98.79                    106.9                        1.34              1.0$ = 80 YR
1995            112.84                    119.55                       1.09              1.0$ = 110 YR
(B) INVESTMENT BUDGET
Local Financing                             External Financing                      Total Financing
Equivalent
Expenditure in                                                               Total Actual
Approved       Actual     US$ at Parallel                     Actual                     Total Actual   Expenditures
Budget     Expenditure       Rate       Approved Budget  Expenditure   Equivalent USS   Expenditure    Equivalent
Year    (YR Million)  (YR Million)  (US$ Million)    (YR Million)    (YR Million)  at Official Rate  (YR Million)  (US$ Million)
1992          73.49         50.22          1.67            135.77          45.01      3.75 (1:12) (2)    95.23          5.42
1993          83.33         35.44          0.59            150.75          36.42      3.04 (1:12)        71.86          3.63
1994          96.30         10.85          0.14            85.13           70.21      5.85 (1:12)        81.06          5.99
1995 (1)      108.50        93.24          0.85            99.80           140.37    4.53 (1:31) (3)     233.60         5.38
(I) Figures for November and December 1995 have been estimated.                                                                              z
(2) Official exchange rate 12 YR to 1.0 US$.                                                                                                 x
(3) Official exchange rate for 1995 taken as average of 12 and 50 YR to the USS, giving 31 YR to the US$.                                    0
M:\roy\invest.tbl



47                         Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project
ANNEX D
TIHAMA V REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PROJECT REVIEW
FROM
BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
PLACE: HODEIDAH
DATE: 16 NOV. 1995



Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project                                     48
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TIHAMA V REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Summary of Project Review
Project Review
A. Project Background
B. Project Design and Organization
C. Project Activities
D. Project Results
E. Project Impact
F. Future Role of the Project
G. IDA Borrower Relationship
Statistical Tables
Table 1:  Major Achievements of Agricultural Extension Program
Table 2:  Major Achievements of Women Development Program
Table 3:  Major Achievements of Agricultural Irrigation Program
Table 4:  Major Achievements of Forestry and Sand Dunes Stabilization Program
Table 5:  Major Achievements of Veterinary Services and Animal Production Programs
Table 6:  Key Performance Indicators of Project Activities
Table 7:  Foreign and Local Training Program Executed during the Period 88-95
Table 8:  Farm Budget for Contacted and Non Contacted Farmers
Table 9:  Amendments of Reallocation of Funds among Project Categories
Table 10: Recruitment of Consultants and Experts



49                                    Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Background
1.        Tihama Region represents the central plain which extends 400 km in a strip of 30-40 km
wide and bounded on the west by the Red Sea and joins the foothills to the east. The plain is
intersected by eight wadis which collect run-off from the high lands to the east making their ways to
debouch on the coastal plain, where the water is used for spate irrigation and recharging of the
aquifer. The underground water is used for well irrigation as well as prime source for drinking water
in the project area.
2.        The broad valleys watered by these wadis are the most productive agricultural areas in
Tihama Region, where suitable lands for sustained crop production are plentiful and the climate of the
region is suitable for the year-round production of a wide range of crops. Accordingly, Tihama
Region is categorized as the most rich in agricultural potentials in the country.
3.       In an attempt to utilize the huge agricultural potentials in the Tihama Region, the
Government of Yemen had pursued a systematic "single-wadi" development approach. To implement
this strategy, Tihama Development Authority (TDA) was created in 1973 as a semi-autonomous
institution, with a mandate of leading all the future development efforts in Tihama Region. Since
then, TDA had successfully acted as an implementing agency for Tihama I Development Project
(Wadi Zabid) which was completed in 1979, Tihama II & IV (Wadi Rima) which were completed in
1984, Tihama III Development Project (Wadi Mawr) which was completed in 1988, and currently
implementing Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project (Wadi Siham).
4.        The feasibility study of Tihama V Regional Development Project was carried out by
Sogreah Consulting Engineers (France) in 1979. The project was then prepared, depending on the
said feasibility study, by FAO/FC in March/April 1985 and appraised by IDA in May 1985 and the
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) was released in Feb. 1986 (World Bank Document No. 5852-YAR
dated Feb. 1986).
5.        Tihama V Development Project was financed by IDA (Credit No. 1667) for USD 10.0
millions, the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development (KFAED) (Credit No. 312) for USD
15.0 millions, a grant from the Netherlands Government for USD 9.4 millions and the Government of
Yemen for USD 12.6 millions. According to SAR, project mobilization was scheduled to start on
July 1, 1986, however, even though KFAED loan agreement was signed in March 1986 and IDA
credit agreement was signed on May 9, 1986, yet, it only became effective in Dec. 1987 when the
Netherlands grant agreement was signed on May 5, 1987. Thus, it was quite evident that this project
had suffered a pre-start-up delay of about eighteen months.
B. Project Design and Organization
6.        Proiect Objectives: The primary objectives of Tihama V Regional Agricultural
Development Project include:
i)  Increase agricultural production in the country
ii) Improve the utilization of the available land, water and Human resources
iii) Help substitute for agricultural imports



Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project                                         50
iv)  Strengthen the regional agricultural services
v)   Establish a regional operation & maintenance (O&M) service
vi)  Strengthen TDA in carrying out regional development programs
7.        The major components of this project are:
i)   Agricultural extension service which comprises construction of agricultural
extension centers, provisions for field demonstration and establishment of tree
nurseries
ii)   Veterinary service which comprises construction and equipping of regional
laboratory, in addition to the construction of two veterinary centers, together with
housing for staff and provision for a mobile veterinary clinic
iii) Irrigation development which comprises construction of two diversion structures on
Wadi Siham, two wadis crossing structures for the canals and a network of 92 km
of main, secondary and tertiary canals and appurtenant structures to irrigate about
5,760 hectares, in addition to the construction of downstream flood protection dikes
and establishment of four demonstration farms
iv)  Infrastructural development which comprises the construction of 62.4 km length of
feeder roads and the construction of four marketing centers in the project area
v)   Regional operation and maintenance service which comprises provision for
procurement of equipment and vehicles and appointment of three experts
vi)  Credit which comprises provision of medium-term credit for improvement of well
irrigation farms, planting of tree crops and purchase of farm machinery as well as
provision of short-term credit for farm inputs
vii) Technical assistance and training which comprises appointment of experts and
consultants to strengthen TDA capability in engineering, extension and monitoring
and evaluation, in addition to provision for local as well as foreign training for
national staff.
8.        The objectives of this project are considered quite reasonable and reflect the real
aspirations of the farming community in the project area; in addition these objectives were consistent
with the agricultural sector development strategy as articulated in the third five-year national plan for
economic development (1986-1991). Moreover, the project objectives were also quite compatible
with the Bank strategy for future agricultural development in the country.
9.        A thorough look and review of the project components and sub-components clearly shows
that this project was designed to address and overcome the major constraints to agricultural
development in the project area such as:
i)   Weak agricultural extension institution
ii)  Inefficient water resources management
iii) Lack of effective O&M institution capable of ensuring sustainable O&M services.
Furthermore, the unique feature in the design of this project was that it incorporated an element of
sustainability for the previous projects as well as this project.
10.       The components and sub-components of this project are many, but they are quite
interrelated and their timely and simultaneous implementation will eventually offer a greater
opportunity to achieving an integrated agricultural development in the project area and Tihama



51                                     Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project
Region. Even though, some of the project components and/or sub-components were modified before
and/or during the project implementation phase, yet the overall project design was intact and
consequently it is highly likely that project objectives will be achieved.
11.       The implementing agency (TDA) is the best organized institution under the umbrella of
the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources (MAWR) and has a long experience and successful
implementation record of similar development project in Tihama Region. In addition, TDA has well
structured departments of engineering, agriculture, finance and administration and monitoring and
evaluation, and with adequate and qualified staff which proved to be capable of supervising the
implementation phase, offering good quality programs as well as handling future operations in a
satisfactory manner.
Implementation Record and Major Factors affecting the Project
12.       The implementation of the extension service, the veterinary service, the regional O&M
service, the credit and the technical assistance components had started after the credit became
effective in December 1987. The implementation of these components went on smoothly with
minimal modifications and/or delays. However, the implementation of the irrigation development
component (Wadi Siham scheme), which is the most important component of this project, and the
infrastructural development component were subjected to major design modifications and suffered a
series of delays prior to and during construction phase.
13.       Pre-implementation delays: In September 1988 and before the consultant started the design
work, the financiers argued that it is essential to review the technical and the economical feasibility of
the irrigation schemes as a result of:
i)   The changes that took place since 1984/85 in Wadi Siham project area with respect
to land use and cropping pattern
ii) The controversial findings of the DHV study on water resources in the Tihama
basin which necessitated detailed assessment of the situation to arrive at a
technically and economically viable solutions.
The consultant started carrying out the technical and economic feasibility study in November 1988
and submitted the inception report in June 1989. Hence, the study and the thorough discussions of its
findings by financiers resulted in almost one year delay to start the design work. In addition, the
thorough discussions and the critical assessment had led participants to agree on major modifications
in the original designs of the irrigation works presented in the project feasibility study (Sogreah,
1979). The agreed upon modifications were:
i)   Construction of Barquqa diversion structure and canal network to cater for base
flows only with off-taking capacity of 5 cum/sec, instead of a diversion structure
with off-taking capacity of 10 cum/sec
ii) Construction of Wagir diversion structure and canal network system to cater for
diversion of floods with off-taking capacity of 22 cum/sec, instead of a diversion
structure with an off-taking capacity of 10 cum/sec.
14.       Secondly, the Gulf war: As a result of the Gulf war and the withdrawal of KFAED from
project finance, a revised plan of project finance was discussed and approved by other co-financiers in
January 1991. According to the revised plan, the consultant was requested to modify the original



Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project                                   52
tender documents of the irrigation works and prepare a new tender document for Wagir irrigation
headworks and canal networks only and postpone Barquqa structure and canal network until adequate
finance is secured. The preparation of Wagir tender documents was completed in April 1991,
resulting in another three months of pre-implementation delay.
15.          Construction phase delays: First, after the excavation of the weir floor at Wagir
headworks site was completed to the specified level in November 1993, it was found that the soil was
unstable to warrant the structural stability. In view of this situation, the consultant modified the
design and submitted the revised drawings to the contractor in March 1994. Thus, a delay of four
months occurred due to inadequate soil investigation at the site. TDA expressed its concern to the
consultant about his performance. Secondly, as the result of the emergency situation in the country
which occurred during the period May 4, 1994 to July 7, 1994, the employees of Wagir contractor
left Yemen and only returned by the end of July, when regular flights were resumed. During this
period, progress of work was almost negligible (i.e. three months delay). Wagir headworks and canal
network contract (TDA/WS-1) was originally scheduled for completion by March 1995 (i.e. contract
period is 24 months commencing March 1993). However, due to delays which occurred during the
construction phase amounting to about seven months, the work in Wagir contract is expected to be
completed in December 1995 at the time of credit closure.
16.      Flood projection dikes: This sub-component consists of four flood protection dikes
downstream of Wadi Siham as presented in Sogreah Consultants conceptual design. Nespak
Consultants retained and approved the four locations and prepared the detailed designs. However,
later on, IDA expressed lack of readiness to finance this sub-component. TDA then started to review
the design and the proposed locations of the dikes after securing Government finance. TDA engineers
found that the pre-determined locations for the dikes were quite inappropriate. Hence, an intensive
survey downstream of Wadi Siham was carried out, two suitable locations were identified (i.e. the
number of dikes were reduced to two), new designs were prepared and currently construction is
underway and expected to be completed by November 1995. TDA expected Nespak Consultants to
be more careful in reviewing the appropriateness of the locations before carrying the design work.
17.      Infrastructural development component: The access roads sub-component was subjected to
major design modifications and delays during the construction phase, while the construction of the
four marketing centers was dropped when the finance plan was revised in 1991. The modifications in
the access roads designs had resulted in the reduction of the access roads length from 62.4 km to
48,118 km length (35.748 km metalled and 12.37 km gravel) and the width of the metalled roads was
increased from 3.7 m to 5.0 m. The access roads contract (TDAfWS-4) was awarded to a local
contractor and work was commenced in Sept. 1990 and scheduled for completion in Sept. 1992, but
expected to be completed by Dec. 1995. The major factors for this delay, beside the modifications in
the designs of the access roads, were related to losses incurred by the contractor as a result of the
steadily deteriorating value of the local currency in the free market (i.e. in 1990, 1 USD = YR 16,
and in 1995, 1 USD = YR 120-150 in the free market). In June 1994 the Government agreed to
raise the foreign currency proportion of this contract from 23.338% to 75%.
18.      The construction of the four marketing centers was dropped as a project sub-component,
however TDA and MAWR had secured adequate finance from the UNCDF for the construction of a
wholesale vegetable market in the project area (at Al-Hussenia town). The land for this marketing
center was acquired, land survey was completed.



53                                      Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project
C. Project Activities
19.       Agricultural extension activities: The extension program in the project area follows the
training and visit (T&V) extension approach which comprises intensive regular visits to contact
farmers, sponsoring of demonstration plots in farmers fields, in addition to organizing field days to be
attended by farmers as well as research workers. TDA had provided all the logistical, institutional
and technical support for this program. However, the efficiency of the extension program activities
was seriously constrained by the lack or inadequacy of flow of newly research recommendations.
The women in development program activities had focussed on providing crop and animal extension
services, in addition to extension advise on basic child health care, nutrition and organizing of literacy
classes for young and adult women in the project area. The management of nurseries, production and
distribution of tree seedlings to farmers to establish shelter belts around their farms, in addition to
planting of tree seedlings to stabilize moving sand dunes, which are threatening the agricultural lands
were the basic activities of the forestry and sand dunes stabilization program. Furthermore, in its
continuous endeavors to improve the efficiency of irrigation system and water use, the agricultural
irrigation program activities had focussed on providing technical know-how and help to farmers to
install modern irrigation systems in their fields.
20.       Veterinary services and animal production activities comprise regular vaccination
campaigns against render pest and small box as well as animal treatment during rural market days; on
the other hand, the animal production extension activities had focussed on providing information on
improved animal husbandry practices, animal nutrition and introduction of new improved forages in
farmers fields.
21.       The operation and maintenance activities comprise regular maintenance and
operationalization of the irrigation structures, in addition to monitoring and performing the necessary
maintenance of 186 km length of canals network as well as the necessary maintenance of 282 km
gravel access roads in Wadi Zabid, Wadi Rima and Wadi Mawr. More details on the construction
activities were presented in paras. 15, 16 and 17.
D. Proiect Results
Towards the end of the implementation phase, the following results were produced:
22.       Agricultural extension component: The construction of 18 extension centers, two centers
for women in development program were completed, in addition to the establishment of one nursery.
On the other hand, the agricultural extension program activities has resulted in reaching over 80% of
the targeted farm families in the project area and sponsoring over 1,786 demonstration plots in
farmers fields during the period 1988-1994. The women in development program activities had
covered 51 villages and over 612 young and/or adult women had attended the literacy classes.
Furthermore, 175,000 tree seedlings were produced annually from the project nurseries. The tree
seedlings distributed to farmers resulted in the establishment of 350 km length of shelter belts around
farmers fields. The sand dunes stabilization activities resulted in a shelter belt plantation covering
705 ha which represents 93% of the targeted area according to SAR.
23.       The veterinary service component: Two veterinary stations together with the staff housing
were constructed in addition to the construction and equipping of the regional veterinary lab, and the
procurement of one mobile veterinary clinic. The veterinary services activities had resulted in an
average annual vaccination of 6,400 cows against render pest, 5,000 sheep against small box, in



Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project                                    54
addition to the treatment of 500 animals against various diseases. The animal production extension
program activities had resulted in the establishment of 347 animal fattening units by farmers during
the period 1988-1994.
24.       The irrigation development component: One diversion structure is currently under
construction at Wagir site, with an off-taking capacity of 22 cum/sec. In addition, the construction of
the main canals, secondary canals, and tertiary canals (23 lan) as well as the construction of two flood
protection dikes, is ongoing and scheduled for completion in Dec. 1995. Results of the irrigation
development component may be evident from the next season onwards.
25.       The infrastructural development component: The construction of 48.118 km of access
roads connecting various villages in the project area with Sanna-Hodeidah national highway was
almost completed (i.e. 35.748 km metalled and 12.370 km gravel).
26.       The regional O&M component: All equipment considered necessary to establish a well
functioning regional O&M institution were procured in a timely manner and two workshops were
established, one at TDA headquarters and another at Zabid. Both are adequately equipped and
currently functioning satisfactorily.
27.       Credit data from CACB on medium- and short-term credit advanced to farmers in the
project area shows a steady increase in amount as well as in the number of beneficiaries. However,
had it not been to CACB strict collateral requirements as a condition for credit eligibility, the results
would have been far better.
28.       Training: In an attempt to improve the technical skills and capability of its staff, TDA
executed an ambitious training program which comprised 224 man/month of locally structured
training and 477 man/month of foreign training, mainly short courses of 2-3 months.
29.       Even though the development of a range management is not an integral sub-component of
Tihama V, yet TDA had sponsored the following studies in an attempt to improve future planning and
management of renewable natural resources in the project area. The studies completed are:
i)   Land cover change in Tihama Region (1993). The study was carried by Hunting
Technical Service (a British consultant)
ii)   Vegetation classification in Tihama Region (1993). The study was carried by an
international consultant
iii) Range management and pastrolists in Tihama Region (1994). The study was carried
by the range management expert.
In addition, the M&E expert had also carried out an evaluation study of the existing cost recovery
experience in Tihama projects.
E. Project Impact
30.      In fact, many aspects of the project impact cannot be assessed at the time, the project
implementation report (PIR) is being prepared, specially that the major irrigation works are not
completed. However, the evident impact of this project at this time is mostly attributed to the
agricultural extension program activities as well as modest on-farm investment to modernize the
irrigation systems on wells.



55                                     Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project
31.       Technological Impact: The agricultural extension program had promoted the use of
modern inputs, such as fertilizers, insecticides, pesticides improved seeds and machinery in the
project area. Farmers were quite responsive to use the recommended modern inputs, specially on
high value crops. The use of tractors for land preparation and levelling is widely practiced now and
became the norm in the project area instead of animal draft. However, the predominantly prevailing
crop-sharing arrangements, together with the phenomenon of absentee landowners, had reduced the
opportunities of direct influence of the extension program on landowners and eventually reduced
opportunities of taking on-farm investment decisions.
32.       The animal production extension program and veterinary service program had a positive
impact on the level of awareness of many farmers in the project area with respect to improved
methods of animal husbandry and animal feeding as well as the importance of animal vaccination and
animal treatment against various diseases. Even though TDA has already started a step-by-step
approach to recover the full cost of veterinary services (now farmers pay the full cost of drugs in
addition to 25 % for services), yet farmers demand for veterinary services continued to rise steadily
and more farmers started to perceive animal production as a potential investment opportunity rather
than a traditional household activity (many farmers had established fattening units). Thus, it is quite
evident that these programs had positive impact, however meager it is, on farmers' incomes as well as
on the development of animal wealth in the region.
33.       Environment Impact: The sand dunes stabilized in the project area, the shelter belts
established around farmers' fields and tree seedlings distributed and planted in and/or around villages
and public institutions in the project area had a positive impact on agricultural and natural resources
conservation in the region. Furthermore, the completion of the irrigation works at Wagir and the
flood protection dikes downstream of Wadi Siham will not only lead to improving of flood water
utilization efficiency, but also recharging the aquifer in the project area; in addition, future on-farm
investment in modern irrigation systems will lead to improving the underground water use efficiency.
Hence, it is evident that the project will have a positive impact on the conservation of irrigation water
for future use, which is the key element in maintaining viable agricultural environment in the region.
34.       Social impact: Farmers in the project area had acquired reasonable level of knowledge
with respect to use of modern agricultural practices, improved methods of animal husbandry and
treatment of animal diseases. Moreover, the access roads constructed in the project area had
facilitated farmers' contacts with commercial centers and provided easy access to social services in
cities (clinics, hospitals, schools, etc.). The construction of the feeder roads had also an evident
impact on the economy of the farming community. New business opportunities flourished along the
roads sides, creating new jobs and incomes, market information on product and input prices become
more accessible to the farmers, which improved their competitive capability and transportation cost of
farm produce was significantly reduced.
35.       Agroeconomic impact: Even though buying and selling of agricultural lands in the project
area is a rare phenomenon, yet the average prices of the agricultural lands had started to skyrocketing
since 1988 and continued. The average price per hectare of an average quality land under spate and
wells irrigation had increased from YR 120,000 and YR 50,000 in 1988 to YR 360,000 and YR
140,000 in 1993 respectively. This is partially due to optimistic outlook of investors in view of the
project implementation and partially due to changing attitudes in the region which become more
commercially oriented and started to be perceived as an investment opportunity rather than a
subsistence activity.



Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project                                       56
36.       The project impact on cropped areas could be assessed after the completion of the
irrigation works on Wadi Siham. However, regarding crop yields, it is worth to mention that yields
projected to be achieved with the implementation of the extension component were not fully realized,
specially for cereals. This was due to the fact that the projected yields were based on an optimistic
outlook, yet unrealistic. This is because at the time of appraisal preparation promising high yielding
varieties were released by the Agricultural Research Station in the Tihama Region. Unfortunately,
these varieties were rejected by farmers due to unfamiliarity and disliking of taste. Hence, farmers
resorted back to their traditional low yielding sorghum varieties. However, project impact on yields
of most crops is specially acknowledged by farmers who were directly contacted by extensionists.
The analysis of 93/94 crop budgets for contacted and non-contacted farmers revealed that contacted
farmers had realized relatively higher yields and better returns for most crops.
37.       The cropping pattern in the project area had witnessed significant changes. Areas under
high value crops (fruits and vegetables) had increased steadily during the period 1988-1994 as
predicted in SAR. Fruits (banana, papaya) are mainly grown under wells and combine (spate +
pumps) irrigation systems. The fruits area under wells and combine irrigation systems had increased
from 1,953 ha and 1,317 ha in 1988 to 6,701 ha and 2,768 ha in 1994 respectively. Vegetables in
the project area are mainly grown under pump irrigation system (wells) and the main types include
tomato, onion, okra and water melon. The areas cropped with vegetables had also increased from
21,500 ha in 1988 to 36,644 ha in 1994. However, on spate irrigation, cereals continued to dominate
the cropping pattern and represent over 80% of the cropped area. Slight shift towards forage was
quite evident specially during poor rainy seasons. This change in the cropping pattern is an indicative
of farmers' responsiveness (supply response) to relative changes in crop prices and also show farmers
ability to adjust to market forces.
F. Future Role of the Project
38.       TDA is a well organized and structured institution with adequate and qualified staff and
satisfactory management capability. However, for efficient and sustainable future operation of O&M
tasks and other program activities, it would be absolutely necessary for TDA to secure the full
support of the government to execute a practical and reasonable cost recovery policy (currently under
review) to generate adequate financial resources for its future operations. The future
operationalization of the project along these lines will ensure its positive role in future and eventually
the realization of its objectives.
G. IDA Performnance
39.       IDA updated the project preparation report which was presented by FAO in 1985 and
produced the staff appraisal report in 1986. The SAR presented an overview of the huge agricultural
potentials in the project area as well as justifiable and logical rationale for the project. Furthermore,
detailed features of the project components and sub-components were also presented in a logical
manner and systematic sequence. In addition, the project needs for each component in terms of
equipment, vehicles, materials and technical assistance were clearly identified and adequate financial
package was allocated; however, present and projected cereals yields were unrealistic. IDA
performance during project preparation and appraisal had been highly satisfactory.
40.       IDA had exhibited reasonable levels of flexibility and agreed to major modifications in
some of the project components and sub-components. An example of such flexibility was envisioned
when IDA agreed to drop the Barquqa headworks and canals networks - which is an essential



57                                     Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project
component of the irrigation works in Wadi Siham - after KFAED ceased financing the project in 1991
following the Gulf crisis. IDA also agreed to extend the closure of the credit three times in view of
the delays in project implementation for reasons which were beyond i'DA control. Moreover, IDA
had also agreed to amend the allocation of IDA credit and the Netherlands grant among the project
categories three times during the implementation period which clearly demo-1t, a4tes IDA
responsiveness to the project needs. Overall, it could be genuinely argued that the level of flexibility
and responsiveness exercised by IDA during the course of the implementation is an instrumental
element in accomplishing the current results.
41.       IDA supervisory missions were usually composed of multi -disciplinary teams which had
been very effective in monitoring all aspects of the project and in providing constructive suggestions
to overcome problems confronting components implementation. In addition, IDA missions had been
quite helpful in providing guidance for future actions and in reviewing actions taken by TDA in
response to previous missions recommendations. In fact, IDA missions had been very constructive
and instrumental during the whole period of project implementation.
H. Borrower Performance
42.       The implementing agency (TDA) is a semi-autonomous institution created by a
presidential decree in 1973 and entrusted to lead the development efforts in Tihama Region. TDA
had a successful track record as an implementing agency in the country. TDA had acted as
implementing agency for four similar development projects in Tihama Region during the period 1973-
1988 (i.e. Tihama I through Tihama IV). TDA management skills and staff competence were
acquired through a long experience in implementation, supervision apd operationalization of previous
development projects. In addition, most of TDA staff had received foreign and local training
opportunities which acted as an incentive for competent staff to stay with TDA. Now TDA has well
structured departments (engineering, agriculture, administration and Finance and M&E) which clear
defined functions and with adequate and qualified staff in most disciplines related to project activities.
43.       TDA management and staff had actively participated in the project preparation, vitally
contributed to project preparation and appraisal and made constructive comments on the project design
and project components. TDA performance during project preparation and appraisal had been
satisfactory.
44.       TDA management had been quite successful in acquiring the approval and consent of the
land owners for the constnrction of the extension centers, veterinary stations, central region
headquarter camp, the canals network and the access roads, ahead of the construction phase. In fact,
no significant delay was encountered due to land owners objections.
45.       TDA management had created a favorable and productive working relationship with the
Agricultural Research and Extension Administration (AREA) and the Credit Agricultural and
Cooperative Bank (CACB) through maintaining a high level of coordination and cooperation with
these institutions. This relationship was positively reflected on the quality of the joint programs such
as the agricultural research linkages and advancement of short- and medium-term credit to farmers in
the project area.
46.       In general, suppliers of equipment, vehicles and materials had performed quite
satisfactorily and were able to deliver all the contracted items without major delays and in accordance
with the specifications. However, contract No. TDA/WS-1 (Wagir headworks and canal networks)



Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project                                       58
and contract No. TDA/WS-4 (access roads) had suffered excessive delays. TDA was not quite
satisfied with the performance of both contractors.
47.       As for the technical assistance, TDA had recruited foreign experts and consultants in
different disciplines including engineering, agriculture, finance, monitoring and evaluation for a total
period of 102 man/year. Many experts had been quite effective and instrumental in improving the
quality of programs and in providing the necessary in-service training to their national counterparts.
48.       TDA had fully complied with most of the major loan agreement covenants. TDA had
completed the evaluation of the cost recovery experience in Tihama and concluded that the existing
cost recovery system is inefficient and inappropriate. TDA is currently in the process of formulating
alternative proposals for reasonable and practical cost recovery policy which would ensure smooth
and sustainable operations of the project activities. TDA will pursue this matter with MAWR.
I. IDA-Borrower Relationship
49.       In an attempt to improve and expedite the implementation of projects financed and/or co-
financed by IDA, a joint workshop was convened in April 95 and addressed implementation problems
related to project management, financial management, procurement, use of the special account and
budget allocation and release of funds. Constructive recommendations were reached and their
immediate implementation was agreed upon. The borrower had started to implement many of these
recommendations, which clearly demonstrates productive working relationship. On the other hand,
IDA and TDA had developed and maintained an excellent working relationship during the
implementation of the four previous development projects in the Tihama Region.
50.       The co-financiers' joint efforts to secure the needed finance for Barquqa headworks and
canal networks had been quite instrumental in convincing the EEC to finance this important sub-
component. In fact, this step is considered very important in keeping the overall project design intact
and demonstrates the fruitful and productive working relationship among the co-financiers.
J. Lessons Learned
51.       Credit effectiveness delays: IDA should agree with the Borrower on ways and means to
overcome pre-start-up delays encountered due to credit effectiveness delays.
52.       Government contracting procedures and regulations: The Bank should review the country
contracting procedures in terms of contract award, time between advertisement and award as well as
the exchange rates policies in relation to methods and currency of payment and if these procedures
were incompatible with the Bank regulations, the agreement should explicitly show the procedures to
be followed.
53.       Expediting contract implementation and procurement of proiect needs: A significant
portion of the delays encountered in the implementation of contracts under this project is due to the
fact that contractors had incurred or anticipated to incur losses in view of the continuous deterioration
of the value of the local currency, specially that certain percentage of their contract value is in local
currency. IDA and the Borrower should agree on measures to overcome this problem.
54.       Simple projects are easy to implement: Even though the components of this project were
carefully identified and that their simultaneous implementation will eventually lead to achieving an



59                                     Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project
integrated rural development in the project area, yet keeping the project simple and with fewer
components will make it more manageable and ensure high implementation performance.
55.       Planning realistic implementation period: IDA should take into account important factors
such as the macroeconomic environmnent, the absorptive capacity, prevailing rules and regulations
with respect to contracting procedures, management capability and procedures for decision taking to
arrive at a reasonable and realistic project implementation period.
56.       Cost recovery: TDA management should launch an awareness campaign among the
beneficiaries during the project implementation phase to secure their cooperation and willingness to
participate in the cost recovery program. The Bank missions should closely monitor the implementing
agency efforts in this regard.



Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project                               60
ANNEX E
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
MINISTRY  OF AGRICULTtUJE                          9
AND  WATER RESOURCES                                             4g U   II  ,  LSIj;j lj-
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY                     -                    ',  ,   t i '
HODE1DAa*
Or Ref// 7j?(                                                              I        ,
D"14 May 1996.                                                           .       m  \      e- J"
Mr. Neidet Al-Salihi
Natural Rcsources, Water Resources, and Environmnt Division
Middle East and North Afca Region
Dcar Nejdet,
The Implemestation Completion Report (ICR) for the Tihama V Regional Agrcultural
Development Project (Credit 1 667-YAR) has been received and reviewed. The ICR report covers
all the major issues related to the Tihama V Project.
It is therefore my pleasure ta infomi you that the ICR report has been found to be satisfacmory
and aacceptablc to the TDA.
Wrth best regards.
u     r       s   ~~~~~~swcerely,;
Irhmel-Dowirm
Chairman
cc. His Excellency Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of P"annig and Developmeat, Sana'a-
cc. HMs Excellency Minister of Agdicultre and Water Resources, Sanaa.
4: 231212/3 P.O.Box a792 C=b* (ALHAIA) Had.idah  ;    .:1             r
lex: ;673ALHAIA YE Fax No. 03-211588                          -     -       r   X   L; _  *v ,,1s
)OCIDAH Ourlehenm' Road                                                    1JJ   , _









ARABIA- /, 
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
K,-'t   '                                   9              TIHAMA V REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL
v,'./X .1 :                                                        DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
u\ctd "     {   \PROJECT AREA
Project Components
N                                                                              * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Extension Centers
Ab.                                                               0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Research Stations  i 
A, Sub-Regional Office Sites
Existing:
AAgricultural Denelopmext Project (World Bank)
Tihama Coastal Plain
*   Extension Cenlers
AM- ^b--                                                                                                  Moie Roads
-- -- Secondary Roads
Al Aim.,yxi                                                                           Wadis
SANA'A \                      Notional Capital
t7N,~ NK    *,/ AJtsI0\ ~N~AUA                                                          N                     -  tetereationot Boundaries
AJ4nA 
N VWadi Siham              /
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s BRD 1,=               , 2g,    \ 
5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                Deeomn Schem   /                                                                          iernf5hl 
b_   A.ds'  '                 9                   A ]                                  D]         40~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ t A  5  
Red Sea
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'b. a.xf 55 -x -S, -uw xx . M.,.. in x
A7.Td2_tA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAI.w/.-.,*.sa.......n _ .xuxI.. ,,Iixx.,~.d, . 1 .xn5e  . O I
..~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e anrnI'i.x.,n.'x,,,.-CI ,                                                          r          .aec     . .
/   :  - -)PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC
atx ',x'                   2                  REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
r. Ad., (5_
,t-~~~~ X~~ f                                 Red ~~~  SAUDI ARABIA /
9  'C'->                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sea  YEME1
A R. ;S  P.D.R. YEMEN
ETHIOPIA                                             /                                                         /                ETHIOPIA                  Gulf of Aden 
o                                   n-n                                                                                //                               -'i/DJIBOUTI\SL
DJIBOUTI                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SOMALIA









IMAGING
Report No:       l5bZZU
Type: ICR



