Page  1
December 27, 1999
H.E. Fathallah Oualalou 
Minister of Economy and Finance 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Rabat 
Kingdom of Morocco
Re:
Loan No. 3664-MOR
(Fifth Water Supply Project) Amendment to the Loan Agreement 
Termination of the Régie Autonome 
Intercommunale de Distribution d’Eau 
de Rabat Salé 
Project Agreement       
Excellency:
We refer to the Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Morocco (the Borrower) and 
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) for the 
above-captioned Loan, dated December 3, 1993 (the Loan Agreement), as amended, to the 
Project Agreement between the Bank and the Régie Autonome Intercommunale de 
Distribution d’Eau de Rabat Salé (RED), and the request of the Borrower dated March 
24, 1999 to (a) amend the loan documentation following the privatization of the 
operations of one of the Participating Utilities: the Régie Autonome Intercommunale de 
Distribution d’Eau de Rabat Salé (RED); and (b) cancel an amount equivalent to 
FRF175,888,275.72 of the Loan.  We also refer to the letter from the Bank, dated May 
12, 1999, informing the Borrower of the cancellation of FRF175,888,275.72 equivalent 
of the Loan Account, effective as of the date of receipt of the request for said 
cancellation.
We are pleased to inform you that the Bank has acceded to the above request and, 
therefore, proposes the following amendments:
In the Loan Agreement:
1.
Article 1 (General Conditions; Definitions): 
(i)
Section 1.02 (a) is amended to read as follows:
“(a)
"RADEEF" means the Water and Electricity Distribution Authority of 
Fes (Régie 
Autonome Intercommunale de Distribution d'Eau et d'Electricité de 
Fès); "RADEEM" 
means the Water and Electricity Distribution 
Authority of Meknes (Régie Autonome 
Intercommunale de Distribution 
d'Eau et d'Electricité de Meknes; "RADEEMA" means the 
Water and 
Electricity Distribution Authority of Marrakech (Régie Autonome 
Intercommunale de Distribution d'Eau et d'Electricité de Marrakech); "RAK" means the 
Water and Electricity Distribution Authority of Kenitra (Régie Autonome 
Intercommunale de Distribution d'Eau et d'Electricité de Kénitra); all 
such utilities 
established and operating pursuant to the Decree (Décret) 
No. 2-64-394 dated 
September 29, 1964, issued by the Borrower, as the 
same may be amended from time to 
time”.
(ii)
Section 1.02 (b) is amended to read as follows: 
“(b)   "Participating Utilities" means, collectively, the four entities 
referred to 
in paragraphs (a) of this Section, and "Participating Utility" 
means, individually, 
any one of the Participating Utilities”.
(iii)
Section 1.02 (c) (ii) is deleted and the remaining sub-sections 
are renumbered 
accordingly.
2.
Article 2 (The Loan)
Section 2.01: will read as follows: " The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, 
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various 
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of thirty 
Page  2
million seven hundred thousand seven hundred and eight Dollars and forty six cents 
(US$30,700,708.46); and one hundred fifty one million seven hundred seventy three 
thousand and two hundred seventy French Francs and ninety one centimes 
(FFR151,773,270.91), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with 
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
3.
Schedule 2 (Description of the Project):
Part A (2) is deleted.
Part A (3) will read as follows:
“Carrying out of a program to sensitize the Borrower’s populations living 
in endemic 
areas on public health issues and water-borne disease and to evaluate and 
improve the 
quality of potable water in rural areas; and provision of 
equipment, supply and vehicles 
required therefor”.
Part A (4) is deleted.
Part B (1) (b) is deleted and the remaining paragraphs are renumbered 
accordingly.
Part B (2) (b) is deleted and the remaining are renumbered accordingly
4.
Schedule 3 (Amortization Schedule): will read as shown in the Annex to this 
Letter.
All the terms and conditions of the Loan Agreement, as amended hereby, shall 
remain in full force and effect.
5.
The Régie Autonome Intercommunale de Distribution d’Eau de Rabat Salé Project 
Agreement is hereby terminated.
Please confirm your official agreement to the foregoing, as the Borrower’s 
authorized representative under the Agreement, by duly signing and dating the 
corresponding form of confirmation below and returning this amendment letter to us at 
your earliest convenience. A signed duplicate original of this amendment letter is 
enclosed herewith for the Kingdom of Morocco’s official records.
Very Truly Yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Christian Delvoie
Director
Maghreb Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
CONFIRMED AND AGREED
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
By /s/ Fathallah Oualalou               
Authorized Representative
Date:
February 29, 2000                 
REGIE AUTONOME INTERCOMMUNALE DE DISTRIBUTION 
   D’EAU DE RABAT SALE (RED)
By /s/ A. Aiat Allah                                                   
Page  3
Authorized representative
Date: March 16, 2000                                                       
