Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4190-TA 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Tax Modernization Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
TANZANIA REVENUE AUTHORITY 
 
Dated August 30, 2006  
Page  2
-2- 
CREDIT NUMBER 4190-TA 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated August 30, 2006, entered into between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (
“Association”) and TANZANIA REVENUE AUTHORITY 
(Project Implementing Entity”) (“Project Agreement”) in connection with the Financing 
Agreement of same date between the United Republic of Tanzania (“Recipient) and the 
Association (the “Financing Agreement”). The Association and TRA hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Financing Agreement) 
 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Project 
 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Financing Agreement or the 
 General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE II—PROJECT
 
2.01. 
 TRA declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the Program.  To this 
 
end, the TRA shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article IV 
 
of the General Conditions, and shall provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
 
services and other resources required for the Project. 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
 
the Association and the TRA shall otherwise agree, TRA shall carry out the Project in 
 
accordance with the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III – TERMINATION 
3.01. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (c) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
 
provisions of this Agreement shall terminate is 20 years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
Page  3
-3- 
ARTICLE IV 
–
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
4.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity
’s Representative is the Commissioner General of TRA. 
4.02. 
The Association’s Address is: 
For the Association: 
 
International Association for Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
64145(MCI) 
4.03. 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Address is: 
 
Tanzania Revenue Authority 
 
Sokoine Drive 
 
PO Box 11491 
 
Dar es Salaam 
 
Tanzania 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(255) 22 2111814 
 
Page  4
-4- 
AGREED at Dar es Salaam, United Republic of Tanzania, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Judy O'Connor 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
TANZANIA REVENUE AUTHORITY 
 
By /s/ Harry M. Kitillya 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  5
-5- 
SCHEDULE 
Execution of the Project  
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A.  
Institutional Arrangements 
1
Operations Manual 
 
TRA shall carry out the Project in accordance with the arrangements and procedures  
set out in the Operations Manual and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall  
not amend, abrogate or waive any provision of any of the Operations Manual, if such  
amendment, abrogation or waiver may, in the opinion of the Association, materially or adversely 
affect the implementation of the Project. 
2. 
Tax Modernization Program Unit
 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Part A.1 of this Section, TRA shall maintain, at 
all times until the completion of the Project, establish and maintain a Tax Modernization Program 
Unit with the responsibility for financial management, disbursement and procurement support for 
the Project. To this end, the Tax Modernization Program Unit shall prepare periodic 
implementation progress reports. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation.
A. Project 
Reports. 
1. 
(a) 
The TRA shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 (b) of the General Conditions 
and on the basis of indicators set forth below in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph.  Each such 
Project Report shall cover the period of six months, and shall be furnished to the Recipient not 
later than forty five days after the end of the period covered by such report for incorporation and 
forwarding by the Recipient to the Association as part of the overall Project Report.  
 
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) consist of the 
indicators referred to in Section II.A.1 (b) of Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement. 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports; Audits. 
1. 
TRA shall maintain a financial management system and prepare financial statements  
in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, both 
in a manner adequate to reflect the operations and financial condition of the Project Implementing 
Entity, including the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
2. 
TRA shall have its financial statements referred to above audited by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association.  Each audit of these financial statements shall cover the period of 
Page  6
-6- 
one fiscal year of TRA.  The audited financial statements for each period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six months after the end of the period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
All goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to the Financing 
Agreement. 
 
