                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR00002007



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-41900)



                                       ON A

                                     CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 8.5 MILLION
                         (US$ 12 MILLION EQIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                       UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA

                                      FOR A

                        TAX MODERNIZATION PROJECT



                                  March 30, 2012




Financial and Private Sector Development Department
East/Southern Africa
Africa Region
                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective as of December 30, 2010)

                 Currency Unit = Tanzania Shillings
                  Tanzania Shillings 1504 = US$ 1
                     US$ 1.46139000 = SDR 1

                          FISCAL YEAR
                          July 1 – June 30

               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ASYCUDA         Automated System for Customs Data
AWPB            Annual Work Plan and Budget
BFDPs           Basket-Funding Development Partners
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
CED             Customs and Excise Department
CFAA            Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CMVRS           Central Motor Vehicle Registration System
DSM             Dar es Salaam
DANIDA          Danish International Development Agency
DFID            Department For International Development
DPs             Development Partners
DRD             Domestic Revenue Department
EFDs            Electronic Fiscal Devices
FY              Fiscal Year
GDP             Gross Domestic Product
GKMS            Gemba Kaizen Management System
GOT             Government of Tanzania
GTZ             German Agency for Technical Assistance
IBRD            International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR             Implementation Completion and Results
ICT             Information and Communications Technology
IDA             International Development Association
IMF             International Monetary Fund
IFR             Interim Financial Report
ISR             Implementation Status Report
IT              Information Technology
ITA             Institute of Tax Administration
ITAX            Integrated Tax Administration System
JSC             Joint Steering Committee
KPI             Key Performance Indicators
LTD             Large Taxpayer Department
M&E             Monitoring & Evaluation
MDGs            Millennium Development Goals
MKUKUTA    National Strategy for Growth and Reduction of Poverty
MoFEA      Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs
MOU        Memorandum of Understanding
MSC        Modernization Steering Committee
MTR        Mid-Term Review
NCB        National Competitive Bidding
NSGRP      National Strategy for Growth and Reduction o f Poverty
PCU        Program Coordinating Unit
PDO        Project Development Objective
PEFAR      Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability Review
PFMRP      Public Financial Management Reform Program
PP         Procurement Plan
PRSC-9     The Ninth Poverty Reduction and Support Credit
QCBS       Quality and Cost Based Selection
TAP        Tax Administration Project
TIN        Tax Identification Number
TMP        Tax Modernization Project
TRA        Tanzania Revenue Authority
VAT        Value Added Tax
ZRB        Zanzibar Revenue Board



                Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
              Country Director: Philippe Dongier
               Sector Manager: Irina Astrakhan
          Project Team Leader: Sherri Ellen Archondo
             ICR Team Leader: Douglas Zhihua Zeng
 
                                                 Tanzania
                                          Tax Modernization Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 9
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 24
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 24
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 26
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 27
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 28
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 29
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 34
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 37
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 38
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 40
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 41
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 43
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 47
  MAP                                                                                                                        48
 
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Tax Modernization
Country:                Tanzania                Project Name:
                                                                          Project
Project ID:             P100314                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-41900
ICR Date:               06/29/2011              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          UNITED REPUBLIC
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          OF TANZANIA
Original Total
                        XDR 8.30M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 8.30M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 8.30M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies: Tanzania Revenue Authority
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: IDA, BORR, DANI, DFID

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       04/12/2006     Effectiveness:          11/28/2006          11/28/2006
Appraisal:            04/19/2006     Restructuring(s):       03/23/2011          03/28/2011
Approval:             06/15/2006     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                07/31/2009          09/30/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                                25
Law reform                                                             25
Tax policy and administration                                          50

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili           Gobind T. Nankani
Country Director:          Philippe Dongier                     Judy M. O'Connor
Sector Manager:            Irina Astrakhan                      Antony Thompson
Project Team Leader:       Sherri Ellen Archondo                Ravi Ruparel
ICR Team Leader:           Douglas Zhihua Zeng
ICR Primary Author:        Douglas Zhihua Zeng


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The PDO for TMP is to promote an effective and efficient tax administration that
provides high quality customer services with fairness and integrity. The PDO is designed
to reflect TRA’s s mission statement, which is: "to be an effective and efficient Tax
Administration, which promotes voluntary tax compliance by providing high quality
service with fairness and integrity through competent and motivated staff."
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target Formally          Actual Value
                                             Values (from      Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                               approval        Target       Completion or
                                             documents)        Values       Target Years
                Total tax revenue collected by TRA (for domestic revenue) as a
  Indicator 1
                percentage of its annual revenue target
Value
(quantitative             107%                   100%                            94%
or qualitative)
Date achieved          07/01/2008             09/30/2011                      06/30/2011
                The baseline value was the achievement in 2008 (tax collected as a ratio
Comments
                of that year’s target). The project target was marginally missed, but the tax
(incl. %
                collection for the first quarter of FY2012 (July-September 2011) has
achievement)
                100% met the target.
  Indicator 2 Average time taken to clear goods at (a) DSM Port; and (b) Airports
                 (a) At DSM Port: 14 (a) At DSM Port:                     (a) At DSM Port:
Value
                 days min.;                12 days;                       12 days;
(quantitative
                 (b) At Airports: 6 days. (b) At Airports: 5              (b) At Airports: 5
or qualitative)
                                           days                           days
Date achieved          06/30/2006             09/30/2011                      06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Targets were 100% met.
achievement)
                Increased percentage of taxpayers awareness on tax education
  Indicator 3
                programs
Value
(quantitative             46%                     60%                            94%
or qualitative)
Date achieved          06/30/2006             09/30/2011                      06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %        The target was exceeded by 34 percentage points.
achievement)
                Increase in percentage of written enquiries attended to within seven
  Indicator 4
                days
Value
(quantitative             46%                     90%                            79%
or qualitative)
Date achieved          06/30/2006             09/30/2011                      06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %        The achievement was 87.8% of the target.
achievement)
  Indicator 5 Reduced level of perceived corruption index
Value
(quantitative            15.1%                  30%                            56.3% *
or qualitative)
Date achieved          06/30/2006            09/30/2011                      03/30/2011
                The value of this indicator solely relies on taxpayer surveys. The baseline
                data is hard to understand and it should have clearly indicated that it refers
Comments        to the percentage of people who think “TRA is corruption free?.
(incl. %        * This value is based on a large taxpayer survey in March 2011. A small-
achievement) scale small and medium taxpayer rapid assessment during the ICR mission
                indicates that 42% of respondents think “the tax collection process is less
                corrupt or very clean?. All these exceeded the target.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                   Actual Value
                                                            Formally
                                           Values (from                      Achieved at
  Indicator         Baseline Value                           Revised
                                             approval                       Completion or
                                                          Target Values
                                           documents)                       Target Years
               Average number of days to identify stop-filers (Domestic Revenue
Indicator 1
               Dept): (i) direct taxes; (ii) indirect taxes
Value
                  (i)14 days;             (i)10 days;                     (i)10 days;
(quantitative
                  (ii) 5 days             (ii) 5 days                     (ii) 5 days
or qualitative)
Date achieved            06/30/2006          09/30/2011                       12/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Both targets were 100% met.
achievement)
                (i) Number of TIN registered taxpayers; (ii) Number of VAT
Indicator 2
                registered taxpayers
Value
                  (i) 288,680;            (i) 674,442;                    (i) 845,737;
(quantitative
                  (ii) 6,154              (ii) 14,797                     (ii) 16,848
or qualitative)
Date achieved            06/30/2006          09/30/2011                       06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Both targets were significantly exceeded: (i) 125%; (ii) 114%
achievement)
Indicator 3 Percentage of VAT refunds made within one month (DRD)
Value
(quantitative               62%                  90%                             80%
or qualitative)
Date achieved            06/30/2006          09/30/2011                       06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %        The achievement was 11% short of the target.
achievement)
                Percentage of customs clearances made within 24 hours at: (i) DSM
Indicator 4
                Port; (ii) Airport.
Value                                    (i) DSM Port                     (i) DSM Port
                 (i) DSM Port 95%;
(quantitative                            70%;*                            45%;
                 (ii) Airport 88%
or qualitative)                          (ii) Airport 95%                 (ii) Airport 76%
Date achieved          06/30/2006           06/30/2013**                       12/31/2011
                Both targets were significantly missed, indicating deterioration in customs
                clearance in both port and airport. One explanation from the Customs was
                the rapidly increasing cargo volumes due to increased economic activities.
                This explanation is supported by the rationale for target setting on this
                indicator:
                * The DSM port target was set below the baseline due to foreseeable port
Comments
                congestions incurred from increased cargo volumes as a result of
(incl. %
                increased economic activities. Based on the government statistics, from
achievement)
                2008-2011, the DSM port cargo volume, measured by dollar values,
                increased from US$4.8-6.3 billion, which was a 31.3% increase. If
                measured by weight, it increased from 4.4 - 5.6 million tons, which was a
                27.3% increase.
                ** The end target was for the end of the whole tax modernization program
                (June 30 13), and should have been revised in due course.
                Amount of previous year’s arrears collected to total amount of tax
Indicator 5
                arrears at beginning of the year (Domestic Revenue Dept.)
Value
(quantitative            116% *                  65%                              48%
or qualitative)
Date achieved          06/30/2006             09/30/2011                       12/31/2011
                The achievement was 74% of the target. One reason is that since the
                project implementation, the system encourages taxpayers to file lawsuits
                more freely through the Tax Revenue Appeals Board (TRAB) and Tax
                Revenue Appeals Tribunal (TRAT) to enhance transparency; thereby
                more taxpayers seem to delay their arrear payment by filing a complaint.
                From 2009-2011, TRAB handled over 103 cases and TRAT handled over
                12 cases on average.
Comments
             “Arrears? refer to the taxes “due but uncollected on time?. The arrears are
(incl. %
             estimated to be about 5% of total domestic tax revenue.
achievement)
               * Under normal circumstances the highest achievement ever should be
               100%. However, during the year ending June 2006, a special campaign to
               clear backlog of arrears was carried out and some arrears that were
               considered uncollectable were collected hence the performance of 116%.
               This was a one-off performance, for the previous and succeeding years,
               the target was set based on best practice and actual performance
               accordingly.
Indicator 6    Average number of days to identify stop-filers (Large Taxpayers
                Dept)
Value
(quantitative            5 days             3 days                         3 days
or qualitative)
Date achieved          06/30/2006         09/30/2011                      6/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %        The target was 100% met.
achievement)
                Total revenue realized from audits as a percentage of revenue
Indicator 7
                collected (domestic revenue department)
Value
(quantitative             17%                10%                            10%
or qualitative)
Date achieved          06/30/2006         09/30/2011                     12/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %        The target was 100% met.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                          Actual
        Date ISR
No.                           DO                      IP              Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                      (USD millions)
  1    10/05/2006        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                    0.00
  2    06/20/2007        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                    0.00
  3    12/21/2007        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                    4.75
  4    06/29/2008    Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                    4.75
  5    12/29/2008    Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                    5.97
  6    06/19/2009    Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                    5.97
  7    12/27/2009    Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                  12.00
  8    05/31/2010    Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                  12.00
  9    03/26/2011    Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                  12.00


H. Restructuring (if any)
Level two approved on March 28, 2011.
I. Disbursement Profile
 
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The proposed IDA-funded Tax Modernization Project (TMP-IDA) was a follow-up of the
US$40 million IDA-unded Tax Administration Project (TAP),1 which was approved in
March 1999 and closed on December 31, 2006. The TMP-IDA was used to fund part of
the US$33.6 million Tax Modernization Program (TMP) designed to continue support to
the Government of Tanzania (GOT) and the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA),
especially for the implementation of the TRA’s second five-year corporate plan (FY03 -
FY08) through a multi development partner basket funding approach. The TMP was also
intended to support the Zanzibar Revenue Board (ZRB). Two development partners,
DFID and DANIDA, contributed US$19.6 million to the TMP through a basket funding
arrangement leaving a financing gap of US$14 million. This was met by the proposed
IDA credit of US$12.0 million and GOT contribution of US$2.0 million. The TMP was
approved on June 15, 2006, became effective on November 28, 2006, and was initially
expected to close on July 31, 2009.

Country and sector background. During the 1990s, the Government of Tanzania faced
serious fiscal problems arising from the gap between stagnant revenues and public
expenditures swollen by large outlays on administration. The fiscal deficit, after grantss
which was 5% in FY94, rose to 7.9% in FY95. Tax revenue collection was weak,
reflecting both the structure of the tax system and deficiencies in tax administration.
The GOT, recognizing these challenges, established the Tanzania Revenue Authority in
1996 as a quasi-autonomous executive agency. With the support of TAP, the GOT and
TRA began an ambitious program of reforming the tax system and strengthening tax
administration. The objective of TAP was to assist the GOT in raising its tax revenues
without increasing tax rates by (i) improving the legal framework; (ii) broadening the tax
base; (iii) strengthening the TRA to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of tax
administration; and (iv) improving the administrative infrastructure.

There had been substantial progress on the overall objective and all of the components. A
major initiative of TRA, supported by TAP, had been the development of the second five-
year Corporate Plan (2003/04 - 2007/08). This plan provided strategic direction for the
reforms by adopting a more integrated approach to project design and implementation
over the five-year period. Implementation of the Corporate Plan was supported by TAP
and the TMP.

The last two years of the corporate plan (July 2006 to June 2008) included a number of
key activities in the reform and TRA strengthening process. These included
implementation of the customs modernization plan and the information systems strategy,


1
 The Project was part of the broader multi development partner-financed US$70.2 million Tax
Administration Project.



                                                  1
including the development and deployment of an integrated tax administration system.
IDA support for the TMP would enable the corporate plan to be adequately financed and
implemented.

The Zanzibar Revenue Board (ZRB) also developed a Corporate Plan (2005/06 -
2009/10) which spelled out its corporate objectives and outlined the strategic direction to
achieve the objectives. The funding under TMP also supported the activities for three
years of the ZRB corporate plan.

The rationale for Bank involvement in TAP included (i) the GOT’S desire to benefit
from the Bank’s international experience in tax administration; (ii) the Bank’s role in
helping the GOT develop the framework for multi-donor financing; and (iii) the Bank’s
ability to play a catalytic role in initiating and supporting the reforms, which involved
wide-ranging organizational changes.

This rationale remained valid for TMP-IDA. While other development partners were
willing to support TRA and ZRB, the Bank was best placed to continue its coordination
and harmonization efforts such as leading the multi development partner implementation
support missions. Furthermore, the Bank’s financial support also provided the GOT with
the credibility to leverage other partners’ resources.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The PDO for the Tax Modernization Project (TMP) was to promote an effective and
efficient tax administration that provides high quality customer services with fairness and
integrity. The PDO was designed to reflect TRA's mission statement, “to be an effective
and efficient Tax Administration, which promotes voluntary tax compliance by providing
high quality customer service with fairness and integrity through competent and
motivated staff?.

TRA had also defined a set of outcome indicators to reflect the mission statement and the
PDO. These were:
   total tax revenue collected by TRA in relation to its annual revenue target
   average time taken to clear goods at sea ports, border posts and airports
   percentage of taxpayers awareness on tax education programs
   percentage of written enquiries attended within seven days
   level of perceived corruption index

One of the achievements of TAP was assisting TRA to develop its own list of Key
Performance Indicators to be used by TRA for its own management purposes. These were
also intermediate outcome indicators for TMP (see table 1). These indicators were listed
by department – LTD (large taxpayer department), DRD (domestic revenue department)
and Customs.

                           Table 1. Intermediate outcome indicators for TMP
       Intermediate Outcomes                         Intermediate Outcome Indicators
1. Improved effectiveness and           Amount o f previous year’s arrears collected in relation to total
efficiency of tax administration          amount of tax arrears at the beginning of the year



                                                    2
                                           Average number of days to identify stop-filers (LTD and DRD)
                                           Number of TIN registered taxpayers
                                           Number of VAT registered taxpayers
2. Improved quality of customer            Percentage of VAT refunds made within one month (DRD)
service delivered with fairness            Proportion of customs clearances made within 24 hours (ports
and integrity                               and airports)
                                           Total revenue realized from audits as a percentage of revenue
                                            collected (DRD)
Source: World Bank, Tanzania Tax Modernization, PAD, May 19, 2006.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
The PDO and key indicators were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The primary beneficiaries of the project were the Government of Tanzania and the
taxpayers of Tanzania, as the main objective was to promote an effective and efficient tax
administration that provides high quality customer service. In pursuance of this objective,
the project helped increase the tax revenues for the government through better services
with respect to transparency, efficacy, assistance and fairness to taxpayers, providing
benefits to all.

Within the government, the TRA and its staff especially benefited from this project, since
significant investments were made to strengthen the organization and infrastructure of the
revenue authority and to enhance the skills and competency of the TRA staff at various
levels. The project also helped increase tax compliance and enforcement through a fair,
equitable and transparent application of tax laws and contributing to reduced fiscal
deficits.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
The TMP project was built on the previously completed TAP project and was designed to
reflect the five strategic goals of the corporate plan of the Tanzania Revenue Authority
(TRA). The activities related to these goals are summarized below.

Strategic Goal 1 - Improve revenue collection in a cost effective way - Narrow the
revenue gap, improve the tax structure, and deepen the modernization of customs
arrangements.
Strategic Goal 2 - Fully integrate TRA operations - Integrate processes and procedures,
strengthen the Large Taxpayer's Department, provide additional information technology
infrastructure, introduce e-filing, roll out the Asycuda++ system for customs, and
strengthen the Domestic Revenue Department.
Strategic Goal 3 - Provision of high quality and responsive customer service -
Develop taxpayer education programs, roll out district-level one-stop centers, promulgate
a taxpayer’s charter, establish a quality management system and a customs client services
unit.
Strategic Goal 4 - Promote tax compliance through a fair, equitable and transparent
application of tax laws - Unify taxpayer identification, introduce risk management for


                                                     3
audit based taxes, further strengthen the Tax Investigation Department and improve tax
enforcement.
Strategic Goal 5 - Improve staff competence, motivation, integrity and
accountability - Strengthen management controls, promulgate a staff charter, strengthen
training capacity, and implement the anti-corruption strategy.

It also provided support to the Zanzibar Revenue Board (ZRB) for improving efficient
collection of taxes; promotion of voluntary compliance; provision of quality service to
taxpayers; and improvement of working environment, staff skills, competence and
motivation.

The expected costs and funding sources of the TMP are indicated in the table below.
Because the IDA funding was provided through a basket fund arrangement with DFID
and DANIDA, it was not allocated by component. The basket fund supported consultancy
services, goods, equipment, and training but excluded civil works. The cost of any
remaining civil works under TRA’s corporate plan was funded by the GOT.

The basket fund arrangement on one hand enhanced the efficiency of Project
management and coordination, while on the other hand it also created some delay in the
disbursement of IDA funds due to the borrower’s preference for using other donors’
grants first, as well as some inflexibility to change when needed. 2

                            Table 2. Expected costs and financing of TMP




1.6 Revised Components



2
    One example was the difficulty of adjusting the M&E framework, detailed in section 2.3.



                                                 4
There was no revision to the components.

1.7 Other significant changes
The project has been extended twice. The first occasion was from July 31, 2009 to
March 31, 2011, to allow additional time for the borrower to complete its second- and
third-year activities in their Third Corporate Plan, a collaboration with development
partners. The second extension was from March 31, 2011 to September 30, 2011, in order
to facilitate a procurement which had faced contracting delays.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The TMP was a repeater of the TAP project which was completed in 2006, and complied
with all the requirements for repeater projects in the Bank guidelines in terms of recipient
ownership and interests; project status report ratings; impact; fiduciary, environment,
social and safeguard issues; and funds availability from other agencies.

The design of the TMP drew on lessons from TAP and other basket funding
arrangements in Africa. The design was also in full accordance with the Paris Declaration
on Harmonization.
 Ownership and framework: There was complete ownership of the TMP within the
    GOT, TRA and ZRB. The framework for the TMP were the Corporate Plans of both
    the TRA and ZRB, which had been developed with the full endorsement of the
    respective managements and boards as well as the GOT.
 Harmonization: Under TAP, the development partners made significant progress in
    harmonizing their procedures and requirements in line with GOT’s overall aims of
    reducing transaction costs. The final step of the harmonization process was the
    creation of the basket fund to facilitate donor contributions for the project.
 Mainstreaming: During the implementation of TAP, the Bank team strongly
    encouraged and supported the creation of capacity in order to have project
    coordination mainstreamed within TRA. This was completed and ever since, TAP
    coordination and procurement has been conducted by TRA staff. This arrangement
    was also adopted by TMP while ZRB established a Modernization Department to
    implement its plan.
 Use of country systems: The Bank team advocated the use of TRA’s own systems
    and reports for TAP and TMP in order to streamline the implementation process.
    Consequently, procurement was done using national procedures and the reports
    provided to development partners were the same reports provided to the TRA
    management. The annual financial reporting requirements were simplified to have
    one combined set of financial statements and audit report for TRA, TAP and TMP.

The project team identified moderate risks and mitigation measures for the project, which
are listed below.
                        Table 3. Project risks and mitigation measures




                                              5
The risk mitigation measures were properly implemented and the risks were adequately avoided
or minimized. By the end of the project, great emphasis was placed on the government’s
commitment to the asset replacement fund.

2.2 Implementation

The implementation of the project was slower than expected and was extended for 20
months in June 2009. As of May 25, 2009, US$6.0 equivalent had been disbursed, about
50% of the total commitment. This was due to two reasons: (1) the TRA and the GOT
chose to use the DFID and DANIDA grant funds first from the basket fund; and (2) there
had been some delays in procurement.3 In March 2011, the project was extended for
another 6 months.

Despite these issues, during the project period, the TRA had implemented a significant
number of reforms. The revised TRA Corporate Plan (2008/09 – 2012/13) had a total of
98 major initiatives and during the period under review, a total of 60 initiatives had been
completed with a performance rate of 61%. The remaining 38 initiatives would be
completed during the remaining two-year period of the Plan.

Overall the implementation process was smooth and the project was never in “Problem
Project? status during its lifetime.

The Mid-Term Review (MTR) took place in October-November, 2008, to review project
progress and to provide implementation support. The review was an important event in
the project’s implementation process, as it identified several key issues and made some
important recommendations:


3
 World Bank, “Tanzania: Tax Modernization Project (Cr.4190-TA) – Extension of Closing Date?, Office
Memorandum, June 1, 2009.




                                                       6
a) Revenue target. There was a concern that the drive to increase revenues might
   surpass the capacity of the TRA to put in place the required systems to ensure
   revenue is collected and accounted for in a responsible and ethical way. This concern
   later proved to be true. It was agreed that TRA would further enhance its compliance
   gap analysis work and revenue estimation activities.
b) Customs clearance time. This measure of efficiency actually deteriorated since
   2008. Given this, the Bank had urged the TRA to complete by April 2009 the Time
   Release Study, which was intended to identify the main factors affecting customs
   performance.
c) M&E framework. The review discovered that the cost of tax collection was an
   appropriate way to analyze efficiency trends in revenue collection, and TRA had
   already been monitoring collection costs on a regular basis. It was agreed between the
   project team and TRA that the cost of collection would be added to the list of key
   performance indicators of TRA and to the outcome indicators of the TMP project,
   although the latter was never realized, partially due to the lack of consensus among
   the development partners.
d) Project duration. Based on the implementation status then, it was agreed to extend
   the project duration for eighteen months (later it was actually extended for 20
   months) to allow TRA to utilize fully the IDA undisbursed balance of $6.0 million.
   These funds were expected to be used for some key activities in customs
   modernization and information systems, the start of which had been delayed and
   which could not be completed until 2010.4

An important result of the mid-term review was the implementation of the
recommendations5 from the Time Release Study completed in 2009, which helped
improve the customs clearance time significantly.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The M&E framework was overall adequate, and was directly linked with the
government’s key performance indicators system. On the other hand, the basket fund
arrangement also made it less flexible for change.


4
  World Bank, “Tanzania Tax Modernization Program Mid-Term Review?, Aide Memoire, November,
2008.
5
  There were in total 50 recommendations from the Time Release Study, including changes in law to call
for submission of manifests within 48 hours before arrival instead of the current requirement of reporting
within 24 hours after arrival; TRA/TPA/Shipping/airline agents to put a mechanism that ensure timely and
accurate submission of manifests; TRA to strengthen sanctions/penalties for late submission and/or
incomplete manifests; TRA to speed up TISCAN exit strategy and implementation of new initiative of re-
engineering Customs processing system; introducing one-stop-shop operating environment; extending the
working hours of all concerned institutions to compensate for the idle times caused by system downtimes;
implementing training programs to increase the understanding and skills of operational staff from the
clearing and forwarding industry; ensuring reliable supply of power to support availability of automated
systems all the time; TRA to expedite implementation of automation (roll out of ASYCUDA++ and
ASYSCAN) of all remaining major Customs stations for improved service delivery, improved controls and
efficient electronic exchange of information including validation of transit data, etc. For details, please see
TRA, Tanzania Time Release Study, December 2009, Dar es Salaam.


                                                       7
(a) M&E design: The M&E framework for the TMP project was sufficient but there was
room for improvement, especially at the PDO level. Given the project objective of
“promoting an effective and efficient tax administration …,? an efficiency measurement
indicator should have been introduced at the design stage. The mid-term review tried to
remedy the situation, and it was agreed to add the cost of tax collection to the TMP
outcome indicators and TRA’s key performance indicators. Unfortunately no actions
were taken following the MTR and the ICR team had to reconstruct the necessary
evidence to substantiate the PDO (see section of PDO assessment). Another indicator,
“reduced level of perceived corruption index?, was a relevant indicator but the perception
surveys for this indicator, especially the small and medium taxpayer survey, were not
conducted in a timely manner and the baseline value of this indicator was poorly defined.
It would have been desirable to have had a stronger survey program carried out to
accompany the project, especially to establish the counterfactual. However, since the
project was fully aligned with the Government program and implemented within a basket
fund arrangement, even the presence of more frequent data points would not have helped
in assessing a with/without project scenario. Nevertheless, project management could
have drawn important information from higher frequency surveys.
(b) M&E implementation: The M&E framework was appropriately implemented by the
Planning and Modernization Program Unit (PMPU) of TRA and according to the TMP
Operational Manual. Despite some delays on the taxpayer perception surveys, the overall
data was reliable with adequate quality. On the other hand, there was still a need to
further strengthen the TRA’s and ZRB’s capacity for research and data
collection/analysis to ensure a high-quality monitoring and evaluation process.
(c) M&E utilization: The M&E framework had not only been utilized by the TMP
project itself, but had also been fully integrated into TRA’s internal M&E key
performance indicators, which had been efficiently used to evaluate its corporate plan
outcomes and inform TRA’s internal decision-making and resource allocation. During
the ICR mission, the WB team recommended including collection cost as a new indicator
and conduct some restructuring of the M&E framework based on the points made in
section 2.3.(a) above, and TRA accepted this suggestion. Given that the M&E system has
been actively utilized, the sustainability of the M&E arrangements can be assured.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The project was given an Environmental Assessment Category C, so no safeguard issues
were identified during preparation. There were no fiduciary compliance issues. As
indicated in section 5.2(b), financial management and procurement compliance have been
rated as generally satisfactory.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Although the World Bank project financing the Tax Modernization Program (TMP) was
closed at the end of September 2011, the Program continues with funding from DFID and




                                            8
DANIDA6. The procurement plan for the financial year 2011-12, to be implemented
under DFID and other donor funding, has 40 procurement packages with an estimated
cost equivalent of US$18,268,088 including training activities with a value of
US$1,511,788,7 which will support the completion of the Third Corporate Plan and the
beginning of the Fourth Corporate Plan of TRA. The TRA will continue to be the
implementation agency. All these arrangements will ensure that the intended outcomes of
this program will be fully achieved and maintained, and the institutional capacity built
through this program will be sustained and even further strengthened.

The M&E framework used for the project will continue to be fully utilized as TRA’s
internal M&E system with some restructuring as mentioned in the M&E section above, to
monitor and evaluate the outcomes of the TRA’s Corporate Plan.

Based on the feedbacks during the ICR mission, all the stakeholders, including MoFEA,
TRA, DFID and DANIDA, have suggested that the World Bank continue its involvement,
possibly through a new project, when this program cycle is over, in order to sustain and
further improve the outcomes and capacity achieved through this project.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Rating: Satisfactory.

The objective of increasing tax revenues in order to generate sufficient public resources
to support government programs was a high priority for Tanzania at the time of project
design and it is equally relevant today. The 2000 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for
Tanzania focused on facilitating higher growth, reducing poverty and undertaking
institutional reforms to improve governance. The GOT launched its first National
Strategy for Growth and Reduction of Poverty 2005/06—2009/10 (also called
MKUKUTA I) in 2005. The strategy identified three clusters of broad outcomes: (i)
growth and reduction of income poverty; (ii) improvement of quality of life and social
well-being; and (iii) good governance and accountability. In November 2010, the GOT
finalized a new Five Year National Strategy (2010/11 – 2014/15) (MKUKUTA II), which
built on MKUKUTA I’s three clusters but with more emphasis on growth and
productivity enhancement, as well as investment in people and infrastructure
development.

In line with the new World Bank Africa Strategy, the 2012-2015 CAS for Tanzania
identified four objectives: (i) promoting inclusive and sustainable, private sector-led
growth; (ii) building infrastructure and delivering services; (iii) strengthening human


6
  DANIDA’s initial financial support ended in 2008, but from September 2011, DANIDA pledged another Dkr. 15
million (about US$2.6 million) which is supposed to be disbursed by the end of 2012 (based on the interview with
DANIDA during the ICR mission in Jan 2012).
7
  World Bank, “Tanzania Tax Modernization Project Development Partner Implementation Support Mission?, Aide
Memoire, September, 2011.


                                                         9
capital and social safety nets; and (iv) promoting accountability and governance.8 The
Tanzania Ninth Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC-9), launched in January 2012,
is also intended to support government strategy through two pillars: (i) investment
climate and (ii) public finance. The latter explicitly included “enhanced domestic
revenue mobilization? as a core focus.9

The TMP contributed to the objectives of the MKUKUTA (both I and II) and the CAS
(both the 2000 and 2012 ones) as well as the most recent PRSC-9 in a number of ways.
 The TMP helped improve revenue performance and increase domestic resources on a
    sustainable basis to finance public investments, such as infrastructure, human capital,
    social safety nets and poverty reduction programs, which were the priorities in the
    Government’s strategies as well as the World Bank country assistance strategies.
 The TMP helped build much-needed capacity in areas critical for sound economic
    management, especially in TRA and ZRB. These improvements were related to the
    “good governance? agenda highlighted both in the CASs and in the MKUKUTAs.
 The TMP supported tax policy reforms aimed at eliminating provisions that created
    distortions in economic decision making, thereby helping create a better business
    environment to facilitate private sector development and economic growth.

The design of the project fully reflected its objective, and its five components were
designed to support the five strategic goals of the TRA Corporate Plan, which were
intended to make TRA “an effective and efficient Tax Administration.? For example,
Component 1 - “improving revenue collection in a cost effective way through narrowing
the tax gap, improving tax structure, etc.? and Component 2 - “full integration of TRA
operations through integrating processes and procedures, and providing IT infrastructure,
etc.? were directly linked with the “effectiveness? and “efficiency? of the TRA
administration. Component 3 - “provision of high quality and responsive customer
service?, Component 4 – “promotion of tax compliance through a fair, equitable and
transparent application of tax laws?, and Component 5 – “improvement in staff
competence, motivation, integrity and accountability? were directly linked with the
project objective of “providing high quality customer service with fairness and integrity?,
which was also part of TRA’s mission statement. All these were directly linked to the
government and CAS’s strategic goals of strengthening public and social sector
investments and improving governance and accountability.

Despite some delays in the procurement process, the overall implementation process was
smooth and responsive to the country’s needs. Thanks to the streamlining process
adopted during the predecessor project at the request of the GOT, the basket fund
arrangement (which was in strong alignment with government’s strategy) made the
implementation process more efficient and effective, despite some level of inflexibility
associated with it. Being the only project implementation unit for all the donors, TRA’s
capacity was further strengthened through the targeted TA activities.


8
  World Bank Group, “Country Assistance Strategy for Tanzania 2012-2015?, May 2011.
9
  World Bank, “The Tanzania Ninth Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC-9)?, program document, Africa region,
January 2012.


                                                      10
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

The achievement of the PDO, as analyzed below, is rated Moderately Satisfactory. This
rating is in line with the final Implementation Status Report (ISR). Beyond the
information available for the PDO indicators when the project was closed on September
30, 2011, a further comparative analysis of the pre- and post-project situation and more
evidence collected through the ICR mission all support this rating. Below is the
assessment of the project achievements based on five PDO indicators, some intermediate
outcome indicators and component outcomes. More details for each project component
are provided in Annex 2.

1) Total tax revenue collected by TRA (for domestic revenue) as a percentage of its
   annual revenue target. This is a key performance indicator which measures the
   effectiveness of TRA performance. The annual targets for this indictor were set by
   Government for each fiscal year based on revenue expectations. The project’s target
   was agreed as achieving 100% of the Government’s revenue collection targets. Based
   on these revenue targets as set by the Government, the project marginally missed the
   targets, and the revenue collection performance stood at 90%, 91% and 94% for the
   years 2008/9, 2009/10 and 2010/11. However, this needs to be put into perspective.
   a. First of all, based on project supervision records and on feedback from
       development partners, the revenue target seemed to be “overly optimistic? in
       many ways. Table 4 shows that the revenue targets were pushed up 43.3% and
       34.3% for 2008 and 2009, which were beyond the sustainable level, and after a
       moderate increase in 2010, the target was again increased 16.4% for 2011.
       According to the project records and donor feedback, the targets were not
       adjusted when the economic situation changed unforeseeably or planned reforms
       were not carried out. The actual revenue collection had been improving robustly
       at an average speed of 21% from FY2007/8 – 2010/11. The total revenue in
       2010/11 (Shs 5,465 billion) was almost three times of that in 2006/7 (Shs 1,938
       billion).10 Revenue collection from July-December 2011 was fully on target
       (table 5). Apart from having more realistic revenue collection targets for 2011/12,
       some other project-related factors also contributed to this improvements:
         i. Strengthening of the audit capacity in the mining sector started bearing fruit,
             and mining companies are now paying corporate tax;
        ii. The pay reform for government employees resulted in good performance in
             PAYE;
       iii. Implementation of EFD for improving VAT compliance led to improvement
             of VAT performance;
       iv. The fuel levy was also performing well due to the reforms in petroleum
             sector which had led to an increase in diesel imports.

                        Table 4. TRA’s Revenue Targets and Performance (2007-2011)



10
     Various project Aide Memoires, and author’s calculations.


                                                           11
                                      2006          2007       2008       2009       2010          2011
                                      (baseline)
Revenue targets (Tshs billion)        1,938.5       2,391.5    3,426.3    4,600.8    4,855.9       5804.4
Increase of revenue target (%)                      23.5       43.3       34.3       5.6           16.4
Actual revenue collection                           2619.4     3,465.8    4,160.8    4437.9        5464.5
(Tshs billion)
Revenue performance (actual                         110        101        90         91            94
as % of the target)
           Source: TRA reports and various project AMs.

                  Table 5. Semi-annual Revenue Collection Performance Net of Refund
                           by Departments for the Period July-December 2011




b. Secondly, to better measure the revenue performance of the project, the globally
   recognized tax revenue/GDP ratio indicator should be used, as it eliminates the
   impact of economic growth fluctuations on revenue collection results. Since it is
   relative to GDP growth, therefore, a better measurement of the actual performance.
   Figure 1 shows that the tax revenue/GDP ratio had been increasing very rapidly:
   during the predecessor project TAP, the average ratio was 12.2%, which was one
   percentage point higher than the average of the 5-year pre-project period (11.1%);
   during the TMP project, the average ratio was further increased to 14.6%, which was
   2.4 percentage points higher than the TAP project period.

c. There was a significant causal relationship between the impressive revenue growth
   and the performance of the TRA. In general, there are three factors responsible for
   revenue increases: (1) economic expansion; (2) successful policy reforms; and (3)
   more efficient and effective revenue collection. When we use the tax/GDP ratio
   measurement, we exclude the impact of the economic growth factor. Also, during the
   TMP project period, apart from some minor policy reforms, such as the reduction of
   the VAT rate from 20% to 18% in 2010 in response to the financial crisis (this
   reduction was also partially responsible for the slight retreat of the tax revenue/GDP
   ratio in 2009/10)11, there were no major tax policy changes that increased revenues.




11
     IMF, “Revenue Mobilization in Developing Countries?, Fiscal Affairs Department, March 2011.


                                                    12
   Source: World Bank: ICR Report for the TAP Project (2007), and various Aide Memoires for the TMP Project.

2) Average time taken to clear goods at sea ports, border posts and airports. This is a
   key indicator to measure the efficiency of the TRA services at ports and border posts,
   and it was fully achieved. By the time the project was closed, the average clearance
   time (from arrival to removal) was 12 days at the Dar es Salaam (DSM) port, and 5
   days at the airports, down from 14 days and 6 days respectively in 2006. The
   situation worsened in 2008/9, however, after the mid-term review, and at the urging
   of the project team, the Time Release Study was conducted and relevant
   recommendations from the study were adopted, which helped to achieve the project
   targets.

3) Percentage of taxpayer’s awareness of tax education programs. This indicator
   measures the quality of TRA’s customer services. The target value was a 60% level
   of awareness of those surveyed, while the actual value at project closure was 94%,
   which was 34 percentage points higher. Therefore this indicator was fully achieved.

4) Percentage of written enquiries attended within seven days. This is another indicator
   which measures the quality of TRA’s customer services. The target value was 90%,
   and the actual value by June 2011 was 79%, which was a partial shortfall.

5) Level of perceived corruption index. This is an important PDO indicator which
   measures the fairness and integrity of the tax administration services. The value of
   this indicator solely relies on taxpayer surveys. These surveys were officially
   conducted by an independent consulting firm (such as Tetralink Taylor & Associates
   Ltd.) with adequate reliability. By the time the project was closed, two large
   taxpayers surveys (2006 and 2011) and one small and medium taxpayers survey
   (2009) were conducted. During the ICR mission in January 2012, a small-scale small
   and medium taxpayers rapid assessment was conducted as well. So the assessment of
   this indicator is based on these available data. Based on the 2011 Large Taxpayers
   Perception Survey, 56.3% of taxpayers agreed with the statement that “TRA staff are




                                                     13
     largely corruption free?12. The 2009 Small and Medium Taxpayer Perception Survey
     showed that 65.5% of taxpayers agreed that “TRA staff avoid corruption practices?13.
     Given that this small and medium survey was a little bit too distant from the project
     closure date, a small-size small and medium taxpayer rapid assessment14 was carried
     out during the ICR mission in January 2012 as complementary information. Based on
     this assessment, almost half of the respondents thought “the tax collection process is
     less corrupt or very clean?15, such confirming the declining trend in corruption
     perception. The target can therefore be assessed as achieved.

In addition, the efficiency and effectiveness of TRA operation has been improved
significantly. This can be demonstrated by the following:
     During the project period, the average number of days to identify stop-filers was
        reduced from 5 to 3 days for Large Taxpayers Department, and from 14 to 10
        days for the Domestic Revenue Department (direct taxes).
     The cost of tax collection had been on a declining trend. The cost of collecting
        taxes as a share of total tax revenues declined from 3.25 in FY2006/07 to 2.7% in
        FY2010/11. Figure 2 shows that during the TMP project period, except the
        FY2008/09, tax collection cost as percentages of tax revenue was equal to or
        lower than the pre-project period.




                                     Source: TRA annual reports.


12
   TRA, Second Large Taxpayers’ and Tax Consultancy and Advisory Services Perception Survey, Dar es
Salaam, March 2011. The survey involved a census of the 420 large taxpayers and tax consultancy and
advisory service providers in TRA database. A total of 310 large taxpayers from various business
categories participated, representing 74.5% of the large taxpayers population.
13
   TRA, Small and Medium Taxpayer Perception Survey, Dar es Salaam, April 2009. This survey was
conducted for 2,632 SMEs in different business sectors, spreading across different regions in Tanzania,
including Dar es Salaam, Arusha, Mwanza, Tanga, Mtwara Dodoma and Mbeya for the mainland Tanzania
and Mjini Magharibi for Zanzibar.
14
   This assessment was conducted for small and medium taxpayers in the Kinondoni and Ilala regions in
Dar es Salaam, and 19 questionnaires were received. It is statistically insignificant but helps to get a better
understanding of taxpayer perceptions, and to provide a cross-check on the results for the formal surveys.
15
   World Bank, Tanzania Small and Medium Taxpayer Perception Assessment, January 2012.


                                                      14
        The “tax gap? (the difference between the actual tax revenue and the estimated
         potential tax revenue) reduced from 9.3% of GDP in 2005 to 5.9% in 2008. This
         was favorable compared with Tanzania’s peer countries in EAC: in Rwanda the
         gap reduced from 9.9% to 8.5% in the same time period, while in Uganda the gap
         reduced from 7.8% in 2005 to 6.2% in 2009/1016.
        The timeliness of revenue collection was also improved through faster goods
         clearance at sea ports and airports (the DSM port clearance time reduced from 14
         hours in 2006 to 12 days in 2011, and the airports’ clearance time reduced from 6
         hours to 5 hours during the same period), quicker VAT refunds (percentage of
         VAT refunds made within a month increased from 62% in 2006 to 80% in 2011)
         and the enhanced ease of paying taxes. Major investments throughout the project,
         both in the areas of infrastructure and capacity building, had overall greatly
         contributed to the improvement. Details are shown below:
             1) Average time taken to clear goods at sea ports and airports. The
                 clearance time had initially worsened from 2007-2009, however, after the
                 implementation of the Time Release Study recommendations, it was
                 reduced significantly and met the Project targets in 2011, as can be seen in
                 Table 6, below.

                          Table 6. Customs clearance time
                             2006         2007 2008 2009                             2010       2011
                             (Baseline)
                 DSM Port    14:00        41:08 46:08 59:30                          14:00      12:00
                 (hh:mm)
                 Airports    6:00         20:00 8:09      13:08                      6:00       5:00
                 (hh:mm)
                            Source: TRA annual reports.

             2) Tax arrears. TRA had been fairly proactive in collecting tax debt17.
                However, after a strong performance from 2007-2010, the arrears
                collection amount dropped significantly in 2011 (especially the domestic
                revenue)18.

                  Table 7. Tax arrears collected (amount of previous year’s arrears
                  collected as % of total amount of tax arrears at beginning of year)
                                    2006        2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
                                    (Baseline)
                 Domestic                               63       52     57       10


16
   African Development Bank, “Domestic Resource Mobilization for Poverty Reduction in East Africa:
Tanzania Case Study?, Regional Department East Africa, November 2010; IMF, “Revenue Mobilization in
Developing Countries?, Fiscal Affairs Department, March 2011; and author’s calculations.
17
   The “tax arrears? accounted for about 5% of the total domestic tax revenues.
18
   One explanation for this was the increasing number of litigations due to improved legal system and
transparency partially as a result of the project, which significantly slowed down the collection process.


                                                   15
           revenue dept.
           Large taxpayer        83             100     100      100     99        92
           dept.
                            Source: TRA annual reports.

       3) VAT payment system. The percentage of the VAT refunds made within
          one month had been progressing well though it dropped in 2011 compared
          with 2010. It is, however, still much better than in 2006 when the project
          commenced.

                               Table 8. VAT refunds
                       2006        2007     2008              2009        2010            2011
                       (Baseline)
    % of VAT           62          75       72                78          90              80
    refunds made
    within a
    month
                            Source: TRA annual reports.

       4) The ease of paying taxes was also greatly improved. The number of e-
          filings increased eight-fold from 2009 to 2011 (Figure 3). The assessment
          conducted during the ICR mission also showed that 68.4% of respondents
          thought the tax filing process had become “better? or “much better?
          (Annex 5).

            Figure 3. Number of returns filed through e-filing system
                          (July 2009 – August 2011)




        Source: TRA, “Implementation Report for the Third Corporate Plan for the Period
                           2008/09 – 2010/11?, December 2011.

Deployment of ICT in TRA operations had played a vital role during the
implementation of the Corporate Plan. It had enabled the authority to transform its
business processes from manual to automated operations which had led to efficiency
gains and improved service delivery. So far, the automated systems of ITAX (e-filing
system), DWH (data warehouse), CMVRS (central motor vehicle registration system)



                                           16
     and CDLS (computerized driver’s license system) have been installed and are
     operational in all TRA Regional Offices (see Annex 2 component 2 for details).

     TRA became an ISO 9001:2000 certified organization in October 2008, which was
     the first year of implementation of the Third Corporate Plan, and continued to
     maintain the Quality Management System (QMS) thereafter. Overall findings of both
     internal and external audits demonstrated that the QMS was maintained satisfactorily
     (see Annex 2 component 3 for details).

     Electronic fiscal devices (EFDs) were introduced with the objective of enhancing
     compliance management and reducing the risk of tax evasion. By project closure,
     17,462 EFDs had been issued for VAT registered traders. Two Digital Forensic
     Laboratories had been established to enhance the capacity of the tax investigation
     department (TID). From November 2010 to November 2011, the TID using computer
     forensic tools managed to conduct 11 investigation cases whereby a total of Shs. 55.5
     billion was identified as additional tax owed, out of which Shs 2.8 billion was
     collected. The TRA-wide risk management policy was approved and implementation
     of the policy started. The Electronic Cargo Tracking System (ECTS) had also been
     installed and become operational. The system would help deter tax evasion and
     reduce dumping of goods into the local market (see Annex 2 component 4 for details).

     To improve staff competency and efficiency, various management systems were
     implemented over the years. These included Strategic Planning and Management,
     Balanced Score Card and Quality Management System and the current introduction
     of the Gemba Kaizen Management System (GKMS)19. In November 2010, TRA won
     the AAPAM Gold Award for innovation20. TRA also designed and developed the
     TRA Monitoring and Evaluation System (TRAMED) in 2008 for monitoring and
     evaluation of TRA Corporate Plan implementation. The system allows key users from
     various departments to input data for the plan period, and is now fully operational. In
     addition, staff sensitization on the anti-corruption policy was carried out, and the
     operation of the regional ethics committees had improved considerably (see Annex 2
     component 5 for details).




19
   Kaizen training program incorporated various Kaizen Philosophy and Kaizen Management System
models that include the 5S good housekeeping principles of Sorting, Straighten, Scrub, Standardize and
Sustain.
20
   AAPAM is a continental professional organization for high level Public Sector Administrations and
Management in Africa. The Association’s main business is to promote best practices, excellence and
professionalism in public administration and management. The AAPAM Gold Medal is awarded as a mark
of distinction and exceptional achievement to a person/institution who has shown distinctive leadership in
advancing Public Administration and Management in Africa. According to the Department of Public
Service and Administration of South Africa, The AAPAM Gold Award is the most prestigious award given
in recognition of organizational excellence in creative managerial initiatives in public administration and
management in the African Continent.



                                                    17
   In addition, the sustainability of tax collection has been greatly strengthened.
   Through Project support, the number of registered taxpayers increased substantially
   (Table 9), greatly strengthening and helping to sustain the country’s revenue base in
   the long run.

                                   Table 9. Increase of taxpayers
                         2006
                                    2007            2008      2009      2010      2011
                         (Baseline)
Domestic    TIN
                         288,680     334,724        398,080   487,983   617,877   845,737
revenue     registered
            VAT
                         6,154       7,342          9,036     10,844    13,253    16,848
            registered
Large
                         286         370            370       371       400       400
taxpayers
                                     Source: TRA annual reports.

   In conclusion, achievement of the Project’s objective “to promote an effective and
   efficient tax administration that provides high quality customer services with fairness
   and integrity? is assessed as “moderately satisfactory? as evidenced by the robust
   pace of tax revenue growth, improved customs clearance, better TRA customer
   service quality (as reflected by the increased awareness of tax education program and
   reduced corruption), the reduced cost of tax collection, enhanced ease of paying taxes,
   and improved TRA staff competence as well as a stronger M&E framework,
   somewhat offset by the partial achievement on the targets for the percentage of
   written inquiries attended within seven days, and the tax arrears collection. This
   rating is also in line with the assessment by other donors contributing to the basket
   fund (see annex 8).


3.3 Efficiency

As this was a TA operation, the Project Appraisal Document did not include an
Economic Analysis. Therefore, the ICR mission undertook alternate measures to
substantiate the different aspects of project efficiency:

a) Efficiency of project execution
        Project implementation was fully mainstreamed into regular, already existing
          government operations. Following the signing of the TMP MoU and adoption
          of the Operational Manual, activities for project coordination were integrated
          into TRA operations. The Planning and Modernization Programme Unit
          includes development partner coordination as one responsibility amongst
          others (such as corporate planning, quality auditing, corporate M&E,
          etc.). The staff handling the Project account are also involved in other TRA
          activities in the Finance Department not related to the Project, which is also
          true for the procurement staff under the Human Resources and Administration
          Department. TRA management also sits to deliberate on issues, some of
          which are not related to the Project. These structures were in existence even


                                               18
            before the signing the MoU, so it is not feasible to apportion costs solely
            based on the handling of the project. Overall, however, this arrangement
            speaks to the efficient implementation of the project as no extra resources
            were needed to support a separate PIU. Due to The complete integration of
            implementation arrangements, the efficiency in tax collection and TRA’s
            overall performance (the Project’s objective) also speak to overall Project
            efficiency.
           The implementation of the Project through a basket fund arrangement
            significantly reduced the transaction costs to government otherwise associated
            with donor coordination by reducing aid fragmentation requiring consultative
            meetings, separate reporting arrangements and disparate fiduciary
            requirements for multiple donors. Channeling resources through such a
            modality confirms a commitment towards a more effective and efficient use of
            aid resources that is in line with both the Paris Declaration and the aspirations
            of the Tanzanian Government as elaborated in the Joint Assistance Strategy.
            The single implementing agency arrangement made the process much simpler
            and more efficient.
           The total actual project implementation cost was in line with the estimated
            cost at appraisal and was only a slight (8%) over the original estimation (see
            Annex 1 for details), which was quite reasonable. The major spending
            increases were in the areas of staff competence, motivation, integrity and
            accountability, which were crucial to build TRA’s long-term sustainable
            capacity. It consumed about half of the total budget. However, it is important
            to note that the number of tax staff available for every 1,000 persons is only
            0.05. This ‘tax staff per population’ ratio is very low compared to the world
            average of 0.82, but a bit higher than the Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) average
            of 0.03721. In terms of performance, Tanzania has a smaller tax gap than its
            peer countries in EAC, Uganda and Rwanda.22 (See details in Section 3.2 on
            Achievement). This shows a quite favorable technical efficiency of the TRA
            staff.
           Even though the Project was extended for two years23, project supervision was
            carried out with efficient use of resources. Total Bank administrative costs for
            project supervision over the five-year project span were $397,000 (85.5 staff
            weeks), which was below the Africa region average24.

b) Contribution to efficiency gains in TRA performance
Since TRA was the main target of this project, its efficiency gains were a direct reflection
of project efficiency as well.



21
   Fiscal Reform and Economic Governance: http://www.fiscalreform.net, funded by the USAID, 2011.
22
   The SSA average tax gap figure is not available.
23
   One of the reasons for the extension was the relatively slower disbursement of IDA fund due to
the mixed basket fund approach, compared with an IDA-fund-only approach.
24
   The average allocation for project supervision was from $90,000 to $100,000 per year for a
typical project in the Africa region, but for a more complex project, the allocation could be higher.


                                                19
               Cost of tax collection. While tax revenue has increased rapidly (182%) over
                the project period, the operating cost associated with tax collection has been
                in decline, with an average level of 3.16% (as a share of total tax revenue).
                (See section 3.2 on Achievement for details.)
               Ease of paying taxes. Through investment in both hardware and capacity
                building, the tax-paying process seemed to be more efficient. As already
                mentioned in section 3.2, from July, 2009, through August, 2011, the number
                of returns filed through the e-filing system increased eight-fold. A small-scale
                ‘small and medium’ taxpayer assessment conducted by the World Bank in
                January, 2012, indicated that 68.4% of the respondents thought the tax filing
                process had become “better? or “much better? (Annex 5). On the other hand,
                the World Bank’s Doing Business indicators showed that from 2006 to 2011,
                the “number of tax payments a year? had not changed, and the “time taken to
                comply with the major tax types? persistently remained at 172 hours after an
                initial drop from 248 hours to 172 hours from 2006 to 2007 (Table 10).
                However, the average “time taken to comply with major tax types? was still
                much lower than the SSA average of 318 hours in 201125.

                      Table 10. Doing Business indicators on tax burden (Tanzania)
                                               Year
                      Indicator
                                               2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
                      Number of tax payments 48       48      48      48      48     48
                      a year
                      Time taken to comply     248    172 172 172             172    172
                      with the major tax types
                       Source: World Bank, Doing Business indicators, various years.

c) Efficiency gains through the “least cost? approach. The project heavily invested in
   the infrastructure important for an efficient tax administration system. Such
   investment included an electronic tax filing and payment systems (including EFDs
   and mobile payment system), TRA data warehouse, central motor vehicle registration
   system (CMVRS), computerized drivers’ license system (CDLS), customs valuation
   database, ASYCUDA ++ and ASYBANK26, customs automated cargo management
   system, new customs clearance system, etc. Evidence collected during the ICR
   mission and workshops with the beneficiaries indicated that all this equipment was in
   full use most of the time, except when power was down. On the other hand, some of
   the equipment, such as the central servers, seemed not to be able to accommodate the
   rapid increase of electronic data volume and number of transaction. This might to
   some extent have reduced the machines’ life cycles as they had to be replaced or
   upgraded sooner than expected.



25
     World Bank Group, Doing Business 2012, Washington, D.C.
26
  ASYCUDA++ is a web-enabled electronic tax management system for customs which has been rolled
out in 30 major customs stations in Tanzania. ASYBANK is a module of ASYCUDA++ that allows the
system to be linked with commercial banks to speed up the payment of taxes.


                                                       20
From the above analysis, it can be seen that there were significant efficiency gains during
the project period achieved through the improvement in project execution, in TRA
performance and the efficiency gains through the “least cost? approach. Based on these
factors, the project has been rated as “Moderately Satisfactory? in terms of its efficiency.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

The overall outcome is rated Moderately Satisfactory. This takes into account the
relevance of objectives, design and implementation, which was rated Satisfactory
(section 3.1), the achievement of the project development objectives, which was rated
Moderately Satisfactory (section 3.2) and project efficiency, which was also rated
Moderately Satisfactory (section 3.3). The overall rating is, to an extent, a reflection of
the commitment and achievements of TRA in improving its revenue collection system,
while also illustrating the room for improvement in the areas of effectiveness and
efficiency. Table 11 shows the breakdown of the project outcome rating.

                Table 11. The breakdown of the project outcome rating
Objective                       Relevance Efficacy        Efficiency Project
                                                                       outcome
                                                                       rating
To promote an effective and
efficient tax administration
                                             Moderately Moderately Moderately
that provides high quality      Satisfactory
                                             Satisfactory Satisfactory Satisfactory
customer services with fairness
and integrity

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects and Social Development

The project was gender neutral. Its impact on poverty and social development is hard to
assess directly but can be attempted indirectly through the increased spending on broad
and pro-poor social programs, partially as a result of the increased tax revenues through
the tax modernization project. Figure 4 shows that government expenditure in agriculture
and other key social sectors increased more than three times from 2005/06 (TShs 1861
billion) to 2010/11 (TShs 6058 billion), except for a drop in HIV/AIDS spending in
2010/11. Figure 5 shows that government expenditure in agriculture and major social
sectors as a share of GDP consistently increased since 2006/07 (from 12.4% in 2006/06
to 18% in 2010/11). However, these increases can only partially be attributed to the
increased tax revenues, because the government expenditure data also includes the donor
funds, which cannot be disaggregated from the total numbers27.

       Figure 4. Domestic revenue and government expenditure (TShs. Billion)


27
  Despite of several requests by the author, the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs was unable to
provide the disaggregated data.


                                                   21
 6000

 5000                                                                   Tax revenue
                                                                        Education
 4000                                                                   Health
                                                                        Water
 3000                                                                   Agriculture
                                                                        Infrastructure
 2000                                                                   HIV/AIDS

 1000

    0




Source: TRA implementation reports and Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs,
2011.


                Figure 5. Government expenditure in agriculture and major
                           social sectors as a percentage of GDP
        20

        15                                                                   18
                                                         16.3    15.9
                                                14.9
        10             12.7     13.3    12.4
               9.7
         5

         0
             2003/04 2004/05 2005/06 2006/07 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11

                Source: Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs, 2011.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Institutional strengthening has been one of the key achievements of this project. Progress
in the area of institutional building includes:
     Improved capacity of TRA to formulate and implement its corporate plan, through
         better planning, coordination and execution. The project supported the
         implementation of its Third Corporate Plan, which lasts until 2012/13. TRA has
         already begun to chart out its Fourth Corporate Plan.
     Improved monitoring and evaluation capacity of TRA. By using/adapting the
         M&E framework of the TMP project, TRA was able to develop and implement its
         own M&E framework. Certain indicators that TRA is using, such as tax collection
         cost, is even a major improvement from the TMP project M&E framework.
     Improved staff capacity to use modern ICT technologies in the tax management
         system. Through the introduction of various ICT technologies/equipment in
         various tax management system and corresponding training and business process


                                           22
       re-engineering, the staff capacity in the tax management system was greatly
       enhanced, which was evidenced by the robust revenue increases (measured by tax
       revenue as a percentage of GDP) during the course of the Project.
      Improved procurement and financial management capacity of TRA. This was
       evidenced by the relatively smooth process in procurement, budgeting and
       financial reporting, and the constant “satisfactory rating? by the project team.
      Improved donor coordination capacity of the Ministry of Finance and Economic
       Affairs and TRA through extensive interaction with various development
       partners, such as the World Bank, IMF, DFID and DANIDA.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

One unintended outcome was the resumption of DANIDA’s support of TRA’s tax
modernization program towards the end of the project. DANIDA was one of the initial
co-financiers of the TMP project but its support was completed in 2008. Seeing the
positive results of the Project, however, DANIDA resumed its support with additional
funding, starting from the second half of 2011.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Four stakeholder perception surveys were conducted in 2003 (all taxpayers), 2006 (large
taxpayers), 2008 (small and medium taxpayers) and 2011 (large taxpayers). In the
surveys conducted for large taxpayers, the majority who participated expressed
satisfaction with TRA’s performance in the areas of meeting the objectives of the
Taxpayers Charter, implementation of tax reforms, taxpayer education, ethical behavior
and customer responsiveness.

During the ICR mission in January 2012, two small and medium taxpayer
workshops/rapid assessments were held in the Ilala and Kinondoni regions of Dar es
Salaam. The main purpose of these meetings was to elicit taxpayer perceptions regarding
progress in improving the effectiveness, efficiency and fairness of the tax collection
system in Tanzania as a result of project interventions. For that purpose, the mission
team conducted a simple assessment, and following the assessment held an open forum
discussion with taxpayers participating in the workshops at each site. During the
discussions, participant views on areas still needing improvement were sought. The more
detailed findings from the assessments and workshops are reported in Annexes 5 and 6.
Here is a brief summary:
1) Overall the tax administration system has been improved and has become more
    efficient and less corrupt; however, the customs remains the key area for
    improvement.
2) The VAT tax rates could be further reduced to improve tax compliance and lower the
    tax burden to final customers.
3) The long-term sustainability of the IT facilities, such as the electronic fiscal devices
    (EFDs), may require capacity building in both usage and maintenance stages. There
    were also requests that the EFDs be rolled out to a wider range of groups and that the
    number of suppliers of the devices be increased.


                                            23
4) The TRA central servers experience excessive downtime and are unable to
   accommodate the increasing demand. There needs to be improved demand and
   capacity forecasting in the future to avoid rapid depletion of the system.
5) The tax education programs should be more targeted towards specific industries and
   different taxpayer groups, and the delivery mode could be made more efficient by
   introducing on-line modules in addition to face-to-face training.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate.

There are mainly two risks to the sustainability of the development outcomes of the
Project:
   1) The maintenance of the new ICT system which was built through Project
        investment. This will require a significant funding commitment from the
        government. At the initial stage, the GoT was contributing to the project through
        its Asset Replacement Fund but this contribution stopped in 2009. Once donor
        funds are depleted, it is crucial for the GoT to continue to contribute to this fund
        to sustain Project outcomes. TRA has made the appropriate recommendation to its
        board.
   2) The sustainability of staff capacity built during the course of the Project.
        Currently there seems to be a generational gap between the highly experienced
        staff of TRA, who were heavily involved in the tax modernization program, and
        younger staff who are less experienced. How to pass the institutional knowledge
        and skills from the senior staff to more junior staff in a short time is a challenge
        which will require extensive training.

Given these risks, the overall risk to development outcome is rated Moderate.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

The project objective was fully aligned with the overall goal of the GoT’s national
development strategies (MKUKUTA) and the priority focus of the World Bank’s country
assistance strategy (CAS) for Tanzania. The technical analysis was adequate and
provided a strong rationale for the project. The project components were properly
designed to support its objectives and TRA’s corporate plan. At appraisal, critical risks
were identified and risk mitigation measures were adequately reflected in the design, and
appropriate lessons were also drawn from its predecessor project.




                                            24
The weaknesses at entry were linked to the M&E results framework, which was in
general consistent with the project objective, but had some rooms for improvement, as
mentioned in the M&E section (2.3).

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

There was a change of the project Task Team Leader (TTL) in April, 2009, due to the
departure of the previous TTL. The new TTL had been involved in the Project since 2008,
ensuring the continuity of the Project. The Bank’s supervision missions were adequately
used to review Project progress and provide necessary guidance. Reporting and
compliance with covenants were generally adequate. There was an excellent relationship
between TRA and development partners, including the Bank. The records show that the
supervision teams had a clear understanding of the issues and provided practical and
useful recommendations on how to move forward. The action items emanating from the
supervision documents could at times have been more forceful, especially when the
revenue targets were constantly over-inflated between 2009 and 2011, and certain
measures could have been taken to bring them back on track. ISR ratings were reasonable,
but in some instances IP ratings were too generous, especially when the revenue targets
were a priority issue, and this may have reduced the incentive for taking it seriously.

The Mid-Term Review was a missed opportunity to take action to restructure the M&E
framework. Despite the agreement to include the cost of revenue collection in the
outcome indicators for TMP and in the key performance indicators for TRA, the Bank
was largely ineffective in bringing about the improvement. Certain immeasurable
indicator(s) could have been dropped at that time. There was also dissatisfaction among
various parties about the Bank’s slow procurement process in general. There was also an
indication from TRA and ZRB that the Bank was less responsive during the non-mission
times.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Based on the moderately satisfactory quality at entry and moderately satisfactory quality
of supervision, overall Bank performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

There was a high level of ownership and commitment to the Project, especially on the
part of MoFEA. Other government stakeholders, such as the Bank of Tanzania and Ports
Authority, were also cooperative and supportive in the project implementation process. A
major drawback was ineffectiveness in fixing the revenue targets at a more realistic level,
as the consistently overly ambitious targets increased the reputational risks for the Project.



                                             25
Despite the persistent concerns raised by the project team28, the revenue targets were not
properly adjusted even when the projected economic growth or policy reforms were not
realized. Although the targets were set through a consultative process with relevant
stakeholders, the MoFEA had a leading role in this process and could have been more
forceful in setting more realistic targets.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The TRA was the main implementing agency. Given the direct linkage of this project
with TRA’s Corporate Plan, the agency was highly committed and proactive in achieving
the development objectives. With strong institutional capacity developed through the
TAP project, the agency demonstrated high-level competence in implementing and
monitoring TMP project activities and donor coordination. Performance in financial
management and procurement was generally good, with satisfactory IFRs submitted
regularly in a timely manner, and with effective internal controls. The quality bidding
documents, request for proposals, and evaluation reports prepared by Project staff was
considered satisfactory. The implementation of M&E was adequate overall.

On the other hand, TRA also had a stake in the revenue target-setting process and could
have taken stronger measures to bring the targets to a more realistic level. The
implementation of the IT strategy could have been more systemic and forward-looking to
ensure better integration of different systems. The implementation of the SME taxpayer
perception survey had been slow, with no “current? information available by the time the
project was closed. In addition, there were some “undocumented? or vaguely defined
amounts in the TMP basket-fund balances by the end of the project, for which the
development partners had to pursue further clarification29.

 (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Based on the moderately satisfactory government performance and moderately
satisfactory implementing agency performance, overall Borrower performance is rated
Moderately Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

There are both general and project-specific lessons that can be drawn from the Project.

a) A basket-fund approach helps to harmonize donor assistance and combine the
   different funding resources into a single package. This simplifies the coordination
   process, makes project implementation more efficient and maximize the


 The revenue target was flagged in each project Aide Memoire since the mid-term review in 2008.
28


 By the request of the Bank and other development partners, the amounts in question were clarified by
29

TRA.


                                                   26
   development impact. The prerequisite for such an approach to work is that there are
   multiple development partners and they share a common goal, regardless of the sector
   or country where an operation is carried out. The downside is that it could increase
   the inflexibility of the project in the event structural changes are needed.

b) In order to achieve the best results in a sector/subsector, an operation needs to target
   both the operational side as well as the policy side. In the TMP project, the main
   target was TRA, but tax policies were actually set by the MoFEA. There are also
   other stakeholders involved in implementing the tax system reforms, such as the Bank
   of Tanzania and the Tanzania Planning Commission. A holistic approach will help
   better achieve both the operational and policy objectives.

c) An operation can well maintain its relevance and effectiveness if it is aligned with the
   government’s own reform or development programs. The TMP operation, designed to
   support the Corporate Plan of TRA, was not only highly ‘owned’ by the Government,
   but also helped the Bank to provide consistent and targeted support in the tax system
   and institutional reforms.

d) A coherent and sound M&E framework that is aligned with the PDO is crucial to
   adequately monitor and guide the project implementation process. Therefore, it is
   important to select appropriate and measurable indicators and set up realistic targets
   from the beginning, or to adjust them in a timely fashion once flaws are identified in
   the process. The baseline data also needs to be properly defined and the survey
   program for data collection has to be designed to provide timely information.

e) If an operation substantially involves ICT infrastructure, it is important to have an
   overall system strategy and demand forecasting before implementation. This will help
   to ensure seamless integration among different parts of the system, thereby
   maximizing efficiency gains and avoiding rapid depletion of system capacity.

In moving forward, the TMP program intends to continue to use the basket-fund
arrangement for remaining and newly added donor funds and to support TRA’s Corporate
Plan. TRA has also agreed to refine the M&E framework and the ICT implementation
strategy in the remaining operations. In the event of a follow-up Bank project in the
future, the policy side intervention would also be added into the design.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

(b) Co-financiers
Inputs from the development partners, i.e., DFID and DANIDA, are inserted in Annex 8.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders




                                            27
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                Actual/Latest
                             Appraisal Estimate                                     Percentage of
Components                                      Estimate (USD
                             (USD millions)                                         Appraisal
                                                millions)
Improve revenue collection in a
                                 4.0                            4.0                 100%
cost effective way
Full integration of TRA
                                 6.4                            6.5                 102%
operations
Provision of high quality and
                                 3.5                            0.8                 23%
responsive customer service
Promote tax compliance through a
fair, equitable and transparent  6.5                            3.4                 52%
application of tax laws
Improve staff competence,
motivation, integrity and        6.5                            18.8                289%
accountability
Equipment*                       3.5                            -                   -
Zanzibar Revenue Board (ZRB) 3.2                                2.7                 84%
Total Baseline Cost              33.6                           36.2                108%
Physical Contingencies
                                      0.00                      0.00                0.00
Price Contingencies
                                      0.00                      0.00                0.00
Total Project Costs                   33.6                      36.2
Front-end fee PPF                     0.00                      0.00                .00
Front-end fee IBRD                    0.00                      0.00                .00
Total Financing Required              33.6                      36.2
Notes: 1. The IDA fund (US$12 million) was disbursed through the basket fund, so the fund breakdown by
component in this table is for the whole basket fund; 2. Average exchange rate during the project period: 1
USD = Tshs 1560.
* The equipment was listed as a separate item during the appraisal stage though it was not an official
project component, but in real accounting during the implementation stage, the cost of equipment was
dispersed into other project components.
(b) Financing
                                                                   Actual/Latest
                                                    Appraisal                    Percentage
                                        Type of                    Estimate
Source of Funds                                     Estimate                     of
                                        Cofinancing                (USD
                                                    (USD millions)               Appraisal
                                                                   millions)**
 Borrower                                                2.00              2.89              145%
 DENMARK: Danish Intl. Dev.
                                                         8.00              8.49              106%
Assistance (DANIDA)
UK: British Department for
                                                         11.60             11.65             100%
International Development (DFID)
 International Development
                                                         12.00             12.98             108%
Association (IDA)
Note: ** As of December 31, 2011.




                                                    28
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The TMP project was designed mainly to support the five strategic goals of the TRA
Corporate Plan, plus the Zanzibar Revenue Board (ZRB). The outputs related to these
components are summarized below.

Component 1 - Improve revenue collection in a cost effective way

The project marginally missed the revenue targets set by the government, as revenue
collection performance stood at 90%, 91% and 94% of targeted amounts for the years
2008/9, 2009/10 and 2010/11, respectively (Table A2.1). However, based on various
feedback and project supervision records, the revenue targets seemed to be unrealistic
and had been constantly pushed up, e.g., 34% for 2008/9, 16% for 2009/10, and 19.5%
for 2010/11, and were not adjusted accordingly when projected economic expansion did
not happen or planned reforms were not carried out. Actual revenue collection improved
robustly at an average speed of 21% from FY2007/8 – 2010/11, and total revenue in
2010/11 (TShs 5,465 billion) was almost three times that of 2006/7 (Shs 1,938 billion).30
Furthermore, revenue collection from July to December, 2011, was fully on target. The
tax/GDP ratio increased considerably from 13.3% in FY 2005/06 to 15.3% in FY
2010/11.

Table A2.1. Revenue performance net of refunds by department




Source: TRA finance department.

Despite the rapid increase in tax revenue for the project period, the operating cost of
collecting the taxes have been on a decline trend. The cost of collecting taxes as a share
of total tax revenue declined from 3.2% in FY 2006/07 to 2.7% in FY 2010/11.

These results have been achieved through a number of reforms and improvements in the
tax administration system realized under the Project. Efforts to broaden the tax net were
implemented successfully, and the operation of the block management system had a
positive impact on business formalization and graduation. A study on the informal sector
in Tanzania has been completed and provides the basis for reform of the presumptive tax
regime. A first draft of transfer pricing guidelines has also been prepared.

Component 2 - Full integration of TRA operations



30
     Various project Aide Memoires, and author’s calculation.


                                                     29
Deployment of ICT in TRA operations has played a vital role during the implementation
of the Corporate Plan. It has enabled TRA to transform its business processes from
manual to automated, which has led to efficiency gains and improved service delivery. So
far, the automated systems of ITAX (e-filing system), DWH (data warehouse), CMVRS
(central motor vehicle registration system) and CDLS (computerized driver’s license
system) have been installed and are operational in all TRA regional offices, and they are
now being introduced in selected districts in order to further improve revenue collection,
increase efficiency and bring services closer to taxpayers. The exercise has commenced
with five districts.

Efforts to specialize large taxpayer operations further are underway with the creation of a
special international tax unit in the LTD. Compliance management of medium-sized
taxpayers has been strengthened, in particular with a stronger audit performance of DRD
large taxpayer units. The exercise to introduce Electronic Fiscal Devices (EFDs) for
VAT-registered traders has continued, although not as smoothly as expected, and is
producing first results in terms of increased turnover declarations. The motor vehicle
registration has been growing rapidly with the introduction of the CMVRS system (Table
A2.2). The level of e-filings of VAT returns has increased from less than 500 in 2009 to
over 4,000 in 2011, and a mobile payment option has been introduced for presumptive
tax and property tax payments. It is expected that a total of 300,710 taxpayers registered
under presumptive assessment and 376,666 registered under property rate will use the
mobile payment system, as currently campaigns to educate taxpayers on the usefulness of
the system are being carried out. This system will eliminate queues at banking halls for
payment of such taxes.

Table A2.2. Motor vehicle registration (2008/09 – 2010/11)




Source: TRA implementation report, December 2011.

For customs, a central data processing office, Customs Valuation Database, automated
cargo management system and web-enabled online payment system - ASYCUDA ++ and
ASYBANK have been implemented. New initiatives have been launched to replace the
current customs IT system with a stronger system and to review the performance of the
tax IT system.

Component 3 - Provision of high quality and responsive customer service

TRA became ISO 9001:2000 certified in October 2008, which was the first year of
implementation of the Third Corporate Plan, and has continued to maintain the Quality
Management System (QMS) since then. Six internal quality audits covering all internal
departments, regions and districts and five external surveillance audits were also
conducted. Overall findings of both the internal and external audits demonstrated that the
QMS was still being maintained satisfactorily. The ISO certification had a validity period



                                            30
of three years and hence it expired in September, 2011, and an upgrade to ISO 9001:2008
became effective in October, 2011, following an external re-certification audit conducted
by M/S Bureau Veritas.

One Stop Border Posts (OSBP) have been planned for eight regions, of which four have
started construction in August, 2011. Four stakeholder perception surveys were
conducted in 2003 (all taxpayers), 2006 (large taxpayers), 2008 (small and medium
taxpayers) and 2011 (large taxpayers). In the surveys that were conducted for large
taxpayers, a majority who participated in the survey expressed satisfaction with TRA
performance in the areas of meeting the objectives of the Taxpayers Charter,
implementing tax reforms, taxpayer education, ethical behavior and customer
responsiveness. During the project period, the Customs Department introduced an
electronic licensing system known as Customs License Application System (CULAS)
whereby license applications and approvals are administered electronically. Training was
conducted to 773 applicants and customs officers countrywide in November 2009.
Currently, a total of 1,421 operators have been registered through the system.
Additionally, a total of 10,386 vehicles have been licensed for conveyance of transit
goods.

To reduce customs clearance time, the Project implemented the Time Release Study
(TRS) recommendations. So far more than 80% of the initiatives emanating from the
recommendations have been implemented, while the remaining 20% are expected to be
accomplished by June 2013. As a result, the average time taken to clear goods from
arrival to removal at Dar-es-Salaam port in September, 2011, was 10 days, an
improvement from 15 days, as observed in TRS baseline data in 2009. At Julius Nyerere
International Airport (JNIA), the cargo clearance time improved to five days from the
baseline of seven days reported in TRS for 2009.

Component 4 - Promote tax compliance through a fair, equitable and transparent
application of tax laws

To ensure fair and competent tax administration and thereby promote voluntary tax
compliance, TRA has been able to create a balance between effective enforcement
programs and effective taxpayer service and education programs. .

In-depth sector studies have been carried out to assess the performance of high risk
sectors in order to establish proper risk management of the respective sectors, thereby
expanding the tax base and enhancing the revenue capacity of those sectors. Electronic
fiscal devices (EFDs) have been introduced with the objective of enhancing compliance
management, reducing the risk of tax evasion. So far 17,462 EFDs have been issued for
VAT-registered traders. Two digital forensic laboratories have been established to
enhance the capacity of the Tax Investigation Department (TID). From November, 2010,
to November, 2011, the TID, using computer forensic tools managed to conduct 11
investigation cases whereby a total of Shs. 55.5 billion was identified as additional tax,
out of which Shs 2.8 billion was collected.




                                            31
The TRA-wide risk management policy has been approved and implementation of the
policy has started. The Electronic Cargo Tracking System (ECTS) has also been installed
and has become operational. The system will assist in deterring tax evasion and in
reducing dumping of goods, both wet and dry, to the local market.

Component 5 - Improve staff competence, motivation, integrity and accountability

Various management systems have been implemented over the years to engage the
employees and help them to change their mindset and work culture to enhance efficiency.
These include Strategic Planning and Management, Balanced Scorecard and Quality
Management System and the current introduction of the Gemba Kaizen Management
System (GKMS)31. In November 2010, TRA won the AAPAM Gold Award for
innovation32.

TRA has opted to implement the Balanced Scorecard Performance Management System.
The department of Human Resources and Administration in TRA commenced
implementation of the system during the FY 2009/10 and completed training to the final
six regions in September, 2011. TRA also designed and developed the TRA Monitoring
and Evaluation System (TRAMED) in 2008 for monitoring and evaluation of TRA
Corporate Plan implementation. The system allows key users from various departments
to input data for the plan period, and is now fully operational in all eleven TRA
Departments as well as the Units of Internal Affairs and Planning and Modernization
Program. The TRA library services have been improved by digitizing library materials
and installing a Computerized Library Materials Detection System.

In addition, staff sensitization on the anti-corruption policy has been carried out.
Operation of the regional ethics committees has improved considerably. The tender
process for the external whistleblower mechanism has not yet been completed and is
awaiting management decision on the feasibility of operating the mechanism out of South
Africa. A concept paper for the establishment of an ombudsman service has been
prepared and submitted to senior management.

Zanzibar Revenue Board (ZRB)

ZRB has completed the implementation of its first Five-Year Corporate Plan 2005/06 –
2009/10 and has begun to implement its second corporate plan 2011-2015. The overall


31
   The Kaizen training program incorporated various Kaizen Philosophy and Kaizen Management System
models that include the 5S Good Housekeeping principles to Sort, Straighten, Scrub, Standardize and
Sustain.
32
   AAPAM is a continental professional organization for high level Public Sector Administration and
Management in Africa. The Association’s main business is to promote best practices, excellence and
professionalism in public administration and management.




                                                 32
revenue target for the first corporate plan was exceeded by 66.6%. Revenue collections
by ZRB have more than doubled from TSh. 44.3 billion in FY 2005/06 to TSh. 89.3
billion in FY 2009/10.33

In order to strengthen its organizational capacity, a Large Taxpayer Office (LTO) was
established within ZRB in 2006. A total of 61 taxpayers have been registered under the
LTO through August, 2011, contributing more than 50% of ZRB revenue collections.
The new Centralized Motor Vehicle Registration (CMVRS) and Drivers Licensing
System were introduced in 2007, and through August, 2011, a total of 58,150 motor
vehicles had been registered and 108,691 driver’s licenses had been issued through the
new systems. ZRB has partially automated its business operations by introducing an
electronic document flow management system, and its ICT Infrastructure has been vastly
strengthened by acquiring two application servers, two database servers, two backup
servers and a domain control server as well as Saperion software. The current staff to
computer ratio is 2:1 vs. 5:1 in 2005/06 and this increase is proceeding in parallel with
computer literacy training for all ZRB employees.

To promote voluntary compliance, a new tax bill was proposed and passed in 2009 to
unify all the common tax administration procedures, and taxpayer education programs
were organized and conducted through workshops and seminars as well as regular
stakeholder meetings.

The ZRB working environment has been greatly improved through the purchase of new
motor vehicles and office equipment, and staff skills have been enhanced through
intensive training. By 2010, a total of 40 ZRB staff have attended training in various
fields including Advanced Customer Services, Management Information System,
Auditing, etc. To further increase staff motivation, a remuneration review has been
completed by Ernst & Young, and the implementation of the recommended remuneration
package awaits the approval of the ZRB Board of Directors.




33
  ZRB, Report on the Implementation of ZRB First Five Year Corporate Plan 2005/06 – 2009/10 Under
the Tax Modernization Program (TMP), Zanzibar, 2011.



                                                33
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

No cost-benefit analysis or economic and financial analysis was conducted at the project
design stage. The PAD noted that such an analysis was “Not Applicable?. Annex 3
provides some background information on the macroeconomic conditions and
information on the revenue growth to help readers better understand project efficiency, in
addition to the evidence provided in the “outcome? section 3.3.

Tanzania has experienced a high level of growth over the past decade, driven to a large
extent by growth in mining, telecommunication, tourism and construction. Growth
accelerated from 3.5% on average in the 1990s to 7% on average in the 2000s. Propelled
by a surge of FDI, exports of gold account today for 40% of total merchandise exports.
Recently, starting from a very low base, manufacturing value-added grew at around 9%
from 2003 to 2008, with exports growing on average by about 17% annually since 2005,
driven by regional exports to other East African Community (EAC) countries.

Tanzania proved to be resilient to international shocks over the past few years, thanks to
effective demand-side measures both on fiscal and monetary sides. The global financial
crisis in 2009 hit the country only marginally. Export earnings growth remained positive
both in 2009 and 2010 (mostly thanks to higher gold prices). As a result, GDP growth
declined by only one percentage point in 2009, to 6%, but reverted to its long-term trend
of 7% in 2010. The 2009 shock from the global financial crisis was also mitigated by the
adoption of a fiscal stimulus package in early 2009, which was sustained throughout 2010
and the first half of 2011.

Figure A3.1 shows that during the TMP project period (2005/06 to 2010/11), the GDP
growth of Tanzania had been stable -- around 6-7% -- but tax revenue as percentage of
GDP, which is a global standard measure of tax collection performance, had been
increasing at a steady pace. This has been achieved mainly through system efficiency,
given the fact that during that period no major tax policy changes had taken place.
Therefore, this is seen as a healthy trend.

Figure A3.1. Tanzania’s GDP, Tax Revenue and Exports Growth (2004/05-2010/11, %)
  % 30
     25

     20

     15

     10
      5

      0
          FY2004/05 FY2005/06 FY2006/07 FY2007/08 FY2008/09 FY2009/10 FY2010/11

                 GDP growth rate        Export to GDP       Tax revenue to GDP




                                            34
Source: TRA annual reports, and World Bank: Tanzania CAS, 2011.

Figure A3.2 shows that both the revenues and total government expenditures in absolute
terms have been increasing at a rapid pace. However, expenditures seems to be increasing
at a much faster pace since 2008/09; the level of public expenditures increased by over
30% in real terms from 2009 to the first half of 2011, including a 60% real increase in the
wage bill. This has led to a significant fiscal gap in FY2010/11.

 Figure A3.2. Tanzania’s Tax Revenues and Expenditure Growth (2004/05-2010/11)
 14000                                                                            30
                                                                                       %
 12000                                                                            25
 10000
                                                                                  20
  8000
                                                                                  15
  6000
                                                                                  10
  4000

  2000                                                                            5

      0                                                                           0
          FY2004/05 FY2005/06 FY2006/07 FY2007/08 FY2008/09 FY2009/10 FY2010/11

                     Tax revenue (TShs bn)        Total expenditure (Tshs bn)
                     Tax revenue to GDP           Expenditure to GDP

Source: TRA annual reports, and World Bank: Tanzania CAS, 2011.

By the end of FY2010/11, the fiscal deficit had reached 6.9% of GDP, up from 1.7% of
GDP in FY2007/08, with rapid increases in public debt. Overspending, largely from
commitments from road construction projects and a recent increase in the wage bill, is the
main reason for the fiscal challenge. To close the fiscal gap, the authorities have
increasingly borrowed on foreign and local markets at non-concessional rates since 2008,
around 4% of GDP in FY2010/11. The Government has agreed to control fiscal deficits
in FY2011/12 as a part of an International Monetary Fund (IMF) Policy Support
Instrument (PSI) program. However, the fiscal pressures are likely to continue in the
years to come.

The country has also been facing a rising inflation rate since 2011. This increase has been
driven by higher food prices, the result of low domestic yields due to low rainfalls as well
as contagion from the East African regional food price hike due to the drought in Horn of
Africa economies in the summer of 2011), as well as higher fuel prices. The headline
inflation rate reached 19.2% in November, 2011 (year-to-year), up from 5.5% in
December, 2010. With the expected decline in international food and energy prices as
well as ongoing restrictive monetary policy, the inflation rate is expected to decline
gradually to single digit figures during the course of 2012.




                                             35
To restore Tanzania’s fiscal position to a healthy level and to combat high inflation, fiscal
policy needs to be tightened. In November, 2011, the government agreed with the IMF to
implement a fiscal adjustment, targeting a fiscal deficit of 6.6% for FY 2011/12. This
adjustment is expected to be achieved through a combination of expenditure cuts (around
1% of GDP) and a higher level of domestic revenues. The Government also agreed to
limit recurrent expenditure to 97% of domestic revenues.

To further increase the level of domestic revenue, it will be necessary for the GoT to
support the TRA Corporate Plan to maintain the positive outcomes that have been
achieved through the TMP operation, and to further enhance the efficiency of the TRA
operations.




                                             36
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                       Responsibility/
           Names                         Title                Unit
                                                                         Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Modupe A. Adebowale       Consultant                         CFPPM
Sherri Ellen Archondo     Senior Operations Officer          AFTFE
John P. Byamukama         Financial Analyst                  AFTFE
Irene F. Chacon           Operations Analyst                 AFTFW
Yeshareg Dagne            Program Assistant                  AFTFE
Bella Lelouma Diallo      Sr Financial Management Specia     AFTFM
Michael Engelschalk       Senior Private Sector Developm     CICRS
Aidan Frederick Eyakuze   Consultant                         AFTFP
Justina Kajange           Program Assistant                  AFCE1
Daryoush Kianpour         Senior e-Government Specialist     TWICT
Hubert Elitira Mengi      Consultant                         AFTFM
Nozomi Mizuno             E T Consultant                     AFTFE
Donald Paul Mneney        Senior Procurement Specialist      AFTPC
Edith Ruguru Mwenda       Sr Counsel                         LEGAF
Mercy Mataro Sabai        Sr Financial Management Specia     AFTFM
Ruth T. Selegebu          Team Assistant                     AFCE1
Pascal Tegwa              Senior Procurement Specialist      AFTPC
Jos Verbeek               Lead Economist                     AFTP2
Michael D. Wong           Sr Private Sector Development      SASFP
Agnieszka ?yniewska       ET Consultant                      AFTFE

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands (including
                                     No. of staff weeks
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
                          Total:                                          0.00
Supervision/ICR
  FY07                                         15.53                     75.89
  FY08                                         16.89                     72.69
  FY09                                         15.67                     84.12
  FY10                                          6.27                     61.67
  FY11                                         15.91                     54.52
  FY12                                         15.23                     48.16
                          Total:               85.50                   397.05




                                          37
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Four stakeholders’ perception surveys were conducted in 2003 (all taxpayers), 2006
(large taxpayers), 2009 (small and medium taxpayers), and 2011 (large taxpayers) by
external consulting firm Tetralink Taylor & Associates Ltd in collaboration with the
Mzumbe University. In the surveys that were conducted for large taxpayers, majority of
taxpayers who participated in the survey expressed satisfaction with TRA performance in
the areas of meeting the objectives of Taxpayers Charter; implementing tax reforms;
taxpayer education; ethical behavior and customer responsiveness.

The 2009 small and medium taxpayer survey was conducted for 2,632 SMEs in different
business sectors, spreading across different regions in Tanzania, including Dar es Salaam,
Arusha, Mwanza, Tanga, Mtwara Dodoma and Mbeya for the mainland Tanzania and
Mjini Magharibi for Zanzibar. The 2011 large taxpayers survey involved a census of the
420 large taxpayers and tax consultancy and advisory service providers in TRA database.
A total of 310 large taxpayers from various business categories participated, representing
74.5% of the large taxpayers population.

During the ICR mission from January 12-19, 2012, two small and medium enterprise
(SME) taxpayers’ rapid assessments were held in Ilala and Kinondoni regions of Dar es
Salaam. Each site was attended by 8-9 taxpayers. The main purpose of those assessments
was to elicit the taxpayer’s perception of the progress in the effectiveness, efficiency and
fairness of tax collection system in Tanzania as a result of the project intervention.

The assessment included 6 multiple choice questions and 1 descriptive question, and it
was provided both in English and local language. Based on the 19 valid questionnaires
(in Kinondoni some taxpayers filled the questionnaire separately for the domestic
revenue services and customs), the following results were shown:
    1) Over half of SME taxpayers think, in recent years, the quality of tax service has
       become “better? or “much better?.
    2) About 3 quarters of SME taxpayers think, in recent years, the tax filing process
       has become “better? or “much better?.
    3) About 1/5th of SME taxpayers think, in recent years, the tax burden has become
       “better? or “much better?, while 3/5th think it has become “worse? or “very bad?.
    4) Over 2/5th of SME taxpayers think, in recent years, the tax collection process has
       become “less corrupt? or “very clean?, while a quarter think it is “unchanged?.
    5) About 3 quarters of SME taxpayers think, in recent years, their understanding of
       tax laws and regulations has become “better? or “much better?.
    6) Over one quarter of SME taxpayers think, in recent years, in general their
       inquiries on tax issues are attended within “2 days? or less; while over 3/5th think
       their inquiries are attended in “5 days or longer?.

For the descriptive question on the key issues in the tax management system, the
following key points were raised:
     There is a lack of education program on the classification of goods and the tax
        schedule of different categories;


                                             38
      The Electronic Fiscal Devices (EFD) are not properly working sometimes and
       requires better maintenance and more user training;
      The customs takes too long to clear goods & the computerized system still has
       problems;
      VAT rate should be reduced further while broadening the tax base;
      The number of taxes should be reduced;
      More education is needed to improve the understanding and compliance of the
       taxpayers;
      Businesses should use machine-generated receipts instead of ordinary paper
       receipts to reduce VAT evasion. This will require more wide use of EFD.

From these surveys and assessments, it seems the majority of SME taxpayers are happy
with the progress on the quality of tax services, tax filing and collection process, and the
tax education programs, while they feel that the tax burden is still too heavy, the customs
needs to be more efficient, and more targeted education programs should be provided.




                                             39
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

During the ICR mission from January 12-19, 2012, two small and medium taxpayers’
workshops were held in Ilala and Kinondoni regions of Dar es Salaam. Each site was
attended by 8-9 taxpayers plus several TRA officials. The main purpose of those
meetings was to elicit the taxpayer’s perception of the progress in the effectiveness,
efficiency and fairness of tax collection system in Tanzania as a result of the project
intervention. For that purpose mission team conducted an open forum discussion
following an perception assessment with the taxpayers participating in the workshop at
each site. During the discussion in particular the views on the areas that still need to be
improved were sought. Here are the key points raised during the workshops:

   1) Overall the tax administration system has been improved and become more
      efficient and less corrupt; however, the customs remains the key area for
      improvement.
   2) The VAT tax rates could be further reduced to improve tax compliance and lower
      the tax burden to final customers.
   3) The maintenance and long-term sustainability of the IT facilities, such as the
      electronic fiscal devices (EFDs), which may require capacity building in both
      usage and maintenance stages. There were also requests that the EFDs be rolled
      out to wider groups and to increase the suppliers of the devices.
   4) The TRA central servers have too much downtime and are unable to
      accommodate the increasing demand. There need to be a better demand and
      capacity forecasting in the future to avoid fast depletion of the system.
   5) The tax education programs should be more targeted towards specific industries
      and different taxpayer groups, and the delivery mode could be made more
      efficient by introducing on-line modules besides face-to-face trainings.




                                             40
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


                            TANZANIA REVENUE AUTHORITY
COMMENTS ON WORLD BANK IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS
            REPORT (IDA-41900): REPORT NO. ICR00002007


1.0    INTRODUCTION
       The Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) has received the World Bank
       Implementation Completion and Results Report No: ICR00002007 for the Project
       IDA-41900. TRA Management acknowledges the work done by the Mission and
       is in agreement with the document. However, the following comments have been
       highlighted to enable some improvements on the report. Also as there have been
       a lot of requests for additional information after the document was sent to us, we
       would appreciate receiving a revised version for our comments before the
       document is final.


2.0    COMMENTS
2.1    On abbreviations and Acronym, proper wording should be:
       ASYCUDA: Automated System for Customs Data
       PFMRP: Public Financial Management Reform Program
       TRA: Tanzania Revenue Authority
       VAT: Value Added Tax
2.2    In the Contents Page: Harmonise the page numbers with where the text is found

2.3    On page 1 section 1.1 paragraph 3: the year should read 2003/04 -2007/08

2.4     On page 6 section 2.2 first paragraph: delete item (1) because it is not a true
reason i.e. under the basket fund arrangement withdrawal of funds is not donor-specific
except only contributions can be identified by source. Hence the reason should only be
(2) …some delays in procurement.

2.5    On Page 8 part (b) on M&E implementation, the TMP Operational Manual (OM)
which supports the signed TMP MoU (which the WB signed as well) clearly states M&E
framework - that coordination is under the Planning and Mordernisation Program Unit
(PMPU).




                                            41
        This TMP MoU and OM were provided to the Mission, TRA will appreciate if
these important documents are adhered to for setting the record straight and having
consistency on ICR and related project for future references.

2.6    On page 11 section 3.2 first paragraph: the project was closed September 30,
2011 and not June 30, 2011.

2.7    On page 11 item 1a line 6; we recommend the use of the word “growth? rather
than “speed?

2.8    On page 13 footnote 11 line 4: the number 745 should read 74.5%

2.9     On page 19 part (d) line 4: If you went through TRA’s implementation reports
you could have realized that the Geographical Information System (GIS) project was not
implemented by TRA as planned. This was because there was another similar World
Bank funded project to support the Ministry of Lands and Human Settlement and hence
TRA was to benefit upon completion of this project. Todate TRA has not yet benefitted
from the GIS project with the Ministry. It is therefore recommended to delete this
project as one of the investments of TRA in the TMP.

2.10 On page 24 section 5.2a second line: Customs is not an independent body but part
of TRA as a Department. The sentence should therefore read “… such as the Bank of
Tanzania and Ports Authority…?




                                           42
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

   A. DFID Inputs to the TMP

   1. DFID Project Purpose and Goal
   • Purpose: To promote an effective and efficient tax administration which
      promotes voluntary tax compliance by providing high quality customer services
      with fairness and integrity through competent and motivated staff
   • Goal: To improve revenue collections so as to enable the GoT to achieve the
      MKUKUTA goals of higher growth, poverty reduction and good governance.

   2. Progress at Purpose Level: 3 OVIs (Objectively Verifiable Indicators)
      1) Total Annual Tax Revenues vs Target : ACHIEVED
          – Total revenue collection in 2010/11 was Tsh 5,315 bn ( 19.5% up on
             2009/10) – a satisfactory collection performance of 94%.
          – Revenue collection from July to Sept 2011 is fully on target.
          – Total revenues are 57% higher than in 2007/8.
      2) Average time taken to clear goods at sea ports and airports: ACHIEVED
          – Ave Arrival to Removal times for the quarter ended June 2011 was:
                 – 12 days at Port (vs 15 days in 2009 and over 22 days in 2008)
                 – 5 days at Airport (vs 7 days in 2009)
      3) Reduced level of perceived corruption: EVIDENCE MORE MIXED
          – Now: 56% of taxpayers agree with the statement that “TRA staff are
             largely corruption free? (2011 Large Taxpayers survey)
          – Baseline: 33% of taxpayers report that “they have never experienced
             corruption? (2006 Large Taxpayers survey)
          – According to the East African Bribery Index (published Oct 2011) –
             TRA remains the 5th most corrupt institution in Tanzania.

   3. Progress against each of the 5 strategic objectives in the Corporate Plan
      Output 1. Increasing revenue in a cost effective way:
      Progress: GOOD
         – All 3 major revenue departments at or near targets: average 94% and cost
             of collections has fallen from 3.8% to 2.7% of collections over 3 yrs.
         – Good performance on collection of arrears: 92% (vs target of 95%)
         – Broadening of the tax net: Increase in the number of registered taxpayers
             to 845,000 (target of 675,000 exceeded). Block management system
             successes
         – Although a small number of taxpayers continue to account for the
             overwhelming majority of tax revenues collected. (top 10 account for
             almost 20% of ALL tax paid in Tz)

      Output 2: Modernisation of Operations
      Progress overall: Satisfactory
         – Major investments to improve IT systems across TRA




                                         43
   – OVIs are rather narrowly focussed on uptake of e-filing and processing of
     VAT returns.
   – There has been a 3 fold increase in number of VAT registered taxpayers
     who submit returns electronically over the past 12mths – with introduction
     of EFDs.
   – Mobile phone payment option also now introduced for presumptive and
     property tax payments.

Output 3: Provide High Quality and Responsive Customer care
Progress: Satisfactory.
   – Important steps to improve trade facilitation have been taken in the last
       12mths - as evidenced by the reduction in average clearance times at the
       port and airport.
   – 7 One Stop Border posts are at various stages of design/build.
   – TRA has taken over the functions and responsibilities of the Destination
       Inspection Scheme from TISCAN - and in so doing has brought
       declaration and assessment activities into one integrated process.
   – Work on an improved Customs Risk Management system has commenced
       - which will reduce TRA's reliance on physical inspections.
   – TRA has also acquired new scanners to relieve congestion at the port and
       airport and has invested in a new electronic cargo tracking system to
       introduce less intrusive and more effective controls of transit goods.
   – But % of customs clearances within 24 hrs – below target for port, airport
       and land border crossings.

Output 4: Promote Voluntary Tax Compliance
Progress: Satisfactory. Activities include:
   – Implementation of Enterprise Wide Risk Management Policy
   – Review of existing Tax Exemptions (with MoF).
   – Establishment of New International Tax Unit (with additional TA from
       Norway) to undertake specialist audits of MNCs.
   – Strengthening of Tax Investigations Department – including
       operationalization of new Computer forensic lab for evidence recovery.
   – But continued slow progress on dissemination of information on changes
       in tax laws and regulations, publication of tax rulings

Output 5: Enhance the Staff Performance management system (including
integrity issues)
Progress: Satisfactory.
    – Continued progress has been made in the area of HR management and
        training, in particular with the roll-out of the Balanced Score Card system,
        satisfactory completion of the annual training plan, investments in Kaizen
        management training.
    – Building and sustaining managerial capacity - particularly in skilled areas
        such as IT, legal, accounting and finance - remain challenging however.




                                     44
              – Re: enhancing integrity, Internal Affairs Department now at full
                complement. Tender process for the external whistleblower mechanism
                has started (although TRA are currently awaiting a management decision
                on the feasibility of operating the service out of South Africa).
              – A concept paper for the establishment of the ombudsman service has also
                been prepared and submitted to senior management. However next steps
                in the process of establishing this service remain unclear.




   B. DANIDA Inputs to the TMP

Component 1 (Tax            Funding modalities applied during programme/project implementation:
Modernization               Basket fund for both phase I and II
Programme – Basket
Fund)
Total Danida funding        Planned 70.2000.000       Actual
                                                      66.666.594
Total undisbursed                                     3.533.406
Development                 Support to TRA Corporate Plan strategic goals: Increase revenue
objective                   collections in a cost-effective way; Integrate TRA operations; Provide
                            high quality and responsive customer service; Promote tax compliance
                            through fair, equitable and transparent application of tax laws; Improve
                            staff competence, motivation, integrity and accountability.
Indicator 1                 Indicator text: Increase in revenue collection.
                            Baseline: TShs 1,089         Target: TShs 2,406          Result: TShs 3,300
                            billion in 2002/03           billion in 2007/08          billion in 2007/08
Indicator 2                 Indicator text: In addition a sub-set of eight (8) quantifiable indicators
                            has been selected from TRA’s corporate plan monitoring framework to
                            be followed by the Basket Fund. The indicators focus on key areas,
                            including; the nature and scope of TRA’s operations; effectiveness
                            indicators; and efficiency indicators.
                            Baseline:                    Target:                     Result:
Rating                      Satisfactory
Assessment of               Of 70 major reform initiatives planned in the period 2003/2004-
effectiveness and           2007/2008 more than 95 % were initiatives were implemented.
efficiency/comments to      Actual revenue collection performance in Mainland was persistently
rating                      above revenue targets throughout the plan period. Performance for
                            Zanzibar was however not encouraging, especially for the first three
                            years of the plan.
                            There was a real improvement in integration of TRA operations.
                            Promotion of tax compliance was achieved through simplification and
                            review of tax laws and regulations in order to improve tax enforcement.
                            Several initiatives were carried out to improve customer service and to
                            improve staff competence, motivation and accountability. Promotion of


                                              45
                          tax compliance was achieved through simplification and review of tax
                          laws and regulations in order to improve tax enforcement. The capacity
                          building components in the programme (e.g. through annual training
                          plans) have among other things led to an improvement in customer
                          service.

                          Danida contributed by financial support through the Tax Modernisation
                          Programme basket fund directly to the achievement of these objectives.
Sustainability/Capacity   TRA has developed a third corporate plan addressing the weakenesses
building/Out-standing     and challenges identified in the first two phases and drawing upon
issues                    lessons learned.

                          Going forward the challenge of revenues in Tanzania will be not only to
                          still improve and make more efficient the collection of tax revenues but
                          to complement this with efforts to broaden the tax base, including
                          targeting the informal sector. This will also necessitate new policy
                          initiatives from the government side, including limiting tax exemptions.
Lessons learned           Some of the major challeges encountered in the implementation of the
                          Tax Modernisation Programme have been the need for building of
                          reliable base data, capacity building and establishment of systems,
                          including data capacity. This has also affected the possibility for
                          monitoring. The setup of a multi-donor Basket Fund for support to the
                          Tax Modernisation Programme has ensured consistent reporting on
                          progress and financial statements from the TRA to donors.




                                           46
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


African Development Bank. 2010. “Domestic Resource Mobilization for Poverty
        Reduction in East Africa: Tanzania Case Study?, Regional Department East
        Africa, November 2010.
Fiscal Reform and Economic Governance. 2011. http://www.fiscalreform.net, funded by
        the USAID.
IMF. 2011. “Revenue Mobilization in Developing Countries?, Fiscal Affairs Department,
       March.
TRA. 2011. Second Large Taxpayers’ and Tax Consultancy and Advisory Services
       Perception Survey, Dar es Salaam, March 2011.
______ 2009a. Small and Medium Taxpayer Perception Survey, April, Dar es Salaam.
______ 2009b. Tanzania Time Release Study, December, Dar es Salaam.
World Bank Group. 2011. “Country Assistance Strategy for Tanzania 2012-2015?, May.
______ 2012. Doing Business 2012, Washington, D.C.
World Bank. 2006. Tanzania Tax Modernization, PAD, May 19, 2006.
______ 2007. ICR Report for the TAP Project, 2007.
______ 2008. “Tanzania Tax Modernization Program Mid-Term Review?, Aide
       Memoire, November.
______ 2009. “Tanzania: Tax Modernization Project (Cr.4190-TA) – Extension of
       Closing Date?, Office Memorandum, June 1, 2009.
______ 2011a. “Tanzania Tax Modernization Project Development Partner
       Implementation Support Mission?, Aide Memoire, September, 2011.
______ 2012a. Tanzania Small and Medium Taxpayer Perception Assessment, January.
______ 2012b. “The Tanzania Ninth Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC-9)?,
       PREM, Africa region, January 2012.
______ Various years. “Tanzania Tax Modernization Project Implementation Support
       Mission Aide Memoire?.
ZRB. 2011. Report on the Implementation of ZRB First Five Year Corporate Plan
       2005/06 – 2009/10 under the Tax Modernization Program (TMP), Zanzibar,
       2011.




                                         47
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD 33494R1



                                                                                                   TA N Z A N I A
                                                     SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                       MAIN ROADS

                                                     PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                                               RAILROADS

                                                     NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                PROVINCE BOUNDARIES

                                                     RIVERS                                                                                                                          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES



                         30°E                                      32°E                                 34°E                                      36°E                            This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                  The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                  shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                  Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                    To                                                            endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
0°                                                                                                                Tororo                                                                                                                                    0°
                                                            To
                            GANDA
                          U GAND A                        Kampala

                              To
                            Kampala
                                                                                   Lake
                                                                                                                                                        To
                                         Ka
                                           ge r
                                               a                             Victoria                                                                  Nakuru                                           K E N YA
                                                                   Bukoba                 Musoma                    Mara                                                To
                                                                                                                                                                       Nakuru
                                                    Buoen
                      RWANDA KAGERA                                                                          MARA
2°S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2°S
                                                                                                                                                Lake
                                                                            Mwanza                                                            Natron
     T
     T
     To




                                                                      M WA N Z A                             Simi
                                                                                                                 yu
        K




                                                                                                                                            A R U S H A Kilimanjaro
           am




                                                                                                                                                          (5895 m)
                a
                a
                a




                                                                                                                                                                                  Moshi
                      BURUNDI                                                                                                                           Arusha                                                                    To
          OF CO NGO
DEM. REP. O F CONGO




                                                                            Yalova                                        Lake                                                                                                Malindi
                                                   M
                                                   Mo




                                                            S H I N YA N G A                                             Eyasi                     Lake
                                                      y
                                                      yow




                                         Kibondo




                                                                                                                                                                                 Pa
                                                                                                                                                                                 P
                                                                                               Shinyanga e                                         Manyara
                                                                                                                                                                                          KILIMANJARO




                                                                                                                                                                                   n ga
                                                                                                        p
                                                          o si




                                                                                                                                                                                     g
                                                                     Kahama
                                                            s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4°S




                                                                                                                                                                                    ni
                                                                                                             ep




                                                                                                                                                                                     i
                                                                                          Nzega                                                   Babati                             Same
                                                                                                        St




                                                                                                                                                                      Masai
                            KIGOMA                                                                                                                                                                                                               PEMBA
                                                                                                    e




                                                                                                                                                                      Steppe
                                                                                                   er




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NORTH
                                Kasulu
                                                                                                                                                                   MANYARA
                                                                                               mb




                        Kigoma                                                                                Singida                             Kondoa
                                                                 Kaliua                                                                                                                                                                           PEMBA
                                                                                     Tabora
                                                                                           Iwe




                                                                                                              SINGIDA                                                                                                                  Wete       SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Tanga
                                                                                                                                                                                               TA N G A                                Mkoani ZANZIBAR
                                                                   TA B O R A
                          Lake                           Ugalla                                                                   Manyoni                                                                                                        NORTH

                          Tanganyika                                                                                                              DODOMA                                      ts.                      Mkokotoni                 ZANZIBAR
                                                                                                                                                                                          M                                                      SOUTH &
                                                                                                                                                                                    u                         Zanzibar Koani                     CENTRAL
                                                                                                                                                                                 ur
                                                                                                                                                                                                    i
                                                                                                                                                                                               am



                                   Mpanda
                                                                                                                                            D O D O M A Ng                                                                                       ZANZIBAR
                                                                                                                                                                                              W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                Morogoro                      Kibaha
                                           R U K WA                                                                                                                                                                           Dar es Salaam
                                                                      Rung
                                                                           wa                                                                           Grea          MOROGORO                                                      DAR ES SALAAM
                                                                                                                                                            t
                                                                                                                                                                     Rua
                                                                                                                                                                        ha
                                                                                                                                                                                                              P WA N I
                                                                             Lake                                                                Iringa
                                    Sumbawanga                               Rukwa    M B E YA                      e
8°S                                                                                                            ng                  IRINGA                                                                 Utete                                            8°S
                                                                                                         Ra
                                                                                                                                                             ro
                                                                   Mpui
                                                                                                   ya                                                                                                                                  IN DI AN
                                                                                                                                                                                             ji




                                                                                               e
                                                                                                                                                                                          ufi
                                                                                                                                                        be




                                                                                          Mb
                                                                                                                                                                                              R
                                                                                                                                                   Kilom




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Kilwa
                                                                                     Mbeya                                                                                                                    du                   Kivinje
                                                                                                                                                                                                          t an
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Ma
                                                                                     Tunduma                   Ki
                                                                                                                    pe           Njombe                                                                                                O CE AN
                                                         To
                                                       Kasama                                                            n                                                                          LINDI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ur u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 mk
                                                                                                                         ge
                                                                                                                         ge




                                                                                                                                                                                                               be                       Lindi
                                                                                                                             re




10°S                                                                                                                                                                                                          M                                           10°S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Mtwara
                                                                                                                                  Ra




                                                                            To
                                                                                                                                    n
                                                                                                                                    ng




                                                                          Kasama
                        AM B IA
                          M
                      Z A MB I A
                                                                                                                                      e




                                                                                                                                                Songea                                                               Masasi
                                                                                                        To
                                                                               TANZANIA Kasungu                                                                                                          MTWARA
                                                                                                 Lake                                          RUVUMA                                                                a
                                                                                                                                                                                        Tunduru                  vum
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Ru
                                                                                               Malawi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Chiúre
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          12°S
                                                                                                                                                                    To
                                                                                                                                    To
                                                                                                                                 Lichinga
                                                                                                                                                                  Marrupa        MOZAMBIQUE
                                                                                                                                                                                 MO ZA MBIQ UE
                                                                                                                                                                            0       50            100   150     200 Kilometers



                                                                   32°E                                 34°E                                      36°E                      0                 50         100             150 Miles       40°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NOVEMBER 2007
