Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4190-TA 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Tax Modernization Project) 
 
between 
 
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated August 30, 2006  
Page  2
CEDIT NUMBER 4190-TA 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated August 30, 2006, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF 
TANZANIA (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II —FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
eight million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 8,300,000) 
(
“Credit”) to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project ). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollar. 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE III 
—PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the 
Program.  To this end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.  
(b) 
The Tanzania Revenue Authority Act, or any other legislation relating to 
TRA has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as 
to affect materially and adversely the ability of TRA to perform any of 
its obligations under the Project Agreement  
(b) 
The Project, or a significant part thereof, has been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived, at the instance of the Recipient, so as to 
affect materially and adversely the ability of the Recipient to perform 
any of its obligations under this Agreement. 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration is that any event specified in Section 4.01
 
of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 60
 
days after notice of 
the event has been given by the Association to the Recipient. 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consists of the following: 
(a) 
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Recipient 
 and 
TRA; 
and 
(b) 
the Recipient has caused TRA to submit the Operations Manual in a form 
 
and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  4
-
3
-
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under Articles IV and V of the General Conditions 
shall terminate is 20 years after the date of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI
—REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is its Minister responsible for finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
P. O. Box 9111 
Dar es Salaam 
 Tanzania 
 Cable 
address: 
  Facsimile: 
 
TREASURY 
 
 
(255) 222 11 77 90 
 
Dar es Salaam 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 64145 
(MCI) 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
AGREED at Dar es Salaam, United Republic of Tanzania, as of the day and 
year first above written. 
 
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
 
By /s/ Gray S. Mgonja 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Judy O'Connor 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in supporting TRA fulfill its 
mission as an effective and efficient tax administration that provides high quality services 
with fairness and integrity.    
The Project consists of the following parts, including the carrying out of 
Subprograms for: 
Part 1
Improving Revenue Collection in a Cost Effective Way 
Improving revenue collection, including narrowing the revenue gap, improving 
the tax structure, and modernizing customs arrangements. 
Part 2
Integration of TRA Operations 
Integrating taxation processes and procedures, strengthening large taxpayers’ 
department, providing information technology infrastructure, implementing the 
Asycuda++ System for customs, and strengthening domestic revenue department. 
Part 3
Provision of High Quality and Responsive Customer  Service 
 
Developing taxpayer education programs, rolling out district one stop centers, 
promulgating a taxpayer’s charter, and establishing a quality management system and a 
customs client services unit. 
Part 4
Promoting Tax Compliance through a Fair, Equitable and Transparent 
Application of Tax Laws 
 
Unifying taxpayer identification, introducing risk management for audit-based 
taxes, strengthening the tax investigations department, and improving the capacity for tax 
enforcement. 
Part 5
Improving Staff Competence, Motivation, Integrity and Accountability 
 
Strengthening management controls, promulgating a staff charter, strengthening 
training capacity, and reviewing anti-corruption strategy.  
Part 6
Support to Zanzibar Revenue Board 
 
Supporting Zanzibar Revenue Board to improve efficient collection of taxes, 
promote voluntary compliance, provide quality service to tax payers, and improve the 
working environment, skills of its staff, competence and motivation. 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Subsidiary Financing, Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. Subsidiary 
Agreement
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project by TRA, the
 
Recipient shall make the 
proceeds of the Financing available to TRA under a subsidiary agreement 
between the Recipient and TRA, under terms and conditions approved by the 
Association, which shall include the following obligations of TRA:  
(a) 
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency, in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and technical 
practices and in accordance with the Operations Manual, and provide, or 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project; 
(b) 
comply with the procedures for procurement of goods, and 
consultant services set forth in  the Procurement Plan; 
(c) 
comply with record keeping, auditing and reporting requirements 
set forth in Section II.B(3) of  this Schedule with respect to the  
Project, including the annual auditing of its records and accounts 
(operations, resources and expenditure) in respect of the Project; 
(d) 
at the request of the Recipient or the Association, exchange 
views with the Recipient and the Association with regard to the progress 
of the Project and the performance of its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement; and 
(e) 
promptly inform the Recipient and the Association of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of 
the Project, or the performance of its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement. 
2. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Financing.  Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, arrogate
 
or waive the 
Subsidiary Agreement of any of its provisions. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
B. Institutional 
Arrangements
1. 
TRA shall have the responsibility for overall coordination, monitoring, reporting, 
evaluation and communication of Project activities.   
2. 
Steering Committees
 
(a) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Part A.1 of this Section, the 
Recipient shall maintain, at all times until the completion of the  
Project, a Joint Steering Committee and a Modernization Steering 
Committee, both with a composition, mandate and resources satisfactory 
to the Association. 
(b) 
Without limitation to sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, the Joint 
Steering Committee shall be responsible for, 
inter alia
:
(i) reviewing and 
endorsing for joint approval by the Recipient, the Association and the 
Co-financiers of the Annual Work Plans and Budgets, and ensuring their 
consistency with the Program; (ii) reviewing progress made towards 
achieving the Projec
t’s objectives; and (iii) providing comments on 
reports, including the external audit reports to ensure that any matter 
raised in such reports is adequately addressed. 
(c) 
Without limitation to sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, 
 
the Modernization Steering Committee shall be responsible for, 
inter 
alia
:
(i) reviewing, the proposals made by the Tax Modernization 
Program Unit; (ii) providing policy guidance to the Tax Modernization 
Program Unit; (iii) reviewing progress made towards achieving the 
Project’s objectives, and making recommendations for removal of any 
obstacles to the implementation of the Project; and (iii) providing 
comments on reports and reviews prepared by the Tax Modernization 
Program Unit for the benefit of the Association. 
3. 
Implementing Agencies
 
(a) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Parts A.1 and A.2 of this 
Section, the Recipient shall ensure that TRA is maintained at all times 
during the implementation of the Project with functions, staffing and 
resources satisfactory to the Association, for the purpose of ensuring the 
prompt and efficient implementation of the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation to sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph: (i) TRA shall 
be responsible for the overall planning, coordination, financial 
management, procurement, monitoring, evaluation, reporting and 
communication of Program activities under the Project; and (ii) Tax 
Page  9
-
8
-
Modernization Program Unit  shall be responsible for the day-to-day 
implementation of activities under Parts 3, 4 and 5 of the Project . 
C. Implementation 
Arrangements
1. 
Operations Manual
.
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the arrangements and procedures set out in the Operations Manual 
(provided, however, that in case of any conflict between the arrangements and 
procedures set out in the Operations Manuals and the provisions of this 
Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail) and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, shall not amend, abrogate or waive any 
provision of any of the Operations Manuals, if such amendment, abrogation or 
waiver may, in the opinion of the Association, materially or adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project. 
2. 
Memorandum of Understanding
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall implement the Subprograms in accordance with the 
arrangements and procedures set out in the Memorandum of 
Understanding; provided, however, that in case of any conflict between 
the provisions of said memorandum and of this Agreement, the 
provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
(b) 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall  
not amend, abrogate or waive any provision of the Memorandum  
of Understanding, if such amendment, abrogation or waiver may, in  
the opinion of the Association, materially or adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project. 
3. 
Annual Work Plan and Budget; Subprograms 
(a) 
The Recipient shall prepare and furnish to Association for its joint 
approval with the Co-financiers, not later than April 15 of each year 
during the implementation of the Project, or such later date as the 
Association may agree in consultation with the Co-financiers, the Annual 
Work Plan and Budget containing all proposed Subprograms to be 
carried out in the following Fiscal Year, modified in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association,
 taking into account the Association’s 
comments and views on the matter. 
(b) 
The Recipient shall cause each Subprogram implementing entity to 
implement, monitor and evaluate its respective Subprogram in 
accordance with the provisions set forth in this Agreement and in more 
detail in the Operations Manual, and shall not make or allow to be made 
any material change to any Subprogram included in the approved Annual 
Page  10
-
9
-
Work Plan and Budget without consultation and approval of the 
Association. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and  
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the 
General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth below in 
paragraph 2.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of six months, and shall 
be furnished to the Association not later than forty five days after the end of the 
period covered by such report.  
2. 
The performance indicators referred to above in paragraph 1 consist of the 
following: 
(a) 
total annual tax revenue collected by TRA in relation to its annual 
 revenue 
target; 
 
 
(b) 
average time taken to clear goods  at sea ports, border posts and airports; 
(c) 
the percentage of taxpayers awareness on tax education programs; 
(d) 
percentage of written enquiries attended within seven days; and  
(e) 
level of  perceived corruption index. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A.1 of this Section, the Recipient 
shall prepare and furnish to the Association, not later than 45 days after the end 
of each six months, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering 
the six months, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with  
the provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of  
the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the 
Recipient.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than six months after the end of such 
period. 
Page  11
-
10
-
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following methods 
of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used  
for goods and works under the circumstances specified in the Procurement Plan 
for each such method: (a) National Competitive Bidding; (b) Direct Contracting; 
(c) Shopping; and (d) Established Private or Commercial Practices which have 
been found acceptable to the Association. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1.
 Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following 
methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be 
used for consultants’ services under the circumstances specified 
 
in the Procurement Plan for each such method: (a) Quality Based 
 
Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed Budget; (c) Least Cost 
 
Selection; (d) Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications; (e) Single-source 
Selection; (f) Established Private or Commercial Practices which have been 
found acceptable to the Association; (g) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 
Page  12
-
11
-
and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants; 
and (h) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants. 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Association shall determine by notice to the Recipient, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association: (a) each 
contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $ 200,000 or more per 
contract; (b) all contracts selected on basis of Direct Contracting; (c) each 
contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost  
the equivalent of $ 100,000 or more per contract; (d) each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by an individual consultant estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $ 50,000 or more per contract; and (e) all contracts selected on 
Single Source basis.  
 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may 
specify by notice to the Recipient, to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in 
the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the category of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to the Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in the Category: 
Category 
Amount of the 
Financing 
Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of Expenditures to be 
Financed 
Subprograms 
8,300,000 
Such percentage of Eligible 
Expenditures as the Association shall 
determine for each Fiscal Year 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
________ 
8,300,000
Page  13
-
12
-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.   
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A.1 of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; and   
(b) 
under the Subprograms Category unless: (i) the Memorandum of 
Understanding has been executed on behalf of the Recipient and the 
Association and has entered into effect in accordance with its terms; and 
(ii) the Annual Work Plan and Budget for the respective Fiscal Year has 
been approved by the Association in accordance with Part C.3 of Section 
I
of
this Schedule. 
2.
 
The Closing Date is July 31, 2009. 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
A.
 
Appointment of Financial and Procurement Auditors 
1.
 
The Recipient shall, not later than six months after the Effective Date, appoint 
the independent auditors referred to in Section 4.09 (b) of the General 
Conditions, in accordance with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule. 
2.
 
The Recipient shall, not later than six months after the Effective Date, put in 
place arrangements, satisfactory to the Association, including the appointment of 
independent procurement auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance 
with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule, for reviewing the procurement 
of goods, works and consultants’ services financed under the Project, including 
the reviewing of procurement procedures and processes. 
B.
 
Procurement Audits
 
The Recipient shall, not later than six months after the end of each Fiscal  
Year, or such later date as the Association may agree, furnish to the Association 
an audit report on the procurement of goods, works and consultants’ services 
carried out under the Project, prepared by the independent procurement auditors 
referred to in Part A.2 of this Section.   
 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
Commencing November 15, 2016 to and including 
May 15, 2026 
1% 
Commencing November 15, 2026 to and including  
May 15, 2046 
2% 
*The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  15
-
14
-
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“Annual Work Plan and Budget” means the work plan and budget for the 
Program prepared annually by TRA, in accordance with Section I.C.3 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2. 
“ASYCUDA” means Automated System for Customs Data provided by 
UNCTAD (as hereinafter defined). 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
4. 
“Co-financiers” means each and any co-financier (other than the Recipient) that 
has extended or is to extend the Co-financing (as hereinafter defined) to the 
Recipient pursuant to the Co-financing Agreement (as hereinafter defined), and 
that has signed the Memorandum of Understanding. 
5. 
“Co-financing” means, for the purposes of Section 6.02 (g) (ii) and (iii) and 
Section 6.06 (c) of the General Conditions, each and any credit or grant extended 
or to be extended to the Recipient by the Co-financiers for the purpose of 
assisting in the joint co-financing of Subprograms under the Project, in 
accordance with the provisions of the Co-financing Agreement and the 
Memorandum of Understanding. 
6. 
“Co-financing Agreement” means, for the purposes of Section 6.02 (g) (ii) and 
(iii) and Section 6.06 (c)  of the General Conditions, each and any agreement 
entered or to be entered into between the Recipient and the Co-financiers 
providing for the Co-financing. 
7. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
8. 
“Joint Steering Committee” means the Steering Committee referred to in Section 
I.B.2 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
9. 
“Fiscal Year” means the Recipient’s fiscal year commencing July 1 and ending 
June 30 of each year. 
10. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005. 
11. 
 “Memorandum of Understanding” means the memorandum of understanding 
between the Recipient, the Association and the Co-financiers, as the same may be 
Page  16
-
15
-
amended from time to time, providing for common arrangements and procedures 
on procurement, disbursement, accounting, monitoring, reporting, auditing, 
coordination and exchange of information required for the implementation of the 
Project. 
12. 
“Modernization Steering Committee” means the committee referred to in Section 
I.B.2 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
13. 
“Tax Modernization Program Unit” means the unit referred in 
 
Section 1.B.3 (b) (ii) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and paragraph 2 of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
14. 
 “MOF” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance. 
15. 
“Operations Manual” means the Recipient’s manual, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, containing or referring to detailed arrangements 
and procedures, including: (i) institutional coordination and day-to-day 
 
execution of Subprogram activities; (ii) disbursement and financial 
 
management; (iii) procurement; (iv) monitoring, evaluation, reporting, and public 
information, education and communication; and (v) such other administrative, 
financial, technical and organizational arrangements and procedures as shall be 
required for the Project. 
16. 
“Program” means the Recipient’s Tax Modernization Program, set out in  
the TRA Corporate Plan dated July 1, 2003, and to be supported by the 
Association under the Project, and set out in the letter from the Recipient to  
the Association dated May 16, 2006, describing a set of objectives, policies and 
actions designed to ensure enhanced transparent and modernized taxation system, 
and declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program. 
17. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
18. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated May 15, 2006, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
19. 
“Subprogram” means a program of activities under the Project and included in 
the Annual Work Program and Budget. 
20. 
“TRA” means the Tanzania Revenue Authority, a body corporate established and 
operating under the Tanzania Revenue Authority Act (Cap 399, R.E. 2002) of the 
laws of the Recipient, and responsible for the management and customs 
administration of the Recipient. 
Page  17
-
16
-
21. 
“UNCTAD” means The United Nations Conference on Trade and 
Development. 
22. 
“Zanzibar Revenue Board” means a body corporate established and operating 
pursuant to the Zanzibar Revenue Board Act No. 7 of 1996 of the laws of the 
Recipient, and responsible for the management and customs administration 
in the Island of Zanzibar. 
 
