Report No. 713a-KE                                                       FILE  COPY
Kenya
Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply Project
September 15, 1975
Public Utilities Projects Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
U
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank/IFC authorization.



KENYA
Appraisal of Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply Project
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                 =  Kenyan Shilling (KSh)
KSh 20                        =  Kenyan Pound (KL)*
K6 1.00                       =  US$2.80
US$1.00                       =  KSh 7.142
KSh 1.00                      =  US$0.14
K< 1 million                  =  US$2.8 million
US$1 million                  =  KI 357,000
K16                           =  DM 6.85
US$                           =  DM 2.47
Deutsche Mark (DM) 1 million =  KL 142,900
DM 1 million                  =  US$404,900
*The KJ is no longer used as a unit of currency but is
used in accounting, economics and reporting as a
convenient unit of value or account.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
mm         =       millimeter (0.03937 inches)
cm         =       centimeter (0.3937 inches)
m          =       meter
km         =       kilometer (0.62 miles)
cm2        =       square centimeter
km2        =       square kilometer (0.386 square miles)
m3         =       220 Imperial gallons
(or 264 US gallons)
1          =       liter (0.220 Imperial gallons
or 0.264 US gallons)
1/cd       =       liters per capita per day
1/sec      =       liters per sec. (19,000 Imperial
gallons per day)
m3/sec     =       cubic meters per sec. (19.0 million
Imperial gallons per day or
86,400 m3/day)
m3/day     =       cubic meters per day
Ig                 Imperial gallon (4.545 1)
IMgd       =      million Im erial gallons per day
(4545 ms/day)
KSh 1.00/1000 =   KSh 0.220/m3
KSh 1.00/m3   =   KSh 4.55/1000 Ig



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
CPWB                =      Coast Province Water Branch
EAP&L               =      The East Africa Power and Lighting Company
Limited
Government          =      Government of Kenya
KfW                 -      Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MOA                 =      Ministry of Agriculture
MLG                 =      Ministry for Local Government
MPB                 =      The Mombasa Pipeline Board
MWD                 -      Ministry of Water Development
NORAD               =      Norwegian Aid for Development
PAS                 =      Public Administration Services (USA)
SIDA                =      Swedish International Aid Agency
SWK                 =      Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick & Partners (UK)
WD                  =      Water Department of MWD
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30






KENYA
APPRAISAL OF THE MOMBASA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  .............                 ......................  i - ii
I.    INTRODUCTION  ... ..........................................1
II.  THE SECTOR ..... .... . ... .........                                                2
General .... ..* .......................                ..............              2
Sector Development  * * * * * * * * * * ........... .....   ...... * *  ........    2
Sector Organization  . ........... o. ..................              .....         3
Expenditures on Water Supplies and Sewerage  ...............o.                      5
Tariff Policies  ....... ........................... . .           .....* ... .     6
Development Constraints and Problem Areas  ...................                      6
Technical and Financial Assistance  .........................                       7
D     l DiROJ gn a. Co...c...... io.......n Si .................    1
Description  ............ .............................. 
Cost Estimates  .................. o...... ...........               *...............  9
Loan Amounts  .......... o ...........o ......................... .....    10
Detail Design and Construction Supervision  ........................................   10
Procurement and Construction  ................................    11
Project Expenditures, Loan Disbursements
and Closing Date  . ............... .  ........ ..........                  12
Land Acquisition and Rights-of-Way  .........................    12
Sabaki River Flows and Water Quality  ............ ...........                     13
Ecological Aspects  . ..................  .                  ............*.  .    13
IV.  JUSTIFICATION OF THE PROJECT  ....................                   ..........     14
Water Supply Requirements  .... .. .                       ..    ........ .   14
Need for Increase in Water Supply Capacity    .................    15
Comparison of Alternatives   . .  .. . ....... .......  ........    16
Return on Investment              ....... . .* * *......                 .....    17
This report was prepared by Messrs.  P. Callejas and N. Tin with assistance
from Mr. K. Challa.



Page No.
V.   THE I11PLEMENTING AGENCY ...........................  ......    18
The Borrower                 ...18
Establishment of CPB - Background .            .                       18
Organization, Ilanagement and Staff       .       .                    19
Personnel Development .....20
Accounting and Audit .       .      .................          ........  20
Billing and Collection               .     .     ...........           21
Relationships Between CPWB and MPB .......................   .         21
Insurance           ..........               .     ......              22
Project Monitoring tystem                .............                 22
VI. FINANCIAL ASPECTS.... .  22
Introduction..........                                   .....         22
Past Operating Results and Financial Position                          22
Financing Plan                   ....24
Water Tariffs..... . ..26
Future Operations and Financial Position                .              27
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS                 .    .28
ANNEX
1 Population Trends and Forecasts
2 The Water Supply and Sewerage Sector
3 Existing Water Supply Systems and Operations
4 Project Description
5   Cost Estimates
6   Construction Schedule
7 Annual Project Expenditures and Expected Price Increases
8 Proposed Allocation of Bank Loan Proceeds
9   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements from Bank Loan
10   Forecast of Water Production Requirements
11   Average Incremental Cost of Water Supply
12   Internal Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
13   Organization Charts
14   Estimated Income Statements:  1975-1984
15   Estimated Fund Flow Statements:  1975-1984
16   Estimated Balance Sheets:  1975-1984
17   Notes and Assumptions on Financial Statements and Projections
18   Present Water Tariffs
19   Project Monitoring Indicators
MAP
IBRD - 11481 - Mombasa and Coast Province: Existing and Proposed Water
Water Supply Systems



KENYA
APPRAISAL OF MOMBASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
I.        This report covers the appraisal of a water supply project for
Mombasa and various locations north along the coast of Kenya for which a
Bank loan of US$35.0 million is proposed. A joint loan of about US$15.0
million equivalent is being considered by the Federal Republic of Germany's
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW).
ii.       The borrower would be the Government of Kenya. The project would
be carried out by the Water Department (WD) of the new Ministry of Water
Development (MWD). The Coast Province Water Branch (CPWD) has been established
recently as a separate accounting entity under WD responsible for water supply
operations in the Coast Province.
iii.      Mombasa and the area along the coast of Kenya have been in a rapid
period of growth over the past 15 years with the development of the port,
industry and tourism and the attendant increase in population, housing,
tourist and recreational facilities. The water supply systems for the fast
growing urban communities and rural settlements have developed much more
slowly than water demand in spite of some expansions and improvements. At
present, piped water supply in the portion of the project area now served
is inadequate to meet demands during certain periods of the year. Some parts
of the proposed project area are not served by any type of organized water
system.
iv.       A major program to increase water supply, extend distribution and
improve the effective use of the service is required. The objective of the
proposed project is to meet these requirements.
v.        Over a period of four years, the project would about double water
production and distribution capacity in the project area. The major new
water service components added by the project, together with a much smaller
second phase and routine annual distribution expansion, would be capable of
serving at least 300,000 more people than are presently served and vastly
improving the service to the population now served. Measures to curtail water
waste would be strengthened, water charges would approach the average long-
term incremental cost of water supply, CPWB would attain financial self-
sufficiency, and the institution itself would be established and developed to
a satisfactory level of efficiency.
vi.       The estimated cost of the project is about KE 27 million (equiva-
lent to about US$75 million) before interest and commitment charges during
construction. The foreign exchange costs would be about US$40 million
equivalent (53%). The proposed Bank and KfW loans would finance about 67% of



- ii -
the project costs. The balance of the project expenditures (33%) would be
financed by government funds. The funds generated by operations of CPWB would
meet interest during construction and provide a necessary increase in working
capital.
vii.      The project would be carried out by WD and CPWB with the assistance
of engineering and management consultants. The arrangements for design,
procurement, construction supervision, management and control of the project
are suitable. The project is technically sound and the estimated cost and
time schedule are realistic. .The project is scheduled for completion about
the end of 1978.
viii.     All supply and construction contracts would be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
Local firms are in a fair position to be contractors or subcontractors on the
pipe-laying and civil works contracts. Bids of local contractors on such work
would receive a preference of 7-1/2%. No local firms are capable at present
of supplying the pipe and other materials or equipment required for the pro-
ject.  Foreign suppliers and contractors (probably in association with local
firms in some cases) are expected to win all major contracts.
ix.       CPWB is being established on the basis of recommendations by the
firm of management consultants which also has a contract with the Government
to assist by providing both line and advisory staff. The establishment and
development of CPWB so as to achieve satisfactory levels of performance is a
very demanding and critical part of the proposed project and would be carried
out in consultation with the Bank.
x.        Until recently, water tariffs have been too low by any standards;
they did not cover even the cost of operation, maintenance and depreciation.
Furthermore, the proposed project is exceptionally expensive per unit of added
capacity. Radical increases of the average tariff in the project areas have
been required to reflect the long-term average incremental cost of water and to
justify implementation of the project. The water tariff changes would be achieved
in seven s-teps, so that, by the time the project is fully utilized (1982),
tariffs would reasonably reflect the average incremental cost. The Government
implemented the first step, an increase of 60%, on July 11, 1975. PrQjected
financial results with the new water charges and the projected sales indicate
that CPWB would be financially viable.
xi.       Thie expected internal rate of return on water supply facilities in-
cluded in the project would be about 12% if the benefits are valued at the
long run marginal cost of water. If the benefits are valued only at the
average tariff levels prevailing at the time the project is operational, the
internal rate of return would be 8% to 9%.
xii.      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$35.0 million equiva-
lent for a term of 25 years including a grace period of five years.



KENYA
APPRAISAL OF MOMBASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Kenya has requested loans from the Bank and the
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) to help finance a US$75 million project
for developing a new water supply source, strengthening and extending dis-
tribution systems, and improving water supply operations for Mombasa and
other areas in the Coast Province. A Bank loan of US$35.0 million is proposed
to be made to the Government. A joint loan of DM 37 million (about US$15
million equivalent) is being considered by KfW. The project would be imple-
mented by the Water Department (WD), Ministry of Water Development, and its
Coast Province Water Branch (CPWB), which is responsible for water supply in
the Coast Province.
1.02      The project would be the first implementation phase of a develop-
ment plan to meet water supply and distribution requirements of the area
until about 1985. The Bank and KfW would jointly finance the transmission
eomponent of the project, and the loans would be mutually dependent. The
development plan was prepared by Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick & Partners (SWK),
consulting engineers, UK and Kenya. Organization and management studies and
recommendations for improvement were made by Public Administration Services
(PAS), management consultants, USA. All planning and studies have been
financed by the Government and carried out under the direction of the Water
Department when it was under the Ministry of Agriculture.
1.03      Bank participation and project preparation began early in 1972
when the Government expressed interest in the possibility of a Bank loan.
At that time SWK had completed a draft preliminary report on the Mombasa
water supply but additional studies were required as the basis for project
selection. Since then, Bank assistance on project preparation has been
given on a number of occasions by field missions.  Early in 1974, at the
request of the Government, KfW began considering lending for the project.
Preparation of the lending operation has involved close cooperation between
the Bank and KfW.
1.04      Field appraisal of the project was carried out during October 1974
with participation of KfW. The issues involving the water tariff required to
support-the project, the joint financing arrangement between the Bank and
KfW and the establishment of CPWB required post-appraisal visits to Kenya
and Germany in January and June 1975. The Bank appraisal team comprised
Messrs. P. Callejas, N. Tin, J. Huang, K. Challa and Ms. T. Sato. KfW was
represented by Mr. Walter Pulter. In February 1975, Mr. R. Saunders of the
Bank visited Kenya to assist with planning of a new water tariff structure
for the Coast Province.



-2-
II. THE SECTOR
General
2
2.01      Kenya has an area of 583,000 km  and a population (1974) of nearly
13 million. During the past decade, the population growth rate has ranged
between 3.3% and 3.5%. Urban population has grown at the average rate of
about 6% during that period and totaled about 12.5% (1.6 million) of the
national population by 1974. Kenya's urban growth is largely synonymous with
the metropolitan areas of Nairobi and Mombasa which in 1974 had populations
of 730,000 and 300,000, and were growing annually at about 7% and 5%
respectively. The Coast Province (Map IBRD-11481) has a population of about
one million, including about 40,000 in urban areas other than Mombasa. Annex
1 shows the population growth of Kenya, Nairobi, Mombasa and the Coast
Province. A strong rural-urban migration is predicted for the next two or
three decades - especially after 1980 as the limited agricultural land becomes
a greater constraint.
2.02      Nairobi dominates the pattern of urban growth in Kenya.  Mombasa
(and the Coast Province) is the second area of urban development.  Mombasa is
the principal port (with the largest harbor in East Africa), a railway and
highway terminus, an industrial and commercial center, headquarters for the
Coast Province administration, and the heart of the thriving tourist trade
with beaches, marine parks and nearby nature preserves. In addition to
Mombasa, the Coast Province includes the urban centers of Kilifi, Kinango,
Kwalu, Lamu, Malindi, Mariakani, Voi and Wundanyi, which range in population
from about 2,000 to 21,000 (1973). The growth of the Province, and of these
centers particularly, places a severe strain on housing and public services
such as transportation, water supply and sanitation. Urban poverty is also
a major problem.
2.03      Forecasts of future population growth of Mombasa and the Coast
Province through 1990 are shown in Annex 1. The total 1974 population of the
area served by the existing water systems in the Coast Province is estimated
at 450,000. By 1985, this population is expected to be about 730,000 and by
1990, 950,000.
Sector Development
2.04      A description of Kenya's water supply and sewerage sector is given
in Annex 2 and in paragraphs 4-7 of Annex 3. The water supply sector can be
divided into three parts as follows:
(a) urban centers (Nairobi and ten municipalities);
(b) rural centers requiring water supply systems with characteristics
(distribution facilities with service connections) similar to
those of urban centers; and



-3-
(c) other rural centers requiring systems which provide water at mostly
public standposts (kiosks) or other communal points.
2.05      In 1972 substantially all of the population living in the urban
centers had reasonable access to public water supplies. However, with the
growth of these centers (paragraph 2.01) water requirements have been increas-
ing rapidly and in many cases the development of the water system has been
unable to keep pace with demands. Both Nairobi and Mombasa have experienced
periods of serious water shortages. The average rate of water use in the
urban centers averages about 125'l/cd (28 Ig/day), a quite modest level of
consumption. It ranges from about 110 1/cd (Mombasa) to about 160 1/cd
(Thika), with Nairobi at about 140 1/cd.
2.06      Roughly 50% of the approximately 430,000 people (1974) living in
rural centers requiring urban type water supply systems (paragraph 2.04 (b))
have access to public water supply facilities. The average rate of water use
in these communities is estimated at about 70 1/cd through service connections
and as low as 10 1/cd at kiosks.
2.07      The total rural population (1974) is about 11 million.  Until
recently, comparatively little attention was paid to the development of rural
type water supply facilities (paragraph 2.04 (c)), and only about 10% of the
rural population has reasonable access to what could be considered compara-
tively safe public water supplies. However, this situation is improving
rapidly through rural water supply programs now underway (paragraphs 2.17 and
2.19).
2.08      Sewerage facilities in Kenya are at a much earlier stage of develop-
ment than water supply. The City of Nairobi has a public sewerage system
which serves 60% of its population and which is being expanded under a long-
range development program. Mombasa also has a sewerage system servinig
approximately 40% of the population in the municipality. A development pro-
gram for Mombasa sewerage is being prepared (paragraph 3.24). In the country
as a whole, only about 2% of the population, living in urban areas other than
Nairobi, have public sewerage, about 4% have septic tank facilities and 40%
make use of pit latrines. More than 50% of the population have no sanitation
facilities.
Sector Organization
2.09      The organization of the water supply sector has gone through many
changes over the past decade. However, the WD has been associated most
consistently with the development, conservation and management of water re-
sources and supplies. The recent establishment (November 1974) of the
Ministry of Water Development (MWD) of which WD is the major wing, should
improve coordination of water supply and sewerage activities.
2.10      WD has many varied responsibilities and activities.  The principal
ones are development and operation of urban and rural water supplies, tech-
nical advice to other organizations and establishment and enforcement of water



-4-
quality and pollution control standards and training. In many communities,
WD acts as the authorized water undertaker because the responsibility has not
been assigned to the local government or another agency. WD also keeps com-
prehensive records of water resources and usage throughout Kenya.
2.11      Several other ministries and agencies of Government (Annex 2,
paragraphs 4-8) are involved in the development and operation of water supply
facilities. The Nairobi City Council (NCC) is responsible for the development,
operation and maintenance of the water supply and sewerage of Nairobi.  Some of
the local Government authorities (municipalities and county councils) operate
their own water supply systems under the direction of the Ministry of Local
Government (MLG). The Ministry of Lands and Settlement executes water supply
programs for new settlement areas. The new Ministry of Cooperatives and
Social Services administers the "self-help" water schemes in local areas and
finally the Ministry of Health is responsible for water quality surveillance
from the community health point of view and also has been engaged in a demons-
tration program for rural water development.
2.12      When MWD is the water undertaker (paragraph 2.10), WD is the execut-
ing agency. As of November 1974, WD operated and maintained 96 urban water
supply systems, 70 rural water supplies and 75 institutional and other water
facilities. WD is organized on a functional basis (Annex 13, page 1) with
four main branches plus a deputy director engaged in special studies. The
branches are: Development, Operations, Water Resources and Administration.
2.13      The Operations Branch of the WD runs a formal training school for
various types of water supply and sewerage technicians. The training school
program, which started in 1970 and is assisted through the Swedish Aid Program,
is intended to cater to the needs of all the water supply and sewerage organi-
zations rn iKenya. It now has more than 100 students. The training courses
consist of six months of formal teaching at the school, followed by 27 months
of on-the-job training and is completed by a three-month review session. The
school has L-ad. reasonable success to date but should be expanded and strength-
ened to meet the sector requirements.
2.14      The organization of the sector with respect to sewerage is differ-
ent from th.t for water.  The local government agency (municipality or county
council) has overall responsibility for the development and operation of
sewerage under MlG. The formal role of WD is only advisory. In some cases,
WD acts as the agency for MLG in engaging and supervising the work of consul-
tants on the planning, design and construction supervision of sewerage;
Mombasa is an example (paragraph 3.24).
2.15      Operational responsibilities for water supply systems in the prov-
inces are handled by eight WD provincial organizations. Mombasa, unlike
Nairobi, has never operated its own water supply system. Instead, the
responsibility has been that of WD provincial organization. In the Coast
Province, WD operates and maintains a total of 23 water systems including 17
for urban areas and market centers, two for institutional supplies and four



-5-
for rural schemes. The Coast Province has a rather unique agency, the
Mombasa Pipeline Board (MPB), a statutory authority under the Ministry of
Water Development, which sells water in bulk to CPWB (paragraph 5.02 and
Annex 3, paragraph 5).
2.16      In January 1975, the Government acted to convert WD's water organi-
zation in the Coast Province to the Coast Province Water Branch (CPWB). This
is intended to strengthen the organization to the point where it should be
able to properly operate existing facilities and the proposed project. The
step was taken with the encouragement of the Bank and was based on recommenda-
tions of the management consultants, PAS. More information on this is given
in paragraphs 5.03 - 5.06 and in Annex 3.
Expenditures on Water Supplies and Sewerage
2.17      Expenditures on water development by public authorities increased
more than five-fold between 1969/70 and 1973/74, to about K6 5.75 million
annually. Approximately half was handled through WD; the remainder was
channeled through various other agencies, primarily local government author-
ities. In accordance with the aim, stated in the 1970-74 Development Plan,
of reducing water supply deficiencies in rural areas, expenditures on rural
water supplies during this period grew much faster than those on urban
supplies. Total sewerage development expenditures also grew about five-fold
to about KE 2.9 million annually.
2.18      About KE 97.4 million have been allocated to water supplies and
sewerage during the current 1974-1978 development plan. KE 73.8 million of
this (5% of all development expenditures in the public sector) is to be
spent developing new facilities. The balance is for operation, maintenance
and administration, but, this amount is not adequate according to WD, and a
WHO sector study (paragraph 2.26).
2.19      The proposed development expenditure under the current plan include
KE 52.1 million on urban water supply and sewerage consisting mostly of
augmentations in Nairobi and Mombasa. Kb 3.4 million are for miscellaneous
water development activities and Kb 18.3 million are for rural water develop-
ment programs. The dominant rural water supply program (KE 10.5 million) is
being carried out with financial assistance from the Swedish International Aid
Agency (SIDA). A Kb 2.7 million water supply program for small urban communi-
ties is being assisted by the Norwegian Aid for Development (NORAD) and a
township water supply of Kb 2.8 million is being financed by KfW.
2.20      Implementation capacity rather than financing appears to be the
constraint to the ambitious rural water supply program at this time. The
Government is having difficulty utilizing available development funds effec-
tively and the program is behind schedule. At this stage, a comprehensive
evaluation of all past and ongoing rural water projects could make a valuable.
contribution to the success of the rural program, including parts of the
proposed Mombasa project, and would provide a much better basis for preparing
future rural water investment programs such as proposed for Bank financing in



- 6 -
FY 1977. SIDA officials have shown a willingness to participate in such an
audit. The Government has agreed to arrange for a comprehensive evaluation
of rural water supply projects satisfactory to the Bank and apply the results
to its rural water programs. fhe proposed Bank loan includes US$700,000 for
the preparation of rural water supply projects and some of these funds could
be utilized for the evaluation.
Tariff Policies
2.21      Stated government polidy on water supply charges for urban systems
is that rates will cover the capital, operating and maintenance costs in the
long run. This policy has not always been implemented. However, the revenues
from urban water systems usually cover operating and maintenance costs and
debt service. Water rates in urban communities range from about KSh 2.5 to
KSh 10.5/1000 Ig. The water rates in Nairobi were recently increased from
KSh 6.5 to KSh 8/1000 Ig. A relatively uniform tariff of KSh 6.0/1000 Ig has
been maintained over the past few years in urban supplies operated by WD.
Information on the water charges in Mombasa and the Coast Province is given
in paragraph 6.09.
2.22      With respect to rural water supplies financed by SIDA, the policy
has been that water from communal water points should be free, while indivi-
dual connections are encouraged somewhat by subsidizing the connection fee.
The Government attempts to provide communal points to the poorer rural inhab-
itants and to encourage individual service connections in the better-off
areas. In practice, however, unattended communal points often break down and
many are converted to kiosks where water is sold by the 4-gallon container at
a cost equivalent to KSh 12.5/1000 Ig.
Development Constraints and Problem Areas
2.23      The 1974-1978 Development Plan provides for a relatively balanced
growth of the sector between the various types of communities. The major
problem areas which may constrain development seem to be:
(a) skilled manpower shortages;
(b)  insufficient allocation of funds for operation and maintenance; and
(c)  some overly bureaucratic procedures presently followed by various
sector organizations.
2.24      With improvements, the WD school (paragraph 2.13) should help
eventually to relieve some of the manpower problems. SIDA assistance with
the school is continuing and a sector study recently completed by WHO should
focus government and foreign assistance agency attention on the need for
expanding the training effort. The training element in the proposed Mombasa
project should benefit the whole sector; about US$350,000 of the proposed Bank
loan would be allocated to improving WD training (paragraph 5.12).



2.25      The inadequacy of funds allocated by the Government for operation
and maintenance (paragraph 2.18) is felt mostly in the rural areas, according
to WD. The situation ought to be disclosed by the proposed evaluation of
rural water projects (paragraph 2.20) and should lead to changes in fund
allocation and, perhaps, water pricing practices. The creation of MWD
(paragraph 2.09) is expected to help reduce bureaucratic constraints parti-
cularly if the WHO sector study recommendations on administration are given
due consideration.
Technical and Financial Assistance
2.26      The sector has benefited substantially from not only financial
assistance from various international aid agencies but also technical advice
and participation from international agencies such as UNDP, UNICEF, WHO and
SIDA. In particular, a National Master Water Plan is being formulated with
the help of SIDA to provide an appropriate basis for water resource alloca-
tions and development. The UNDP, with WHO as the executing agency, has been
assisting the NCC in preparing a sewerage and drainage master plan and
investigating groundwater potential. WHO also has carried out a sector study
which had considerable influence on sector goals in the 1974-78 Development
Plan, and which should help in resolving training and administrative cons-
traints.
2.27      A Bank loan of US$8.3 million in December 1970 (Loan 714 KE)
financed a new water source and other improvements to the Nairobi water supply
system. 'After a period of initial delay, this project is proceeding satis-
factorily. In addition to the physical aspects, institution building and
water tariff improvements have been important benefits from this project. A
Bank loan (1105-KE) and an IDA Credit (543-KE) for the Nairobi Site and
Service Project includes a substantial sewerage infrastructure component
which was developed as part of a sewerage master plan (paragraph 2.26).
2.28      Perhaps one of the most acute current sector problems that could
be resolved with new outside financial assistance is in Mombasa and the
Coast Province (Annex 3). The Coast Province is not well-endowed with water
resources and must rely on sources quite remote from demand centers. The
principal existing source requires a 220-km transmission main to bring water
from another province (Mzima Springs). The capacity of supply and trans-
mission facilities has grown rather slowly; no major additions to supply
capacity have been made for almost twenty years. The water system has been
overtaken by increased water requirements, which now exceed capacity during
one or more dry months of each year and require periodic rationing. The
system also is unreliable. Breaks in the main transmission line have occurred
often, reducing total supply to 30% of normal for about one to two weeks at
a time. The unsatisfactory wate"- service at present can be expected to
deteriorate further until a major new source and other improvements are
completed some three to four years hence.



- 8 -
III. THE PROJECT
Description
3.01      The proposed project would be the first construction phase (1975-
1978) of a two-phase program to improve the water supply to Mombasa and var-
ious locations along the coast north to Malindi. The project would be about
double the production and transmission capacities of the piped water supply
system in the project area, expand distribution into new locations, improve
existing distribution facilities, and better the efficiency of the water
supply operation and management of CPWB. The project also would include
technical assistance on training for WD as a whole and on preparation of a
rural water supply project for Kenya.
3.02      The project details are given in Annex 4 and the major elements are
shown in map IBRD-11481. The principal project components are as follows:
(a)  Raw Water Intake and Transmission Facilities - A control
weir across the Sabaki River near Baricho (40 km west of
Malindi), intake and pumping facilities, and twin, 0.7 km.
long rising mains to the water treatment plant near the
south bank of the river;
(b)  Water Treatment Plant - A 54,000 m /day (11.9 IMgd) treat-
ment plant at Baricho incorporating facilities for pre-
sedimenation, clarification, filtration and chlorination.
The plant would be designed for ultimate expansion to pro-
duce 72,000 m /day (15.8 IMgd);
Cc)  Treated 'Water Transmission Facilities - Treated water pumping
stations at the Baricho Treatment Plant and at Jaribuni,
about half-way between Baricho and Mombasa (a booster station
will have to be added in the future between Baricho and Jaribuni);
about 116 km of 600-mm to 750-mm diameter transmission main
south to the existing service reservoirs at Changamwe (West
Mainland, Mombasa), with about 60 km of smaller branches to
four separate locations along the coast between Mombasa and
Malindi;
(d)  Distribution Facilities - Distribution storage reservoirs,
new distribution systems at various locations along the
coastal strip and augmentation of existing distribution
mains in Mombasa;
(e)  Headquarters Building for CPWB;
(f)  Engineering Consulting Services - Engineering services for
detailed design and construction supervision of the project;
(g)  Management Consulting Services and Training - Assistance
wlth the establishment and operation of CPWB; and



-9-
(h) Technical Assistance to WD on:
(i) training for the water supply sector;
(ii) preparation of rural water supply projects including
an evaluation of existing rural systems.
Cost Estimates
3.03      The estimated total cost of the project is about KE 27 million
(US$75 million) before interest and commitment charges during construction.
Foreign exchange costs would be equivalent to about US$40 million (53%).
The cost estimates are detailed in Annex 5 and summarized below:
K-b (millions)           US$ (millions)  -
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total
Raw Water Intake, Treatment and
Pumping Facilities at Baricho        2.2    2.0      4.2      6.0    5.6     11.6
Transmission Mains, Repumping
Station and Terminal Reservoirs      4.2    5.7      9.9    12.0   15.9      27.9
Power Supply and Communication          0.3    0.6     0.9      0.9    1.8      2.7
Distribution Systems                   0.6    0.9      1.5      1.8    2.5      4.3
Headquarters Building                   0.1    0.1     0.2      0.2    0.2      0.4
Land                                    0.1     -      0.1      0.1     -       0.1
Engineering Consultants                0.8    0.5      1.3      2.4    1.5      3.9
Management Consultants                  0.1    0.1     0.2      0.2    0.3      0.5
Sub-Total                         8.4    9.9    18.3    23.6   27.8       51.4
Contingencies:  Physical               0.8    0.8      1.6      2.2    2.1      4.3
Price                  3.0    3.2     6.2      8.5    9.0      17.5
Total Cost of CPWB Project       12.2   13.9    26.1    34.3   38.9       73.2
Additional Training for Water
Supply Sector                       0.1    0.1      0.2     0.2    0.3       0.5
Preparation of Rural Water Supply
Project                             0.1    0.3      0.4     0.3    0.7       1.0
Tqtal Cost of Project            12.4   14.3    26.7    34.8   39.9       74.7
Interest During Construction on
Bank Loan                            -      1.6     1.6      -      4.5      4.5
Interest During Construction on
KfW Loan                             -      0.2     0.2      -      0.6      0.6
Total                            12.4   16.1    28.5    34.8   45.0       79.8



- 10 -
3.04      The overall cost estimates are considered to be tealistic.  They were
prepared by the engineering consultants and CPWB, based on quantity take-offs
from somae final and some advanced preliminary designs. The unit prices used
were suppliers' qz:otations and local construction costs as of January 1975.
These contract costs have been increased to estimated April 1975 base prices
by using price contingency factors of 3% for equipment and pipe supply
contracts and 4% for construction contracts for the three-month period.
3.05      Notes on the cost estimates and the assumptions used are given
in Annex 5. The allowances made ,for physical contingencies range from 5%
(some of the equipment supply contracts) to 12.5% (construction at Baricho
and all transmission construction) of the base cost. Considering the advanced
stage of design (paragraph 3.08) these allowances appear adequate. The price
contingency allowances of about 42% on construction contracts and about 252 on
supply contracts are based on the estimated rates of inflation during cons-
truction (Annex 5, page 2) and appear appropriate for this project. Consult-
ing costs are based on contracts which have been awarded to management and
engineering consulting firms. The consulting work to be carried out after
April 1975 includes provisions for some price contingencies and additional
work.
3.06      The foreign exchange components of construction and supply contracts
are based on assumptions of expected results of bidding (paragraph 3.13) and
estimates of the foreign exchange components of supplies and materials pur-
chased locally. The local costs include allowances for import duties and
sales taxes as well as business taxes on consulting and construction contracts.
These total about K?E 5.0 million or about 18% of the total costs.
Loan Amounts
3.07      The proposed Bank loan of US$35 million equivalent and the .KfW loan
of DM 37 million equivalent would cover about 67% of the total cost of the
project before interest and commitment charges during construction on the
Bank and KfW loans. The Bank loan would include about US$700,000 for retro-
active f-inancing of consulting services (paragraphs 3.08 and 5.07).
Detail Design and Construction Supervision
3.08      CPWB would have responsibility for project implementation.  A
substantial part of this responsibility has been delegated to the engineering
consultants, SWK, under an agreement for Supervision and Design dated May 29,
1973. Detailed design is well underway; bids for some critical equipment
items have already been invited, topographical surveys and testing of subsoil
and foundation conditions are nearly completed. The engineering consultants
were engaged under acceptable terms and conditions and the quality of the work
has been good. Retroactive financing from the Bank loan of 66% of the cost
of the contract (a reasonable estimate of the foreign exchange component)
since July 1, 1974 is proposed. An amount of about US$550,000 is included
in the proposed loan for this purpose.



- 11 -
3.09      During loan negotiations assurances were obtained that consultants
acceptable to the Bank and KfW would continue to be engaged to assist CPWB
in carrying out the project.
Procurement and Construction
3.10      The schedule for design, procurement and construction of the project
since February 1, 1975 is shown in Annex 6. The project would be carried out
with some 25 contracts including about 6 contracts for civil works and the
balance for the supply (or the supply and installation) of equipment and
materials. Some supply contracts would be in the form of nominated sub-
contracts. A notice giving preliminary information about the project was
widely advertised at the end of November 1974. To prevent delay in completing
the project before the 1978 dry season, invitations to bid for contracts to
supply and install treatment plant equipment and pumping equipment were
advertised in March 1975. Some of these contracts may be awarded before
the end of September 1975.  Most contracts are scheduled for award during the
period of October 1975 through about December 1976.  The project is scheduled
for completion by December 1978, although the first water production could
take place about the end of August 1978. This schedule is realistic.
Critical path type analyses would be used in project management. The Govern-
ment has agreed to have the analyses updated at intervals not greater than
three months.
3.11      Electric power for the operation of the treatment plant, pumping
station and subsidiary electical services will be supplied by the East African
Power and Lighting Company Ltd. (EAP&L). The electric power transmission
connections to the project installations would be made by EAP&L and contract
negotiations for the work are underway. CPWB will make a capital contribution
to EAP&L for the power connection. Financing of a portion from the Bank loan
is proposed and the amount of about US$1.8 million (67%) to cover the real
foreign costs is included in the loan for this purpose. The Government has
agreed that arrangements satisfactory to the Bank would be made to complete
the electric power supply as required for the project schedule at a reasonable
price.
3.12      All supply and construction contracts would be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures satisfac-
tory to the Bank; in the case of contracts jointly financed with KfW, pro-
curement procedures also would have to meet the similar KfW requirements. A
preference of 15%, or the applicable customs duty, whichever is lower, would
be applied to the bids of local manufacturers for supply contracts. A pre-
ference of 7-1/2% would be applied to bids by local firms for construction
contracts.
3.13      Foreign suppliers and contractors (probably in association with
local firms in many cases) are expected to win all of the equipment and pipe
supply contracts and the major construction contracts, although local firms
are in a fair position to be contractors or subcontractors on some civil works.



- 12 -
None of the required equipment items and pipe required for the project is
manufactured in Kenya. However, substantial amounts of material and supplies
(such as cement) would be obtained locally by the contractors. Practically
all required labor, with the possible exception of some specialized skills,
are available locally and would be obtained in Kenya by the contractors
because of cost advantages.
3.14      Tendering is underway for contracts to supply and install treatment
and pumping equipment (paragraph 3.10) and award of these contracts could have
occurred and the initial contract payments may have been made bv the date of
Board presentation. In that case, approval of the advanced contracting and
retroactive financing of contract payments up to US$100,000 is recommended.
Project Expenditures, Loan Disbursements and Closing Date
3.15      Annex 7 shows the forecast of project expenditures on an annual
basis. These forecasts were derived from the construction schedule (Annex 6)
and the consultants' expectations of progress payments made under supply,
construction and consulting contracts. The forecast expenditures on physical
contingencies are spread in proportion to the base project expenditures.
3.16      KfW would finance 100% of the foreign exchange costs of the contract
for supply of transmission pipe and 15% of the total cost of construction of
the transmission mains. The proposed allocation of the proceeds of the Bank
loan is given in Ardex 8. It is recommended that the Bank loan be disbursed
for: 1007 of the foreign exchange cost of all supply contracts other than
transmission pipe; 50% of the total cost of the contract for construction
of the transmission facilities; 65% of the total expenditures on all other
construction contracts; and 65% of the total expenditures for consulting
services, technical assistance and training.
3.17      The estimated quarterly disbursements, including the bases for the
calculations, are given in Annex 9. The estimated disbursement in the first
two quarters include reimbursement for $700,000 of prior expenditures on
consulting services (paragraphs 3.08 and 5.07).
3.18      The proposed Closing Date would be June 30, 1980.  This allows about
18 months beyond the expected project completion date for making final contract
payments and for slippage in the construction of the project.
3.19      In the event that project costs are lower than estimated, resulting
in total disbursements less than the amount of the proposed loan, the unused
balance of the loan could be used to expand the training and rural components
of the project, provided that the Government and the Bank agree that circum-
stances justify such additions. Otherwise, the unused balance should be
cancelled.
Land Acquisition and Rights-of-Way
3.20      Substantially all of the land required for the project would be
public land presently under the jurisdiction of various government ministries.



- 13 -
Transfers to CPWB would be routine and no delays or complications are antici-
pated. In most cases CPWB already has access to the land. In some instances,
however, project elements will be located on private or "trust" land; however,
MWD expects that this land will be readily acquired. Government assurances
were obtained during loan negotiations that all steps necessary to acquire
land and rights-of-way would be completed in time to allow the project to
proceed on schedule.
Sabaki River Flows and Water Quality
3.21      Available hydrological data indicates that under existing conditions
river flows and water quality would be adequate for the project during all
seasons. However, the project could be affected adversely by substantial
changes in upstream water use and waste discharges. Assurances were obtained
during loan negatiations that the Government would take sppropriate steps to
control water uses and waste discharges to assure that flows of water in the
Sabaki River at the Boricho intake are of acceptable quality and adequate quantity.
Ecological Aspects
3.22      The project is intended to eliminate the deficiencies of the existing
water supply systems in a substantial portion of the Coast Province and to
extend the services to large numbers of people who do not have adequate amounts
of safe water conveniently available from the present water system. Thus the
need for much of the population to satisfy some or all of the water require-
ment from unsafe water sources will be substantially reduced, and the incidence
and risk of diseases attributable to the lack of a good, adequate water supply
would be reduced.
3.23      At the proposed water treatment plant, sludge and filter washwater
would be returned to the Sabaki River with very little effect on the charac-
teristics of the river water expected. The consultants have determined that
salvaging chemicals from these wastes would be unprofitable. However, pro-
visions are included in the planning, plant layout and land requirements so
that concentration tanks and recycling facilities could be added at some
later date. The Government has agreed that the river would be carefully
monitored to observe the effects of the sludge discharges, and if remedial
measures appear necessary, they would be discussed with the Bank.
3.24      The increase of water supply as a result of the project would lead
to an increase in the amount of sewage. This should be no particular problem
in the.major part of the project area where population densities are low,
where very little of the population is expected to become an increasingly
serious problem. Mombasa has some sewerage, although this is poorly operated
and maintained. Because of this problem, MWD, acting as the agent of MLG, has
engaged consultants (Norconsult of Norway) to study pollution and waste
disposal for Mombasa. The study includes the marine environment in the general
area of Mombasa. The study began early in 1974, is expected to be completed
by late 1975 and would result in the recommendations for modest immediate



- 14
improvements (including detailed design) as well as a longer range development
plan. 14D expects to proceed with the immediate program in 1976 or 1977 at a
cost of less than KE 200,000. The Bank should seek the opportunity to review
the study and consult with the Government on means of implementing the
recommendations in the light of priorities and available funds.
3.25      There are plans for pollution and waste disposal studies for
Malindi which has no sewerage. Wastewater in Malindi is normally disposed of
through septic tank systems. For the most part this warks satisfactorily but
there are areas of the city near the water front where high population density
and high groundwater levels have begun to create pollution problems. The
proposed project will not contribute to these problems untill such a time as
Phase II is carried out and additional water is supplied to Malindi.
IV. JUSTIFICATION OF THE PROJECT
Water Supply Requirements
4.01      The present water supply situation in Mombasa and the Coast Province
is described in paragraph .2.28 and Annex 3 (paragraphs 35 - 38). Average
daily water requirements of the population served - up to 250,000 served by
private connections and -80,000 by communal water points in rural and low-income
urban areas - have reachsd the level of existing production and transmission
capacity (about 55,000 m /day). Capacity throughout the system is not adequate
to meet present average daily demand during one or more dry months of the year,
usually at the height of the tourist season. The limitations in supply capac-
ity are felt more in some areas than others because of the complexities and
constraints in various parts of the transmission and reticulation systems.
Supply from the main water source, Mzima Springs, is also unreliable-because
of defects in the long transmission pipe. Substantial parts of the coastal
strip do not have access to any organized water supply systems.
4.02      Present levels of water use and forecasts of future requirements
(Annex 10) appear comparatively modest and there are no indications of really
excessive use in any consumer categories. This probably can be attributed in
part to: some constrained demand due to limitations of the systems; water
which, although underpriced (paragraph 4.11), is not cheap at KSh 7.0/1,000 Ig;
and that metering, billing and collections procedures are fairly good in get-
ting payment for water used. There is a very limited amount of data and
analyses of water use by consumer categories, but indications are that average
per capita consumption through domestic service connections is about 115 1/cd
in the largest population centers. This is rather low for an area with the
climate of Mombasa.
4.03      Forecasts of future water requirements have been made in a number of
ways by the engineering and management consultants in consultation with the WD
and the Bank. The consensus as to the probable demand trend is shown in Annex



- 15 -
10 as the "Project Forecast" for average demand during the year and during the
maximum month. A forecast 10% lower is shown also. Under normal circumstances
there would be little question that the forecasts are reasonable; in fact they
might be considered conservatively low. However, uncertainty arises because
the high level of water charges to be imposed (paragraph 4.12) can be expected
to have an unpredictable effect on the rate of demand growth. If demand is
curtailed significantly by price, the proposed additional water supply capacity
provided by the project, and therefore project costs, could prove to be enough
to satisfy demand for a considerably longer period after project completion
than planned.
4.04      The project would meet the expected average water demand in maximum
months through about 1982 (Annex 4, paragraph 1 and Annex 10). A second phase,
not included as part of the project, would then be needed and would meet demand
until 1985 to 1987 when sore 600,000 people would be served, including,1.60,000
in rural and low-income urban areas. If water demand were to be 10% below the
estimates, the second phase would not be required until about 1984 and would
meet demands through 1988. A 20% demand reduction would delay the second
phase until about 1986 and it would be fully utilized in about 1990.
4.05      Other than meeting demand, the project would substantially improve
reliability by reducing the impact of Mzima pipeline failures (paragraphs 2.28
and 4.01). The project also would improve the existing distribution system
and extend distribution to areas not now served. The long transmission main
to be provided by the project will traverse areas where no public water facil-
ities exist. Various points along this line could be tapped for supplies
for future development. Another important result of, the project would be an
improvement in the efficiency of the water utility which would result in a
better use of manpower, financial and water resources.
Need for Increase in Water Supply Capacity
4.06      The importance of Mombasa and the coastal area to the development
of Kenya cannot be questioned seriously (paragraph 2.02). Continued expansion
and improvement of the port and the rail terminus is a necessity and commercial
and associated activities will develop accordingly. Tourism growth up and
down the coast, but especially in the general area of Mombasa, can hardly fail
to continue, although perhaps at a rate lower than in recent years. Major
industrial activity, such as the oil refineries and cement manufacture, also
have good growth possibilities. This growth and development will require or
attract additional people and the area's population growth rate should continue
at or only marginally less than during the past several years (5%).
4.07      All of these developments may occur at faster or slower rates than
predicted or planned but, nonetheless, appear inevitable during the next 10
to 20 years. One constraint to such developments would be an inadequate and
unreliable water supply system. Since alternative sources of water for con-
sumers are very limited, expansion of the capacity and reliability of CPWB's
system would be essential. An argument can be made that the high cost CPWB
water also would be a constraint to development, but this could apply only to



- 16 -
activities for which water costs would be more important than the advantages
of a Mombasa location. If this occurred because water charges reflected full
economic costs, then the project would have made a worthwhile contribution to
rational long-run decisions about resource allocations.
Comparison of Alternatives
4.08      The most costly elements of the proposed project are the treatment
works and, particularly, the transmission facilities. The critical factors
affecting comparable costs are location of the water source (transmission
costs), quality of raw water (treatment costs) and sufficient quantities of
water to meet demand. Over the past four years a number of alternative
sources have been studied by the consultants and WD in consultation with the
Bank. The results demonstrated that, if the forecast of water demand is
anywhere near right, the proposed Sabaki River source, or an expansion of the
existing Mzima Spring supply, would be the most economic means of meeting the
project objectives. Further study showed that the total cost of Sabaki would
be at least 10% lower than Mzima (at all discount rates greater than 10%).
Moreover, Sabaki would require smaller (at least 25%) capital investments.
4.09      Since the high water charges that would result from the proposed
Sabaki Project could have some price rationing effect, experience could show
that demand forecasts are too high. Therefore, one of the previously rejected
projects, the Pelba Scheme (A9gex 4), with less than half the capacity of
Sabaki (32,000 m vs. 72,000 m ), could prove in the future to have been adequate.
More thought was given to this possibility. However, WD's firm opinion that
the Pemba Project is unsuitable appears correct for the following reasons:
(a) it would not have sufficient capacity to reduce significantly the
impact of Mzima supply interruptions;
(b) because of the preliminary stage of planning in comparison to that
of Sabaki, construction would be completed at least one or two years
later than the proposed Sabaki Project;
(c) even if demand proved to be 20% below present estimates, construc-
tion of a new scheme (most probably Sabaki) would have to begin
within a year of the completion of Pemba. The Government is under-
standably opposed to the prospect of a large second investment
almost immediately after completion of a first project;
(d) there is no demonstrable significant economic advantage to proceed-
ing first with the smaller Pemba Scheme and then following soon
after with the larger Sabaki Scheme; and
(e) Pemba, involving a dam about 30 m high, on which comparatively
little engineering work has been done, is much more risky than Sabaki
in terms of costs and construction period.



- 17 -
4.10      The main component of the project, the transmission pipeline, cannot
be sub-divided into stages in such a way as to make any significant difference
in the initial cost. It is sized for Phase I and II of the Sabaki development,
which upon completion would make maximum use of the run-of-river capacity.
This capacity happens to be close to the estimate of demand for Sabaki water
when Phase II is fully utilized. Transmission requirements for the project
alone (Phase I of the Sabaki Program) are 75% of the ultimate capacity. Reduc-
ing the primary transmission main to 75% of capacity might reduce first costs
of pipe by 10%, would have no significant effect on construction costs and
would require the construction of a Phase II pumping station in Phase I; total
first costs would be only marginally lower and the economic cost would be
higher.
Return on Investment
4.11  3   With benefits valued at the current average water charge of KSh
1.57/m (KSh 7.0/1,000 Ig) which prevailed at the time of the field appraisal,
the internal rate of return (IRR) of the entire Sabaki program (Phases I and
II) would hardly have exceeded 2% (Annex 11, page 5). This low return
demonstrated that the tariffs were inadequate. The Government recognized
this and agreed, in accordance with its policy of not subsidizing urban centers,
to initiate an important water tariff reform in the Coast Province to reflect
long run marginal cost of water in order to avoid any further possibilities
of misallocation of resources (paragraph 6.10) 1/.
4.12      For all practical purposes, the long run marginal cost of water can
be taken to approximate the average incremental cost of Sabaki Scheme water.
The calculitions in Annex 11, page 4, indicate a price of KSh 20.6/1,000 Ig
(KSh 4.5/m ) in 1975 prices at an opportunity interest rate of 12%; with a
shadow price factor for foreign exchange of 1.30 3and for labor of 0.8, the
price should be about KSh 23/1,000 Ig (KSh 5.1/m ).
4.13      The average tariff level proposed to be reached by July 1, 19783
(about the end of the construction period) is KSh 17/1,000 Ig (KSh 3.74/m ) at,
1975 prices. It would be reasonable to require the average incremental cost
be reached by 1982 when Phase I might be fully utilized. This could be
achieved by an increase of about KSh 2/1,000 Ig every 12 months thereafter
until KSh 23/1,000 Ig in 1975 prices is reached. The Government has agreed to
implement the schedule of increases, elaborated in paragraph 6.10, expressed
in current prices as measured by the cost of living index referred to in para-
graph 6.04.
4.14      If benefits are taken to be the revenues from water sales valued at
the long run marginal cost of water of KSh 23/1,000 Ig in 1975 prices (para-
graph 4.12), and if water demand grows as forecast, the economic IRR for the
1/   The first step was taken on July 11, 1975 when new tariffs went into
effect. These are expected to yield an average of KSh 2.42/m3
(KSh 11.0/1,000 Ig) on which basis the internal rate of return for
the project would be about 4%.



- 18 -
Sabaki Scheme (Phase I and II combined) should be about 12% ("Case I" curve on
page 5 of Annex 11). However, if the benefits are valued at KSh 17/1,000 Ig
in 1975 prices, which should prevail when the project comes onstream, the
economic IRR. for the Sabaki Scheme would be about 9%. Annex 12 shows that
the economic IRR of the proposed project, i.e., Phase I without Phase II, would
be 8% under similar assumptions. While KSh 17/1,000 Ig would be below the
opportunity interest rate, net external benefits of the project, which cannot
be quantified, would make the investment worthwhile.
4.15      Annex 12 shows the results of sensitivity analyses at both KSh
17/1,000 Ig. and KSh 23/1,000 Ig. For each 10% increase or decrease in
benefits, the economic IRR would be increased or decreased correspondingly
by about 0.75 to 1.0 percentage points. Under the most pessimistic conditions,
where cost would increase by 20% and water revenues would fall 30% short of
forecasts, the economic IRR for the proposed project (i.e. Phase I only) and
Phase I and II combined would drop to about 3% and 4% respectively.
V. THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCY
The Borrower
5.01      The Government of Kenya will be the borrower.  The proceeds of the
proposed loan will be made available to and charged to the account of the
Coast Province Water Branch (CPWB), an organization which has been set up
as a self-contained accounting unit within the Water Department (WD) and re-
sponsible for operating the project. WD had been under the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) until November 1974, when it was transferred to the newly
established Ministry of Water Development (MWD).
Establishment of CPWB - Background
5,02      Overall responsibility for water supply in the Coast Province has
been shared by WD and the Mombasa Pipeline Board (MPB). While MPB owns most
of the bulk supplies and some distribution facilities in the Province, it has
maintained virtually no operating staff and totally relied on WD, as its agent,
to operate and maintain its system as well as to keep its accounting records.
WD has therefore been entrusted, through its provincial unit, with the respon-
sibility of operating and maintaining all water supply systems in the Coastal
area. The provincial unit was headed by a Provincial Water Engineer, who re-
ported to the Deputy Director for Operations at WD's headquarters in Nairobi
(Annex 13, page 1).
5.03      The provincial unit had great difficulty trying to maintain an
acceptable water supply operation and, without substantial improvements,
appeared incapable of coping with the large expansion plan for water supply
s-eams in the Province.  As a result, the Government engaged management consul-
tants, Public Administration Services (PAS), in April 1974 to review the situ-
ation and propose a suitable organization to be responsible for water supply
in the Coast Province.



- 19 -
5.04      In its reports, which were completed in October 1974, PAS identified
the various major problems which are believed to have long undermined the water
supply operations in the coastal area, namely (i) complicated and cumbersome
administrative procedures which involve many national and provincial authori-
ties; (ii) inadequate management and almost complete lack of basic useful
accounting and management information systems; and (iii) shortage of qualified
staff.
5.05      PAS recommended that the existing provincial water supply unit be
restructured and transformed intb a utility type organization, officially de-
signated CPWB. CPWB will remain an integral part of WD, but will be independent
from provincial administrations. It will be strengthened through addition of a
number of high level staff, rearrangement of operating divisions, upgrading of
staff capabilities through training and development programs, and modifications,
in the areas of accounting, personnel and procurement. While the PAS proposals
were directed by a Government decision to maintain MPB's current status as a
bulk supplier for political reasons (paragraph 5.02), implementation of the
proposals should go far in meeting the problems highlighted in paragraph 5.04.
5.06      The establishment and development of CPWB to achieve satisfactory
levels of performance is a very demanding and critical part of the proposed
project.  In January, 1975, the Government formally approved the establishment
of CPWB with the organization, authority and responsibilities recommended by
PAS. During loan negotiations the Government agreed to implement the PAS
recommendations in accordance with a timetable acceptable to the Bank. It
also agreed that CPWB, once established, would not be modified without prior
consultation with the Bank and KfW.
5.07      Under the existing contract with the Government, PAS is obligated
to assist in the implementation of       its proposals and train the key staff
for a period of three years. The core implementation team will comprise, in
addition to CPWB's personnel described in paragraph 5.09, three PAS staff,
including a Project Manager, a Finance Advisor and a Chief Operations and
Maintenance Engineer. The implementation phase of the PAS services was
started in November 1974 to avoid delays in this critical aspect of the project.
The foreign exchange component (estimated at about two-thirds) of the consulting
costs of this phase is proposed to be financed from the Bank loan. Retroactive
financing of the contract since November 1, 1974 is recommended and an amount
of US$ 150,000 is included in the proposed loan for this purpose. During the
negotiations, the Government agreed that consultants and advisors, acceptable
to the Bank would continue to be engaged as outlined above to assist CPWB.
Organization, Management and Staff
5.08      The organizational structure of CPWB is shown in Annex 13 (page 2).
It is headed by a General Manager directly responsible to the Director of
WD. CPWB will have three central divisions to be managed by respective Direc-
tors. The General Manager and the Finance Director will be assisted by their
PAS counterparts, the Project Manager and Finance Advisor. The PAS Chief
Operations and Maintenance Engineer will be responsible to the General Manager
and will have a Kenyan Deputy Chief as an understudy.



- 20 -
5.09      The Government appointed the General Manager in January, 1975.
During negotiations the Government agreed to fill the positions of Directors
and Deputy Chief Operation and Maintenance Engineer, not later than December 1,
1975. In view of the critical nature of General Manager, Director and Chief
and Deputy Chief positions, Government assurances were obtained also that the
Bank would be consulted in advance about future appointments to these posts.
5.10      The 832-man workforce of the existing provincial water supply unit
is considered a genzrally adequate number for staffing CPWB. Assurances were
obtained during the negotiations, however, that the Government and MWD would
maintain adequate staff numbers and skill levels at CPWB.
Personnel Development
5.11      Classification of jobs and positions within the CPWB, particularly
for technical and field occupations unique to water operations, is an important
first step in the development of its staff and should be initiated early in
the implementation period. Such classification would relate qualifications
to jobs performed, facilitate recruitment, clarify promotional ladders and
identify training needs. The Government has agreed that this task would be
completed by February 1976 (twelve months after CPWB's inception). CPWB is
being assisted by a personnel specialist, provided by PAS, who also works
closely with responsible Government agencies to correlate qualifications and
salary scales with Government standards.
L. 12     In conjunction with position classification, the Government would
develop CPWB's training requirements and approaches and complete a detailed
implementation plan by Februay 1976. Furthermore, the Government has agreed
that WD will expand its training facilities as necessary, to accommodate such
needs. The proposed Bank loan amount includes US$350,000 to assist WD in
improving training.
Accounting and Audit
5.13      A commercially-oriented accounting system designed by PAS would
enable preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, budgeting and preparation of accounting
information required for management purposes. Assurances were obtained
during the negotiations, that this accounting system, which will have to be
based on a pro forma opening balance sheet (paragraph 6.03), will be in
stubstantial operation by December 31, 1975.
5.14      The responsibility for auditing CPWB's accounts, as in the case of
all government entities, rests with the Auditor General. Because of the
Auditor General's already heavy commitments, the Government has agreed that
CPWB's accounts, beginning with those for the year ending June 30, 1976, would
be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and that such
accounts together with the auditor's report, would be submitted to the Bank not
later than six months after the close of each fiscal year. The Government
has3 agreed that appointment of the auditors would be made at least six



- 21 -
months before the end of the fiscal year.
Billing and Collection
5.15      All meter reading is by CPWB and is normally done monthly.
Approximately eighteen thousand water accounts in the Mombasa area are
presently being billed and collected by the Finance Division of CPWB. In
addition to these accounts, there are some two thousand accounts in a number
of outlying district areas where billing and collection is by the respective
district administrations. Collections in these districts are transmitted
directly to the Provincial Commissioner's Office and do not pass through the
Mombasa Revenue Office, even for accounting purposes. This arrangement for
billing and collection is obviously unsatisfactory. Billings have been two
months behind and collections have also been slow.
5.16      PAS has recommended that all billing and collection responsibilities
for the entire Coast Province be entrusted to the Finance Division. The Govern-
ment approved this change and CPWB is ordering new billing and account posting
equipment to strengthen billing capabilities. Assurances were obtained
during the negotiations that billing would be brought up-to-date by
September 1, 1975 and maintaired on a current basis in the future.
5.17      The funds collected from billings and other charges are passed on to
the Treasury. MWD, and CPWB in turn, depend upon government allocation bud-
gets for operating funds. This arrangement has proven adequate in the past
although subject to some procedural delays. In order to provide CPWB with
adequate funds, assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Govern-
ment would establish a revolving bank account for CPWB and would deposit, or
allow CPWB to retain from collections, amounts sufficient to meet cash require-
ments for operational and maintenance purposes for not less than one month
following.
Relationships between CPWB and MPB
5.18      MPB is hardly more than a paper organization (paragraph 5.02) and
there are strong operational and financial arguments for combining CPWD and
MPB. However, for political reasons, the Government has decided to retain
MPB. This decision is acceptable since it does not have any predictable
adverse effect on the project, provided there are certain agreements between
MPB, the Government and CPWB.
5.19      The bulk water supplies of MPB are critical to the Coast Province,
where they will provide almost all of the water until the commissioning of the
project in late 1978. These supplies, being the least expensive, will also be
essential to the successful financial operational of CPWB once the project
comes onstream. For these reasons, the Government has agreed that CPWB would
continue its present status as a priority purchaser of NPB's bulk water at
agreed prices and that MPB facilities would be properly operated and maintained.
Furthermore, in accordance with its expressed desire of maintaining MPB as a
going concern, it is incumbent on the government to assist in consolidating
MPB's precarious financial position discussed in paragraph 5.20.



- 22 -
5.20      NPB is not expected to be able to meet balloon loan payments of
about KE 3.7 million which are currently due. During negotiations the
Government confirmed that it would either refinance or arrange to reschedule
these loans on appropriate terms (paragraph 6.13).
5.21      Aside from its bulk water supplies, MPB also owns a number of water
distribution systems valued at KE 0.70 million (depreciated replacement values).
PAS has proposed, and the Government has agreed that these distribution systems
will be transferred to CPWB by June 30, 1975 (paragraph 6.04) together with
related outstanding debts of MPB.  This was confirmed during negotiations.
Insurance
5.22      There is not defined policy for insuring CPWB property against loss
or damage, other than self insurance as a Governtnent agency and automotive
insurance. During implementation of the project all procurement and construc-
tion contracts would include provisions for insurance against losses and risks
in shipment, installation and construction.
Project Monitoring System
5.23      Various indicators for monitoring project implementation, CPWB
operations and developments pertinent to CPWB (Annex 19) have been agreed with
WD. These would be included in the requirements for CPWB's periodic progress
reports to the Bank and RfW. Many of these indicators would be used to compare
actuals with the assumptions and forecasts on which project appraisal is based.
Others are intended to provide an improved basis for future planning.
VI. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Introduction
6.01      Examination of the finances of CPWB has been seriously constrainted
by the lack of reliable basic data. The financial information and projections
presented in this report have been based on PAS' best efforts and many assump-
tions, and will have to be closely monitored and revised as the project
develops, since they would inevitably affect the proposed project financing
and tariff policy.
Past Operating Results and Financial Position
6.02      CPWB's pro forma income statements for the two years ending June 30,
1974 have been constructed by PAS and summarized below:



- 23 -
KE Thousand
Year Ending June 30                       1973        1974
Operating Revenues                         776         875
Operating Expenses
Water Purchases (from MPB)               634         700
Operation and Maintenance                248         262
882        962
Operating Income (Losses)
Before Depreciation                     (106)        (87)
Depreciation                                46          46
Net Income (Losses)                       (152)       (133)
It should be noted that the above revenues and expenses figures were extracted
from accounting records of MOA and CPWB, which required certain corrections.
These figures show that CPWB experienced cash losses totaling about KE 200
thousand for the two years ending June 30, 1974.
6.03      Since the CPWB's accounts have not been kept on an accrual basis,
it has not been possible to construct a true balance sheet for CPWB. Never-
theless, PAS has compiled a list of assets and, with assistance from SWK, has
assessed the gross and depreciated replacement values of these assets as of
mid-1974, which constitute the following CPWB's pro forma balance sheet as of
June 30, 1974.
Pro Forma Bafance Sheet as of June 30, 1974
Assets                                                   K*L Thousand
Gross Assets in Operation                                  2,666
Less:  Accumulated Depreciation                            1,400
Net Assets in Operation                                    1,266
Accounts Receivable                                           24
Total Assets                                 1 ,290
Equity and Liabilities
Equity                                                     1,228
Customer Deposits                                             62
Total Equity and Liabilities                 1,.290



- 24 -
6.04      The above is considered acceptable as an opening balance sheet for
CPWB. PAS has also proposed, and the Government has agreed, that those water
distribution systems which presently belong to MPB (currently valued at about
Kb 0.7/million after depreciation and listed on page 5 of Annex 17) should be
transferred to CPWB. In return, CPWB should take over a portion (estimated
at KE 450 thousand) of MPB's outstanding debt, which is directly related to
these distribution systems. It was agreed during the negotiations that, for
accounting purposes, such transfer was effective June 30, 1975. Furthermore,
it was agreed that all fixed assets would be revalued annually based on a
cost of living index 1/ Mto take into account rising assets replacement costs.
Financing Plan
6.05      The financing plan for the six year period 1974/75 through 1979/80,
which is extracted from the detailed fund flow projections shown in Annex 15,
is as follows:
1/   An average of the following:
(a) Wage earners' index of consumer prices, as published in the Kenya
Statistical Digest;
(b) Middle income index of consumer prices, as published in the Kenya
Statistical Digest; and
(c) Cost of living index (excluding rent), as published in the Kenya
Gazette.



- 25 -
Million   Million      %
Application of Funds-
Proposed Project                               26*.7L     74.8     75
Interest During Construction                    2.4        6.7      7
Total Construction Cost                29.1      81.5      82
Increases in Working Capital                    6.6       18.5     18
Total Applications of Funds            35.7     100.0    100
Sources of Fund/
Proposed IBRD Loan                             12.5       35.0     35
Proposed KfW Loan (DM 37 million)               5.4       15.0     15
Proposed Government Contribution                8.8       24.8     25
Total Borrowings                       26.7      74.8      75
Internal Cash Generation                         11.7       32.8     33
Less:  Debt Service                               2.7        7.6      8
Net Internal Cash Generation                      9.0       25.2     25
Total Sources of Funds                 35.7     100.0    100
/1 Excluding any expenditures and financing for Phase II of the project (see
Annex 15).
/2   Includes 0.2 million for preparation of a rural water project and
additional training which may not be chargeable to CPWB.
6.06      Under the financing plan the project would be entirely debt-financed,
but interest during construction and a working capital increase would be met
by internal cash generation. The proposed IBRD and KfW loans, of US $35 mil-
lion and US $15 million equivalent respectively, will provide about 50% of the
financing required. The Government will provide about US$25 million equiva-
lent which is about 25% of the financing required. The balance of the
financing required, which amounts to US$25 million equivalent or 25% would be
provided from CPWB's net internal cash generation. This financing plan is
acceptable.
6.07      It has been assumed that the proposed IBRD loan to the Government
will carry an interest rate of 8.5% for a period of 25 years, including five



- 26 -
years of grace. The proposed KfW loan would have a 2% interest rate and a
term of 30 years, including 10 years of grace. For accounting and financial
forecasting purposes, the Government contribution is treated as a loan with
interest at 6.5% for 25 years, including 5 years of grace, which are the
prevailing conditions for Government loans to municipalities. The KfW loan
and the Bank loan would be mutually effective.
6.08      The financing plan has also been based on the assumptions on bulk
water purchases from MPB and tariff increases, as elaborated in paragraphs
6.10 and 6.13.
Water Tariffs
6.09      Water tariffs, which vary across the Coast Province, have not been
sufficient to cover operating expenses (paragraph 6.02) in the past. While,
until recently, charges for metered water ranged up to KSh 2.30/m  (KSh 10.5/
1,000 Ig) in Gedi/Watamu, metered water consumption in most of3the urban
centers, including Mombasa, was billed at a rate of KSh 1.53/m (KSh 7.0/
1,000 Ig).3 CPWB also supplies water to a number of kiosk operators at
KSh 1.32/m' (KSh 6.0/1,000 Ig), who in turn retail at KSh 0.05 (the smallest
coin) per 4-gallon tin (KSh 12.5/1,000 Ig).
6.10      The Government has recognized the need for increased tariffs to
ensure CPWB's financial viability and to reflect the average incremental cost
of water supply in the Coast Province, which, in the aria to be served
ultimately by the project, is of the order of KSh 5.1/m  (KSh 23/1,000 Ig) at
1975 prices (paragraph 4.12). Consequently, the following 7-step tariff
adjustment plan was proposed:
Average Water Tariffs
3975 Prices              Cirrent Prices/1
K Sh/m  (K Sh/1,000 Ig)  K Sh/m  (K Sh/1,000 Ig)
Step 1:  By July 1, 1975         2.42 (11.0)            2.42  (11.0)
Step 2:  By July 1, 1976         2.86 (13.0)            3.25  (14.8)
Step 3:  By July 1, 1977         3.30 (15.0)            4.21  (19.2)
Step 4:  By July 1, 1978         3.74 (17.0)            5.26  (23.9)
Step 5:  By July 1, 1979         4.18 (19.0)            6.46  (29.4)
Step 6:  By July 1, 1980         4.62 (21.0)            7.15  (32.5)
Step 7:  By July 1, 1981         5.06 (23.0)            7.83  (35.6)
/1   Assuming inflation rates in paragraph 6.11.



- 27 -
This plan was agreed during negotiations. The Government has implemented the
first step by effecting the water tariff schedule given3in Annex 18.  The new
taSiffs are designed to charge a lower rate, KSh 2.42/m , for the first
9m /month, a reasonable level of water use at domestic connections in the soast
Province, and to achieve ihe desired average tariff by charging KSh 2.60/m
for monthly use above 9 m . Detailed water revenue data will be the basis
for identifying necessary adjustments in the structure of each subsequent
step to increase average tariffs. Also, at each step the estimates of average
incremental cost may be reviewed and the average tariff to be achieved may
be adjusted, with the approval of the Bank and KfW.
Future Operations and Financial Position
6.11      The Projected Income Statements and Balance Sheets for the years
1974/75 through 1983/84 are shown in Annexes 14 and 16. The assumptions for
these financial projections are given in Annex 17. It should be noted that
all fixed assets have been revalued annually on the basis of the cost of liv-
ing index mentioned in paragraph 6.04, which has been estimated to increase
by 15% in 1974/75, 14% in 1975/76, 12% in 1976/77, and 10% in 1977/78 and
1978/79. Thereafter, prices are assumed to remain constant. Unaccounted-for
water is assumed to remain at about present average level of 21% of production.
6.12      During the project construction period ending in 1978/79, the income
Dro1ections indicate that gross operating revenues after a 3% allowance for
uncollectibles would increase more than fourfold, from an estimated KE 1.2
million in 1974/75 to about KE 4.6 million 1978/79. Internally generated cash
would increase from less than Kb 0.2 million in 1974/75 to Kb 3.1 million in
1978/79. While the price elasticity of water demand cannot be accurately
assessed, it is quite conceivable that, with tariff increases as proposed in
paragraph 6.10, the overall water consumption would be lower than projected
and, as a result, CPWB would not be able to meet its estimated contribution of
25% of the financing plan. Therefore, Government assurance was obtained during
negotiations that it would provide additional funds required to cover any
shortfall and to enable CPWB to operate and maintain its facilities properly.
6.13      The estimated operating expenses have been based on a Government
proposal that CPWB will continue to purchase all bulk water available from
NPB's sources at a flat rate of KSh 0.88/m (KSh 4.0/1,000 Ig), which would
amount to a total of about Kb 770 thousand a year (paragraph 5.19).
6.14           It has also been estimated that operating expenses, exclusive of
water purchases from MPB and depreciation, would amount to about KE 275 thou-
sand in 1974/75 and would increase by not more than 15% annually during the
construction period. This is considered reasonable because CPWD will continue
to operate mainly as a water distributor during this period and future expan-
sion of its distribution systems will be very limited due to the fact that pre-
sent bulk water supplies soon will be fully utilized. However, operation and
maintenance would have to be monitored closely during the construction period
to assure that needs are being met with due consideration for economy.



- 28 -
6.15      Because CPWD is essentially a government department and the test of
water rate adequacy is meeting a rising long-term incremental cost, the
conventional rate of return, debt-equity and debt service analyses are valuable
mainly to illustrate how, with the agreed tariff policy, CPWB would be
financially viable if independent and will contribute to, rather than require
assistance from, Government funds. The financial projections show that with
the 7-step tariff adjustment plan implemented (paragraph 6.10), CPWB would
earn between 12.7% and 25.2% on its revalued net operating assets once the
project is in oper&oion. It should be noted that these figures are inflated
because CPWB buys Mzima water at an artificially low price of KSh 4/1,000 Ig.
If it were priced at a more appropriate KSh 11 or 12/1,000 Ig, the rate of
return would be in the order of 12%.
6.16      Since the project is entirely debt-financed, CPWB debt-equity ratio
(equity being exclusive of revaluation surplus) will increase from 43:57 in
1974/75 to 79:21 in 1978/79, when the project comes onstream. This ratio will
improve slowly in the following years to 78:52 in 1983/84. CPWB is projected
to have ample debt service coverage ranging from 2.3 in 1980/81 to 3.3 in
1983/84.
6.17      Since little is known about water demand elasticity, and thus
revenues, particularly when the water rates are raised close to the long-term
incremental cost, a conventional rate of return is required to ensure a
minimum level of financial viability. It was, therefore, agreed during the
negotiations that, without limitation upon the tariff increases in paragraph
6.10, the Government would adjust the tariffs as to enable CPWB to earn at
least 8% in 1979/80 and 10% thereafter on its revalued net fixed operating
assets. With these minimum returns, CPWB would be able to finance about 80%
of the financing requirements during 1979/80 - 1983/84, enjoy a debt service
coverage of at least 1.5 and accumulate a cash balance of about KL 2.5 million
at the end of 1983/84 (equivalent to 80% of CPWB's operating expenses for that
year).
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations the following issues were raised with the
Government and agreement or assurances satisfactory to the Bank and KfW were
obtained that:
(a)  the proposed Bank and KfW loans would be mutually effective (para-
graphs 1.02 and 6.07);
(b) the Government would arrange for a comprehensive evaluation of rural
water supply projects and apply the results to the rural water pro-
grams (paragraph 2.20);
(c) engineering consultants acceptable to the Bank and KfW would con-
tinue to be employed for detailed design and construction supervision
of the project (paragraph 3.09);



- 29 -
(d) the critical path analysis of the construction schedule would be up-
dated at intervals not greater than three months (paragraph 3.10);
(e) appropriate arrangements would be made to assure that EAP&L's power
supply would be provided for the project as required by the project
schedule (paragraph 3.11);
(f)  all steps necessary to acquire land and rights-of-way would be com-
pleted by the Government in time to prevent project delays (para-
graph 3.20);
(g)  the Government would take appropriate steps to control water uses
and waste discharges to assure minimum flows of water of acceptable
quality in the Sabaki River at the Baricho intake (paragraph 3.21);
(h) the Sabaki River would be monitored to observe the effects of waste
discharges from the treatment plant and the Government would consult
with the Bank about any proposed remedial mRasures (paragraph 3.23);
(i) the development of CPWB would be carried out according to a schedule
to be agreed with the Bank (paragraph 5.06);
(j) changes to the organization of CPWB would be made only after consul-
tation with the Bank and KfW (paragraph 5.06);
(k) management and financial consultants and advisors, acceptable to the
Bank,would continue to be employed to assist CPWB to improve
management and operations to satisfactory levels (paragraph 5.07);
(1) the posts of general Manager, Division Directors, Chief Operation
and Maintenance Engineer and the Deputy Chief would be filled by
December 1, 1975 and that the Bank would be consulted in advance
about future changes (paragraph 5.09);
(m)  the Government and MWD would maintain adequate staff numbers and
skill levels at CPWB (paragraph 5.10);
(n) a thorough classification of all CPWB jobs and positions, identifica-
tion of recruitment and training requirements and the preparation of
an appropriate training program by WD would be completed by February
1976 (paragraphs 5.11 and 5.12);
(o)  a commercially oriented accounting system for CPWB would be in sub-
stantial operation by December 31, 1975 (paragraph 5.13);
(p) the appointment of independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank,
would be made not later than six months before the end of the
fiscal year and the annual auditor's reports and financial statements
would be sent to the Bank within six months of the end of the
fiscal year (paragraph 5.14);



- 30 -
(q)  all billing and collection responsibilities relating to CPWB opera-
tions would be fulfilled by CPWB and all billings would be brought
up-to-date by September 1, 1975 and maintained on a current basis
thereafter (paragraph 5.16);
(r)  CPWB will maintain a working capital fund adequate to meet operational
and maintenance requirements for not less than one month following
(paragraph 5.17);
(s)  agreements satisfactory to the Bank and KfW, would be made between
the Government and MPB that CPWB would continue the status of
priority purchaser of MPB water at agreed prices, that MPB facilities
would be properly operated and maintained, that the Government would
refinance or reschedule MPB debts on suitable terms and that existing
MPB distribution facilities would be transferred to CPWB with any
related outstanding debts (paragraphs 5.18, 5.20, 5.21 6.04 and 6.13);
(t)  all fixed assets of CPWB would be revalued annually on the basis of
a specific cost index (paragraph 6.04);
(u)  Bank and KfW loans would be passed on to CPWB, and the Government
would provide all additional funds required to complete the project
and operate and maintain the facilities, (paragraphs 6.06, 6.07 and
6.12);
(v)  an agreed timetable for water tariff increases would be followed.
(paragraph 6.10); and
(w)  without limitation on the above, CPWB would earn an annual rate of
return on net fixed assets in operation of not less than 8% in
1979/80 and not less than 10% each fiscal year thereafter (para-
graph 6.17).
7.02      A condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan is that the KfW
loan agreement has been duly authorized or ratified and executed.
7.03      With the foregoing agreements and assurances, the project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$35 million equivalent for a term of 25 years
including a five year period of grace.
September 15, 1975



KENYA
MOMBASA & COASTAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT                                                  ANNEX 1
Population Trenids & Forecasts
50.0                                                --
1.0
ELEGEND:
-j
-J                  0 CENSUS DATA                                                                            -      @ 4B5%/yr.
z                   * CURRENT ESTIMATE
0~
1.0
or
0.5
0.1                      .   /                                                      . 
1940                   1950                    1960                   1970                    1980                    1990
YEARS
World Bank-9807






ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 6
KENYA
MOMBASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
The Water Supply and Sewerage Sector
Current Status of Water Supply and Sewerage
1.        At present, approximately 87% of all the population in Kenya
requiring urban water supplies are provided with such service and about 9%
of those requiring rural water supplies have the desired water facilities.
Practically all the people in Nairobi, the other 10 municipalities and the
other urban centers, and approximately half the population in centers
designated as 'rural centers', have access to safe water supply. The projected
numbers of people requiring urban and rural water supply schemes in the next
two decades are as follows:
Projected Distribution of Kenya's Population 1!
(millions)
Requiring Urban Water Schemes Requiring Rural Water Schemes 3!
Total     Urban      Rural                          (by Potential)
Year    Population  Centers   Centers 2/   Total  High          Medium    Low   Total
1972      12.1        1.2        0.3            1.5    5.1        3.2     2.2   10.5
1974      12.9        1.4       0.4             1.8    5.4        3.4     2.4   11.2
1980      15.9        1.9       0.8             2.7    6.3        4.1     2.8   13.2
2000      28.1        9.2        2.0           11.2    8.1        5.5     3.3   16.9
1!  WHO Sectorial Study National Programming for Rural Community and Rural
Water Supply, Sewerage and Water Pc.llution Control, Report #2, May 1972,
Brazzaville.
2/ Rural centers believed to require water supply schemes with characteris-
tics very similar to those in urban areas, and hence are classified
as needing Urban Water Schemes.
3/ Rural areas in Kenya are classified into 'high', 'medium' and 'low'
potential areas according to their agricultural potential.



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 6
The following table shows the population actually served by safe water supplies
in 1972:
Requiring Rural Water Supplies
Requiring Urban Water Supplies                     (by potential)
(thousands)                             (thousands)
Urban Centers
(Nairobi and 10    Rural
Region    Municipalities)  Centers    Total         HgRh   Medium   Low    Total
Kenya         1,191            146      1,337        485    203      245      933
(100%)  I!     (41.7%)    (86.52)    (9.6%) (6.3%) (10.9%)   (8.9%)
Coast
Province        286             30        316         27     28       36       91
1! Percentages of population served under each classification are given
in parentheses.
The per capita water consumption of people served by individual connections
varies from nearly 140 l/cd in Nairobi and the Municipalities to about
50 1/cd in many rural centers, and less than 25 1/cd in most market centers.
2.        Sewage disposal facilities in Kenya are at a much earlier stage of
development.- About 2% of the population living in urban areas other than
Nairobi have public sewerage facilities; about 4% have septic tank facilities
and 40% make use of pit latrines, while 51% of the population have no sani-
tation facilities. The City of Nairobi has a public sewerage system that serves
60% of its population.
3.        In general, the water pollution problems in Kenya are not serious.
The most important contributors to water pollution are the coffee and sugar
industries, and the urban areas. The first steps towards enforcing industrial
effluent quality standards are now being taken by the Government.
Sector Organization and Management
4.        The organization of the water sector had gone through many changes
over the last decade. Although the Water Department (WD) of the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) had been associated most closely with the development,
conservation and management of water supplies, several other ministries,
autonomous agencies and committees have had important roles to play in the
sector. Their responsibilities ranged from advisory (on matters such as
water resource allocation) to actual operation of water supply and sewerage
schemes. The recent creation (in November, 1974) of the Ministry of Water
Development (MWD) of which WD is a major wing, is expected to help better
integration and coordination of all water and sewage related matters. However,
the details of the reorganization and the exact role of MND has not yet been



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 6
exactly defined. It is still dependent on administrative services provided
by MOA, both centrally and in the provinces. The personnel, finance, procure-
ment and office sertIices are major constraints to the growth of MWD's activities.
5.        The activities of WD are many and varied.  They include:
(a) development, operation and maintenance of urban and rural
water supplies;
(b) technical advice to other organizations administering water
supply and sewerage schemes such as the local government
authorities, settlement area cooperatives and self-help
cooperatives;
(c) implementation of special programs such as the Water
Conservation Program, formulation of a National Master
Water Plan, a training program, land reclamation, drainage
and minor irrigation; and
(d) enforcement of water quality and pollution control standards
throughout Kenya.
WD acts as the authorized water undertaker in all cases where such an authori-
zation has not been assigned specifically to the local government authority
or another agency. To support WD Director's role as the technical advisor
to the Water Apportionment Board (the nation's water resources allocation
authority). WD also keeps comprehensive records of water resources and the
usage throughout Kenya, and updates them on the basis of continuing ground-
water and surface water surveys.
6.        Several wings of the Government other than MWD are involved in the
development and operation of water supply schemes. The most important of
them are: the Nairobi City Council (NCC), which develops, operates and
administers water supply and sewerage schemes to serve the needs of Nairobi;
some of the local government authorities (Municipalities and County Councils)
which, under the direction of the Ministry of Local Government (MLG), operate
their own water supply schemes; the Ministry of Lands and Settlement which
executes water supply programs for the newly formed settlement areas; the
Ministry of Cooperatives and Social Services which administers the "self-help"
water schemes in rural areas; and the Ministry of Health which had in the past
been engaged in a demonstration program for rural water development and also
has the responsibility for water quality surveillance from the community
health point of view.
7.        The responsibility for development, operation and maintenance of
sewerage schemes throughout Kenya falls entirely under the jurisdiction of
the respective local government authorities under MLG, but they receive
assistance from WD in the form of technical advice, supervision of consult-
ants and supervision during construction. MLG has considerable control over
the financial matters of the local government authorities in this context.



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 6
8.        The siater supply and sewerage sector has benefited substantially
from not or,ly development assistance programs from various international
aid agencies, but also technical advice and participation from international
agencies such as UNDP, UNICEF, WHO and SIDA. Close cooperation with these
agencies is expected to continue in the yeats to come. In particular, a
National Master Water Plan is being formulated with the help of SIDA to
provide an integrated rational basis for future water resource allocation
and development activities. The UNDP, with WHO as the executing agency, is
assisting the Nairobi City Council in preparing a master plan for sewerage
and drainage develOpment.
Allocation of Public Authority Expenditures on Water
Supplies and Sewerage Development During 1969-74
9.        Expe&eiditures on water development by public authorities increased
more than five-fold between 1969/70 and 1973/74, from approximately Kb 1.0
million to about KL 5.75 million. Approximately half of these development
expenditures were channeled through WD; the remaining were channeled through
various other wings of the Government - primarily the local government
authorities, including NCC. In accordance with the aim, stated in the 1970-
74 Development Plan, of reducing the deficiencies in rural areas with respect
to water supplies, development expenditures on rural water supplies during
this period grew much faster than those on urban water supplies. Total
sewerage development expenditures grew during the same period from approxi-
mately KE 0.6 million to about Kb 2.9 million.
The Proposed Ivestment Program over the Next Development Plan Period (1974-1978)
10.       About Kb 97.4 million of public expenditures have been allocated to
water supplies and sewerage during the current development plan. Approxi-
mately Kb 73.8 mil lion of this is expected to be spent on development of new
water supply and sewerage facilities, the remaining Kb 23.6 million being
for operation, maintenance and other administrative expenses. This total
expenditure is a.;pected to be offset by revenues from water and sewerage
amounting to only about Kb 24.8 million, implying a net public expenditure of
KE 72.6 million. Budgeted expenditures allocated for water supply and
sewerage development during the plan amount to approximately 5% of all the
development expenditures in the public sector during the 1974-1978 plan.
11.       The proposed development expenditures during the 1974-78 Develop-
ment Plan include approximately KE 18.3 million expected to be spent on rural
water developLieuc programs, about Kb 52.1 million on urban area water supplies
and sewerage (consisting mostly of augmentations to the Nairobi and Mombasa
Water Supplie3), and about Kb 3.4 million for miscellaneous water development
activities such aa training of personnel, water conservation programs, the
National Kas3ter .azer Plan and establishment of a new WVater Quality and
Pollution Control Section. Included in the investment program are:
(a) a large zural water supply program costing KE 10.5 million
and baia.- financed by the Swedish International Aid Agency
(S IA);



ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 6
(b)  a minor urban water supply program costing KE 2.7 million and
financed by the Norwegian Aid for Development (NORAD); and a
(c) Township Water Supply (to serve municipalites) costing
Kh 2.8 million and financed by the Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau (KfW).
Tariffs and Financial Viability
12.       The stated Government policy with regard to pricing of urban water
supplies has been that urban rates will be established on the basis of full
recovery of capital, operating and maintenance costs in the long run. This
policy has not always been implemented in the past; however, the revenues
from urban water supply schemes typically cover the operating and maintenance
costs plus any debt service payments required. The water rates charged by
NCC were increased from K Sh 6.5/1000 Ig to 8.0/1000 Ig on March 1, 1975;
water rates in the municipalities operating their own supplies vary between
K Shs 2.45 to K Shs 10.5/1000 Ig, while a relatively uniform tariff of
K Shs 6.00/1000 Ig has been maintained over the past few years in urban
supplies operated by WD.
13.       With respect to rural water supplies financed by SIDA, the policy
has been that water from commuinal water points should be made available free,
while individual connections are encouraged by subsidized connection fees and
a monthly flat rate per connection depending on ability to pay. It is the
Government's intention to provide communal points to the poorer rural inhabit-
ants, particularly in low potential areas, and to encourage individual connec-
tions in high and medium potential areas.
14.       NCC had enjoyed financial surpluses in recent years on its water-
supply and sewerage operations; this is expected to be used to finance part
of required augmentations. The rates charged by WD are normally sufficient
to provide a revenue in excess of the operation and maintenance costs of
its schemes, but usually do not cover the depreciation and debt charges or
capital requirements for expansion. Those of the Municipalities that operate
their own water supplies generally earn revenues enough to meet the operating
and maintenance expenses, interest and principal repayment obligations. In
contrast, the County Councils have more serious financial problems, their
revenues often falling short of the operating and maintenance costs.
Constraints to Development and Problem Areas
15.       The 1974-78 Development Plan aims for a fairly balanced growth of
the sector in the sense that rural, major urban and minor urban water supplies
are all being paid due attention within the constraints of expected develop-
ment funds. The relatively large emphasis placed on rural water programs
during the previous Development Plan is expected to continue. The major
problem areas in this sector are seen to be:



ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 6
(a) a shortage of skilled manpower of all types and levels that
could severely restrict the implementation capacity of new
development programs;
(b) a disproportionately small allocation of funds for operation
and maintenance of existing schemes (relative to amounts allocated
to new development programs) which may lead to considerable
inefficiencies and breakdowns (operation and maintenance alloca-
tions are based on uneqcalated 1973 prices);
(c) lack of overall planning and coordination; and
(d) some overly bureaucratic procedures presenty followed
by the various organizations in this sector.
May 1975



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 8
KENYA
MOMBASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Existing Water Supply Systems and Operations
Background
1.        The Coast Province covers about 83,000 km , or one-seventh of the
total area of Kenya. Its population in 1974 is estimated at roughly one
million - one-twelfth of Kenya's total. Many of the Coast Province inhabit-
ants are concentrated in urban areas, particularly Mbombasa, Kalifi, Malindi
and Lamu along the coast (IBRD Map #11481). Because of a warm climate and
an abundance of excellent beaches, tourism along the coastal strip, from
the Tanzania border northeast to Malindi, has grown rapidly in recent years.
2.        Mombasa is the principle seaport of Ketya.  The municipal area
compri.e Mombasa Island, the North Mainland, the South Mainland and the West
Mainland. The business center is on the Island which is linked to the North
Mainland by the Nyali Bridge and the West Mainland by a causeway. There is
no physical connection between the Island and the South Mainland. The North
and South Mainland areas are primarily residential at present, except for
a considerable number of tourist hotels along the beaches. Industrial and
commercial activities center on the port and its allied facilities, oil
refineries, a brewery, a cement plant and a variety of light industries.
For the most part these are located on the Island and West Mainland.
3.        A draft Mombasa Physical Development Plan was produced by the
Ministry of Lands and Settlement in July, 1971. While this has never been
put into a form to channel development and control land use, it is used as
one basis for planning infrastructure such as water supply development.
4.        Water supply responsibility in the Coast Province has been divided
among the following Government agencies:
(a) The Mombasa Pipeline Board (MPB);
(b) the Water Department (WD) of the Ministry of Water
Development (MWD), through its Coast Province
Section; 1/
(c) the County and District Councils under the Ministry
of Local Government (MLG).
1/   In January 1975 the Government acted to convert the provincial section
to the Coast Province Water Branch (CPWB).



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 8
5.        The MPB, a statutory authority created by ordinance in 1958, is
the principle supplier of bulk water to Mombasa and other areas in the Province.
MPB retails some water through direct connections to the transmission mains.
However, most of the MPB water is purchased and distributed by WD.
6.        The municipality of Mombasa might, like Nairobi, be expected to
operate its own water supply and distribution system but never exercised
such authority. Instead, pursuant to the Water Law (adopted as an ordinance
in 1951 and continued as a statutory instrument after 1963) MPB and WD have
supplied Mombasa with water. The application of the Water Law in the Coast
Province has permitted the construction and operation of water systems
which benefit not only Mombasa but also other areas. WD operates and
maintains about 23 "gazetted" water systems throughout the Coast Province -
17 for urban areas or market centers, two for institutional supplies and
four for rural areas.
7.        County or District Councils have constructed, operated and main-
tained a number of "non-gazetted" schemes. These are generally minor water
installations based on boreholes and with a minimum amount of distribution.
Technica1-assistance on these minor schemes is sometimes obtained from WD.
Water Supply Sources and Transmission Facilities
8.        The coastal area of Kenya is not well-endowed with water resources
in spite of the fact that the country's two largest rivers, the Tana and the
Galana-Sabaki enter the Indian Ocean through the coastal strip. Low rainfall,
extended periods of draught and resulting water shortages have been charac-
teristic of the area for centuries. Ground water potential appears to be
comparatively low and surface water sources are considerable distances from
the centers of population and require extensive transmission systems.
9.        The existing water sources, areas served and average production in
the 1973/74 fiscal year are shown below for the major public water supplies in
the Coast Province:



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 8
FY 1973/74 P5oduction
Area Served                     Water Source                 Average m /day
A.  Mombasa                     Mzima Springs and                38,400
Kalifi, Kinango, Kwale,    Marere Springs
Likoni, Mariakani,
Mazeras, Mazeras-Jeribuni,
Tezo-Roka and Voi
B.  Malindi & Gedi-Watamu        Sabaki River & Boreholes         1,800
C.  Wundanyi                    Voi River                           160
D.  Garsen & Hola               Tana River                          290
E.  Kikoneni                    Mkandi River                        100
F.  Tavela                      Boreholes                           220
G.  Lamu, Mokowe & Miambweni   Wells                                470
Total                                                 41,440
Notes: (a) Production figures are approximate due to incomplete records.
(b) Figures for areas D & E represent capacity of new or expanded
source works during the last part of the year.
10.       The sources of supply used by the County Councils are all rather
small and marginal compared to overall supply in the province. Little or no
proper records are kept by the Councils atid for this reason these supplies
are omitted above.
11.       The principal water supply sources are Mzima Springs in the Tsavo
West National Park and Marere Springs in the Shimba Hills, south of Mombasa.
Water from each source is fed to Mombasa by gravity. The Marere pipeline,
build in 1916, is 41 kms long and made of cement mortar lined steel 3ipes,
300 mm to 400 mm in diameter, with a flow capacity of about 10,450 m /day
(2.3 IMgd).  RScent improvements are expected to increase reliable output to
about 15,900 m /day (3.5 IMgd) as discussed in paragraph 30.
12.       The pipeline from Mzima Springs to Mombasa, completed in 1956, is
219 kms long. It was constructed of pre-stressed concrete gipe, 535 mm to
760 mm in diameter. Its design capacity was about 36,400 m /day (8.0 IMgd).
The difference in level between the beginning and the end of the pipeline
is some 505 m (about 1600 ft.), this head being broken by 10 strategically
placed break-pressure tanks. Since this construction, many problems have
plagued operation of the Mzima pipeline. Initially it proved impossible to
balance the flows between the break-pressure tanks, and ad3ustments had to be
made that restricted flow to Mombasa to less than 27.300 m /dav. By 19723
alterations hai been completed which increassd capacity to about 36,400 m /day;
about 33,650 m /day to Mombasa after 2,750 m /day is withdrawn for sale enroute.
Over the years, frequent pipeline breaks have occurred due to pressure surges
and defective and deteriorated pipe. Perhaps the worst period was 1971 when
there were several breaks. A project to strengthen the Mzima pipeline has just
gotten underway (paragraph 29).



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 8
3
13.       About 230O m /day is abstracted from the Sabaki River to supply
Malindi anrd the Gedi-Watamu areas.  Without impounding storage, water abstrac-
tion at this point on the Sabaki River is restricted to about this am unt by
very low dry weather flows. The Voi River is a source of about 330 m /day
of water for Wurdanyi in the Taita Hills. Other small surface water abstrac-
tions are made for Garsen from the River Tana and for Kikoneni from the
Mklandi River.
14.       Ground water sources are used only to a limited extent by the
public water systems in the Coast Province (paragraph 9)3  Outside the Mombasa
area, the most ground water used is 3at Lamu, up to 400 m /day and for the
Malindi-Gedi systems, up to 1,150 m /day.
15.       The coastal strip south of lombasa has been estimated to have a
groundwater capacity of up to 9,100 m /day provided that abstractions are  3
c-areful-ly. contr4lle&to avoid salt water- intrusion--problems.  About--2,700 m f
day of this are to be used to supplement the Marere Springs source (paragraphs
11 and 30). A groundwater source at Nyali on the NSrth Mainland produces
brackish water and is used in amounts up to 1,400 m /day only when necessary.
Almost all other groundwater use in the Coast Province is by private dwellings,
industries and institutions. In spite of the investigations of ground water
potential made to date, moi!e work is required to assess the entire ground-
water resource. There are very limited possibilities, however, that a signif-
icant portion of the water needs along the coast could be met from ground-
water. Its major potential would be in outlying areas and as a means of
meeting shor_-terni peak demands.
i6.       Population not served by the public water systems use streams,
ponds and dug wells, many of which are dry during parts of the year. Bore-
holes (tubewells) are used by some private dwellings and housing developments,
hotels and industrial establishments which do not have access to the public
systems or ao supplementary sources. However, groundwater is not reliable
in quantity and quality (excess salinity) in many cases.
Treatment and Quality of Water
17.       The wa:er from Mzima Springs and Marere Springs requires little or
no treatment other than chlorination for disinfection. The Mzima Springs
water comes through a lava flow and is diverted underground to the pipeline.
This water is clear and of almost perfect composition, including 1.0 mg/l
of fluorides. lts quality varies very little over the year.
18.       The Marere Springs water requires only pH correction and chlorina-
tion for most of the year. However, for up to two months each year during
the wet season, the water can become slightly colored and is treated by a
sedimentation process.
19.       The treacmenc plant on the Sabaki River at Malindi consists of
vertical flow, sludge blanket clarifiers followed by rapid sand filtration.
During the dry s_asoa the plant operates satisfactorily, producing about



ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 8
1,900 m /day. The only problem during the dry season is channeling the river
flow to the treatment plant inlet.  During flooding periods the silt load in
the raw water becomes excessive, overloading the plant and reducing output
to about 550 m /day. During 1974 two presedimentation tanks were added for
use during periods of flooding. With these and heavy alum dosing, the reduc-
tion in capacity does not occur. WD reports that experimentation with the
modified plant is continuing with the objective of making the chemical usage
more efficient and to serve as a pilot plant for the new project which will
be taking water of similar quality from the Sabaki River.
20.       Other sources requiring treatment are the river water sources on
the Tana River for Garsen, on the Mkandi River for Kikoneni and on the Voi
River for Wundanyi (paragraph 13). The treatment works comprise horizontal
flow sedimentation and rapid sand filters. These are very conservatively
designed and operate efficiently with little trouble reported.
21.       The quality of treated water from all sources is said to be very
good although laboratory equipment and qualified staff for analyses is very
limited. There is very little, if any, analysis of water in the distribution
system.
22.       All chemicals used for treatment are generally purchased for the
whole country by the Ministry of Works through a Central Tender Board. WD
submits an annual estimate of total requirements to the Ministry of Works
whb in turn go to tenider for the supply on an annual basis. WD then requisi-
tions its required chemicals from the Ministry of Works at regular intervals.
Distribution and Storage
23.       The Mzima pipeline terminates as service reservoirs at Mazeras which
have a total storage capacity of 80,000 m . The Marere Springs transmission
main discharges into the Changamwe service reservoirs which have a total
active storage capacity of 39,600 m . A connection from the Marere pipeline
delivers water to a 1,100 m service reservoir at Kaya Bombo, and from there
water is distributed to various parts of the South Mainland. From Mazeras
Reservoir water is conveyed through twin 550-mm diameter pipelines to the
service reservoirs at Changamwe. One branch from these twin pipelines conveys
water to outlying areas (Map IBRD-11481) at Ribe, Kaloleni, Dzitsoni, Jaribuni
and Kalifi. A second branch delivers water to the North Mainland at Nguu
Tatu and several coastal areas north of Mombasa between Nyali and Mtwata
Creek.
24.       The West Mainland is mostly served by a ring main connected to the
twin pipelines linking Mazeras and Changamwe Reservoirs. Mombasa Island is
supplied from Changamwe Reservoirs by way of twin trunk mains running across
Makupa Causeway.



ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 8
25.      Tfhe existing system of water supply from NPB sources is intended
to be measured with bulk water supply meters installed between the transmission
facilities aiid the distribution networks. However as additional connections
were made to the transmission network some important bulk meters were never
installed. Others have a history of malfunctioning and finally there are
opportunities for water to bypass bulk meters through the complicated networks
of piping. For these reasons there are many deficiencies in the data on water
production, water use and unaccounted-for water.
26.       Studies of unaccounted-for water through leakage and other causes
produced very unreliable results, because of the production data deficiencies;
in some areas unaccounted-for water appeared to be below 5% of production,
which 3,s completely unrealistic. Therefore, for the purposes of designing
the new project, assumptions were made; for the most part these range from
16% to 21% of production.
27.       TEhe consulting engineers have estimated the carrying capacity of the
primary dietribution systems in each of the principal distribution areas.
This analysis indicates that demand on substantially all of the primary
distribution neLworks reached the capacity of the networks in about 1974 and
that any further increases in supplies would require strengthening of the
networks.
28.      .IThe total capacity of existing bulk storage reservoirs is about
120,000 m'>, whlich amounts to approximately 2.2 Simes the reliable production
capacity of the existing system (about 55,000 m /day). Considering the
long transmission facilities and particularly the weaknesses of the Mzima
transmission pipeline, storage of this magnitude does not appear excessive.
There is no eignificant storage within the various distribution networks.
lmprovements and Expansions Other Than The Sabaki Project
29.       A number of improvements and additions to the existing water supply
systems havre been completed recently, are underway or are planned for the
near futuwe irn addition to the proposed Sabaki project. The largest and most
important project is the renewal of about 16 kms of the Mzima transmission
pipeline at an estimated cost of between KL 1.5 and 2.0 million. The contract
for the supply o-fv pipe was recently awarded for about Kh 1.1 million including
about 73% foe_gL exchange. The schedule calls for pipe installation to begin
in August or September 1975 and be completed in August 1976. While this
project should remove the most serious pipeline weaknesses, others will remain
and interruptions in service will continue to occur, although less frequently.
30.        Aro-.aveme.its tQ increase the capacity of the Marere Springs pipe-
line to abou_ 15,900 m3/day were recently completed with the addition of a
booster putiIping station on the main line and a development of alternative



ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 8
sources - three boreholes and a small intake and treatment plant on the Pemba
River (paragraphs 11 and 15). Recently completed improvements to the Malindi
treatment plant are described in paragraph 19.
31.       A considerable amount of work on rural water supply schemes has
been done in the Coast Province since the beginning of 1971 under the SIDA
financed Rural Water Supply I and II programs. These involve works in five
districts (Lamu, Tana River, Kalifi, Ywale and Tailta/Taveta) intended to
serve populations totalling 49,000. Under the Rural Water Supply III program
a sum of KE 660,000 is allocated to rural projects in the Coast Province
which would serve a rural population of about 60,000.  Planning is at a very
early stage for schemes to supply four additional areas with a total popula-
tion of about 80,000. External financial assistance for these has not been
arranged.
Service Connections, Kiosks and Mletering
32.       Service connections totaled about 23,000 as of January 1975.  The
average annual increase in connections during the last few years has been
about 500. Substantially all connections are metered. Although meters are
purchased annually on the basis of competitive bidding, most in use at present
are the products of a single foreign manufacturer 1/ which assembles and
supplies new meters through a company in Kenya. A program to convert existing
service meters to metric units, or to replace them, was begun about three
years ago and should be completed during 1975. All meters are the property
of the water utility and the customer pays a monthly rental fee.
33.       The condition of service meters appears to be good generally.
Obviously faulty meters seem to be reported promptly by meter readers or
customers and replaced within three months. There is no evidence of signifi-
cant intentional damage to meters.
34.       The metered service connections include more than 100 kiosks (public
street hydrants) from which water is sold by the four-gallon container. Some
of the kiosks are located on Mombasa Island and the balance are in the rural
areas.
Operating Difficulties
35.       As noted previously (paragraph 12), the outstanding difficulty in
the operation of the water supply system of the Coast Province has been the
lack of reliability of the Mzima Springs transmission main.  The project to
renew parts of this main (paragraph 29) will reduce this problem. Other
less spectacular but important difficulties exist. Efficient operation of
water treatment facilities is hampered by the lack of qualified technical
staff and basic laboratorv equipment. This results in either increased
1/   Kent of the U.K.



AN'NEX 3
Page 8 of 8
operating costs or reductions in the quantity and quality of water produced.
Maintenance needs improvement; at present it is weakened by deficiencies in
the organizational set-up, management and staff and by shortage of spare
parts. And finally, the water supply headquarter facilities (presently located
in parts of the Ministry of Work's Provincial Headquarters in Mombasa) and
communications system, including transportation, are completely inadequate
for the development of a strong, well-integrated water supply organization
capable of handling the widespread facilities in the Province.
Extent and Quality of Water Supply Service
36.       The total 1974 population of the area served by the existing water
systems has been estimated by various sources at from 400,000 to 500,000.
Of this, 200,000 to 250,000 are believed to benefit from water service con-
nections. An estimated 70,000 to 80,000 are believed to use water purchased
at kiosks. The balance of the population uses water from streams and ponds,
shallow dug wells and private tube wells (paragraph 16).
37.       Since the mid-1950's, when the Mzima Springs project was commissioned,
overall water production capacity has grown rather slowly compared to the
population but seems, fgr the most part, to have been adequate to meet the
growing average daily needs of the area. Exceptions occurred in locations
not connected to the main systems; for example, in Kalifi until a connection
was completed recently and in Malindi until a new water source was developed.
Since the early 1970's, however, average daily requirements during one or
more months of the year have exceeded supply capacities and some rationing
has occurred. More serious shortages have occurred as a result of fairly
frequent breaks in the Mzima pipeline which have resulted in reductions of
supply to 30% of normal for as long as 11 days.



AINNEX 4
Page 1 of 6
KENYA
MOMBASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Project Description
General Design Aspects
1.        The project is designed to add about 54,000 m /day of production
capacity by late 1978.  With this addition the total capacity os the water
systems serving Mombasa and the Coast Province (about 100,000 m /day) is
expected to be adequate until about 1982 or perhaps as late as 1984, depend-
ing on the trend of demand (Annex 10)3  The project is Phase I of a two-phase
program. Phase II would add 18,000 m Iday to production capacity and should
go into operation by the time Phase I capacity is fully utilized.
2.        The project comprises surface water abstraction from the Sabaki
River near Baricho, a water treatment plant, pumped transmission facilities,
storage reservoirs, distribution networks, a headquarters building for CPWB
in Mombasa and a telecommunications system required for CPWB operations.
The principal details of the physical components of the project are given
in tabular form at the end of this annex.
3.        In 1971 the Water Department (WD) of the Ministry of Agriculture,
with the assistance of consulting engineers (Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick &
Partners), initiated an investigation of all possible water sources in the
Coast Province with a view to meeting water demand until 1990. Subsequently
the goal was scaled back to 1985. By 1973, five alternative water sources
for the Coast Province had been examined in some detail. The four most
promising alternatives were as listed below with the estimated capital costs
(1972 prices) of abstraction, treatment and transmission components only:
(a) Pemba River Dam augmentation of 7 IMgd at KE 6.3 million;
(b) Mwachi River Dam augmentation of 11 IMgd at KE 10.0 million;
(c) Sabaki River augmentation of 16 IMgd at KE 12.6 million; and
(d)  Mzima augmentation of 16 IMgd at Kb 16.8 million.
4.        During the course of a Bank preappraisal mission at the end of 1972
the alternatives were short-listed by eliminating (a) and (b). 1/ A detailed
comparison between the two remaining alternatives, Sabaki and Mzima, was made
1/   See paragraph 4.09 re Pemba.  The Mwachi project had many of the same
disadvantages plus a higher unit cost for water than either Sabaki or
Pemba.



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 6
at the end of 1972 and revised in consultation with another Bank preappraisal
mission in June 1974. These investigations established that Sabaki has only
a very small advantage over Mzima as the least cost method of meeting the
Coast Proe~ince water requirements until the mid-1980's. However, Sabaki
requires a nuch smaller initial commitment in the form of capital costs.
In view of thk. financing constraints and of the considerable uncertainties
about the future demand, Sabaki is clearly preferable.
5.        Two further alternatives were considered during the course of
project planning; groundwater and desalination of sea water. To date,
groundwater investigations in the most promising areas of the Coast Province
indicates that this source could meet only a small part of the needs of the
public water systems. Even then, groundwater use has to be carefully moni-
tored as there is considerable risk of salinity problems. M4ost of the
estimated groundwater resources are on the coastal strip south of Mombasa
and some are already being used as part of the public water systems and by
residents who do not have access to the public systems.
6.        Desalination of sea water was investigated but proved not to compare
either economically or technically with the other alternatives. Construc-
tion and operating costs would be high compared to the other alternatives.
A major obstacle would be the need for highly qualified technical operating
personnLel.
7.        The comparison of the Sabaki Scheme with other alternatives did not
take into account some probable benefits. For example, within a few years
ialindi is extweeted to have to draw water from the Sabaki River, a consider-
able distauice upstream from its present water supply intake. The Sabaki
project provides for a connection to Malindi in Phase TI which the other
alternati-ecs did not include.  Thus, the cost of a new water treatment plant
and transmisslon main for Malindi could have been added to the cost of the
other alternaLives to make them comparable.  Another benefit is that the
Sabaki project's transmission main provides water supplies for areas a
considerable distance north of Mombasa. The cost of transmission facilities
to these areas also could have been added to the other alternatives.
8.        Tle consultants compared four sites for the intake on the Sabaki
River. T'he Baricho site chosen offers the best location for the intake, raw
water pump house and treatment works.  Foundation conditi ons, with rock
present at shallow depths, are good. Ground profiles and levels are satis-
factory. River channel and valley widths are minimal and the channel form
and alignment are favorable to the operation of an intake. The proposed
control structure is at a point on the river where the required regulation
of water-lerels caun be simply achieved, and where the foundations and con-
structlon of thre control weir and ancillary structures can be carried out
with no par- :icular construction problems.



ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 6
9.        On the basis of hydrological information currently available, the
estimated maximum dry weather extractlon from the Sab ki in the area of the
intake, without impounding is 3,000 m /hour (72,000 m /day) of treated water.
This assumes a 5% loss through th5 plant (sludge and filter wash water) under
dry weather conditions. 72,000 m /day happens to be close to the estimates
of demand to be met from the project during the maximum months in about
1984 to 1986, depending on the demand estimate. Long-range planning includes
the possibility of upstream impoundment on the Sabaki and therefore the
layout of the proposed treatment plant (Phases I and II) and the land acquisi-
t9on is intended to facilitate ultimate development of the project to 6,000
m /hour. However, none of the project facilities are to be constructed to
accommodate that capacity.
10.       During flood conditions, when suspended solids in the raw water are
extremely high, plant losses are estimated at up to 20% (10% in presettlement,
5% in the clarifiers and 5% in the filter wash)3of the water extracted from
the river.  Thus, to maintain output at 3,000 m /hour, raw water3and pre-
sedimentation facilities are designed with a capacity of 3,600 m /hour. The
hydraulic capacit3 of some conduits in the treatment plant are to be designed
for up to 4,500 m /hour to permit ample scope for upgrading of plant capacity
on the basis of operating experience and experimentation. It is hoped that
this experience will permit the treatment plant to operate above designed
capacity and defer or reduce the need for Phase II treatment components.
11.       The standard base for water supply design is average daily demand
(tetal annual demand divided by 365). In the design of this project two
other bases are used: peak month demand which is the average daily demand
in the maximum month; and peak hour demand which is the largest volume of
water required in a 60-minute period during the year. Analysis of operating
data from the existing water supply systems in the Coast Province led to the
adoption of various peak month factors (peak month demand compared to average
daily demand) for the different parts of the area to be served by the CPWB.
These factors range from as low as 1.075 up to 1.30; the weighted average
is about 1.15. These factors are reasonable.
12.       There are no records for use in determining the peak hour factors
although some experimental work was done during the course of project pre-
paration. The consultants first recommended a peak hour factor of 2.5 times
the average daily demand, but subsequently, in consultation with the WD,
reduced the factor to 2.0. This factor is consistent with design practice
generally but eventually may prove to be somewhat low in some areas.
13,       The peak month demand in 1984 or 1985 has been used as the basis for
design of the raw water, treatment and primary transmission facilities. Dis-
tribution mains are being designed on the basis of the peak hour demand in
1990 at a minimum pressure of 10 to 12 meters of water. Bulk storage facilities
at the end of the primary transmission main for Mom1asa Island and the North
Mainland are designed on the basis of 1.5 times average daily demand in 1978
for Plhase I and in 1984 for Phase II. Existing and proposed new bulk storage
at the end of the subsidiary transmission lines is designed at 2.5 times



ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 6
average daily demand in 1978 (Phase I) and 1984 (Phase II). I/ There are no
special provisions in terms of capacity for fire fighting. Heavy demands for
fire fighting would occur for limited periods and the detrimental effect on
customer service would normally be understood and tolerated. Design of the
system for peak demand plus fire flows would add considerably to costs and is
not considered justifiable at this time.
14.       The above design bases (paragraphs 9 - 13) are considered as reason-
able with due consideration for economy on the one hand and reliability inl
meeting physical project objectives on the other.
15.       A number of components of the project contain elements with more
capacity than strictly needed for the iumediate objectives of the project.
This is particularly true of hydraulic components and buildings (such as at
the treatment plant and pumping station), where the engineers have concluded
that it would not be physically feasible or economic to make additions or
construct parallel facilities for the next construction stage.
1/   About 70% of the bulk storage requirements for Phase I already exists.
The equivalent of about 0.6 average daily requirements would be included
in the Project.



K E tl Y A
64d1ASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Project Descriotion
Project Ele-ent                                                            Description                                                                                    Rmsark.
1. Bav, Water Pacilities
h)  Intake and Control Structure              - A low, concrete, fined weir, containad between training walls on each river bank,    - Weir would control low and tedius flows up to absot b-nkfull  taget . maintaining
with concrete dosteem  apron, approach apron, sheet pile cut-off and acour                  minivans water level differential of 1.0 to 1,5  .
control at river banka.
- Higher flows vill pass through control structure as vell as over left bank flood plain.
-Design of intake and control structure tested by model study at Hydraulic Research
Station, Wallingford, England.
- A gated flushing aluice at right (south) bank training wall for flow regulation           - Moveable framne would peonsit sluice gate to be folded back against training wall as pro-
and local sediment control.                                                                 tection during flood flows.
- Longitudinal slot-shaped intake oPenings at different elevations in south bank
training wall adjacent to flushing sluice.
- Intake conduits to channels at pump sUep.
b)  Raw Water Psasping Pacilities              - Short collector channels fron intake cond,lts, equipped with inclined. mnasually          - Sated capacity of raw water psumping station would be 2,700 m3/hour (65,000 m3/day) with
cleaned coerse bar racks and 5 sn gap fine screens or band screens.                         1 large unit and I stall unit in reserve at each psumping stage.  Capacity alloe  for up
to 201 loss of raw water with sludge remsoval and filter washing at treatment plant.
- 8ubhesrsible psmps in somp behind south training wall, punPing to 6 horizontal            - Phase I} rated capacit would be 3,600 m3/hour (66,500 .3/dey).  Station structures
booster p-ups in station on river bank above flood level,                                   adequate for addition   large unit each psmping stage.
- Subsersible pusps - Low lift                                                              - split-lift arrangement specified.  Alternative tenders for single lift stubmersible or
2 @ 900 e3/hour with 45 horsepower notors                              vertical wet-well poutps invited.  Fial aelection would be based on coeparative costs of
6 @ 360 a3/hour with 30 horsepower notoro                              equipment, structures and capitali.ed operating costs.
H.io.   m 2Bse900 I3/hour with 240 horsepower sttors                          - Total head about 60 st
- 2 @ 720 m3/hoor with 190 horsepower mot..
2 @ 360 n3/hour with 95 horsepower notors
c)  Raw Water Transmission Mains              - Twin 0.7 kh  long, 600 ta diameter rising stains fran raw water pumping station            - Duplicate -ain  required to prevent sedimentation in pipeline over range of flows in
to water treatoent plant.                                                                   Phases I and II.
I. Baricho Water Treatment Plant
- Plant capacity for mcaximus  sostafined r1liable output wo.uld be 2,250 .3/hour           - Soue hydraulic cuponents and ateucturss in Phase I would have excess capacity to accomo-
(54,000 a /day) in Phase I and 3,000 a /hour (72,000 st3/day) when Phase II                 date the Phase 1I expansion to 3,000 a /hour.
is completed.
-Certain internal channels and conduits would have additional excess capacity tor opera-
- Descriptions of treatsent plant elements which follow are subject to change                 tional  flexibility and to facilitate upgrading treaitment eponsos ou the basin of
after specific treatment processes and equipenet are selected from tenders,                 operations experience and plant scale experimentation.
based on performance specifications.
a)  Pre-settle-ent Tanks                      - 6 rectangular tanks for Phase I with 2 hour detention time for total influent              - Provisions -ade for 2 additional tains in Phase II.
of 2,700 03/hour.
- Facilities for chemical dosing (polyelectrolytes) and rapid mixing at influent.           - Two amaJl balancing tanks with flaw  controllers may be required at influent to level-not
changes in rate of flw ifrom raw water pmps.
b) 'Clarifiers                                 - Number, size and type of units to be based on proposal of succersful tenderer.            - Capacity assumes naxisou  of 101 water loses in clarifier sludge withdrawal and filter
- Specified influent capacity of 2500  3/hoor.                                               .washing under high turbidity conditions.
- Provisional surface loading rate 1.5 m3/m2/hour.
- Coagulation with almin- sulphate with provisions for addition of sadiun
carbonate.
c)  Filters                                   - e rapid gravity fil .er with air/water backwashing and with total output                   - Previsional filtration rate 7.5 ./hour based on coal/sand dual media,
capacity of 2,250 m/hoour.
- Duggested o.a.e t media is coal now being irported and which tests show to be satisfactory
- Declining role filtern preferred, but alternativen invited.                               -     Control valvs to be manually operated.
d)  Chemicals                                 - Plant would include facilities for storing. preparing and feeding alum, lime,
polyslectrolyte coagulant aids, and chlorine
- Storage capacity would be adequate for 2 stotho supplies at design capacity.
e)  Ai.iitrtio and S Ice Buildings    - Administration Bulding                                                                               Admin4ro  tice Officen             - Storeo (workshop and general)
and Sttl Sfousing                                                                                                                     -Cnrlra                                  lorcl'0
C.tr                                E.-.tri.a
L.b.erat.ry   -hl.ri,carotin and chlorine st.reg
W-.rkshops                         - Transmission pumping eq oipegt at
- Chemical house                                                                            - Storage pr-pasrtior and dosing fac-iltjro  for alt rh_nicals except chlorine
- Staff housing



UVfA
2IJWAA  AlM  COABTL_ATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Pro1ect De.cription
ProIect ElUsent                                                               Dercription                                                                                      Rarks
III.  Toanitsm2ioc Pacilitiee
5> owoolwiwon P.wpiw.2 OStation          _ 1fluowt c.. foI  Io M flltez  wich  0.Ao,iatiou poist.                                       _ rdted treeroiccioc ptsoiof oupuotty for Phee I would be 2,250 n3/hopo with 1 lerge colt
atDricho                                                                                                                              in --re.v
t  Baffled p-up sunp of about 1200                                                               i
- f sd-- Ow   total pomping bead, rxclsrive of st.tlon  lose. , e boot 197  N2 Foca head
6  flood opted p-pspe        tZI   3h.       t                                                 abost 170so
- 2 ci ZIZ m3lhuou  with 275 horceeprweor motors.phate II c2p2city O  3.000  3!bow                                                  th t'cG
2 tt 12O  c3/1ho_r atth 1400 hr..powee motors.                         otation at Old Forest Cap.
- Pu,pa nsy be eithcr v-rtical or ho-i-otol split case unite.
-       ;poor provided for inftoliatio- of futrc  trmissonoo  Pumpr for M.liodi.
- Stotioc in-loder 2 filt-r caoFw-tor psp. at 250 m31ho_r _cpcity.
S)  Trooemvsiclo  oR^vwltrfg sto_on          - 300  m3 Er_o b-fore bolacn,t  tools.                                                           R.ted tra.cni-i.on copoeity for Phase I could be 2,250  31hour.
at Jaribuni
- ' fi-rd ^p-cd P-,=,-                                                             - Marimom to,tal plopiog head, .lcoiv-  or  tOt;oo  aos       T," olOUt  O8 m   - Oos-l  -ocking head
- 2 at 212 .3/hour with 85 horsepower otores.                            about P5 n.
-2 at 424 m3Lhour vith 170 hotrep-er -etors.
- 2 at 1060 * /hoor vith 420 go-repower  otoes.                       - 5pace provided for fostere additions of 4 paesps.
- Operator's Quarters
c)  Matn Tran=ission Piptline                - 550. 650, 700 and 750 com diaseter pipe sith total Ieogth about 106 he.                     - Alternative tenders would be received on caent tortar lined And wrapped 01001 pipe
prestressed eoerect. pipe sod du-tile iron pipe. Asbestos comment and PMC pipes may
- line valves and swabbing points at about 5 koi i-tervalo.                                     be euncidered for lower vorking pressures.  Steel or doetlle  roc pipe  ou.ld be used
- Air valves cnd coah.ots as required by profile with (rpproxe  3 p0r2  m) .on all b.- ground and str                                 sroosing  setions
d)  S-coodory (Br.och) Pipelines             - About 60 h  of bra-ch lines to 4 locations along ceset betwec Mbeasa
and Malindi:
- about 22 ?nn 200 and 250  a diceoter l0ne to lotoke snd Kilifi.              - Fr KltfiI/Tee-Rokl  area.
_ nboot 13 Isa of 150 ccd 200 am diameter line to Mevoeni end Bon.             - For Mavu;nl,/Tskesngsu area
-b04t 17 kh  of 250 see diameter line to  Jbeoni.                            - pr Mtpap/Vipingo ore.a
_ about 9 kh  of 400 IslO    dia neter line from Ltoer Ribi ThSnk to
resorvoir eat Ng.u Tat                                                       - For era on nainland north of Mbsa.
e)  Bce.k-pcaasure Tanks rnd                    Preioore redocing valve at take-off to Skooe.                                               - Eni.ting s1nal (2 at 10o so3) tanks at Sokoke to be ctilized as break-pressure tonk  n
Preosure Reducing Velves                                                      wf  Kilifi line and storage te-sko fcr Teo-Psuke ares
- Pressure reducing valve at lake-oi'f to M-vueni.
- Mavueni break-preaeu-e tank (2 at 200 r3).                                                  - This tank also serves as -eergenny storage for T.kancgu area  end would be Of round re-
icforced concrte conetruction.
- Pressure reducing valve at take-off to Ubeoni.
f)  Pipeline Road.                           - About 120 kh  of road sing asic pipeline  -ute and sase parts of branch lines.               - Required for .enstrnctio, of pipelines wben. no rotds or serviceable tracks eni.t.
-Aftsr conetruntion, reads required is hr ret-toead for pipeline oueinteneeoe purposes and
for .nnose to psepieg stations, tanks and valve cha-bers.
_ Mtinly unsurfaced but ewme gravel surfacd and sae. bitunan-ss 2s2rfced.
IV.   LomRes Reservoirs                             - Rilift Rsonunir at 3.600  3.                                                                _ Additiucal itsk to be added Phase II.
-- g     Reseryoir at 1,440 e3.                                                               - Additior l tank to bh  added Phase 11.
- Ubeoni Reservoir at 2,650 in3.                                                              - Additional tank to be added Phase II.
- Ribi Tack at gvO o3.                                                                        - Pio  balancing tank.
- Mguu T.tu Reasevoir at 18,000 sO3.                                                             There are esieting tanks at this site  hich would re-mae in serice.  A. additional
tank wowld be added Phase I0.
Operators q-nt-ers nod ohllria.tion fusIlittiec.                                              All reservoIrs to be ecicar p-eetrenOrd e.c.rete cnetructin, and tanks to be R C.
V. Di.tribhtiln
a)  Monb.s Ialecd and Nooth                    - Aboct 90 kh  of pipe lOO an te 650 an  diaster,  includiog valves and                        - 671 of pipe in 150 -a tu 300 an dianeter sse.
Mainiend Ii tcribtios                      floeeters
b)   ililfi end TSes-P. -k Aboct 50 kU of pipe 100 -n to 200 as diter, inc-ldigo waive, wod fl-cot.ters                                      - l           -olodec ocoll -aLount of 50  s pipe.
c)  M-vueni (M-ani /Takrungo                   - Abowt 95 ku of pipe lOO = to 300 an diarne_cr, i-luding valves  and fionnatera.              - l1lodoc . nall -1 ocntr of 75 as cod 400 -a pipes.
and Ubaoni (Mnwapu/Vipicge)
V.  1tevdouartees  Sutdiog                          - N ccv pert r nt hovdqwortcnu too tIc toots v-q t   t    W ter fronc-  bo.ated in   nhooW .r - i -on-odiMoA -P-- ryw our   wbill hr  ee cted    tegrnoldg of ooprn trut te
2hA   P-nv     attt        in being designed and 1o-trtid. 
leo August 1, 1975



ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 2
KENYA
MOMBASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Cost gstimates
KENYAN POUNDS (thousands)                     US$ (thousands)
Local      Foreign                          Local       Foreign
DESCRIPTION                    Currency   Exchange      Total              Currency   Exchange        Total
Supply and Supply &.Install N'ontracts
Pumping Equipment                                  55        311        366                   150          870      1,020
Treatment Plant Equipment                          90         359       449                    250       1,010      1,260
Electrical Equipment                               61        245        306                   170          690        860
Valves (supply only)                               49         148       197                   140          410        550
Bulk Flowmeters (supply only)                       3          18        21                     10          50         60
Transmission Pipe (supply only)                 1,483      3,460      4,943                 4,150        9,690    13,840
Distribution Pipe (supply only)                   156        467        623                   440        1,310      1,750
Comaunication Equipment                            5B        236        294                   160          660       820
Subtotal                               1,955       5,244     7,199                  5,470      14,690    20,160
Construction Contracts
Intake, Treatment Plant and
Pumping Stations at Baricho                  1,958       1,154      3,112                 5,480        3,230     8,710
Transmission Mains, Repumping Station
and Terminal Reservoirs                      2,729       1,976      4,705                 7,640        5,530    13,170
Distribution Construction                         492        414        906                 1,380        1,160      2,540
Headquarters Building                              91         61        152                   260          170       430
Subtotal                               5,270       3,605     8,875                 14,760      10,090    24,850
Electric Power SUPPlV 1/                            244        413        657                   680        1,160      1,840
Land l/                                              40          -         40                   110          -          110
Contingencies
Physical                                          777        768      1,545                 2,180        2,150     4,330
Price                                           3.029      3.217      6.246                 8.480        9,010    17.490
Subtotal                               3,806       3,985     7,791                10,660       11,160    21,820
Engineering Consulting
Design                                            343        272        615                   960          760      1,720
Supervision                                       492        274        766                 1.380          770     2.150
Subtotal                                 835         546     1,381                  2,340       1,530      3,870
Management Consulting                                87         103       195                    240         300        540
TOTAL PROJECT FOR CPWB                    12.237      13.901    26.138                 34.260       38.930    73.190
Additional Training for Water Supply Sector          60         120       180                    170         330        500
Preparation of Rural Water Supply Project           125         250       375                    350         700      1.050
TOTAL                                     1242234.780                                               39.960    74X 740
I/ Additional information awaited on these items
April, 1975



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 2
KENYA
MOMBASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Cost Estimates
1.        Exchange Rate:  KL = US$2.80.
2.        Cost estimates for supply and construction contracts are based on
quantity takeoffs from some final and some advanced preliminary designs by
the consulting engineers. The unit prices are suppliers' quotations and local
construction costs as of January 1975. These contract costs have been
increased by the conisultants to estimated April 1975 base prices by using
price contingency factors of 3% for equipment and pipe supply contracts and
4% for construction contracts for the three-month period.
3.        Price contingencies have been calculated at 11% for supply contracts
through June 30, 1976 and 7.5% thereafter to the date of expenditure. For
construction contracts price contingencies have been calculated at 15% to
June 30, 1976, 14% thereafter to June 30, 1977 and 12% per annum through
the construction period. Price contingencies of 7.5% per annum on engineering
supervision and management consulting are included.
4.        Allowances for physical contingencies, as a percentage of base
prices, are estimated as follows:
12.5%     -    Construction at Baricho and all transmission construction.
10%       -    All other construction contracts and the electric power
supply contract.
10%       -    Supply contracts for distribution pipe.
5%       -    All other supply and supply and install contracts.
5.        Land costs have been estimated by MWD at KL 40,000 only because the
project is to be constructed mostly on government property, obtained without
charge. The balance is low cost "trust" land. This estimate was confirmed
during negotiations.
6.        Consulting costs are based on contracts which have been awarded
to management and engineering consulting firms.
7.        Local currency costs include local taxes (mainly import duties and
sales taxes but also including taxes on consulting contracts) estimated to
total KE 4.96 million.



KENYA! MOMBASA & COASTAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CooeItmo-m    S,lodoIo
1975                                                          197      _                        1                            1977                                                           1979
J  F_ M  A  M  J   J  A S                           N _   7D/ J  F  M A   M  J  J  A  SO   N                                 J         M     A   M  J  J  A  S |                                      MA   M  j  I  A   S D   N
P:AV     5-  -                                                        7~mm ~ -  1  mmmo./im                                          76 77 -.                                               -     *0I7~I           _M~7I9
2                                2         5  27   2    2       0  31   32   33   34| 41 |42 |43 |                                           44   4E | 47
P|  M-.0.                    2 3  4j t _7                         9E 1 7   II_- 12 13J  1s  17   1919 20 21 222 44                                                                                                                            4 -t t
a|     i  .o.r , V,le,.Fmior  s E, li r                                              Arr  Mau  t           1 | t  IVe    xR     -_                          _             - -1-   J      r    7Mrwr_    t w                  lfSi -  I                                        b~      T      R & C
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P Ts>                                                           MDD                                    F                                                      ;;t 
|Ooio,oo,,                                         i    I                    PDF      e FoNlAPR  P|       T      |         |                              E                                                     | A  _--~P   -   TFO                                 I &T.       C.
-   K*1  1m  11111115 la    A       In   El.         s    f~       SE         dLU          ,J -          I       S                            l
|     eze,  Florim   ,,, -b       1 IEwc   TnE                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7            l $ U t fr jl |T| | E     _   D _         __ g       +            e J  
|  Voisi uct u  P,rmo,lO,O0TlRo o                                                            P0 T4 |    | r    |  E |   APP P  _        E   A                                                              -P F T                                             I  T                               I
PD   A6       PF        T~~~                  .A.. 
00o~~a0.a1.00~~~,,. ~  ~        (G- 1mm             I'..             -           ~                                                                                          
sutslIooaoTnO PlOdesr>sN"yt*rv,Ooo,t                                                          . I,r     a  n    l       l      a                      ala                   ama    a    -          ._  r t . 7 I                      1 
s                                                  co C     PD            PP        P| APR   PP T   
P0             APR     PP         P      .        E |  u  .D t }.              T RPA         TI|        |: I    -  t A  r   t T    r                ma i
00             APR    PP          T               EED                                                                                                         --         I                         
|         -  E R,omSImfl.ioa              |        P|             AP       PP |    |A                                             4. |.  -a |            - |mS                                      a a a 9slsNel          mi_   T     -    an                   r    a{tD_ _    ___ l       _ _
CSaao.m-O . C,.m.ai oe   .OPm   fi                                                                                            -      - w - m    m .a a  is     -          a            -i         .a -   -  -          -                             l7M
C.                          I Vmd0C'aooooo'CAA)NIR,   0                         MD                                                                                                                 I             -                                 I
ARR ~    ~     ~      mm  ME   0mmi im.m7#                          aa                      .     mmFaIa.n Ru               i         e.       am   a, aJqn   s--Lommms.mm    -
CD~ ~~~~~~~~~P                              AP      PFen  Trrr                 Ei A                                               n  ltd  "   as
PO  APR  F  A                                                                 C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V                                               ~                      4 T 
E ,    Pesl                                                                                                                     _/ MD                     0                                                                                                            T. b  C.pmu
Pt        APR     PP         T              E       A                      FO,I 
FAP               PP         T                F     A nta
EOl.,oaoaoP-,o,                                               INp----                                                                              -                          .a                        j    i a~             e .j       m  
MD ~ ~ ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~    ~         m e   a   ma,.t miniM  Em aewl -uue                         -S      ml 54 enefol ,                                                                                                                                          1a    .    s a,a    a  , ,     m a    . -
FIR                                                  P- -             m.R                        APR      PP                                A
PF    . Pepare F.nn Tndr D<mvmen                                                                                        BeE7s--  .........
T           R    PF         T                  AD
IF   T    PP       FA           T      ECC
El0L APR                                      .ia   SPd I  :I tl
A     .A-Iod f C-,,.,mo*mddimmmmm PLANNING A PREPARATION OF TENDER ODOCUMENTS                                                     I'C-molo amlw   S.omp Man-. eIt.I
"AP       ObmiR AREemm                                                                                                                SloaR'. -m,om  pleRoo .~1.
C       C- .-,mlm                                                TENDERING N AWARD OP CONTRACTS                                       m-d RaRemmaR  -OJO Eo
co      O..CRo,ao Ow-pe'd   W-    .i
o      -- a                                       --         -CONTRACTRWORK
CP     D-                                                                                                                             At,RI  nmoo ,mEomma. .k 
Rg  N.i.h.,. A-,O.o moot EAI' N L                                                                                                                 110. 09
_. :. T.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ooil,Roo RmeO,Timnu
T  T---~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Iill 0  mRRE
T.  T-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00  Oltmt000400



ANNEX 7
KRENY;,
MOltEASA AND COASTAL EAt.ER SUPPLY PROJECT
Annual Project Expenditures and Expected Price Increases
KE (thousands)
FISCAI. Y'EAR (July I - June 30)              1973/74      1974/75    1975/76    1976/77    1977/78   1978/79           1979/80      TOTALS
SUPPLY AND SUPPLY & INSTALL CONTRACTS
Local Costs:  Base Costs                        -            -            23         724         868         253           87       1,955
Physical Contingencies           -           -           -            40          49           13            4         106
Pri-e  Contingencies             -           -             2         t31         238          93            41        505
Subtotal                                     -           -            25         895       1,155         359           132      2,566
Foreign Costs: Ease Costs                       -            -           104       1,858       2,373         692          217       5,244
Physical Contingencies          -           -             5          99         131          39            12        286
Price Contingencies             -           -            10         333         650         256          103       1,352
Subtotal                                     -           -           119       2,290       3,154          987          332       6,882
CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS
Local Costs:  Base Costs                        -            -           166       1,898       1,798       1,160          248       5,270
Physical Contingencies           -           -            20         228         216         139            29        632
Price Contingencies              -           -            22         574         845         779           207      2,427
Subtotal                                     -           -           208       2,700       2,859       2,078           484      8,329
Foreign Costs,  Base Costs                      -            -            15       1,283       1,289         841          177       3,605
Physical Contingencies         -           -             2         154         154         101           21         432
Price Contingencies          _             -             2         388         606         565      _    48       L.i79
S!Ibtotal                                    -           -            19       1,825       2,049       1,507          346       5,74c
ELECTRIC POiER SUPPLY
Local Costs:  Pase Costs                        -            20           58          84          52          30           -          244
Physical Coatingencies           -            1            6          10           5            3           -          25
Price Contingerncies             -           -             8           5          24          20            - 
ibubocal                                     -           71           7.         119          81           53           -         346
1ore.ipg. Costs:  Ease Costs                    -           29           91          130         115          48           -          413
Physical Contingencies         -            3           10          14          12           4           -           43
Price Contingencies            -            1           12          39          53          31           _          136
Subtotal                                     -           33          113         163         180          83            -          592
LAND ACQUISITION
Local Costs:                                    -            -            40          -           -           -            -           40
CONSULTING SERVICES -
Local Costs:  base Costs                       155         158            92         217         203          97           -          922
Physical Contingencies           -           -            -            6           6            2           _           14
Price Contingencies              -        I               -            8            8           4      __          _    20
Subtotal                                    155         158           92         231         217          103                      956
iorei,n Costs   Base Costs                    130         133           86          135         116          54           -          654
Physical C.ontingencies        -           -            -            3           3           1           _            7
Price Contingencies            -           -             3           8           7           2           _           20
q,,btotal                                   130         133           89         146         126           57           -          t81
T'RAINING:  Local Coats                            -           -            -           20          20          20            -          60
FK.retin costs                        -           -             -           40          40          40                      120
PREPARATION 01 hdiKAL PROJECT
Local Costs                                     -           -             -          125          -           -            -          125
Foreign Costs                                   -                         -          250          -           -                       250
'TOTAL. COSTS
local Costs:  Base Costs                       155          178        379         3,069       2,941       1,560         335        8,616
Physical Contingencies           -            1          26          284         276          157          33          77
Price Contingencies              -           -           32          738       l ,1.15       896          248       3_029
S,hO>taln                                   155         179         437        4.090       4,332        23613         616       12,422
Foreign Costs:  Base Costs                     130         I62          296        3,696       3.933       1,675         394       10,286
Chusical Contingencies         -            3          17          270         300         145          33          768
Price  conti,sgenci-s          -            I          27          768       1,316         854         251      _3217
SuLtotal                                    130         166         340        4,734       5,549       2,674          67B      14,271
TOTAL,  Bass Costs                                285         340         675        6,764       6,874       3,235         729       18,902
I..,s   I C .. , - .                    - G4                     43          554         576         302          66        1,545
Frice  c-tincencies-                                   1          59        1,506      2,431        1.750         499        6.246
'r(7TA1                     285          345         777        8,824       9,881       5,287        1,294      26,693
1/  Dctsiled design, con,stru,ction sapervision and management
Ari], 1Q7-



ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 2
KE*SYA
MOMBASA AND COASTAL T.ATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of Bank Loan Proceeds
Amount of the            Percent of
Loan Allocated           Expenditures
CATEGORY                      (US$   )             to be Financed
(1)  Pipe and accessories               6,100,000
(other thian pipe and
accessories required
for the transmission
and branch bulk supply
mains which are financed
by KfW) and other equip-
ment (including instal-
lation of pumping, water
treatment, electrical
and communications
equipment and accessories
thereto). /
(a)  directly imported                          .100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) locally procured
but imported                                        70%
(c)  locally manufactured                                100% of ex-factory cost
(2)  Civil Works                       22,300,000
(a)  construction of                                     50%
transmission and
branch bulk supply
mains 2/
(b)  all other construction                              65%
contracts 3/
(3)  Consultants Services               2,500,000             100% of foreign
(other thian services included                          expenditures and 25% of
under Category 4) 4!                                     local expenditures
(4)  Expenditures for evaluation        1,100,000             65%
of rural water program,
preparation of a rural project
and technical training.



ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 2
Amount of the            Percent of
Loan Allocated           Expenditures
CATEGORY                     (US$   )              to be Financed
(5)  Unallocated                       3,000,000
TOTAL         35,000,000
1/ KfW would finance 100% of the foreign expenditures of imported pipe or
100% of the total expenditures for ex-factory costs of locally produced
pipe.for transmission and branch bulk supply mains.
2/ KfW would finance 15% of the total expenditures on the contract for
construction of the transmission and branch bulk supply mains.
3/ Including electric power supply facilities constructed by EAP&L.
4/ Retroactive financing of about $700,000 representing 65% of payments to
consultants since July 1, 1974 is assumed.
5/ Unallocated comprises about one third of the physical and price contingency
allowances. The balance is distributed to the other categories.
September 9, 1975



ANNEX 9
IfKENYA
MOMBASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements from Bank Loan
Bank Fiscal Year                Cumulative                       % of
and Quarter Ending              Disbursement3                    Total
~~~~~~ ~TU9$ Millions)                                 -
1976)
September 30, 1975                    0
December 31, 1975                      0.5                         1
March 31, 1976                         o.6                          2
June 30, 1976                          0.8                         2
1977
Sept-ember 30, 1976                    1.0                         3
December 31, 1976                      1.6                         5
March 31, '1977                        2.5                         7
June 30, 1977                          3.5                        10
1978
September 30, 1977                     5.0                        14
December 31, 1977                      7.5                        21
March 31, 1978                        10.0                         29
June 30, 1978                         13.0                        38
1979
September 30, 1978                    16.5                        48
December 31, 1978                     20.0                        58
Marchi 31, 1979                       23.5                        68
June 30, 1979                         27.0                        78
1980
`eFtember 30, 1979                    30.0                         87
December 31, 1979                     32.0                        93
March 31, 1980                        34.0                         99
June 30, 1980                         35-0                       100
A3isumptions:  That the loan becomes effective by Decemdber 1, 1975; that about
US$700,000 of consulting costs from July 1, 1974 are reimbursed
retroactively; that final disbursements are made about 18 months
after scheduled completion of the project; and that disbursements
are about 12 months behind consultants' forecasts through FY77/78
and FY78/79. (Note: These disbursement forecasts are not the
same ai used in the financial projections, which are consistent
with the consultants' estimates.)
i,ril-. 1.975



KENYA
MOMBASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
FORECAST OF WATER PRODUCTION REQUIREMENTS
AO                  _____   _                                                                           __ _____ _ _____I_I_____
Reliable Capacity with Sabaki II                                                                ,
about 127,000 m 3/dav.  ______        _                                                     10_
'X'   ! __ _ _   _________________  a    -  ~___ _ _ __ _
;  0 f:                                            ofi *wow /.   /                                                       :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~40o
l Reliable Capa  ity with Sa baki \
!  about 1000o0 0 m       /day.                                                            1  0 
t X - 0 - -tv~~~~ De Cmand in Maxiu
>    8  ^:,-.;, __   _____  + _        _ _        i-                                                                                                                   ______ _  \     'ol.  o;eaI v  w
ol [  /2  t  \ 0Annual Demand, m iday
^-  z                             /    /    z                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Avezrage Annual Demands
Reh,uhle Capacity                                     >     /      .                                                                      at 10% Below Forecasts,
60  - 1974- 1978 ahout                                  ________                                                                                    m3/dag
55,000 m3fdamy3/dy..000,- 
Il~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00                                                                                     Dear in Maxmu
}   |   w    Sabaki PhaseI
I ~ ~ ~  ~  ~   ~  _ _ _ _ _    __ __ __ __ __ _      Com p)leted          _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
40  ------ --  - --                                                             __                          --             - -
20                                                                      I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ana Dead m iday. 
| Pemba Impre >vemerltS   z   l                        |                 |                 l                  |                 i~~~~~~AveageAnualDemnd
k            I    I            t                                   I                                   J                 |                  I                 I I. 
,, j~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ____  -1                                                         --.-           .          L     _________   _1_ _ -                 __ 1__ 1_ _ _ 1_____  
6074              1070              1978               1f,              198?              1984              1986 1a1tr                           1d9ay
FISCAL YEAR  O
Sai bak  3., I



ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 3
IR] IYA
MOMBASA AN] COASTAL hIATER SUPPLY PROjECT
Water Production and uonsumptiou Forecasts
(thousands of m&)
FISCAL YEAR ENDING JUNE 30                  1974      1975     1976      1977      1978      1979      1980      1981_    1982      1983      1984      19S55
W&TER gRODUCTION
ltPB & CNEB
Mombasa and North Coast Areas        12,953   17,14Z   17,006  1,860   16,693   19,998   23,304   24,580   25,750   26,025   28,2(09   29,6L7
MazeraslJaribuni Pipeline Areas         227       410       454       500       556       619      681       743       816       898       983    1,07'
South Mainland Areas                    827       910    1,00Z      1,102    1,213    1.333    1,461       1,614    1,775    l,92   _2,t9         2 jf,i
Subtotal                      14,007   18,462   18 462          62   18.462   21,950   25,446   26,937   28.341   29.775    31  _39    3Y
other Areas
Malindi                                 627       690       759       835       918    1,010    1,112    1,222        1,344   1 ,47I9   1.6261    I, 7(0
GedifWatav&t                            173       190       209       230       253       278      306       337        370      40       ,48      'I1l
Mlinor Areas                            409       433       459       487       516       548      580       615        652      691   _733         7-7,
Subtotal                       1,209    1,313    1_427    1,552    1,687    1,836    1,998    2.174            2,366   2,577   'L           15')
Total Production -        ,      j 15d6           19.8897  20,014                                  2,149          7 7 _   -52              o 1,
WATER CONSUMPTION BY AREAS        2/
Mombasa and North Coast Areas-
Mombasa         )
Mariakani       )
14ezeras        )                    10,363   13,712   13,605   13,488   L3,355   15,999   18,644   19,664    20,600  21,540   72,567   23,69,
Voi
North Mainland j
Tezo/Roka       )
Less: En-route Sales                    n..a    (804)   (853)                  (95804)  )  (1.016)  (1.077)  (1,141)   (1.210) (1,2S2)  (1,359)  ,4=11
Subtotal                      10,363   12,908   12.752   12.584   12,397   14,983   17.567   18.523    19,390   2,5             2 08   ~225,
MazerasJJaribuui Pineline Areas2/
Mazeras/Jaribuni                         86       204       225       247       273      301       322       343        370      397      418       44f
Rilifi                                  104       141       156       173       194      219       250       281        316      358      407      45-4
Subtotal                          190      345       381       420       467       520      572       624        686      755      825       900
2/
South Mainland Area-
South Mainland                          623       685       754       829      912    1,003    1,103    1,213         1,335   1,r,68    1,615     1,776
Rinango)
- gwale  )                               73        80        88        97       106      117       129       142        156      171      189   _207
Subtotal                          695      765       842       926    1,018    1,120    1,232    1,355         1,491  1.639      1,804    1,983
Malindi                                   527       551       598       648       703       763       830      902        978  1,060      1,150    1,243
GediLWatamu                               145       165       183       202       223       245      270       301        334      369      409       447
Other Minor Areas
Msarbweni)
Taveta )
Wundanyi )
Lamu      )                             345       366       388       411      436       461       490       520        550     585       619       656
Hola
Mokowe I
Garsen
Y.ikoneni )
3/2096                                                                                                                     4 8
Total Consumption3.           12.265   15,100   15.144   15,191               15.244   18, 092   2 6 2225    23.429  24,664   26,013   L74
.1/  Total production from NPB and 0P4  sources.  Production in Annex 14 does not include HPB sales enroute.
2/  Presently served by Mosbasa Pipeline Board Sources.
3/  Carried to volume sold in Annex 14,
April, 1975



ANINEIX 10
Pa-re 3 of 3
KENYA
MCMBASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Forecast of 1itter Production Requirements2/
Fiscal Year                  Average Annual              Average Productioi
ending June 30                  Production               in Maximue Month _
m3/day                         m /day
(thousands)                     (thousand)
1974                           42                            48
1975                           54                            63   (55)3/
1976                           54                            63   (55)3/
1977                           55                            64   (55)57
1978                           55                            64   (55)3/
1979                           65                            76
1980                           75                            87
1981                           80                            93
1982                           84                            98
1983                           89                           103
1984                           944/                         109
1985                           99-                          115
1986                          105                           122
1987                          112                           129
1988                          118                           137
1989                          125                           145
1990                          133                           154
I/  Including unaccounted-for water.
7/ Combined total of 9 sub-areas with different peaking factors ranging
from 1.075 to 1.30 of average annual production. The weighted average
is about 1.16
3/ Daily production capacity limited to about 55,000 m3 through FY 1978.
1/ Production requirements from 1984 assumed to increase at 6% per year.
April, 1975



ANNEX 1 1
Page 1 of 5
KENYA
MOMBASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Average Incremental Cost of lWater Supply
Notes and Assumptions
1.        This calculation has taken into account both Phase I (the proposed
project) 3and Phase II of the Sabaki Scheme (total capacity estimated at about
72,000 m /day), for which a 40-year life has been assumed. Furthermore, all
cost figures have been expressed in 1975 prices.
2.        The average incremental cost of water is computed by dividing the
"ipresent worth" of the water volume stream into the present worth of the cost
stream; the latter includes project costs as well as operating and maintenance
costs. The discount rate should be at the opportunity cost of capital; never-
theless, lower rates have also been used for comparison purposes.
3.        The water volume stream, as given below, represents the amount of
water actually consumed and supplied from the Sabaki Scheme. Unaccounted-for-
water has been assumed to be 25%, of which 5% is due to leakage from bulk
transmission pipelines.
Year Ending            Water Volume Prsduced          Water Volume Co sumed
June 30                   (Thousand m )                 (Thousand m )
1975 - 1978 /1                        0/1                         0/1
1979                           3,805                      2,854
1980                           7,617                      5,713
1981                           9,308                      6,981
1982                          10,913                      8,185
1983                          12,562                      9,422
1984                          14,363                     10,772
1985                          16,270                     12,203
1986                          18,556                     13,917
1987                          20,968                     15,726
1988                          23,693                     17,770
1989 - 2018                      26,280                     19,710
/1   Project construction period.
4.        Breakdomn of the cost stream is given in page 3 of this Annex.  It
should be noted that all costs are net of custom duties and taxes. All price
contingencies have also been excluded. Recurrent costs hae been based on
SWK's estimate -- operating costs assessed at K1b 19/1000 m and maintenance
at about 1.1% of capital costs. It has been further assumed that 60% of the
operating costs and 20% of the maintenance costs are foreign exchange costs.



ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 5
5.        Attempts have been made to shadow price foreign exchange and labor
as follows:
Shadow Price Factor
Case                    Foreign Exchange                Labor
I                    1.30 (or K Sh 9.28/US$1.0)         0.80
II                    1:50 (or K Sh 10.71/US$1.0)        0.80
where labor has been estimated to account for about 80Z of total local costs.



K E N Y A
MOMBASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Cost Stream
(KL Thousand @ 1975 Prices)
Project Costs          Operating             Maintenance                  Total
Year Ending     Foreign    Local    Foreign    Local    Foreign    Local    Foreign    Local   Total
June 30         (1)       (2)         (3)       (4)                              (7)1/      (8)2/  (7) +(8)
1975            294       240              -          -               -          294       240       534
1976            311       280         _-                              -          311       280       591
1977          3,755     1,920         -         _          -          -        3,755     1,920    5,675
1978          4,276     1,872              -          -               -        4,276     1,872    6,148
1979          1,829     1,069         43        29         36        146       1,908     1,244    3,152
1980            768       278         87        58         36        146         891       482    1,3 7 3
1981            480       170        106        71         36        146         622        387    1,009
1982            510       430       124         83         36        146         670       659    1,329
1983            190       260        142        95         39        157         371       512       883
1984             60       110        164       109         42        168         266       387       653
1985            -         -          185       124         42        168        .227        292      519
1986            -         -          212       141         42        168         254        309      563
1987            -         -          239       159         42        168         281        327      608
1988            -         -          270       180         42        168         312        348      660
1989 - 2018        -         -          300       200         42        168         342        368      710
-                  ~~~~~(D q
1/  (7)  (1)+(3)+(5)
2/  (8)   (2)+(4)+(6)
IBRD
April 1975



K E N Y A
MOMBASA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Average Incremental Cost of Water Supplzy
(1975  Prices)
No Ehadow      ing                  With Shadow
(Pr;: at Value"       Pesert ValueL' Average Increment;a.l           Average Lacreme ntal Cos-t
Di6icouQnb Rate    of Wlater Volum.e Stream     of Cost Stream            Cost                 KShs/m3 (Khs/1000 Ig)
___A__             (Thoausand n3)         (Kr Thcrsand)   KShsm/3 (KShs/IMO I,)          Ca se   '     Case I_5/
2.0                  426,773                  34,030            159 ( 7.2)             1.75 ( 8.0)   1.93 ( 8.8)
4.0                  275,795                  27,415             1.99 ( 9.0)            2.20 (10.0)   2.43 (11.1)
5.0                  225,663                  25,065             2.22 (10.1)            2.46 (11.2)   2.72 (12.4)
6.0                  186,672                  23,143             2.48 (11.3)            2.76 (12.5)   3.05 (13.9)
7.0                  156,007                  21,545             2.76 (12.5)            3.08 (14.0)   3.41 (15.5)
8.0                  131,629                  20,198             3.07 (14.0)            3.43 (15.6)   3.80 (17.3)
9.0                  112,048                  19,046             3.40 (15.5)            3.80 (17.3)   4.21 (19.1)
10.0                   96,163                  18,0o47            3.75 (17,0)            4.20 (19.1)   4.66 (21.2)
12.0                   72,409                  16,395             4.53 (20.6)            5.09 (23.1)   5.65 (25.7)
15.0                   49,578                  14,504             5.85 (26.6)            6.59 (30.0)   7.32 (33.3)
1/  All costs are exclusive of custom duties and taxes.
2/  Case I:   Assume shadow price factors of 1.30 and 0.80 for foreign exchange and labor costs, respectively.
3/  Case II:  Assume shadow price factors of 1.50 and 0.80 for foreign exchange and labor costs, respectively.
IBRD
April 1975



AiNNEX 1L
fTT 5
-, E N Y A
iOMBASA' ". .LER SUPPLY PROJECT
Average Incremental Cost of Water Supply
(1975 Prices)
32  -_  7
30-
28  -                  T With Eiadow Pricing - Case IHZ
6
26-
~~ 24  ~~With Shd Picing -Case
14                                                 No Shadow Pricing
12                  / /      /Average Tariff After July ll, 1975
10  -
6
I  ~   I         I       .  I         I              I 
2                                 Ar 6  8  10     1              15
Discount Rate (%)
1/  Case I:   Assume shadow price fac tors of 1.30 and 0.80 for foreign exchange
and labor costs, respect ively .
2/  Case II:  Assume shadow price factors of 1.50 and 0.80 for foreig exchange
and labor costs, respecfively.
IBRD
S3eptember 197;



ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 5
KENYA
MOMBASA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Internal Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
Notes and Assumptions
1.        All economic IRR analyses presented in this Annex have assumed shadow
foreign exchange rate of US$1 = K Sh 9.28 (or 1.3 times present official
exchange rate of US$1 = K Sh 7.14) and sliadow value of 0.80 for labor.
Financial IRR (no shadow pricing) of the Sabaki Scheme is presented in the
graph of Annex 11, page 5. Furthermore, all cost figures have been expressed
in 1975 prices.
Sabaki Scheme (Phase I and Phase II:  72,000 m /day Combined Capacity)
2.        Benefits have been calculated on the basis of "Water Volume Csnsumed."
given in paragraph 3 of Annex 11 and average water rates of K Sh 3.74/mr
(about K Sh 17.0/1000 Ig), which is the average ra e expected to prevail when
the project is completed (1978/79) and K Sh 5.06/m (K Sh 23.0/1000 Ig), the
estimated long run marginal cost of water which is expected to prevail begin-
ning 1981/82. The cost streams have been obtained from page 3 of the same
Annex and shadow priced appropriately.
Proposed IBRD Project (Phase I only:  54,000 m /day Capacity)
3.        Benefits have been based ona tl:e same average water rate given in
paragraph 2. Water volume consumed is given below, assuming unaccounted-for-
water of 25%, including a 5% leakage from bulk transmission pipelines.
Year Ending         Water Volume Pr9duced       Water Volume fold
June 30               (Thcusai4d m )             (Thousand m )
1975 - 1978                     0 /1                       0 /1
1979                     1,805                     2,854
1980                     ;',617                    5,713
1981                     9,308                     6,981
1982                    10,913                     8,185
1983                    12,562                     9,422
1984                    14,363                     10,772
1985                    16,270                     12,203
1986                    18,556                    13,917
1987 - 2018                19,710                     14,782
/1   Project construction period.



ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 5
4.         Cost streams (before shadow priced) including project costs, operat-
ing and maintenance costs are exclusive of all custom duties, taxes and price
contingencies. They are divided into foreign exchange and local costs, as
follows:
Cost Stream
(KL Thousand @ 1975 Prices)
Year Ending June 30       Foreign Exchange       Local Costs        Total
1975                       294                240               534
1976                       311                280               591
1977                     3,755              1,920             5,675
1978                    4,276               1,872             6,148
1979                     1,908              1,244             3,152
1980                       561                422               983
1981                       142                217               359
1982                       160                229               389
1983                       178                241               419
1984                       200                255               455
1985                       221                270               491
1986                       248                287               535
1987 - 2018                   261                 296              557
5.        The sensitivity of the IRR vis-a-vis changes in costs and benefits
is summarized in the table on page 3 and shown in graphs on pages 4 and 5 of
this annex.



KENYA
MOMBASA AND COASTAI. WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Internal Rate of Return 1/ and Sensitivity Analyses
ANNEX  12
Phase I                                                                                       Page  3 of 5
IRR (from PRINT OUT)
Phase I
/      ~~~+11.
A. Water valued at KSH 17/1000 Ig           A  Benefits
-30%             -20%              -10%               0%              +10%
4.75             6.05               7.15            8.15             9.15
0%
5.55            6.75              7.85             8.85               975
2  ) Q        3.~~395    /      5.15    /         6.25    /725    /                 8.15     /
j<]                     46O               5.5              6.965            7X 9                  5
i   +!0%  ~315               4.35              54               6A5/  735/
+20%
/  3.95       /      5.05       /     6.15       /     7.15       /       7.95
B. Water valued at KSH 23/1000 Ig            A  Benefits
-30%             -20%              -10%              0%               +10%
765 8OX5  1707                                      11.3512.45
o  11   /           /   /       ~~~~~~~~9.65  /  10.85     /      11.95      /      129
|   ) s3      6.~~675   /       ?95      /        9.15            10.25            11.35 
+10%
Y  .   /       7.45      /      ~~~~~~~8.65  /    9.85      /     1.5        X       11.95
8  +10% ~ ~ .4                                                   1.9
+2m 5.85/   7.15/    8.35                                9.35            10.35/
/  6.65     X       7~~~~.85  X      8.95       /     10.05    |/       1105
1 ,'
- Foreign exchange costs and labor shadow priced at
1.30 Kind 0.80, respectively.
World Bank-9954



ANNEX 12
Page 4 of 5
KENYA
MOMBASA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Internal Rate of Return 11 and Sensitivity Analyses
A. Water Valued at K Sh 17/1000 Ig
+10%-                   Sabaki Scheme Phase I and Phase 11
0%-          Sabaki Scheme Phase I Only
C
tSi          /           /         }5/              A        \          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~No change in Costs
m
,    -20%-
c                              /                      ^/\                                        Costs increased by 10%
/   t   - /~~~~~~~~~.   / ~~~~Costs increased by 20%/
3              4              5               6              7               8              9              10
Internal Rate of Return Ms6
-/Foreign exchange costs and labor shadowv priced at 1.30 and 0.80. respectively.
IBRD
April 1975                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~World Bank-9890
Aori17



ANNEX 12
KENYA                                                              Page 5 of 5
MOMBASA WATER SJPPLY PROJECT
Internal Rate of Return 1, Eind Sensitivity Analyses
B. Water Valued at K Sh 23/1000 1g
t10%
Sabaki Scheme Phase I and Phase    I-X
0% 
Sabaki Scheme Phase I only
r                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~No change in Costs
.         /      t/                    /                               Costs increased by 10%
0~~~~~0
-30%-                                         }                                      Costs increased by 20%
I         ~       ~      ~~I  I           I              I               II
6              7              8               9              10             11             12             13
Internal Rate of Return M%)
- Foreign exchange costs and labor shadow priced at 1.30 and 0.80, respectively.
IBRD                                                                                           World Bank-9953
May 1975



KENYA
MOMBASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Water Department - Ministry of Agriculture
Organization Chart - 1974
DIRECTOR
DEPUTY DIRECTOR                 DEPUTY DIRECTOR                   DEPUTY DIRECTOR                  ASSISTANT DIRECTOR                    HEAD OF
SPECIAL STUDIES                  DEVELOPMENT                        OPERATIONS                       RESOURCES                       ADMINISTRATION
PLANNING                        MECHANICAL                        DRILLING                       ASST. SECRETARY
MASTER                         MECHANICAL
PLANNING                        MAINTENANCE                      HYDROLOGY                           PERSONNEL
DEVELOPMENT                       VEHICLE AND
PLANNING                           PLANT                         GEOLOGY                            ACCOUNTS
SEWERAGE                          ELECTRICAL                 WATER QUALITY & WATER                     OFFICE
SECTION                    POLUTION CONTROL                       SERVICES
MOMBASA                           TRtAINING                                                          PURCHASING
CO-ORDINATION                         SCHOOL                        APPORTIONMENT                       AND STORES
DESIGN &                       OPERATION AND
CONSTRUCTION              _       MAINTENANCE                        PROJECTS
WATER WORS                         OPERATIONW
DESIGN
DIRECT LABOR
CONSTRUCTION                       MATACE
CDNTRACTS
CONSTRUCTION
PROVINCIAL       ORGANIZATIONS
,   ,1   ,,     I        l   '      I        '   '1     I        ' 'I                ' 'I                ' 'I                 ''I              
CENTRAL             COAST               EASTERN         NORTH EASTERN    F  RIFT VALLEY             WESTERN              NYANZA             NAIROBI AREA
World Bank-9767    0
r')



KENYA.                                                                     ANNEX 13
MOMBASA AND COASTAL WA * ER SUPPLY PROJECT                                                                  Page 2 of 2
Coast Province Water Branch - Organization Chart
GENERAL
MANAGER
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ADMINISTRATIVE DIVISION                                     FINANCE DIVISION                                    ENGINEERING DIVISION
Administrative Director                                   Finance Director                                Planning & Design Engineer
Personnel Management
Staff Development and                                    Budgeting & Finanicial                            Water SVstem Planning
Training                                                Planning      '                                Design & Construction
Registry, Mall & Tele.-                                 General Accounting                                    Supervision
phone Services                                       Cost & Project Ac-                                Minor Surveys & Draft-
Headquarters Building                                      counting                                           ing
Maintenance, Custo-                                  Procurement                                       Custody & Control of
dial Services and                                    Billing & Collections                                System Maps and
Security                                                                                                   Drawings
Data Processing
CHIEF OPERATION & MAINTENANCE
ENGI NEER
MATERIALS DIVISION                                     EQUIPMENT DIVISION                          WATER SUPPLY TECHNICAL DIVISION
Materiafs SLIperintendent                             Equipment Superintendent                                  Hydraulic Engineer
Water Supply Communica-
Central Warehouse                                    Central Garage & Shops                                  tions Network
Central Materials Yard                               Water Meter Repair                                   Technical Supervision of:
Materials and Stores                                 Equipment Management                                    Water Sources & Supply
Records                                              and records                                          Water Treatment and
Quality Control
l_____________________________________   _____________________________________  R eservoirs
WEST OPN. & MTC. AREA                                        CENTRAL                                                 NORTH
OPN. & MTC. AREA                                      OPN. & MTC. AREA
Area Superintendent                                   Area Superintendent                                   Area Superintendent
Asst. Area Superintendent                             Asst. Area SuPerintende.,t                            Asst. Area Superintendent
Water Sources                                         Water Sources                                         Water Sources
Water Treatment                                      Water Treatment                                        Water Treatment
Reservoirs                                           Reservoirs                                             Reservoirs
Transmission Mains                                    Transmission Mains                                    Transmission Mains
Distribution Systenms                                Distribution Systems                                   Distribution Systems
Connections, Cut-offs                                 Connections, Cut-offs                                 Connections, Cut-offs
Meter Reading                                         Meter Reading                                         Meter Reading
Customer Complaints                                  Customer Complaints                                    Customer Complaints
and Services                                         and Services                                           and Services
Areza Hdqs. at Voi                                 Area Hdqs. at Mombasa                                   Area Hdqs. at Malindi
MAZERAS      WEST                       ~ ~~~NORTH                 SOUTHKIF                                               LM
|   SUB-AREA    |    |  MAINLAND                     MAINLAND                  MAINLAND                     SUB-AREA               LSUB-ARE
SUB-AREA                    SUB-AREA                  SUB-AREA                     S                        SUE-AREA
|   A, ea   l    l       Area        l         l      Area                      Area                        Area                     Area
SLI pp. rvisor    l    l Supervisor                   Supervisor                Supervisor    |             Supervisor               Supervisor
World Bank-9766



ANNEX 14
KENYA
MOMBASA AND COASTA. WATER SUPPLY PRCOJECT
Estimated Income Statements
(E Thotusand)
Year Ending June 30              1975      1976      1977     1978      1979      1980     1981      1982      1983     1984
Number of Connections          23,618   25,300   27,000   29,000   31,000   33,100   34,400   36,800   39,300   42,000
Volume Produced (1,000 M3)   18,971   19,039   19,112   19,194   22,770   26,365   27,970   29,497   31,070   32,788
Volume Sold (1,000 M3)         15,100   15,144   15,191   15,244   18,092   20,961   22,225   23,429   24,664   26,015
Unaccounted for H20                          21        21       21        21        21       21        21        21       21
Average Water Price/Volume
K Sh/M3                        1.56      2.42      3.25     4.21      5.26      6.46     7.15      7.83      7.83     7.83
(K Sh/1,000 Ig)                 (7.1)   (11.0)   (14.8)   (19.2)   (23.9)   (29.4)   (32.5)   (35.6)   (35.6)   (35.6)
Operating Revenues
Water Billings                  1,152    1,777    2,394    3,112    4,616    6,567    7,707    8,897    9,365    9,879
Operating Expenses
Water Purchases                   770       775       773      770       768       765      762       759       760      753
Mombasa Water Supply System       120       138       159      183       210       214      218       223       227      232
Other Gazetted Water System        49        56        65       75        86        87       89        91        93       95
Rural Water Supply System          18        21        24       27        31        32       33        33        34       35
Headquarters & Overhead            86        99       114      131       150       153      156       160       163      166
Sabaki/Operating Costs              0         0         0        0       153       308      375       440       507      581
Sabaki/Maintenance Costs            0         0         0        0       135       265      265       265       265      265
Miscellaneous                       0       100         0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0
Depreciation                      113       130       146      161       527       915      915       915       915      915
Total of Expenses               1,156    1,319    1,281    1,347    2,060    2,739    2,813    2,886    2,964    3,042
Operating Income                   -4       458    1,113    1,765    2,556    3,828    4,894    6,011    6,401    6,837
Other Income-Net                   36         0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0        0
Net Income Before Interest         32       458    1,113    1,765    2,556    3,828    4,894    6,011    6,401    6,837
Interest Not Capitalized            0        37        36       33       777    1,732    1,745    1,692    1,637    1,579
Net Income                         32       421    1,077    1,732    1,779    2,096    3,149    4,319    4,764    5,258
a==-==e==="==      ====t=   ==e==-   =5waS.               .. ...
Operating Ratio %
(Before Depreciation)            91        67       47        38        33       28        25        22       22        22
Operating Ratio %
(After Depreciation)            100        74       54        43        45       42        36        32       32        31
Average Rate Base               2,073    2,264    2,445    2,584   16,262   30,104   29,871   28,956   28,041   27,126
Return on Average Rate
Base %                        -0.19    20.23    45.52    68.30    15.72    12.72    16.38    20.76    22.83    25.20
Depreciation as % of
Average Gross Assets           2.79      2.80     2.77      2.74      2.61     2.62      2.57      2.57    .2.57      2.57
August 1975



ANNEX 15
KENYA
MOMBASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Estimated Funds Flow Statements
6(Kk Thousand)
Six-Year
Summary
Year Ending June 30               1975   1976       1977      1978    1979    1980    1975-1980   1981    1982           1983      1984
SOURCES
Internal Cash Generation
Net Income before Interest    32          458    1,113    1,765   2,556   3,828           9,752    4,894   6,011    6,401    6,837
Depreciation                    113       130       146       161      527      915       1,992       915      915       915   _915
Subtotal                      145       588    1,259    1,926   3,083   4,743         11,744    5,809   6,926    7,316    7752
Borrowings
Proposed IBRD Loan               -        511    3,757    4,608   2,909         715      12,500       -        -         -         -
Proposed KfW Loan                -        -       2,153    2,231       753    *263        5,400       -        -         -         -
Proposed Govt. Contrib.         630       266    2,914    3,042   1,625         316       8,793       -        -         -         -
Subtotal                      630       777    8,824    9,881   5,287   1,294         26,693        -       _         -         -
Other Sources
Change in Current Liab.           4        52        12        15       57       50         190        17       18        17        20
Total Sources             779    1,417   100,95   11,822   8,427   6,087           3 2        5,826   6,944
APPLICATIONS
Construction
Proposed Project (Sabaki)    630          777    8,824    9,881   5,287   1,294          26,693       -        -         -         -
Interest Capitalized             -        164       464    1,021       744      -         2,393       -        -         -         -
Other Works                      25        25        25       -        -        -            75       -        -         -         -
Future Project (Sabaki)          -        -         -         -        -        630         630    1,330   2,480    1,290          520
Subtotal                      655       966    9        10,902   603    1,924         29,791    1,330   2,480    1,290          520
Debt Service
Amortization                     -         20        22        24       26       28         120       722      747       772       802
Interest not Capitalized         -         37        36        33      777   1,732        2,615    1,745   1,692    1,637    1,579
Subtotal                       -         57        58        57      803   1,760       2,735    2,467   2,439    2,409    2,381
Other Applications
Change in Cash                   -        232       624       758   1,287   2,041         4,942    1,851   1,838    3,557    4,785
Change in Other Cur. Assets  124          162       100       105      306      362       1,159       178      187        77        86
Subtotal                      124       394       724       863   1,593   2                       2,029   2,025    3,634    4,871
Total Applications        779    1,417   10,095   11,822   8,427   6,087           38,627    5,826   6,944    7,333         T,772
Debt Service covered by
Internal Cash Genera-
tion (Tinmes)                    -      10.32   21.71    33.79        3.84    2.69                   2.35    2.84       3.04      3.26
Accumulated Cash at end
of year                          -        232      856    1,614    2,901   4,942                    6,793   8,631   12,188   16,973
Ao.list 1975



ANNEX 16
KENYA
MOMBASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Estimated Balance Sheets
(KL Thousand)
Year Ending June 30                         1975    1976       1977      1978      1979      1980      1981      1982      1983      1984
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Gross in Operation                        4,333   4,965    5,586    6,170   34,287   35,651   35,651   35,651   35,651   35,651
Less:  Depreciation                       2,168   2,602    3,060    3,527    4,407    5,322    6,237    7,152    8,067    8,982
Net in Operation                          2,165   2,363    2,526    2,643   29,880   30,329   29,414   28,499   27,584   26,669
Work in Progress                            655   1,596   10,884   21,761          292       852    2,182    4,662    5,952    6,472
Subtotal                                2,820   3,959   13,410   24,404   30,172   31,181   31,596   33,161   33,536   33,141
Current Assets
Inventories                                 -         44        51        58       129       198       205       213       220       229
Accts. Receivable                           148      266       359       457       692       985    1,156    1,335    1,405    1,482
Cash                                        -        232       856    1,614    2,901    4,942    6,793    8.631   12,188   16 973
Subtotal                                  148      542    1,266    2,129    3,722    6,125    8,154   10,179   13,813   18,684
Total Assets                        2,968   4,501   14676   2 5337.306   39,870   437340   473349   51,825
EQUITY & LIABILITIES
Eq~uity
Accumulated Surplus                          32      453    1,530    3,262    5,041    7,137   10,286   14,605   19,369   24,627
Revaluation Surplus                         297      600       884    1,137    1,401    1,401    1,401    1,401    1,401    1,401
Contribution                              1,493   1,493    1.493    1.493    1,493    1,493    1,493    1,493    1,493    1,493
Subtotal                                1,822   2,546    3,907    5,892    7.935   10,031   13,180   17,499   22,263   27 521
Debt
Long-term Debt Gross                      1,080   1,837   10,639   20,496   25,757   27,023   26,301   25,554   24,782   23,980
Less: Current Maturities                     20       22        24        26        28       722       747       772       802       834
Long-Term Debt Net                                        10,615   20,470   25,729   26,301   25,554   24,782   23,980 23,146
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                            -         47        54        63       115       159       170       182       193       206
Customer Deposits                            66       71        76        82        87        93        99       105       111       118
Current Maturities                           20       22        24        26        28       722       747       772       802       834
Subtotal                                   86      140       154       171       230       974    1,016    1,059         106    1,158
Total Equity &
Liabilities                         2,968   4,501   14,676   26,533   33,894   37,306   39,750   47,349   51,825
Debt as % of Long-Term
Capitalization                               37       42        73        78        76        72        66        59        52        46
Current Ratio                                1.72    3.87       8.22    12.45    16.18        6.29      8.03      9.61    12.49    16.13
Receivables/Revenue (%)                         13       15        15        15        15        15        15       15        15        15
Fixed Assets Growth (%)                     42.35   40.39   238.72    81.98    23.64          3.34      1.33      4.95      1.13    -1.18
August 1975



ANNEX 17
Page 1 of 9
KENYA
MOMBASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
COAST PROVINCE WATER BRANCH
Notes and Assumptions on Financial Statements and Projections
Balance Sheets
Assets
1.        A schedule of CPWB's assets is given on pages 5 and 7 of this Annex.
The values of these assets have been assessed jointly by the engineering
(SWK) and management (PAS) consultants and are shown at mid-1974 replacement
costs. In addition to its existing assets, which are valued at KE 1.27
million net, CPWB will also own a number of service reservoirs and distribu-
tion facilities, valued at about KfL 0.72 million net, which have been trans-
ferred from the MPB effective June 30, 1975.
Revaluation of Assets and Depreciations
2.        All assets and depreciations have been revalued with increases of
15% in 1974/75, 14% in 1975/76, 12% in 1976/77, and 10% in 1977/78 and
1978/79. After 1978/79, assets and depreciations are at 1978/79 prices.
CPWB's revalued assets in operation and revalued annual depreciation charges
are given on page 8 of this Annex.
Construction Program
3.        The construction program for the years 1974 through 1984, which
basically consists of Phases I and II of the Sabaki Scheme, is shown on page
6 of this Annex. It has been assumed that Sabaki Phase I will come onstream
by the end of the first quarter of 1978/79, i.e., by October 1, 1978.
Depreciation
4.        Depreciation has been calculated on a straight-line basis at an
average annual rate of about 2.7% for existing assets including those trans-
ferred from MPB, and at an annual rate of 2.5% for those which will be
commissioned from here onward. (Depreciation rates in Annex 14 are higher
because of rounding off).
Work in Progress
5.        Work in progress has been transferred to assets in operation in
the year of completion.



ANNEX 17
Page 2 of 9
Inventories
6.        CPWB has not possessed any inventories in the past.  However, once
it is formally established, it is expected to set up and manage its own
stores. It has been assumed that the inventory level would amount to an
equivalent of 10% total operating expenses exclusive of the purchases of
bulk water from MPB.
Accounts Receivable
7.        Accounts receivable have been estimated at 15% of net annual billings
after provision for uncollectibles (see para. 13).
Accounts Payable
8.        Accounts payable have been estimated at 15% of annual operating
expenses.
Customer Deposits
9.        Customer deposits have been assumed to increase by about 7.0%
annually.
Borrowings
10.       CPWB's estimated borrowings for the period 1974/75 through 1983/84
total about KE 26.7 million 1/ as follows:
Proposed IBRD Loan           KE 12.5 million
Proposed KEW Loan            KE  5.4 millioh
Proposed Government
Contribution               KE  8.8 million 1I
Total                   Kb 26.7 million
11.       The proposed IBRD loan of Kb 12.5 million (US$35 million equivalent)
will bear an interest of 8.5% per annum for a period of 25 years including 5
years of grace and repayable through equal annual (or semi-annual) level
payments of principal and interest combined, commencing in 1980/81. The KfW
loan of DM 37 million (US$15.0 million equivalent), would bear 2% interest for
30 years including 10 years grace. The Covernment contribution is assumed as
a loan with 6.5% interest for 25 years, including 5 years grace. Details of
annual drawings and debt service on these loans are given on page 8 of this
Annex.
1/   Including KE 0.2 million for preparation of a rural water project and
additional training which may not be chargeable to CPWB.



ANNEX 17
Page 3 of.9
Income Statements
12.       Water production and consumption forecast from 1974/75 through
1983/84 are shown on page 2 of Annex 10. Unaccounted-for-water has been
calculated at about 21% throughout from figures in Annex 10, page 2. It is
noted that total consumption will remain more or less unchanged during 1975/
1978 because production capacity has been reached at the beginning of this
period. Once the proposed project comes onstream at about the end of the
first quarter of 1978/79, it has been estimated that actual consumption will
catch up with projected consumption as if there had been no physical ration-
ing in two-years' time.
Water Billings
13.       Net billings have been calculated as follows:
Average Water
Tarif5
Year Ending  Water Consumptiqn   K Sh/m  or    Gross Billings  Uncollect-  Net Billings
June 30    (Thousands of m') (K Sh/1000 Ig)   (KE Thousand)  ible (3%)   (K; Thousand)
1975            15,100          1.57 ( 7.1)    1.187            35              1,152
1976            15,144          2.42 (11.0)    1,832            55              1,777
1977            15,191          3.25 (14.8)    2,468            74              2,394
1978            15,244         4.21 (19.1)    3,208             96              3,112
1979            18,092         5.26 (23.9)    4,758            142             4,616
1980           20,961          6.46 (29.4)    6,770            203              6,567
1981            22,225          7.15 (32.5)    7,945           238              7,707
1982           23,429           7.83 (35.6)    9,172           275              8,897
1983           24,664           7.83 (35.6)    9,655           290              9,365
1984            26,015          7.83 (35.6)   10,184           305              9,879
Water Purchases
14.       These purchases are entirely from the NPB.  It has been assumed that
CPWB will continue to purchase all the water avjilable from MPB's sources,
which yield an average of about 50.6 thousand m per day (or 11.1 IMgd).
Payments will be made to MPB based on this total volume of water3less en-route
deliveries to MPB's clients and a water price of K Sh 0.88 per m (or K Sh 4.0
per thousand Ig), as shown below:



ANNEX 17
Page 4 Ot 9-
Total Volume Produced Enroute Deliveries Volume Purchased Water Purchased
Year EnJing from TB's Sourc s  1/ to MPBs Client4 1!    from ITB               from MPB
June 30    (Thousands of m )    (Thousands of m')  (Thousands of m )  (Kb Thousand)
1975            18,462               804                   17,658          770
1976            18,462               853                   17,609          775
1977            18,462               904                   17,558          773
1978            18,462               958                   17,504          770
1979            18,462             1,016                   17,446          768
1980            18,462             1,077                   17,385          765
1981            18,462             1,141                   17,321          762
1982            18,462             1,210                   17,252          759
1983            18,462             1,282                   17,180          760
1984            18,462             1,359                   17,103          753
1/ From Annex 10, page 2.
Operating Expenses/Mombasa Water Supply Systems
15.       These expenses include all operating and maintenance costs associated
with the Mombasa present water supply systems. PAS has estimated these costs
would total about K1U 120 thousand for 1974/75 and would increase by about
6.3% per Year thereafter. This rate of increase is considered optimistic
particularly after inflation is taken into account. As a result, it has been
estimated that these expenses will rise by about 15% a year in nominal terms
up through 1978/79. Thereafter, price levels are assumed to remain constant
and these expenses have been estimated to rise by 2% a year in real terms.
Operating Expenses/Other Gazetted Water Systems
16.       PAS has estimated that these expenses would total about KU 49 thousand
in 197"    and would increase by about 6.8% annually thereafter.  This rate
of increase is considered optimistic and same rates as in paragraph 15 have
been assumned.
Operating Expenses/Rural Water Supply Systems
17.       "AS' estimates indicate that these expenses would amount to about
IS 18 tc'usand in 1974/75 and that they would increase by about 7.0% annually
thereaft.,r. Again, this rate is considered optimistic and same rates as in
paragraph 15 have been assumed.
iiealauarters and Overhead Costs
13.       These costs refer to the personnel and administrative expenses
increacs-  at CPWB headquarters and an allocated portion of the administrative
e.-pense- of the Water Department in Nairobi. PAS has estimated that these



ANNEX 17
Page 5 of 9
expenses would total KE 86 thousand in 1974/75 and would increase by about
6.0% annually thereon. This rate is considered optimistic and same rates
as in paragraph 15 have been assumed.
Sabaki Scheme/Operating Costs
19.       Operating costs have been calculated on the basis of the volume of
water to be produced from the Sabaki Scheme including provision for piieline
losses of 5% and an operating cost per unit of Kn 21.41 per thousand m (or
KE 97.31 per IMg) estimated by SWK as shown below:
Operating Co5t per
Water Volume          Thousand m          Total Operating Cost
Year Ending   Produced from Sabaki   (@ 1978/79 Prices)         e 1978/79 Prices
June 30       (Thousands of m )            (Kh)                 (KE Thousand)
1979            3,763                     40.68                 153
1980            7,540                     40.68                 308
1981           9,222                      40.68                 375
1982          10,826                      40.68                 440
1983           12,476                     40.68                 507
1984           14,280                     40.68                 581
Sabaki Scheme/Maintenance Costs
20.       Maintenance costs have been estimated at about 1.0% of project costs.



ANNEX 17
Page 6 of 9
K E N Y A
MINISTRY OF WATER DEVELOPMENT
COAST PROVINCE WATER BRANCH
Schedule of Assets
(K6 Thousand)
1974                           Depreciated
Replacement      Accumulated       Replacement
Value        DePreciation          Value
A.  Existing Assets-                2,666             1,400            1,266
B. Assets to be Transferred
from Mombasa Pipeline
Board
1.  North Mainland Pipeline       370               137              233
2.  Nguu-Tatu Pipeline             64                64
3.  Nguu-Tatu Reservoir           100                37               63
4.  Mazeras/Kilifi Pipeline       225                32              193
5.  Regulator Tanks at Ribe,
Kaloleni, Mikirini          30                  4               26
6.  Pumphouses and Pumps
en-route to Kilifi          63                13               50
7.  South Mainland Pipelines
Including Kayo Bombo line
and tank and lines to
Likoni and Diani            250              100              150
Total2-              3,768            1,787            1,981
1/ See paragraph 6.03.
2/ Transpose to Annex 17, page 7.
August 1975



K E N Y A
MINISTRY OF WATER DEVELOPMENT
COAST PROVINCE WATER BRANCH
Capital Works Program
1975-1984
(KL Thousand)
Year Ending June 30            1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
Sabaki. Scheme, Phase I         630      777   8,824   9,881   5,287   1,294
Sabaki Scheme, Phase II-/                                                  630   1,330   2,480   1,290       520
Others
(Malindi Boreholes)            25      25       25
Total           655      802   8,849   9,881   5,287   1,924   1,330   2,480   1,290         520
1/  Transpose to Annex 15, but expressed in 1978/79 prices.
0 1-.
August 1975



K E N Y A
MOMBASA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
COAST PROVINCE WATER BRANCH
Revalued Fixed Assets in Operation
(KI Thousand)
Year Ending June 30    1974-   1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
Revaluation Index       1.00    1.15    1.31    1.47    1.62    1.78    1.78    1.78    1.78    1.78    1.78
Gross Fixed Assets    3,768   4,333   4,965   5,586   6,170  34,287  35,651  35,651  35,651  35,651  35,651
Less: Accumulated
Depreciation  1,787   2,168   2,602   3,060   3,527   4,407   5,322   6,237   7,152   8,067   8,982
(Of Which:
Depreciation
during the
Year)            (98)   (113)   (130)   (146)   (161)   (527)   (915)   (915)   (915)   (915)   (915)
Net Fixed Assets in
Operation            1,981   2,165   2,363   2,526   2,643  29,880  30,329  29,414  28,499  27,584  26,669
1/  See Schedule of Assets on page 6 of this Annex.                                                               1
August 1975                                                                                                       o



ANNEX 17
Page 9 of 9
KENiA
MOM4BASA AND COASTAL LATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Estimated Debt Statements
(KL Thouisand)
Year Ending June 30               1975      1976      1977      1978      1979      1980      1981      1982      1983      1984
Borrowings
Proposed IBRD Loan                 0       511    3,757    4,608    2,909          715         0         0         0         0
Proposed KfW Loan                  0         0    2,153    2,231         753       263         0         0         0         0
Proposed Government Contrib.  630          266    2,934    3,042    1,625          316         0         0         0         0
Total                 630       777    8,824    9,881    5,287    1,294             0         0         0         0
Amortization
Proposed IBRD Loan                 0         0         0         0         0         0       252       275       298       325
Proposed KfW Loan                  0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Proposed Government Contrib.       0         0         0         0         0         0       440       440       440       440
MPB Debt                           0        20        22        24        26        28        30        32        34        37
Total                   0        20        22        24        26        28       722       747       772       802
Long Term Debt
Proposed IBRD Loan                 0       511    4,268    8,876   11,785   12,500   12,248   11,973   11,673   11,350
Proposed KfW Loan                  0         0    2,153    4,384    5,137    5,400    5,400    5,400    5,400    5,400
Proposed Government Contrib.   630         896    3,810    6,852    8,477    8,793    8,353    7,913    7,473    7,033
itPB Debt                        450       430       408       384       358       330       300       268       234       197
Total Gross                    1,080    1,837   10,639   20,496   25,757   27,023   26,301   25,554   24,782   23,980
Current Maturities                20        22        24        26        28       722       747       772       802       834
Total Net           1,060    1,815   10,615   20,470   25,729   26,301   25,554   24,782   23,980   23,146
Interest and Commitment
Charges
Proposed IBRD Loan                 0       114       279       603       894    1,035    1,052    1,029    1,005           979
Proposed KfW Loan                  0         0        32        71        97       106       108       108       108       108
Proposed Government Contrib.       0        50       153       347       498       561       557       529       500       471
MPB Debt                           0        38        36        34        32        30        28        26        24        21
Total-of Which          0       201       500    1,054    1,521    1,732    1,745    1,692    1,637    1,579
Capitalized                        0       164       464    1,021        744         0         0         0         0         S
Not Capitalized                    0        37        36        33       777    1,732    1,745    1,692    1,637    1,579
Debt Service
Proposed IBRD Loan                 0       114       279       603       894    1,035    1,304    1,304    1,303    1,304
Proposed KfW Loan                  0         0        32        71        97       106       108       108       108       108
Proposed Government Contrib.       0        50       153       347       498       561       997       969       940       911
MPB Debt                           0        58        58        58        58        58        58        58        58   __ 58
Total                   0       221       522    1,078    1,547    1,760    2,467    2,439    2,409    2,381
August 1975



ANNEX 18
Page 1 of 3
K E N Y A
MOMBASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
COAST PROVINCE WATER DEPARTMENT
Present Water Tariffs
1.        Water tariffs in Kenya have been standardized and presently
comprise seventeen different codes, as shown on page 3 of this Annex.
These codes range alphabetically from A to N, with tariff levels generally
increasing in that order. For each code, water charges vary depending on
the nature of water supplied and types of users. Each town or area, with
the exception of the Nairobi municipality and the main project areas in
the Coastal Province (paragraph 2), has been assigned one of these seven-
teen codes.
2.        Since July 11, 1975, water charges in the main project areas in
the Coastal Province (including Mombasa, Mazeras, Mariakani, Watamu, Malindi,
South Mainland, North Mainland, Mazeras/Jaribuni, Kilifi, Mazeras/Changamwe
Pipelines, Mazeras/Kilifi Pipeline, North Mainland, Kaya Bombo Pipeline,
and Nguu Tatu Pipeline) have been in accordance with the following schedule:
Where no meter is installed, a monthly charge of:
Sh.      cts.
(i)  For domestic purposes .  . . . . . . . . . . 48          00
(ii)  For building purposes . . . . . . . . . . . .190         00
(a) Where a meter is installed, a monthly charge of
according to the reading of the meter for the
first 9 cu. meters per cu. meter . . . . . . . . . 2          10
(b) Where water is sold in excess of 9 cu. meters
through one meter in any one month per cu. meter . 2          60
(c) Where water is sold to a licensed retailer per
cu. meter . . .....  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   1  10
(d) Retail charge for water sold by a licensed retailer
or at a kiosk per unit of 20 liters (0.02 cu.
meters) or part thereof . . . . . . . . . . . . .  0          05
(e) Minimum charge for water at a metered connection
per month ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  19  00



ANNEX 18
Page 2 of 3
3.        Water charges in other minor areas in the Coastal Province are
in accordance with the following schecLule:
Areas                Code
Wundanyi               I
Lamu                   I
Voi                     I
Taveta                 I
Kwale                  I
Kinango                I
Msambweni              I
Hola                   I
Mokowe                  I
Garseb                B2
Tezo Roka             C2
Kikoneni              B2
Dembwa Wusi           Cl
4.        Meter rents range  from K Sh 3.5 to K Sh 20.0 per month depending
on their sizes, as follows:
Monthly
Meter Size                                Rent
Sh.      cts.
1.  All meters of a nominal size up to 20 mm. . .  3            50
2.  All meters of nominal size of 25 mm . . . . .  6            00
3,  All meters of a nominal size of 38 mm . . . . 12            00
4.  All meters of a nominal size of 50 mm . . . . 15            00
5.  All meters of a nominal size of 63 mm . . . . 18            00
6.  All meters of a nominal size of 75 mm . . . . 20            00
Where meters in excess of 75 mm nominal size are used, a special meter rent
of 1.5 percent of the installed cost is charged.
5.        Charges for water connections:
A one-time fee of K Sh 115 is charged for each water connection
within the Nairobi municipality. For other urban areas, connection fees
are based on actual cost, but up to a maximum of K Sh 115 per connection.
For all rural areas, a fee of K Sh 150 is charged per connection.



KEBN YA
NMOMASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECr
OOAST PROVINCE WATER DEPARTMENT
Prese.t Stadard Water iTarixffs
SoPply                                    Al         A2         B1          82          Cl         C2          D           E           V          0           8          I           .          K           L          N           N
Sh.  tia.  Sh. eta.,  Sh. ota.  Sb. et..  Sh. ets.  Sh, eta.  Sh. cts.  Sh. eta.  Sb. et..  Sb. eta.  Sh. eta.  Sh. ct..  Sb._ eta.  S. ~eta.  Sh. eta,  Sb. eta.  Sb. eta.
1.  Where no mter i. installed a  othly
charge of:
(i)  For d-meti. p-aposes only.   ......6   00    7   08    0   50   10   00   12   50   15   00   20   00   22   00   24   00   26   00   28   00   30   00   32   00   34   00   36   00   38   00   40   00
(it)  For boilding or indostri.lprpe.  . - 40   00   40   00   40   00   40   00   50   00   60   00   80   00   90   00  100   00  150   00  110   00  120   00  130   00  140   00  150   00  155   00  160   00
2.  Where a meter 1a installed a  onthly charge
acco rdIng to the reading of the maine per
1,000liteta (I c..mettr)       .m          m.       0   SO    5   60    0   70    0   8o          0   90    1   00    I   10    1   20          1   30     1   45      1   55     1   65      1 ~75       1   90    2   00       2   10    2   20
3. Where water is sold to lilcensd retailer
perr1,0N OLtera(Ico..mter). .......0   35    0   60    0   60    0   70    0   70    0   80    0   85    7   2                                   0   85    1   10       1   10      I   10     1   10      1   10     1   10      1   10    1   10
4. Retail rharge far water sold to a licensed
retailer or at kiosk per omit of 20 liters
(0.02oa..eeter.) or p-t thereof ....                   005   0 05   0 05   0 05   0 05   0 05   0 05   0 05   0 05   0 05   0 05   0 05 005   0 05   0 05   0 05   0 05
S.  MNinos  ehrge for .ater at a  tard
-tfmeelonper amtb. ..........4 00   4 58   5  50'  6 50   7 00   8 0010 0011 00  12 00  13 00  14 00  15 00  16 00  17 00-18 00  19 0020 00
IBRD
Septme.bs 5, 1975



ANNEX 19
Page 1 of 2
KENYA
MiOMBASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Project Monitoring Indicators
Indicators for monitoring project implementation, CPWB operations
and developments pertinent to CPWB, along the lines outlined below, have been
agreed with MWD and would be included in the requirements for periodic reports
to the Bank and KfW.
Staffing
(a) Against the targets of an agreed training program, the number
of employees in various job classifications who:
(i) require training;
(ii) are undergoing training; or
(iii) have completed training.
System Operations
(a) The installation of new bulk flow meters and the repair and
replacement of existing ones as compared to an agreed schedule
for achieving accurate measurements of all bulk water purchases
from MPB and all production from other water sources under the
jurisdiction of CPWB.
(b)  Volume of water purchased in bulk from MPB and produced by
other CPWB sources.
(c) Volume of water sold by NPB enroute to Mombasa.
(d) Volume of water sold by CPWB in each distinct service area
by consumer categories.
(e) Amount of unaccounted-for-water.
(f) Number of connections and service meters in each distinct
service area by consumer categories:
(i) total at end of reporting period;
(ii) number of additions during reporting period;
(iii) number of disconnections and reconnections during period.
(g) Annual estimates on the basis of sample surveys of total
population of area which has access to public water systems
in each service district and of populations served.



ANNEX 19
Page 2 of 2
(h) Minimum and maximum pressures at selected points on distribution
systems.
(i) Average daily production over previous month and previous year.
(j)  Maximum daily production during previous month and previous year.
(k) Number of system leaks repaired.
(1) Number of meters repaired.
(m)  Laboratory data on quality of water going into distribution
system and at selected points on the system.
(n)  Analytical data on quality of water at Baricho intake and at
selectetd points downstream.
Financial Indicators (CPWB Operations)
(a)  Average volume of water sold and value of billings and collections
per connection (total and by consumer categories).
(b)  Average operating revenue per unit of water billed (total
and by consumer categories).
(c)  Average operating cost per unit of water billed (ttiota oniy).
(d)  Average period between meter reading.
(e)  Average time (days) between meter reading and ptesentation
of bill (overall and by iones).
Project Implementation
(a) The eritical path analysis of the ptbject cbn6trddtihn sehedtiie
would be reviewed and updated at 1e6st qXtiterly.






_      ______________ _  __  .  _   1M 1 1H4I1'
X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAkt H P',",
I t H IOrI A
ei q        ."                        /                                                                                                     To  onrsen
(                             ~~~~~~~~~~BARI11.111) WTW~IS~T WOWfK
lo Motolon                 AND PUiMPING STATION
>j   2K E N Y A                       >                Chokoom
To Voi
NAIROBi                                                                                             KAKUYUNI 
. >.s   '    '>  __.>                           /                                   J~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANK  |   Mc lindui
T A N Z A N f A    \:   n  AREA       /                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BOREHC LES  RESERVOIR
TANZANIA                       AA
----hoondoty of C,o.st ,o,inc*  *  /NO/A N        .,OLD FOREST
f-.              ; ~~~~CAMP BDOOSTER     -Mt             -.
To Gosh5
\  /              /               2          +   / 0             O~~~~~~~ C EA A/N
/ R. ' ., ' KENYA
/Vaooi', -or                               A$ ISTE                AND COASTAL
RESERoni'/^T   $. L                          PLY, PROJECT
To Kinongo                                            )I        MOMIASA              AIt~~                                  5        20 2STAt 3
MARERE    RESf RVtOIR  .|   /   **  <  D"tsR IC
SPRINf/ GSWeR   To                                                     "         swoletoi
g} >, t g o"|^Flt^~~~I NK                           /                        tTr nt %, b 
X               s          ^         :     t      /      /                 ;               D 'a:NC  Diiiiiz    t"m  
To ~      ~       MAE Kinwa Cngio 



