FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
Report No. 1604a-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR THE
MOMBASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
September 24, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY UNIT                      Kenya Shilling (K Sh)
us $1                               K Sh. 7.14
K. Sh. 1                            US $ 0.14
K. Sh. 1000          -              US $ 140.00
K. Sh. 1,000,000     =              US $ 140,000
FISCAL YEAR              =         JULY 1 to JUNE 30



INTERNATIONAL BANTK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECONMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOANZ TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR THE
MOMBASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Kenya for the equivalent of US$35.0 million to
assist in financing a water supply project to serve the City of Mombasa
and the surrounding coastal area of Kenya. The proposed loan would have
a term of 25 years, including five years of grace, with interest at 8-1/2
percent per annum. In addition, the Government of Kenya has obtained
financing of DM 37 million (US$15.0 million equivalent) from Kreditanstalt
fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) of the Federal Republic of Germany at 2 percent
interest for 30 years, including 10 years of grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "The Second Decade:    Basic Economic Report on
Kenya" (Report No. 201-KE, dated January 15, 1974) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on February 20, 1974. It was followed by an agricultural
sector survey on Kenya (Report No. 254a-KE, dated December 20, 1973) dis-
tributed on March 13, 1974. A special mission visited Kenya in February
1974 to review the economy's prospects and aid requirements in the light of
the changes in international prices. The mission reported to the Consultative
Group meeting held in Paris in April, 1974. The dialogue on economic and
social development strategy has been further intensified since. The accelerated
world inflation, including the increase in oil prices, had a serious impact on
the Kenyan economy. In response, the Government formulated an action program
to restructure the economy. We have had extensive discussions with the Govern-
ment about this action program in the context of our program loan negotiations
and in coordination with the IMF staff. Country Data Sheets are attached in
Annex 1.
3.        Kenya's remarkable economic performance during the first decade of
independence was fully acknowledged in the Bank's 1974 Basic Economic Report.
Between 1964 and 1972, GDP grew by about 7 percent in real terms, which
allowed significant gains in per capita income despite a 3.5 percent population
growth rate. Less satisfactory aspects of development in this period were
lack of progress in distributing the benefits of development more equitably
and, in particular, growing unemployment and persistent poverty at the lower
end of the income scale. The dualistic nature of the economy at independence
in 1963, with its concentration of wealth in the hands of a few
and serious poverty in the rural areas where 90 percent of the population
lived, was at the root of this unequal development, since it proved difficult
to change rapidly.



- 2 -
4.        In looking ahead into the second decade of Independence, the Basic
Economic Report concluded that Kenya did not really have the option to con-
tinue the past pattern of growth and that in order to maintain the momentum
of growth an essential restructuring of the growth process would be necessary.
The past growth rate has been supported by a high and growing investment rate
both in the public and the private sectors (with fixed capital formation
reaching as much as 25 percent of monetary GDP in the early 70s). Kenya's
domestic savings rate, about 20 percent, is also one of the highest in the
developing world. There were some signs, however, that savings were level-
ling off, which raised doubts whether resource mobilization would be able to
keep up with the pace of investment.   Moreover, there were some indications
of a falling efficiency of resource use (in terms of rising capital output
ratios as well as the disappointing growth of employment).
5.        The most critical constraint, however, is the external resource
gap. Although Kenya's export performance, including the growth of tourism,
has been very satisfactory, the pattern of past development has made the
economy heavily dependent on imported raw materials and capital goods. With
increasing production and investments, imports have grown rapidly. Rising
import prices exacerbated the problem and a resource gap emerged which could
not be filled by available capital inflows from abroad.
6.        Thus even before the upsurge in world inflation experienced during
1974, it had become clear that the Kenya economy would eventually run into
an unmanageable balance of payments problem, unless growth were to be based
on greater use of domestic factors of production, and more efficient use of
available resources. The Basic Economic Report advocated first a restructured
pattern of growth in favor of the directly productive sectors, most immediately
to agriculture but also to resource-based industry. Second, it recommended
factor price adjustments to move market prices closer to real scarcity values
and thus increase the efficiency of resource use throughout the economy. This
would hopefully permit to continue rapid growth in the long run, a first pre-
requisite for an effective attack on unemployment and rural poverty. At the
same time, it would directly promote growth of income in the rural areas.
7.        The Third Development Plan, 1974-1978, published in early 1974,
contains a development strategy which is broadly consistent with the Bank
recommendations; the Plan also reflects the findings of the major UNDP/ILO
mission which visited Kenya at the Government's request in 1972 and published
an innovative report on employment, incomes and equality. By restructuring
the economic growth pattern, the Government hoped to achieve a 7.4 percent
growth rate, which would exceed previous performance; employment, rural develop-
ment and more equitable distribution of income were to receive more attention
than in previous years. Employment would grow by 3.2 percent per year.
However, in 1974 the Kenyan economy was hit by unprecedented upsurge in world
inflation and a sharp deterioration in the terms of trade, which precipitated
a balance of payments crisis.



8.        The terms of trade deteriorated by about 9 percent in 1974
(preliminary figures) as a result of soaring import prices which were
only partly offset by higher export prices especially during the earlier
months of the year. The volume of imports rose owing to stock buildup
while the volume of agricultural exports was depressed by drought. An
extraordinary trade deficit of nearly $450 million and current account
deficit of about $325 million (1973: $75 million) resulted.
9.        Although Kenya was one of the most seriously affected countries,
it managed to absorb the balance of payments effects of world price changes
without too much disruption during 1974. This was in part due to the
facts that initial foreign exchange reserves were at a comfortable level
and there was no shortage of the major staple food, maize. Net capital
inflows increased considerably and, moreover, the country got a favorable
response to its application for special financial assistance, especially
from the IMF, which provided $38 million under its oil facility. The
drawdown of reserves could thus be limited to $84 million. However, the
world inflation strongly affected the domestic price level through the
upsurge of prices of imported products. Serious domestic inflation had
occurred for the first time in 1973 when the cost of living went up by 13
percent after a long period of average annual increases of just over 2 per-
cent. In 1974, the imported inflation reinforced the internal pressure on the
price level which resulted from reductions in Kenya's crop and livestock pro-
duction following prolonged drought; the overall price increase may well reach
15 percent in 1975. GDP growth in real terms slowed down to about 5 percent.
The country's external position is expected to worsen considerably during
1975, owing to a steeper decline in the terms of trade than in 1974, which
would result from a levelling off or a fall of export prices and a continued
increase of import prices. Under these assumptions, the current account
deficit in 1975 will exceed that of 1974, probably by about $40 million.
10.       The basic objective of the Government's action program is to
restructure the economy as fast as possible, so as to achieve maximum
economic development in the future under much more stringent balance of
paymerts conditions. The aim is to restrain imports in a way that has a
minimum impact on production in the next few years and to direct more pro-
duction into exports. It will therefore be necessary to compress public
and private consumption and to channel investments into the most productive
and quick yielding uses, in particular into appropriate import substitution
and export promotion. In both activities the agricultural sector will have
a major role to play; by further improvements to its already good performance
in previous years it will also have to absorb more labor and maintain incomes
in a period of possible slowdown of urban employment. Manufacturing, which
will possibly become the most dynamic sector in the long run, faces a
difficult adjustment process in the next few years. It will have to improve
its resource utilization and reduce its heavy import dependence in favor of
a more domestic resource based production.



- 4 -
11.       A crucial component of the Government's strategy is the attempt
to hold down the domestic rate of inflation to well below world inflation
so as to help bring about import substitution and export promotion by price
differentials. This decision implies that real incomes have to fall; this
hardship will be distributed between income groups in such a way that the
lowest income groups receive full compensation for cost of living increases,
while better-off members of society are made to bear a proportionately larger
share of the burden by partial compensation or no compensation at all.
12.       In addition to the income policy, the action program relies mainly
on global monetary and fiscal policies reinforced by agricultural pricing
policies and some specific administrative measures. Not only is the overall
money supply limited by increases in interest rates and direct restrictions
on credit expansion, but the Government is also directing credit into agri-
culture, manufacturing, export business and tourism. On the fiscal policy
side, Kenya's already good tax performance as well as the measures introduced
in 1973 and 1974 to make the system more progressive does not leave much room
for substantial tax increases. The Government nevertheless intends to raise
some taxes on non-essential domestic and imported products and to further
improve tax administration and revenue collection. Some other envisaged tax
measures (capital gains tax, improved inheritance tax and increased urban
property tax) seek to promote equity as well as revenue increases. The
discussion continues with the other Partner States in the East African Community
about a modification of the common external tariff towards more uniform rates
for consumer goods and capital goods.
13.       A revised three-year budget for FY76 and FY78 has been adopted,
which aims at reducing the growth of government consumption, promoting exports,
increasing production of agricultural commodities for import substitution and
use of more labor-intensive techniques. Recurrent expenditure growth in real
terms has been reduced to 6 percent from 11 percent projected in the 1974-1978
Development Plan, and expenditure growth included in the Development Budget
is set at 7.8 percent (as against 12 percent). This required the politically
difficult decision to bring the rapidly accelerating recurrent expenditure for
education under control; the Government has now decided to allow only a 6 per-
cent annual increase, freezing education's share of recurrent expenditure at
32 percent. In the Development Budget, the share of agricultural and water
development was increased from 22 to 35 percent while that of road and building
construction was brought down from 22 percent to 18 percent; moreover, a
significant shift away from trunk roads to secondary and rural access roads
was incorporated within the road construction program.
14.       In addition to these domestic measures, the Government is seeking
to acdelerate disbursements under existing foreign financing commitments and
to obtain additional commitments, including quickly disbursing assistance,
in order to maintain some momentum of growth while the restructuring policy
is taking effect. Thanks to generally positive reactions from donors, the



- 5 -
external financing plan for 1975 is anticipating that the largest part
of the overall deficit can be covered through higher inflows of conventional
financing plus additional special inflows from several bilateral sources
as well as the IBRD; Kenya will also use substantial drawings on various
IMF facilities. A similar effort would have to be made for 1976 and following
years to close the residual balance of payments gap.
15.       In the past the Kenya Government has followed a conservative
policy with regard to external borrowing. Since Independence, Kenya has
accumulated new commitments at a rate of about 8.5 percent per year, or
somewhat less than the rate of growth of the economy as a whole in current
prices. As a result, Kenya's debt service burden is still comparatively
light (4 percent of exports in 1974, excluding Kenya's share of East
African Community debt) and the country could if necessary resort to
moderate borrowing on commercial terms during the next few difficult years,
without impairing long-term creditworthiness. At the end of 1974 total debt
outstanding amounted to $771 million, of which $488 million had been dis-
bursed. About 13 percent of total external debt is now held by IBRD (Bank
Group: 29%), but because Bank Group lending has only recently become a sig-
nificant proportion to Kenya's debt, debt service to IBRD in 1974 was still
only about 12 percent of all debt service payments (Bank Group: 13%). In
addition to its own exCernal public debt, Kenya is also jointly responsible
together with the other two Partner States for debts incurred by the East
African Community and its institutions, which amounted to some $230 million
(including undisbursed) at the end of 1974. Allowing for a nominal one third
of service payments on these debts, Kenya's total debt service ratio is about
6 percent.
16.       In spite of the much greater need for external capital now facing
the country, Kenya is still following a cautious policy in her external
debt management, although the Government is making greater use of suppliers'
or export credits on favorable terms to finance some of the larger projects
now ready for implementation. Under the assumptions made by the Bank staff
about balance of payments developments, Kenya's external debt will have
to increase considerably over the next decade if the expected balance of
payments gap is to be filled. While Kenya's economic performance certainly
justifies substantial amounts of concessionary financing, including IDA
credits, these are available in limited amounts only. It can therefore be
expected that the terms of borrowing would be on the average less favorable
than Kenya has enjoyed in the past. However, since export earnings will
increase during the period as well, barring major unforeseen developments in
Kenya's terms of trade, the debt service ratio would probably not exceed 16
percent by the end of the 1970s. By that time it is estimated that IBRD
might-hold about 22 percent (Bank Group: 28%) of total disbursed debt and
receive 15 percent (Bank Group: 16%) of debt service payments. Beyond 1980,
creditworthiness will depend on Government ability to take action in the
near future to increase the productivity of investments, to reduce the import
propensity and to increase exports. The revised public investment program of Kenya



- 6 -
for the next few years represents a major step in this direction. Tem-
porary higher debt service payments in the early 1980's may be followed
by a fall in debt service ratio in the latter part of the decade if the
Covernment's action program is successful. However, in spite of the
considerable efforts of the Government to improve domestic resource
mobilization, limitations on domestic resources are such that it is
justified Lo finance from external sources a substantial part of the
costs of the program, including lirmited amounts of local costs in the
case of projects with a low foreign exchange component.
PART II - BANK GI0UP LENDING TO KENYA
17.       Kenya has to date received seventeen Bank loans and eighteen
IDA credits amounting to $287.9 million and $145.7 million, respectively.
In addition, Kenya has been one of the beneficiaries of nine loans totalling
$229.8 million which have been extended for the development of common
services (railways, ports, telecommunications and finance for industry)
operated regionally for the three Partner States of the East African Community --
Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank
loans and IDA credits to Kenya and the East African Community Corporations,
a summary of IFC investments in Kenya, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
18.       Ongoing projects in Kenya are on the whole   progressing satis-
factorily, but manpower constraints in engineering and other technical
fields continue to present problems and have slowed down progress on some
projects. Because of the difficulties in attracting qualified expertise,
no immediate remedy can be expected. Hlowever, the gradual increase in
suitably trained Kenyans to fill such positions should eventually alleviate
these problems.
19.       While our past lending to Kenya has been dominated by support
for infrastructure, our lending in recent years marks a departure. Last
year Kenya was the first country in sub-Saharan Africa to obtain Bank Group
support for a population project. Recently, as a first step in providing
low-income dwellers in Nairobi with suitable housing, a site and service
project was presented to the Executive Directors. In support of the action
program adopted by the Government to restructure the economy and maintain
the momentum of growth in a period of serious balance of payments constraints,
a Program Loan was recently presented to the Executive Directors. Our
agricultural lending has been stepped up mainly as a result of an expanded
programn of technical assistance both through our Regional Mission in Eastern
Africa and direct technical assistance to the Ministry of Agriculture. The
Government has now launched with assistance from the Association, Canada,
United IKingdom and United States, a five year beef development program
utilizing the grasslands in the Northeast of Kenya. This project is expected
to benefit some 170,000 people many of whom are nomads. A tea factories project
to ensure adequate processing facilities for Kenya's high quality tea is
under construction and a project aimed at rehabilitation of some 130 group-
owned farms is about to start. A broadly conceived integrated crop production
project, designed to benefit a large number of small farmers, is now being
appraised and preparation is under way for an irrigation project in the Lower
Tana River Basin and for expansion of sugar production.



20.       Concurrently with efforts to support agricultural production,
we foresee a need for complementary development of rural infrastructure
and hope to assist rural access roads and rural water supply schemes in
the near future. We have also recently appraised a wildlife and tourism
project which will help provide infrastructure for new tourist circuits
and help spread benefits to rural communities; a third education project
aimed at improving primary school education is under consideration.
21.       While the major emphasis will continue to be on agriculture
and the development of the rural economy, there is also a need for
continued support to infrastructure and services necessary to continued
growth of the economy. An oil products pipeline project and a hydro-
electric power project were recently approved by the Executive Directors.
The loan being presented to you today would satisfy the water supply
needs of Mombasa and surrounding rural areas.
22.       Kenya is one of the three Partner States belonging to the East
African Community. The 1967 Treaty for East African Cooperation is one
of the most far-reaching and comprehensive economic cooperation agreements
in existence among sovereign states in the developing world. However, in
practice the degree of economic integration and cooperation among the
Partner States is much less than what was envisaged in the Treaty. Poli-
tical developments in the Partner States have created tension within the
Community and impaired the growth of interstate trade. These difficulties
have been compounded by the balance of payments crisis which currently
faces all three Partner States.
23.       The above difficulties have affected the Bank's lending program
for the Community. The East African Railways Corporation (EARC) has been
the most severely affected. As a result of long delays by the Partner States
in approving increases in tariffs and restrictions on the interstate trans-
fer of corporate funds, EARC was unable to order essential spare parts and
supplies with the result that its operational capacity has deteriorated
considerably. In July 1974 the Partner States agreed, with Bank assistance,
on a package of financial measures to rehabilitate the EARC including
interstate transfer of funds and injection of additional capital. However,
this agreement was never fully implemented and as a result disbursements
under Loan No. 674-EA (East African Railways III) were suspended in February
1975.
24.       A Bank mission which visited East Africa in July 1975 was able,
after meeting the Heads of State and other important officials in the
three countries, to bring about an understanding on both the short and long-
term problems of the East African Community. On the general question of
the future of the EAC, a decision was made to review various aspects of
regional cooperation as now incorporated in the 1967 Treaty. It is
anticipated that this review would begin before the end of the year and
take 18-24 months to complete and would be undertaken by a commission
consisting of nominated representatives from each member country. To address
the immediate financial and managerial problems that will remain pending the
agreement on a long range reform of the Treaty, the Partner States reached
three major accords. To deal with the transfer problem, an agreement was
reached on the mechanism for the transfer of funds from the regions to
the Corporation headquarters. To ensure a workable plan for railwav



- 8 -
decentralization, a draft Consultancy Services Agreement on studying decen-
tralization was adopted and will be financed under Loan No. 674 EA (the
suspension of which has been lifted). Finally, the Partner States approved
the appointment of financial consultants who will undertake a study of the
assets, liabilities, debts and financial condition of each of the three
Corporations on a regional basis. This is viewed as a necessary step in
providing the basis for the decentralization of the Corporations and is
expected to be financed by the UK.
25.       It is expected that this broad agreement between the Partner States
will provide a basis on which the Community can efficiently operate.
Past due loan payments slave been received and all the actions reviewed above
have been initiated. While further problems can be anticipated, it is
expected that they can be solved through the joint efforts of the Bank and
the Partner States. The danger implicit in the possibility of operating
difficulties growing in other Corporations is recognized but a strong
desire to retain control of the situation is also evident. In addition, a
general but genuine commitment to the Community has been noted in the dis-
cussions with the Partner States. The Bank's role as an "honest broker"
has been fully accepted and endorsed by the Partner States and this role could
be used effectively to help in the smooth transition of the Community's
structure.
26.       IFC has committed a total of $34.4 million for four companies in
Kenya (Pan African Paper Mills, Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.; Tourism
Promotion Services (Kenya) Ltd.; and Rift Valley Tentiles Ltd.). As of
August 31, 1975, IFC held for its own account $26.4 million comprising $19.5
million of loans and $6.9 million of equity. IFC is currently discussing
vith three commercial banks in Kenya a possible joint financing scheme to
aid small to medium scale industries.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR IN KENYA
General BackEround
27.       Kenya is generally an arid country.   About 18 percent of the land
area receives more than 600 mm rainfall a year, but the rest of the country
receives limited rainfall and is classified as low potential agricultural
land. Kenya is well endowed with surface water. All the main rivers, many
of which are seasonal, radiate from the Central Highlands (a plateau rising
up to jabout 3,000 meters), and the foothills of the Ethiopian highlands,
forming tributaries to the two major rivers, the Tana and the Sabaki, which
traverse the areas east of the Great Rift Valley. Of the two major lakes
in Kenya, only two, Naivasha and Baringo, have fresh water. Despite the
apparent abundance of water, the basic water problem in Kenya is the high
cost of distribution. Groundwater resources, too, are unevenly distributed,
with many of the dry, low rainfall areas having limited aquifer potential.



- 9 -
28.       Kenya has made substantial progress since Independence in 1963 in
providing safe water to its people. At the present, practically all of the
population living in the urban centers (estimated to be about 1.3 million
out of a total population of nearly 13 million in 1974) has reasonable access
to public water supplies. However, with the rapid growth of urban centers,
water requirements have been increasing fast, and in many cases the develop-
ment of the water system has been unable to keep pace with demands. Both
Nairobi and Mombasa have experienced periods of serious water shortages.
Water consumption in the urban centers averages about 126 liters per capita
per day (28 Ig/day) which is quite a modest level. It ranges from about
110 liters in Mombasa to about 160 liters in Thika, with Nairobi at 140
liters per capita per day.
29.       Roughly 50 percent of the population in small towns and villages
requiring urban type water supply systems have access to public water supply
facilities. The average rate of water use in these communities is estimated
at about 70 liters per capita per day through service connections, although
it is as low as 10 liters per capita per day at some kiosks. The total
estimated population living in such communities (1974) is about 430,000.
306       In contrast, only a small percentage (10%) of the rural population
is served with adequate water supplies. Women and children from the remaining
vast majority of rural families spend some 3 - 6 hours a day carrying untreated
water from distant streams, ponds or wells. Recognizing this situation, the
Government of Kenya, with assistance from Sweden, launched a rural water supply
program, beginning with the first year of the 1970 - 74 Development Plan.
31.       Sewerage facilities in Kenya are at a much earlier stage of develop-
ment than water supply. The City of Nairobi has a public sewerage system
which serves 60 percent of its population and is being expanded under a long-
range development program. Mombasa also has a sewerage system serving approxi-
mately 40 percent of the population in the municipality; a project for further
development of Mombasa sewerage is being prepared. In the country as a whole,
only about 2 percent of the population living in areas other than Nairobi have
public sewerage; about 4 percent have septic tank facilities and 40 percent
make use of pit latrines. About half of the population have no sanitation
facilities.
32.       No serious water pollution problems are foreseen in the near future
in Kenya, but the first steps of enforcing effluent quality standards are being
taken by the Government.
Organization
33.        The organization of the water supply sector has gone through many
changes over the past decade. Although the Water Department (WD) has been
associated most closely with the development, conservation, and management
of water resources and supplies, several other ministries, autonomous and



- 10 -
semi-autonomous agencies and committees have played important roles in the
sector. The recent establishment (November 1974) of the Ministry of Water
Development (NW]J), of which WD is the major wing, should improve coordination
of all water and sewerage activities.
34.       WD has many varied responsibilities and activities.     The major ones
are the development and operation of urban and rural water supplies, technical
advice to other organizations and establishment and enforcement of water
quality, and pollution control standards. WD acts as the authorized water
undertaker in all cases where such an authorization has not been assigned to
the local government authority or.another agency. Operational responsibility
for WD's water supply systems in the provinces are handled by eight provincial
water supply organizations under the WD's Operations Branch.
35.       Several other ministries and agencies are involved in the develop-
ment and operation of water supply facilities. The Nairobi City Council (NCC)
is responsible for the development, operation auid maintenance of the water
supply and sewerage of Nairobi. Some of the local government authorities
(municipalities and county councils) operate their own water supply systems
under the direction of the Ministry of Local Government (MLG). Finally, the
Ministry of Health is responsible for water quality surveillance from the
community health point of view and also has been engaged in a demonstration
program for rural water development.
36.       The organization of the sector with respect to sewerage is somewhat
different from that for water. The appropriate local government agency
(municipality or county council) has overall responsibility for the develop-
ment and operation and sewerage facilities under MLG; the formal role of WD
is only advisory.   In some cases WD acts as the agent for 1EG in engaging
and supervising the work of consultants on the planning, design and construction
supervision of sewerage facilities; Mombasa is an example of this.
Training
37.       WD has been administering a formal training school program since 1970
with the assistance of SIDA. The training program is intended to cater to the
needs of all the water supply and sewerage organizations in Kenya. The training
program typically includes six months of formal teaching at the school followed
by 27 months of on-the-job training in one or more wings of WD. A high drop-out
rate from the program and difficulties in providing good quality on-the-job
training have been major problems in the past.
Sector Financing and Tariffs
38.        Stated Government policy on water supply charges for urban systems is
that rates will cover the capital, operating and maintenance costs in the long
run, i.e. tariffs should approximately equal the long-run marginal costs. This
policy has not always been implemented. Water rates in urban communities :ranged
from about KSh 2.5 to KSh 10.5 per thousand gallons. The water rates in Nairobi
were recently increased from KSh 6.5 to KSh 8.0 per thousand gallons. A relatively



- 11 -
uniform tariff of KSh 6.0 per thousand gallons has been maintained over the past
few years in urban supplies operated by the WD. This rate is substantially less
than the expected average cost per incremental unit of water in the future. The
Government faces some difficult decisions with regard to pricing of water in
the future - especially so in the Coast Province where bringing new supplies of
water is likely to be particularly expensive. An efficient allocation of the
nation's resources to the different sectors and regions requires that
significantly higher average price levels be charged in the future years,
but the tariff structure must ensure at the samp time that low income people
are not prevented from consuming the necessary amount of water for the minimum
needs. The Government is aware of.these considerations and is taking steps
to arrive at suitable tariff structures (See para. 57).
39.        With respect to rural water supplies mainly supported by Sweden, stated
Government policy has been that water from communal water points should be free,
while individual connections are charged on a subsidized basis. Several operational
and maintenance problems have been encountered in the rural water supply system;
unattended communal points often break down and water is obtained from licensed
vendors who sell water by the 4-gallon container at a cost equivalent to KSh 12.5
per thousand gallons or more.
Expenditures on Water Supplies and Sewerage Development
40.        Expenditures on water development by public authorities increased
more than fivefold between 1969/70 and 1973/74. In accordance with the aim,
stated in the 1970/74 Development Plan, of reducing water supply deficiencies
in rural areas, expenditures on rural water supplies during this period grew
much faster than those on urban supplies. Total sewerage development expendi-
tures also grew about fivefold. The Government is firmly committed to the goal
of providing safe water to everyone by the year 2000. Accordingly, much higher-
levels of development expenditures are expected on water over the period of
the 1974 - 78 Development Plan. Although a majority of these funds would be
spent on urban water supplies, reflecting the urgent needs of Nairobi and
Mombasa, the Plan reflects a continued emphasis on rural water development.
On the basis of the updated three-year budget prepared in connection with the
Bank's recent program loan to Kenya, it is anticipated that water developmenr
will account for about 10 percent of the total development expenditure in the
public sector; this is significantly higher than the corresponding allocation
(approximately 5%) in the previous development plans.
Constraints to Development
41.        The proposals in the Development Plan indicate a relatively "balanced"
growth of the sector in the sense that rural, major urban and minor urban water
supplies are all being paid proper attention within the constraints of expected
development funds. The relatively large emphasis placed on rural water programs
during the previous Development Plan is expected to continue. But, being a
young nation, Kenya faces some serious problems with regard to development in
this sector. First, it is presently experiencing a shortage of skilled manpower



- 12 -
of all types and levels that could severely restrict the implementation capacity
of new development programs. Second, in the past there has been the problem
of a disproportionately small allocation of funds for operation and maintenance
of existing schemes (relative to amounts allocated to new development programs)
which may lead to considerable inefficiencies and breakdowns. Finally, develop-
ment has hitherto been hindered by the lack of overall planning and coordination
and some overly bureaucratic procedures presently followed by the various organi-
zations in this sector. These are expected to be improved upon gradually as a
result of the establishment of the new Ministry of Water Development and the
formulation of a National Master Water Plan which is being undertaken with the
assistance of Sweden. With improvements, the WD school (paragraph 37) should
help relieve some of the manpower problems.
Mombasa and Coast Province
42.       Mombasa, the second largest city in Kenya, is the major ;rban center
of the Coast Province. It is the principal port (with the largest harbor in
East Africa), a railway and highway terminus, an industrial and commercial
center, headquarters for the Coast Province, and the heart of a promising tourist
trade with beaches, marine parks and nature reserves. Its estimated population
(1974) is about 300,000 and is growing at about 5 percent per year. The major
consumption of water goes for domestic use (60%) while industry and commerce
use about 35 percent. The tourism industry consumes about 5 percent of available
water.
43.       In addition to Mombasa, the Coast Province includes several smaller
urban centers ranging in population from 2,000 to 20,000, and a rural population
of about 750,000 (1974). The total population of the Coast Province is estimated
to be about 1.1 million (1974) out of which approximately 300,000 are served by
existing water systems.
44.       The Coast Province including Mombasa is facing acute problems in the
water sector which require immediate attention. The area is poorly endowed
with groundwater resources and must rely heavily on surface water sources quite
remote from demand centers. Low rainfall, extended periods of drought and
resulting water shortages have been characteristic of this area for centuries.
The principal existing source uses a 220 km transmission main which brings water
from another province. The capacity of supply and transmission facilities
has grown rather slowly; no major additions to supply capacity had been made for
almost twenty years. The growth and development of the province led to increased
water requirements which already exceed capacity during one or more dry months
of each year, requiring periodic rationing. The system has also been unreliable;
breaks in the main transmission line have in the past reduced total supply to 30
percent of normal level for about one or two weeks at a time. The unsatisfactory
water service at present can be expected to deteriorate further until a major
new source and other improvements are completed.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.       The Government of Kenya has for a long time planned to augment water
supplies for Mombasa and the Coast, and has requested the Bank and Kreditanstalt
fUr Wiederaufbau (KfW) to help finance the first phase of water development for
these areas. On the basis of engineering and economic analysis of several
alternative water sources, the proposed project was determined to be the least
cost method of meeting the anticipated water requirements of the project area
until the mid-1980's. In October/November 1974, an appraisal mission visited
Kenya and negotiations of a loan took place in May 1975. Mr. J. Kibe, Permanent
Secretary of the Ministry of Water Development, led the Kenyan Delegation. A
report entitled "Appraisal of Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply Project" (Report
No.713-KE dated September 15, 1975 is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors. A Loan and Project Summary is presented in Annex III.
Project Description
46.       The propoaed project would be the first phase of a two-phase program to
extend and improve water supplies in the city of Mombasa and various locations
in the coastal area of Kenya north of Mombasa. Specifically the project comprises:
(a) surface water abstraction facilities from the Sabaki River
with a water treatment plant, pumping stations, some 190 km
of transmission facilities, storage reservoirs, and distri-
bution networks for four rural areas along the coast and Mombasa;
(b) headquarters building for the Coast Province Water Branch
(CPWB) in Mombasa and a telecommunications system required
for the water supply operations;
(c) engineering and management consulting services for CPWB; and
(d) technical assistance to support the WD with an evaluation
of existing rural water supply systems, preparation of future
rural water supply systems and training of skilled manpower
for WD.
47.       By the end of its construction in 1978, the project would be capable
of serving at least 300,000 more people than are presently served and vastly
improving the service to the population now served. Measures to curtail water
waste would be strengthened, water charges would approach the average long-term
incremental cost of water supply, a new water institution responsible for water
supply in the Coast Province (CPWB) would be established and developed, addi-
tional facilities to train skilled personnel required for the water sector
would be provided, and an evaluation of existing rural water supply systems would
be conducted. On the basis of this evaluation, the project also provides for
preparation of a countrywide rural water supply project to be ready for imple-
mentation in a few years. Although the majority of the beneficiaries from the
project would be the urban residents of Mombasa and the surrounding areas, approx-
imately 70,000 rural inhabitants of the Coast Province are also expected to
benefit.



- 14 -
Costs and Financing
48.       It is estimated that the project would cost about US$74.7 million
(KE26.7 million) excluding interest during construction.   Of this approximately
US$40.0 million equivalent are expected to be foreign exchange costs. The
proposed Bank Loan of US$35.0 mill:on, together with an additional loan
of US$15.0 million equivalent from KfW, would finance about 67 percent of
the total project costs (including about US$10 million in local expenditures
of which approximately US$8.7 million would come from the proposed Bank loan).
The balance of the project expenditures (33%) would be financed by the Government.
The financing of a portion of local costs in Kenya is justified in the light of
the considerations discussed in para. 16 above.
Organization
49.       CPWB is being established following the recommendations of the
Government-engaged management consultants, Public Administration Service (PAS),
with the aim of rectifying the present shortcomings of WD's administration in
the Coast Province. The existing provincial water supply branch of the WD,
officially designated CPWB, will be restructured along the lines of a utility
type organization. CPWB will remain an integral part of WD, but will be
independent from provincial administrations. It will be strengthened through
addition of some high level staff, rearrangement of operating divisions, up-
grading of staff capabilities through training and development programs, and
modifications, particularly in the areas of accounting, personnel and procurement.
The Government has already set up the CPWB; it has appointed a General Manager
and is expected to fill the other key positions of the organization by
December 1, 1975. Under the existing agreement with the Government, PAS is
obligated to assist in the implementation of the organizational changes and train
the key staff for a period of three years. The core implementation team will
comprise, in addition to CPWB's personnel, three PAS staff, including a Project
Manager, a Finance Advisor and a Chief Operations and Maintenance Engineer.
50.       All billing and collection responsibilities for the entire Coast
Province would be entrusted to the Finance Division of CPWB, which would pass
on the funds to the Treasury (see Section 4.05 of the Loan Agreement). A
suitable and well-organized accounting system is being designed by PAS to
help the financial planning of CPWB; this will enable preparation of financial
statements of CPWB in accordance with the generally accepted accounting
principles.
Rural Water Supply Systems
51.       In view of the problems encountered in the existing rural water supply
schemes, the proposed project includes a study of existing rural water supplies
in Kenya. This study aims to evaluate various aspects of the performance of
rural water supply systems that have been constructed in Kenya over the past
decade. In addition, the project includes identification and preparation of
rural water supply systems as a first step in future rural water development.



- 15 -
Technical Training
52.       In addition to the training element associated with the assistance
from PAS during the first three years of the operation of CPWB (para. 49),
additional funds amounting to US$500,000 have been allocated in the project
for improvement of technical training facilities of the Water Department.
Procurement
53.       Except for the electric power transmission connections, all civil
works, equipment and materials contracts required for the project would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank and KfW. A preference of 15 percent, or
the applicable customs duty, whichever is lower, would be applied to bids
from local manufacturers in the case of materials and equipment supply contracts;
in the case of construction contracts, a preference of 7-1/2% will be applied
to bids from local firms. The electric power connections would be carried out
by the East African Power and Lighting Company under a negotiated contract
acceptable to the Bank.
Disbursement
54.       The KfW will finance all the foreign exchange costs of the contract
for supply of transmission pipe and 15 percent of the total cost of construction
of the transmission mains. The Bank loan would be disbursed for 100 percent
of the foreign exchange cost of all supply contracts other than transmission
pipe; 50 percent of the total cost of the contract for construction of the
transmission facilities' 65 percent of the total expenditures on all other
construction contracts; 100 percent of the foreign and 25 percent of local
expenditures for consultant services; and 65 percent of total expenditures for
training. The loan would be disbursed over a period of five years, as shown in
Annex III. To prevent further delays in the proposed project, the Government
engaged consultants for detailed engineering and for assistance in setting up an
appropriate organization. The expenditures incurred for these services and costs
of installation of treatment and pumping equipment since July 1, 1974, up to
an amount of US$800,000 are recommended to be financed retroactively.
Ecological Aspects
55.       At the proposed water treatment plant, sludge and filter washwater
could be discharged back into the Sabaki River with very little effect on the
characteristics of the river water. However, provisions are included in the
planning, plant layout and land requirements for addition of concentration tanks
and recycling facilities at some later date. The need for these additions would
depend entirely on the planned development of the Sabaki River in the future.
The effect on the river will be monitored.



- 16 -
56.       Great improvements to ecology in the project area are expected
as a result of better health and sanitation. However, the increase of water
supply as a result of the project would lead to some increase in the amount
of sewage to be disposed. This is not expected to cause any problems in the
major part of the project area where population densities are comparatively
low, and where buildings with sanitary plumbing systems should be able to
safely dispose of wastewater through septic tank systems. Sewage disposal
in Mombasa and Malindi, however, could become a serious problem in the future.
While Mombasa has sewerage facilities, they are poorly operated and main-
tained. In view of this, consultants have been engaged by the Government to
study pollution, waste disposal and marine environment in the general area
of Mombasa.
Economic and Financial Evaluation
57.        Even though this project is the least-cost method of satisfying the
water needs of the region (paragraph 45), the estimated average cost per unit
amount of extra water provided through this project is high and is about
Ksh.23.0 per 1000 imperial gallons in 1975 prices. Until recently average
water charges in the project region, however, have only been about Ksh.7.0
per 1000 imperial gallons. The Government, with the encouragement of the Bank,
has undertaken a substantial revision to the present tariff structure of water
in the Coast Province with a view to:
(a) have an average level of tariffs which ensures that the
water supply authority will be financially viable and which
also approaches the long-run marginal costs of supplying
water since this will tend to encourage an efficient overall
allocation of resources in terms of their opportunity costs;
(b) have a tariff structure which does not, on the basis of price,
exclude low income people from consuming a necessary minimum
amount of water;
(c) effect any desired tariff changes gradually to the extent that
this is necessary to avoid major hardships in the short run.
To this end, an appropriate tariff structure and phasing of increases
in the average level of water charges have been agreed. (Section 4.04 (a)
of the draft Loan Agreement.) The first step increase of about 60 percent
to an average level of Ksh.ll.0 per 1000 gallons became effective in July,
1975. Average charges would be Ksh.17.0 per 1000 gallons (at 1975 prices)
by the time the project is operational and Ksh.23.0 when it is fully
utilized (1981-82).



- 17 -
58.       Revenues from the sale of water have been projected assuming the
revised tariffs would go into effect as agreed. Using these revenues as the
sole measure of benefits from the water supplies, the internal economic rate
of return of the proposed project has been computed to be of the order of 11
percent; if both this scheme and the marginal expansions proposed for 1983 are
taken into account, a somewhat higher return of about 12 percent has been
estimated. The above estimate of the rate of return does not take account
of a number of other non-quantifiable benefits such as improved health and
sanitation, subsidized water supply to the poorer urban and rural consumers
which have desirable income distributional effects, and the provision of safe
and reliable water supply to Mombasa, the principal port in East Africa, the
tourist industry and other commercial and industrial activities which would
otherwise be severely handicapped.
59.       The Government has agreed to ensure for CPWB a financial rate of
return on revalued net fixed assets of at least 8 percent during 1979/80 and
10 percent thereafter (Section 4.04(c) of the Loan Agreement). The Government
has also agreed to ensure that the Mombasa Pipeline Board would continue to
supply bulk water to CPWB on a priority basis at prices acceptable to the Bank
(Section 3.14 of the Loan Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       A draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Kenya and the Bank,
a draft Lenders Agreement between KfW and the Bank, the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Airticles of Agreement of
the Bank and a draft resolution approving the proposed Loan are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately. Special features of the draft Loan
Agreement are referred to in paragraphs 57 and 59 above. The execution of a
Loan Agreement between the Republic of Kenya and KfW would be an additional
condition of effectiveness of the proposed Loan.
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATTONS
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by
Attachments                                               J. Burke Knapp
Washington, DC
September 24, 1975



I
I



00TRUl DATA - _ 1YA
AM                                               POuAal                                      n
58J2,tij, kk                                      12. ll  llon  (.id-1972)                             FrW0       olln
SOCIAL DIDICATORS
RKfyr          Mnes Countres
S salk     ore     burtiS
1960 _nO                      M21        "E.970 
OPY PnR CPITA   SS$ (ATLAS USIS) S                                           170 /a         120 S        310 /a      300 Z.
DEMORAPuIC
Crude birth ret. (par thouand)                               50 k         bS  d           b7           28          25 4-,&e
Crude death rate (pr thouand)                                  20 [q       18  4           22            8           8 Is
InAfnt otiality rats (P.r thousnd live birth.)                             55         160165 L          *           6b /e
Life" Sp4et.n.y at birth (ysars)                            O-1.5 I        b9              L b3         65          63
Orosa repoduction rate /2                                                  3.b             3.2         2.5         2.3
Populatioc grooth ra..                                                     3.2Lt          3            2.? If      2.2 2 
PpultiUon groth rate - urbao                                                 7    h h       501L         67E         2
Ag   tructure (paroent)
0-11.64--                                                                L                              A        L
15-64 1.85                                                                                             515
65 end o,er        /L.f01./                                                                                        .
Ag d jend-cy     e ratio                                     1._  I a 1.   :  1                         | iA        6
an   Vdency rAM                                         :                           .             .,        I
O7rb n prpuatUon as Percent of total                            8 bAx       10 &aS          7&,a'!      41At        LL 
Feedly plannin. Vs. of acceptors .eeelativ  (thau..)            .           ..
No. of users (% of mrrld     an)             .             ..
3EPWM?
NUMbor for. (tbouaads)                                      3,300 i      5,100 49p.      5AOOL!A    10,500 /a      250
ftrontag   qployed in aric.tur.                              ..           90Z            91E           b8         30
Plroostags .o,e loyd                                                       ..                           5         17
ar    0 i R      incom rosiWed by blst 5%                                                3h .         15
rarceat of national ioe roeivd by bigst 20%                                                60          37
Percet of national iz.ce romi-d by loat 2%                                                   5          10   7
Percent ot nationel inoo  receivd by lowes LO 1a                                                        2b
M   rSMn h. OF LtD OWIER            -m
S ouwnu by op lO                                               ..           ..              .           28
% ooned b; ,ralle.t !3% of oers                                                                          2
REALm AND NTICrT7o0
Pouplation par phreicin                                     1 OD /r a    7,830                        2 21.570 /  2,210 Is  81090
Posulation per  urseig p.7o0                                1,610 h       ,1b70 P.       b .890 L    1,760 7i      800
Population per hopital bed                                    810 To       770             700 [     1,920         250
Per capita calorie supply an  of rof  uir.eots /_             103 .        10               73         103         lOt
Pr capita protein supply, total (grC_a par dayYS      .        75 o         n               b3           65         50
Of ,d.ich, ania and pulo                                     32 ;         29              23           19 &L1     19
Death rae 1-4 years /7                                                                       .                     b 5 Lr
Ad7   d /pri.ry school Onroll_nt ratio                         1            67              37     k    10l        105
Adjusted    secondary school nroflent ratio                     3 /          9 A             3 /        b1          30 2
T-t s of Schooling providod, rirst ad second lvel             13           13             13           12          14.
Vo. tionl ocrollent as % of ec. school snrollannat             12            2               4/ v       15 Lt        1 ^
Adult literacy rote 8                                          ..           30 &i           *           81 A   b
Avrag INo. of persons per rose (urban)                        2.5 I         ..                         2.7
Percent of occupied unite without piped  ater                                  .                        80 it.
Across to electricity (as % of total poulstlon)                                                         50
Percent of tural population onnected to elact,ioity                                                     30
per 1000 popUtion                               9           bd Z8.r         16/!        128 L       123/a
P.ss-ogr c- per 1000 population                                 8  d         9 L   d         3 /  a4      2 n       16
Il..trio po.er coD.tOno   (ehh P.c.)                           50           78 /            31 a        392 25      3'aZ1
rcs.print coonptiio  p.c. kg prc year                         O.1          0.5a/           0.1/         3 7 /      0.8
PoLs-   Figuroe rfer. esther to the l.toet periods or to         AccOunt of onvironasntel teepraturts  body vw.igta, MUd
tbh lntact e e.re  Latea perloda rfr in prinoiple to              distribution by ago and san of nstional popul-ti-oe
the year 1956-60 or 1966-70; the latet years in prin-         &       Protein at-rd. (rquirnnt.) for 11              _tbnt_ie  a  tab-
ipl . to 1960 nd 1970.                                           llahed by USDA Econic Research Serrice provide for   a .ini.s
/L The Per Capita GtP etloate is at krket prices for             allo.anco of 60 gree orf ottl protein per day, arnd 20 gr, ot
yc re other than 1960, calculatd by the asee conversion  n1      _ 1 and pule. protein, of ohich 10 grae ahould be anLsl
tachnlqu- ac the 1972 World Bonk Atla.                       protein. These atandlarsa    eoes,hat lwer than those of 75
2   Aerage -oubr of d-ughterc per   -on of reproductie           gra    of total protein  nd 23 vra-  of anis.l protein a  n
ae .                                                                 for t.e world, propoed by AO in th. Tbird World Food
/3  Populotion growth retees a, for the dec.dra ending in        Surey.
1960 end 1970.                                               S o.  tudicS bars auggestad that Crude drath rat. of childr,n
a Rntic of populotlon und-r 15 nd 65 and over to p.pulo-     *g6  t 1through 1 sV be used as a first eppro--tion lde of
tion of g.. 15-6L for nrr dep-ndency ratio  nd to labor         lr,-tritin.
force of ap- 15-61, for econeic dop-eden-y ratio.          . Percoot    enrolled of corrasprndg population of *ohool age
Fi ?O refere.mce   -Wo.rla repr-.e,t paiologic     r             as d.ftlr,d for ech e ountry.
quir-asts for    real activity sad health, taking
/a 19721         'n taland T nrnial    A   UN ectinAtr for Afrran poplsatic, bar-d on alyis of date free 1962 peat-
ceensal tsple  urey;     /d  Ull e  -t:rte for 1965-701  /L  196?,   /f  1960-72i    ZC 1A?-6?;      /   2,O 00or mr
in), bitant.;   LI T-nranyike only;    /L 15 C.rettrd t-onships, 1957-7;      /k  Seoul city and enIciaplitire of
5o000 or aore; /1 Procljlerd tonships, accortinC to exlarped lUnlts ns of Auguot 1963, plus the toss of hakrburgj
L5  19 2;    In Bsrd so conplcte cnuorrtion of nn-Afrltan prul.ti.o end of urbm       African ppulation   nd on a 10 per-
coot easple oT rural African population,   /- 1969;     /   lAbor forco In age brecket 15-59;    tg 16 gSas.ted toonhbip,,
/   ll971   /a   uabar on th. rgIater, not all uorking is the country;   /t lcluding a1d.i.es,     sseitant aiduivs aod
cursea;   /u  1973;   /   E.tLoat.;   I   1568;  I5   niuding t-achr training at the thild lrd-;     &   Hou..h1ldo;
/   1S years and o5r,     (   1961;  /ob   Definition of lit-racy unheo     Z.1c  W.tar p1ped inrid.;  /A   Including -hiolee
oper-tad by police or other  e-rr       -sot *  curity organl"Lon  nd light corcial vehicles;  1i.  egietarod only.
Mauritios ha bre eelCted as an resple of a prvdasinantly a, r1lltoral ronory, which Is folloeing som anlightaned
pol1i1ie  drsigud to disereify production  nd prnmot arrc-I-r "d induotrioliaation.



ErDNOMTC,      r0TTPI'EZI DATA                                                AsNqe21
(Ajsounta In millions of U.,S. dol11ars)
Actual1                 -?PreIr. -        Projected     1964-    1973 -   197A -    1975 -     1-973   1974     1980
1.964 1/  1972 L/   1973 2/       1974       1975        19390  1972    1974      1975      1980
NATIOVAL ACCOLM75                          ~   ~~~~At 1973 Prices and Exchange Rates   Average Annual Growth Rates           As Percent of' COY
Gross Domestic Product               1,030     1,735     2,323         2,406      2,526       3,224  6.7      3.6       5.0      5.0       100.0   104.5    107.0
Gatins from Term-s of Trade             to 1    - 15        -    -       104     -137       -   212   -             -         -         -        -   4.5     -7.0
Gross Domestic Income                 MO       ITM'      2,3 23        rY-=       T,         77D1 7.        - - i-.      i-      '47       TWo     iW.3     IDU%
Import (inc. NFS)                      296       500       718           727        744         869  6.1      1.2       2.3      3.2        30.9    31.6     28.9
Exports        (import capacity)       350       443        686          565        570         747  2.8    -17.6       0.9      5.6        29.5    24.5     24.8
Resource Gap                         - :'53     -57          325        -I=7        T7 -T77-                  -                             =4      -:
Consumption Expenditu.res              838     1,426     1.686         1.891      1,964       2,389  6.6     12.2       3.9      4.0        72.6    82.1     79.3
Investment        (incl. stocks)       149       352       668           573        599         745 11.6    -14.2       4.5      4.4        28.8    24.9     24.7
Domestic Savings                       202       295       637           411        424         623  5.9    -35.5       3.2      8.0        27.4    17.9     20.7
Nationa.l Savings                      211       298        512          351         362        528  5.0    -31.4       3.1      7.8        22.0    15.2     17.5
MERCHANDISE TRADE                              ArxnualI Data at Currenit Prices                                                            As-Percent of Total
1970        1971       1973                                                                      197
Trports                                                                                                                                             2.
Capital goods                                   122.4       170.5      175.2                                                                      2.
Intermediate goodis 6n1Lfiiels)                 173.2       214.2      272.6                                                                      43.1
FuLels and related materials                     41.3        47.4       67.0                                                                      10.6
of whtich:  Petroleum                         (41.3)      (47.4)     (67.0)                                                                    (10.6)
Consumptijongoodsg                              105.8       128.1      117.6                                                                      18.6
foYti lierch. TDeports (cif)                    44_2.7      560.2      632.4                                                                     100.0
Exports                                                                                                                                             5.
Prim,ary products (excl. fuels)                 144.7       135.8      256.2                                                                      13.2
Fuels and related materials                      40.3        51.4       61.7                                                                      1.
of which:   Petroleum                         (40.3)      (51.4)     (61.7)      .                                                             (13.2)
Mamif:a~ctured goods                            103.6       112.6      150.1                                                                      32.1
TotS1a Merch. Exports (fob)                     288.6       299.8      468.0                                                                     100.0
Tou-irsm and Boraer   Trade                      25          76         70
Merchandise Trade Indices                                      1973 - 100
Export Price Index                                          100          135         143       221
Import Price Index                                          100          161         177       267
Terms of Trade Index                                        100           84          81        83
Exports Volume Index                                        100           98         105       135
'z5Y SECTI                 Annual Data at    1964 - pri-ces anft D<change Rates              Averare Annual Grovih Rates         As Percent of Total
------f9--7   _ 197                                              1964-1972                  1964    1972     1973
Agriculture                1~~~     ~~~~5 6-  245  264                                                  5.8                     23     210-      20
A.,3ricultur13                       254        2828.5                                                                          20      21       22
industry and Mining                                                                                             7.825  52                 7      59.~.    58
Service                   ~~~~      ~~~~       ~~387  708  750                                          7.8 ___
Service                            675     1,207       1,296                                                    7.5                     100     100      100
~~J35L1C FINANCE ~~In cur-rent prices and exchange rates
TC_en_tral_ Government)               64/65     71/72      72/73     73/74     74/75      75/7 6
current Re-ceipts                   138         98       419       493       69         71
Current Expnditures                 159       337        374       395       569        644
f~~4tarj Savings                   - 21         61        45        98       100         67
Expenditure in Development
Budget                        38       145        173       191       246       381
us $ rJ.llion
DETAIL OR                            At enid 1975/76 P and ER
CU7RREINT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                   Actual               Prelim.   Estims.     Prl    PUZI    SETO~R                                       %of Total
As.$ Total Current Expend.)         1964/65   1972/73    1973/74   19074/75  1975/76   1977178 I'STFN       PR3A.(97                         /75- - 1977 /78)
Education                              11         28        27        28       28        27 
Other Social Serv-ices                  8        14         11        11       1          9     AgricualSetors                           499            36
Agriculture                             9          4         8         6        6         7      gIcdulture   Mnn                        425            35
Other Economic Services                 3        11         11        12       13        15     Indusry and omwningtin427                                3
Adr.dnictration and Defense            30        26         25        28       27        21     Towranpotand cosmn    ucations            782            6
Other (inel. C.F. Ex9eeditures)        39        18         17        14       15        21    Ctranspr    ancnsr     ucin232                          28
Total Current Exn-en2GLUre2           Th   100       100             100--f-o  100      100     Toa        xpniursU$                       ,7  mli_    -T7
(incl   C.F. expenditures)                                                                    TtlEpniue                           S   ,7     ilo      07
SELECTFn 1IMICATOP.S                                            1965-1970                         FINANCING
(Calculated from ,-year averaged dataL)PulcStrSaig38                                                                                                      0
Average ICOR                                                       3.3                               Pubesic SBctrrSavings                 389           30
'L-.Tprt Els   Savings                                          0Foreign Project Aid                                                 540            43
1.arginal Domestic Rai?          ate                               0.29                              Total Financing               US$ 1,27-6 million 1600%
Marginal Niational Savings Rate                                    0.22
LABOR FORCE A.'W3                                  Total Labor Force___                                    Value Added Per Worker (1971.- prices & E:c.~_ Ratcs)
OjJPEp. WCP~YR                          In Millionq       IN   7 of Total                                 in U.S. Dollars            PercentL of Avcra.sgn
1971                  197                                         1971                         1971       -
Agriculture                                     4,647                   86                                           109                           36
Industry                                           141                   3                                         1,426                          475
Seirvice                                          301                    6                     ~1286                                              429
Total1                                          5, 3 77                100                                           300                          100
-nil or negligible1 Iin 1967-69 prices end exchange rates.
i- ess than holl the             2/  Revisod fgrs



ANNEX I
Page 3
BIUANCE OF PAYlNTS, kXrERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEWT
(amounts in millinn8 of U.S. dollars at current prices)
Av g. AnTnual
Actual                          Prelim.                                    Projected                                   Orowth Rate
-0                                              91971  1972  1973  1974  1 T 9176    1977        1978        1980         1985        1974-1980
SUEBOART EALANCE OF PAYHMfTS
Exports (incl. ?TFS)                     473          509         632         675           930          1,011       1,169       1,318       1,523       1,996        3,947         13.bt
TImorts (incl. NFS)                     525           659         560         728         1,182         1,288        1,442       1,601       1,785       2,237       4,008          11.2%
Resource Balance  X-M)                     7150                                                                                     6 3 .'-273 -   263 - 261  - 242    - 62         18.1%
Factor Services (Net)                   - 23         _ 25        - 34        - 48         - 94           - 110       - 134       - 162       - 191        - 255       _ 420         28.66%
Cu-rent Transrers (rst)                   26           58          38          28            22             20          18          16          14           10          1O        -12.2%
E.3lAncs on Current Account                   469                            - 75          -324          - 368  _      389       -_409                                               7.0%
Private Direct  nvestment& Loans          59           48          43          45            97             60          65          70           75          85         120        - 2.07.
Official Capital Qrants                   lt           V           V           2/            2/             15          15          15          15           15          15           -
Public MNLT Loans
aisbursenents                           30 3/        48          68 3/       61 3         90 /           244         276         326         344          369         498         26.5%
-7 :/        -8         -11         _13   /       -18            -22        -28         -48         -81          -124        -203         37.8%
Net Disburselents                       2T#            W           57          7 8          72             222         248         2           262          245         295         22.87.
9DR Use                                                                                     18              -           -           -           -            -           -
Use otfFIv Credit                         -            -           -           -            53              54          61          36           5
S'aott lerm Credit (Net)                  -            -2           6           2           45              -           -           -
Us, of Reserves (+)                      -50           72         -25         -29            16                         -                       -            -           -
Errors.6  knissions/Resource Gap          11          -52         -19           9            3              17          -            9          81         -142          51
Actual                     Estimated
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE            1970     1971      1972     1973         1974 p/
Public Debt Out. & Disbursed     283.1    311.8     366.6    401.3        445.8
GRAUT AND IOAN CDMMITMENTS                  1970        1971        1972        1973
Officiad Grants & Urant-lUke                                                                             Interest on Public Debt         11.5      12.3     14.8     16.1         18.2
Official Grants & Orant-like                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Repayments on Public Debt  7.3  7.8  10.7  12.7      18.3
P11blb 1'1T Loans                                                                                        Total Public Debt Service       18.8      20.1     25.5     28.8         36.6
TBRD                                     8.3        23.0        29.0        34.0                       Other Debt Service (net)                            ..
IT!A                                    18.7         -          28.0         -                         Total Debt Service (net)                           .. .-
Other                                     -          -           -           -
Other Multilateral                       1.5         3.5         -           1.1                    B,urden on Export Earnings (%)
r,overninents                           10.5        40.4     . 20.0         55.2
Sup,pliers                               1.1         7.3         -           -                         Public Debt Service              4.0       3.9      4.6 .    4.3           4.1
Financial Institutions                    -          2.5        17.3         1.6                       Total Debt Service                                  ..       .
Bonds                                     -          -           -           -                         TDS+Direct Invet. Inc            9.8      9.2       9.8     10.7         10.4
'.iblic Loans n.e.i.                     2.1                                 -
Tota3l Public FaiLT Loans                 42.2        76.7        94.3        91.9                     Average Terms of Public Debt
Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31,1974   p/                Tnt. as % Prior Year DO&D         4.3      4.3      4.7      4.4           4.5
Disbursed Only              Percent                         Amort. as % Prior Year DO&D      2.7      2.8       3.4      3.5          4.6
World Bank                                       62.2                      13
IDA                                              74.6                      16.6                        ID3R  Debt Out. & Disbursed
Other Multilateral                                5.0                        1.1                         n  as % Public Debt O&D           1.9      3.8      8.9     12.4          14.0
Gu.erroments                                    251.4                      55.9                          "  as % Public Debt Service       7.6      2.1      5.4     10.0          11.7
Sippliers                                         9.9                       2.2
Fin3ncial Institutions                           19.4                       4.3                       IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed
Bond3                                            27.4                       6.1                         " as % Public Debt O&D           11.2      11.2     12.0     15.8         16.7
Public Oebt3 n.e.i                                .                                                        as % Public Debt Service       0.8       1.2      1.3      1.7           1.4
To'al Public M&LT Debt                          449.
Other MALT Debts
Short-term Debt (disb. only)
- nil or negligible                  2/  Included in Public Loans.
not available                     3/  Source:  World Bank External Debt Statistics (Kenya only).
i/ Included in Current Transfers.    4/  Including Capital Grants.
pl  Preliminary figures.



AVNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANIK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as at July 31, 1975
Loan or
Credit #   Year   Borrower   Purpose                  Amount (less Cancellations)
Bank IDA 1/ Undisbursed
Four (4) loans and nine (9) credits;
fully disbursed                                      34.7   40.0
185      1970     Kenya    Education                         6.1       2.3
714      1970     NCC      Water Supply               8.3              2.5
224      1970     Kenya    Road Maintenance                 12.6       2.5
745      1971     TRDC     Hydroelectric Develop.    23.0               .8
276      1972     Kenya    Highways                         22.0       7.2
826      1972     Kenya    Nairobi Airport           29.0             11.1
344      1972     Kenya    Agricultural Credit               6.0       4.2
932      1973     Kenya    Highways                  29.0             26.3
946      1973     IDB      DFC                        5.0              2.1
468      1974     Kenya    Population                       12.0      12.0
477      1974     Kenya    Livestock                        21.5      21.2
993      1974     Kenya    Tea Factories             10.4              9.4
1093      1975     Kenya    Group Farm Credit          7.5              7.5
537      1975     Kenya    Group Farm Credit                 7.5       7.5
1105      1975     Kenya    Site and Service           8.0              8.0
543      1975     Kenya    Site and Service                  8.0       8.0
1117      1975     Kenya    Program Loan              30.0             30.0
565      1975     Kenya    Agriculture-Forestry             10.0      10.0
1132      1975     Kenya    Agriculture-Forestry      10.0             10.0
1133      1975     Kenya    Transportation-Pipeline   20.0             20.0
1147      1975     TRDC    Hydroelectric Development 63.0              63.0
1148      1975     IDB     DFC                        10.0             10.0
TOTAL                   287.9  145.7     275.6
of which has been
repaid          7.1-   0.1
Total now outstanding  280.8  145.6
Amount sold     5.1
of which has
been repaid   4.4       .7
Total now held by
Bank and IDA         280.1  145.6
Total undisbursed      200.7   74.9    275.6
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B.     Statement of IFC Investments in Kenya as at August 31, 1975
Amount in US$ Million
Year      Obligor                  Type of Business    Loan   Equity  Total
1968 &    Kenya Hotel Properties   Hotels               5.2     0.7     5.9
1973
1970 &    Pan African Paper Mills Pulp & Paper         11.9     5.7    17.6
1974
1972      Tourism Promotion        Hotels               2.4     -       2.4
Services
1976      Rift Valley Textiles     Textiles             6.3     2.2     8.5
Ltd.
Total Gross Commitments                     25.8      8.6    34.4
less cancellations,
terminations, repay-
ments and sales                            6.3      1.7    -8.0
Total Commitments now
held by IFC                               19.5      6.9    26.4
Total Undisbursed                            9.7     0.9     10.6
C.        Projects in Execution 1/
Credit 185 - Education: $6.1 million Credit of May 20, 1970:
Closing Date: December 31, 1975. Construction is proceeding at a slower
rate than anticipated. As remedial action has been taken, it is expected
that all project institutions, except two, will be completed prior to the
Closing Date. An extension of the Closing Date of about 12 months is likely
to be required in order to complete the two project items lagging behind.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3
Loan 714 - Water Supply: $8.4 million Loan of November 7,
1969; Closing Date: March 31, 1976. Good progress has been made
on the main project items, and water was delivered to Nairobi on
schedule in March 1974.   A twelve-month postponement of the Closing
Date, however, was required to enable completion of ancillary items.
The Water and Sewerage Department is still experiencing staffing
shortages in its engineering and commercial sections due to inability
to attract and retain staff. The financial results of water operations
are generally satisfactory and water tariffs have now been increased.
Cost overruns, which are mainly due to local cost increases, are
about 31 percent over the appraisal estimates.
Credit 224 - Road Maintenance:    $12.6 million Credit of
December 28   1970; Closing Date:   June 30, 1976.   This project is
progressing well, although its final completion is now expected to
be delayed till December, 1976 - eighteen months behind the original
schedule. The delay is due to some unforeseen difficulties experienced
in acquisition of land and procurement of steel required for construc-
tion of the workshops. Most of the equipment has been received and
installed, and the Highway Training Center is in operation. While the
majority of the senior posts in the Roads Branch have been filled,
a few are still vacant due to difficulties in finding suitably qual-
ified specialists. The Closing Date was postponed from June 30, 1975 to
J*ne 30, 1976.
Loan 745 - Kamburu Hydroelectric: $23.0 million Loan of
June 7, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1975. The project was com-
missioned in August 1974 and there are only a few minor details
outstanding. Cost escalation was 7 percent, principally the result
of currency fluctuations, the imposition of a sales tax in 1973 and
an increase in engineering costs. The closing date has been post-
ponied from June 30, 1975 to December 31, 1975 because some retention
monies are not due till then.
Credit 276 - Highways: $22.0 million Credit of June 5, 1972;
Closing Date: March 31, 1976. This project, which is jointly financed
by a Swedish Credit of $6.0 million, made a slow start due to a review
of paving standards undertaken by Government and consequent delays in
obtaining governmental approvals to issue tenders. Because of high
bid prices and specification changes, total estimated cost of the proj-
ect may exceed the appraisal estimates by over 25 percent.
Loan 826 - Nairobi Airport: $29 million Loan of June 2, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1975. The major contracts have been awarded,
and work has commenced. Inadequate supervision by the key contractor
and administrative delays by the Government have led to delays in the
physical execution of the project. Financial and organizational prob-
lems persist. There is likely to be a cost overrun of about $10.5
million. Some key positions, including that of the Airport Manager,
still remain unfilled. The project is now expected to be completed
by December 31, 1976 rather than by December, 1975 as originally anti-
cipated. The Closing Date of this Loan may have to be extended to
December 31, 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit 344 - Agricultural Credit: $6.0 million Credit of November
29, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1976. The Agricultural Finance Corporation
has started a second phase of lending operations, following the completion of
the first under Credit 105. Progress is satisfactory, and disbursements are
ahead of schedule.
Loan 932 - Highways: $29.0 million Loan of September 6, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977. This Loan was made effective on November
9, 1973. Owing to a review of paving standards, bids have yet to be invited
for about 30 percent of the works. Cost overruns are likely to be substantial.
Loan 946 - Industrial Development Bank: $5.0 million Loan of
November 29, 1973; Closing Date:   March 31, 1976.   The Loan has beer fully
committed and 60% of the proceeds have been disbursed.
Credit 468 - Population: $12 million Credit of April 1, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980. The project forms an integral part of the Five-
Year Population Program, FY 1975-79. The construction components of this
project are estimated to be around 8 months behind schedule. Despite temporary
setbacks and the absence of full-time technical and administrative support, the
situation has improved and the Program can, if the Directorate of Personnel
Management establishes t1te positions requested by the Ministry of Health,
achieve the manpower, service point and demographic targets set out in the
Appraisal Report.
Credit 477 - Livestock: $21.5 million Credit of June 5, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980. Work on the ranching component is now proceeding,
but the project is behind schedule. As cost overruns are in the order of two
to three times appraisal estimates, the Government has been requested to recal-
culate project costs using appraisal projections as formats. The project is in
need of close supervision at regular intervals.
Loan 993 - Tea Factories: $10.4 million Loan of June 5, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.    This Loan became effective September 23, 1974.
Contracts for the first four tea factories have been let but the tendering for
remaining tea factories is behind schedule.
Credit 537/Loan 1093 - Group Farms Rehabilitation: $7.5 million Credit
and $7.5 million Loan of March 27, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981. This
Credit and Loan is not yet effective.
Credit 543/Loan 1105 - Site and Service Project: $8.0 million Credit
and $8.0 million Loan of May 6, 1975; Closing Date; June 30, 1980. This Credit
and Loan is not yet effective.
Loan 1147 - Gitaru Hydroelectric Power Project: $63.0 million Loan
of July 25, 1975; Closing Date:   Dec. 31, 1979.   This Loan is not yet effective.
Loan 1133 - Mombasa-Nairobi Oil Product Pipeline Project; $20.0 million
Loan of June 27, 1975; Closing Date: Feb. 1, 1979. This Loan is not yet
effective.
Loan 1132/Credit 565 - Second Forestry Plantation Project; $10.0
million Credit and $10.0 million Loan of June 27, 1975; Closing Date: Dec. 31,
1981.   This Loan is not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan 1148 - Second Industrial Development Bank Project of July
25, 1975; Closing Date: July 1, 1979. This loan is not yet effective.
Loan 1117 - Program Loan; $30 million of May 27, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1976. This loan has been declared effective on August
26, 1975.
D.   Statement of Bank Loans for Common Services Guaranteed
by Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda as at May 31, 1975
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellations
Loan #  Year   Borrower       Purpose               Bank   Undisbursed
Three loans fully disbursed                         75.0
638 EA   1969  EAHC     Harbours                    35.0       4.0-
674 EA   1970  EARC     Railways                    42.4      16.4-
675 EA   1970  EAPTC    Telecommunications          10.4       0.1
843 EA   1972  EADB     Development Finance          8.0       4.5-
865 EA   1972  EAHC     Harbours                    26.5      16.8
914 EA   1973  EAPTC    Telecommunications          32.5      14.8
Total                           229.8      56.6
of which has been
repaid                         29.6
Total now outstanding           200.2
Amount sold:        24.6
of which has
been repaid       24.6          0
Total now held
by Bank                       200.2
Total Undisbursed                56.6



ANNEX II
Page   6
E.   East African Community
Loan No. 674 EA - Third Railways Project: $42.4 million Loan of May 25,
1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1976.
The suspension of this Loan was lifted on September 5, 1975. The
reasons for suspension and its lifting are discussed in paragraph 23 of this
report. It is now planned that part of the proceeds of the Loan will be used
for consultancy services to assist in the reorganization of Railways Corpor-
ation (paragraph 23). Meanwhile the Corporation is now finalizing a plan to
meet its emergency investment requirements.
Loan No. 638 EA - Second Harbours Project: $35.0 million Loan of August 25,
1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1975
The Harbours Corporation is in a healthy cash position although
there have been problems in transferring funds from regional offices to head-
quarters. Damage to a partially completed pier has delayed project imple-
mentation. It is now expected that the construction will finish in mid-1975.
Legal questions resulting from the damage are under study by the Corporation.
Loan No. 865 EA - Third Harbours Project: $26.5 million Loan of December 18,
1972; Closing Date - June 30, 1976
A delay of six months is expected in completing civil works under
this project. Cost overruns have been experienced in some project items.
The situation is under study by the Corporation, which will shortly issue a
plan for speeding implementation.
Loan No. 843 EA - East African Development Bank Project: $8.0 million Loan
of June 28, 1972; Closing Date - May 31, 1976
Operations of the Bank have been decentralized and the newly formed
regional office teams are now competent in dealing with all aspects of de-
velopment financingLoperations. The entire first loan has now been committed
by EADB.
Loan No. 675 EA - Second Telecommunications Project: $10.4 million Loan of
May 25, 1970; Closing Date - December 31, 1975
This project has been completed, but the closing date of the Loan
was extended from June 30, 1975 to December 31, 1975 to enable final pay-
ments from the Loan Account.
Loan No. 914 EA - Third Telecommunications Project: $32.5 million Loan of
June 22, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
Problems within the EAC have only marginally affected the Posts and
Telecommunications Corporation due to the considerable existing decentral-
ization of operating authority. Deterioration of the corporate cash position
and rate of return has been slight in comparison to other Community Corporations
and the situation has improved by a rate increase allowed by the Community in
February 1975. All major items have been completed by mid-1975, except two
microwave links which, due to long lead time for delivery, will be delayed by
12 months.



ANNEX III
Page 1
KENYA
MOMBASA AND COASTAL AREA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PROJECT AND LOAN SUMMARY
Borrower:                             Republic of Kenya
Amount:                               Loan of US$35.0 million equivalent
Terms:                                Payable in 25 years, including five years
of grace, at an interest rate of 8-1/2%.
Project Description:                  The project consists of surface water abstrac-
tion from the Sabaki River near Baricho, a
water treatment plant, pumped water trans-
mission facilities, storage reservoirs,
distribution networks, a headquarters building
for Coast Province Water Branch (CPWB), a
telecommunications system for the water
supply operations, technical training of
personnel and evaluation of existing and
preparation of new rural water supply
systems. Details of the principal components
of the project are as follows:
(a)  Raw Water Intake and Transmission
Facilities - A control weir across the
Sabaki Piver near Baricho (40 km west
ot Malindi), intake and pumping facilities
and 0.7 km long twin rising mains to the
water treatment plant near the south
bank of the river;
(b)  Water Treatment Plant - A 54,000 m 3/day
(11.9 IMgd) treatment plant at Baricho
incorporating facilities for pre-sedimen-
tation, clarification, filtration and
chlo-ir.aticn. The plant would be designed
fsr ultimate expansion to produce 72,000
m /day (15.8 IMgd);
(c)  Treated Water Transmission Fac-Sities -
Treated water pumping stations at the
Baricho Treatment Plan and at Jaribuni,
about half-way between Baricho and Mombasa
(a booster station will have to be added
in future between Baricho and Jaribuni);



ANNEX III
Page 2
about 116 km transmission main (600 to
750 mm in diameter) south to the existing
service reservoirs at Changamwe (West
Mainland, Mombasa), with about 60 km of
smaller branches to four separate loca-
tions along the coast between Mombasa and
Malindi;
(d) Distribution Facilities - Distribution
storage reservoirs, new distribution
systems at various locations along the
coastal strip and augmentation of existing
distribution mains in Mombasa;
(e) Headquarters Building for CPWB
(f) Engineering Consulting Services -
Engineering services for detailed design
?.vd ccnstruction supervision of the project;
(g) Management Consulting Services and
Training - Assistance with the establishment
and operation of CPWB and training of staff
required for CPWB. Additional technical
training will also be provided through the
Water Department's Training School and
ether institutions;
(h) Preparation of Rural Water Supply Projects -
Identification and preparation of rural water
supply systems in about 40 districts through-
out Kenya; and
(i) Rural Water System Evaluation Study - A
study to evaluate the performance of rural
water supply systems implemented in Kenya
over the_.past clecade with the assistance of
Sweden.
Cost Estimates:                  Estimates of the cost, under the anticipated
rates of inflation, are as presented in the
following table:



ANNEX III
Page 3
KENYA
MOMBASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Cost Estimates
US$ Equivalent (thousands)
Local     Foreign
DESCRIPTION                                Currency   Exchange   Total
Supply and Installation Contracts           5,470     14,690    20,160
Construction Contracts                     14,760     10,090    24,850
Electric Power Supply                         680      1,160     1,840
Land                                          110          -       110
Contingencies
Physical                                  2,180      2,150     4,330
Price                                     8,480      9,010    17,490
Subtotal                            10,660     11,160    21,820
Engineering Consulting                      2,340      1,530     3,870
Management Consulting                         240        300       540
Additional Training for Water Supply
Sector                                        170        330       500
Preparation of Rural Water Supply 
Project                                       350        700     1,050
TOTAL                               34,780     39,960    74,740



ANNEX III
Page 4
Financing Plan:
Source              Amount                Percentage
(US$ Million
equivalent)
IBRD Loan              35.0                   46.9
KfW Loan               15.0                   20.1
Government Con-
tribution            24.7                   33.0
74.7                  100.0
Estimated Disbursements:
Annual
Fiscal Year      (US$ Million)            Cumulative
1976               0.8                       0.8
1977               2.7                       3.5
1978               9.5                      13.0
1979              14.0                      27.0
1980               8.0                      35.0
35.0
Retroactive Financing:    Expenditures incurred for engineering and management
consulting servicds since July 1, 1974, up to   an amount
of US$700,000 and costs of installation of treatment and
pumping equipment up to an amount of US$ 100,000, will be
financed retroactively.
Procurement Arrangements:   Contracts for major civil works (estimated to cost
US$39.4 million including provision for contingencies)
and procurement of materials and equipment (cstimated
to cost US$26.5 miilion including provision for
contingencies) will be awarded on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank and KfW's guidelines. A preference of 15%, or
the applicable customs duty, whichever is lower will
be applied to bids of local manufacturers for supply
contracts. A preference of 7-112% will be applied to
.bids by local firms in the case of construction contracts.
The electrical power connections required for the project
will be carried out by the East African Power and Light-
ing Company under a negotiated contract acceptable to
the Bank.
Economic Rate of Return:   About 11% if only the first phase of extending water
supplies is considered and 12% if both phases are
included.



ANINEX III
Page 5
Consultants:                About 80 manyears of technical assistance;
management consultants are Public Administration
Service, Chicago, USA; engineering consultants
are Scott, Wilson, Kirkpatrick and Partners, UK
and Kenya. Prior agreement from the Bank to be
obtained in case of change of consultants
by the Government.
Appraisal Report:           Report No. 713-KE dated September 15, 1975 entitled
"Kenya: Appraisal of Mombasa and Coastal Water
Supply Project."
Map:                        IBRD Map No. 11481



Iv i'D  llZ:8i
Z /  l 8     ET H IOP IA
To Gorsen
>  ~ ~ ~ ~   ~~jlo Mcotohnni                      -4CO_L'VJ C 1
V I                                                          g   T-,  i
D  vi  K E N Y A         b                        t3TLK[JF\  \                                   \
.7                       |      >   To Voi                                                  INTAKE
\ N.',                  \                    i/X--                       Y            =       > Molindi
A        N A N I A                                                         O            I
TANZANIA  - "~~  AREA                                               510S5KJl
K,      1 OF MAP
of C-!   K                                                               Ge i
f! ., :.1 /i.;  s :.i:.:,         3/
To Gos,                                                            A c  \  kAN
/\   /                    ,/          j       3oc L                 /
Sokoke-
ABombn          Gcsr-e\    -'/     1rZ2
C, - ~~             ~           /
i u>LIFI ~~~~~~~KENYA
--F$PVOIR
1.5/5'.3    <ii~fi MOMBASA       AND     COASTAL
Dzrsron         l     WATER      SUPPLY     PROJECT
Dzi7               fa. . ' 0'.I 1okourlgu
To Voi                    AKoy
PROPOSED
EXISTING PROJECT  STAGE i0
- ;   / e/   p Pipelines
_.S   -<-   Mriokani                                      Service Reservoirs  .  *
r      E      $        / Jl Ibe    PLSsTII           Pumping Stations        0
C '.   /  /  O'W.VER  /   Booster Stot ons      U
Wr \  /  /   /          Treatment Works  -     -
RESEFVOIRS -   )                            Distribution Systems
zFT5 3.ivs  3'  ~    t,,      ..Primary                            Roads
Other Roads
Railways
N            . v  |  Rivers
To Kinongo                                                       I
MOMBASA                      0    5    1.   15   20    25
w      -.  .3 I      I
' '~YA    t',K ILOMETERS
MA/RERE  R E F RVOF P ;
SPRINGS     0o Kwole



