CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1167 KE
Lenders' Agreement
(Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply Project)
BETWEEN
KREDITANSTALT FUR WIEDERAUFBAU
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JANUARY 22, 1976


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1167 KE
Lenders' Agreement
(Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply Project)
BETWEEN
KREDITANSTALT FUR WIEDERAUFBAU
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JANUARY 22, 1976


﻿LENDERS' AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated January 22, 1976 between KREDITANSTALT FUR
WIEDERAUFBAU (hereinafter called KfW) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) By the Loan Agreement dated October 15, 1975, between
the Republic of Kenya (hereinafter called Kenya) and the Bank (hereinafter called
the Bank Loan Agreement), the Bank has agreed to make to Kenya a loan in
various currencies equivalent to  thirty-five  million United  States dollars
(US$35,000,000) to assist in the financing of a water supply project in Mombasa
and along the coast near Mombasa, as more fully described in the Description
of the Project comprising Schedule 2 to the Bank Loan Agreement (hereinafter
called the Project);
(B)   By a loan agreement dated November 14, 1975, between Kenya and
KfW (hereinafter called the KfW Loan Agreement) KfW has agreed to make a loan
to Kenya in an amount of thirty-seven million German Mark (DM37,000,000),
equivalent at current exchange rates to about fifteen million United States dollars
(US$15,000,000) (hereinafter called the KfW Loan), to assist in the financing of
the Project, under the terms and conditions set forth in the KfW Loan Agreement
*        and the separate agreements (hereinafter called the KfW Special Agreement) referred
to in Articles I, II and VIII of the KfW Loan Agreement;
(C)   Kenya has established within the Water Department of its Ministry
of Water Development a branch known as the Coast Water Province Branch
(hereinafter called CPWB), having separate accounts, and has agreed to make
available to CPWB, for purposes of the Project, the proceeds of the KfW Loan
and the proceeds of the Bank Loan allocated to Parts A through F of the Project;
(D) The proceeds of the KfW Loan are intended to be used to finance
the foreign exchange costs of pipe and accessories (other than valves and
flowmeters) required for the transmission and branch bulk supply mains included
in the Project and approximately 15% of expenditures for related civil works, and
the proceeds of the Bank Loan are intended to be used to finance approximately
50% of expenditures for such civil works, and other expenditures incurred or to
be incurred for purposes of the Project;
WHEREAS KfW and the Bank deem it to be in their mutual interest to
coordinate the administration of their respective loans and to maintain effective
cooperation between themselves on the basis of full partnership as hereinafter
provided;


﻿4
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Coordination, Exchange of Information; Consultation
Section 1.01. (a) Each party hereto, without assuming any liability therefor,
shall (i) keep the other party currently informed of the progress of the Project.
In particular, each party shall keep the other informed of each amount disbrsed
under the KfW Loan and the Bank Loan, it being the intention that the proceeds
of the Bank Loan allocated to Part C of the Project and the KfW Loan be disbursed
as nearly as practicable according to the respective rates agreed upon pro rata and
pai passu; (ii) exchange views with the other party from time to time with respect
to the progress of the Project; and (iii) provide the other party with any information
thereon that may appear useful.
(b)   Each party shall inform the other party beforehand of any supervision
mission, afford the other party the opportunity to participate therein, and exchange
views on the results of such mission.
(c)   Each party shall inform the other party of any event likely to interfere
with the carrying out of the Project, or hinder or seriously impair its operation
or financing.
(d)   Each party shall inform the other party of any notice by Kenya to
prepay the whole or any part of the KfW Loan or the Bank Loan, as the case
may be, and of any amount prepaid.
Section 1.02. Each party shall inform, and to all extent possible, consult
the other party prior to:
(a)   (i)        suspending in whole or in part the right of Kenya to make
withdrawals under the KfW Loan or the Bank Loan,
respectively;
(ii)        cancelling any amount of such loans;
(iii)       accelerating the maturity of such loans.
(b)   taking any action which would or might result in the termination of
the KfW Loan Agreement or the Bank Loan Agreement;


﻿5
(c)   making substantial amendments to the agreements referred to in the
foregoing sub-paragraph (b);
(d)   agreeing to any important changes:
(i)        in the specifications, cost and nature of the works of the
Project;
(ii)       in the work schedules for the Project as compared with
the original forecasts; and
(e)   modifying  Schedule  1 to   the Bank   Loan Agreement or the
corresponding provisions of the KfW Special Agreement.
Section 1.03. In addition, each party may at any time consult the other
party on any matter of common interest.
ARTICLE II
Exchange of Consents
Section 2.01. Each party shall reach an agreement with the other party
before:
(a)   giving its agreement to any request of Kenya under Section 2.02, or
for a modification of Schedule 2, of the Bank Loan Agreement;
(b)   approving any modification to the choice of the consultants referred
to in Section 3.02 of the Bank Loan Agreement and Article VIII, paragraph I
of the KfW Loan Agreement or the terms and conditions of employment of such
consultants; and
(c)   modifying the percentage set forth in respect of Category (2) of
paragraph I of Schedule 1 to the Bank Loan Agreement or of the corresponding
provisions of the KfW Special Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Effectiveness
Section 3.01. This Agreement, which shall take effect upon its signature by
both parties, shall remain in force and effect between KfW and the Bank so long
as neither the KfW Loan Agreement nor the Bank Loan Agreement has terminated.


﻿6
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous
Section 4.01. Any notice required under this Agreement and any agreement
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice shall be deemed
to have been duly given when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable or radiogram to the party to which it is required to be given at such party's
address specified below, or at such other address as such party shall have designated
by notice to the party giving such notice.
For KfW:
Kreditanstalt ffr Wiederaufbau
Palmengartenstrasse 5-9
6 Frankfurt/Main
Federal Republic of Germany
Cable address:                         Telex:
KREDITANSTALT                          411352
Frankfurtmain
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                         Telex:
INTBAFRAD                              440098(ITT)
Washington, D.C.                       248423(RCA) or
64145(WUI)


﻿7
Done in three copies in the German language and three copies in the English
language each of which shall constitute an original and shall be equally authentic.
KREDITANSTALT F UR WIEDERAUFBAU
By /s/ R. Hopfen
Authorized Representative
By /s / R. Schr6der
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / Syed Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


