 IEG
                                                                                              Report Number: ICRR14620

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 07/14/2015

               Country: Senegal
             Project ID: P088656                                                    Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Sn-participatory Local        Project Costs (US$M):                  187.53
                         Development
                         Program
  L/C Number:            C4166                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                     50.05                 53.37
      Sector Board:      Social Development           Cofinancing (US$M):                         0                     0

           Cofinanciers:                                Board Approval Date :                               04/27/2006
                                                                Closing Date:          12/31/2009           02/29/2012
          Sector(s):       Other social services (30%); Water supply (25%); Health (15%); Roads and highways (15%);
                           Primary education (15%)
          Theme(s):        Decentralization (33% - P); Participation and civic engagement (33% - P); Rural services and
                           infrastructure (17% - S); Rural markets (17% - S)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:           ICR Review                  Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Ebru Karamete              Robert Mark Lacey      Christopher David           IEGPS1
                                                  Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 The project was conceived to support the Government’s National Local Development Program (Programme National
de Développement Local), which was "designed as a conduit through which all local development activities were to be
channeled" (PAD, p. 4). The project constituted a consolidated follow-up of two projects that were nearing completion
at the time of appraisal, namely the National Rural Infrastructure Program (Programme National d’Infrastrucures
Rurales), which supported decentralization to rural governments, and the Social Development Fund Project (
Programme du Fonds Social de Développement), which supported community empowerment to access basic
services (PAD, p. 4).

According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), the project development objective was "to assist the Government
in setting up an effective framework for participatory local development, decentralization, resource mobilization and
transfer to local governments and communities, to deliver services in rural areas and targeted poorest cities efficiently
(p. 7).”

The statement of objectives in the Financing Agreement was: “to assist the Recipient in establishing an effective
framework for participatory local development, decentralization and resource mobilization and transfer to local
governments and communities, for purposes of effective service delivery in rural areas and targeted poorest cities (p.
6) .”

This Review is based on the statement of objectives in the PAD as it is more monitorable.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:
  The project contained four components, which were not revised during implementation:

1: Support to Decentralization , Devolution, and Participatory Local Development Policies (US$4.4 million at
appraisal, US$4.8 million at closure). This component was to support the National Local Development Program by
updating and developing the legal, fiscal, regulatory, and organizational environment to enable the key players
(central government, local governments, communities, NGOs, and the private sector) to adopt a community-driven
development (CDD) approach to local development.

2. Financing Local Development (US$25.5 million at appraisal, US$25.8 million at closure). Component 2 was to
support the National Local Development Program by setting up mechanisms for local investment financing to enable
local governments to finance participatory local development activities. It was to provide funds to local governments to
finance basic socio-economic infrastructure and service sub-projects, and to finance advisory services to develop
local economic activities.

3. Capacity-building for Decentralization and Participatory Local Development (US$13.3 at appraisal, US$14.4
million at closure): to provide capacity-building support to line ministries, local governments, community-based
organizations (CBOs), microfinance institutions (MFIs), and the private sector to ensure the efficient delivery of quality
services to the poor. The component was to entail: (i) assisting line ministries to realign their sector policies with the
country’s decentralization laws and participatory local development; (ii) strengthening local governments’ ability to
manage resources for service delivery to the poor more efficiently through partnerships with their communities using a
CDD approach; (iii) empowering local communities to allow them to be efficient partners to their local governments in
the delivery of services; (iv) developing the microfinance sector’s capacity to better reach the targeted poor clientele;
and (v) developing the private sector’s capacities to better deliver their technical services to local governments and
communities.

4. Project Coordination , Communication, Monitoring and Evaluation , and Environmental and Social Management
(US$4.7 at appraisal, US$5.05 at closure): to provide project coordination, communication, monitoring and evaluation,
as well as carry out social and environmental management.

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project Costs:
Total estimated project cost at appraisal was US$187.53 million; actual cost is not reported by the ICR (Annex 1 of the
ICR reported expenditures against the IDA credit only; see Section 15 below for further discussion).
Financing:
By project closure, the disbursements from the IDA Credit of SDR 34.90, (US$50.05 million equivalent) were
SDR34.41 million (US$53.37 million equivalent). According to the World Bank Operations Portal, SDR0.49 million
were canceled at project closing.
Borrower Contribution :
The ICR did not report on the Borrower contribution, although a sizeable amount was planned at appraisal
(US$137.48 million). Annex 1 of the ICR reported a zero counterpart contribution, while page 15 stated that the
Government “provided all the agreed upon counterpart funds in a timely manner, except in 2009”. (See Section 15 for
further discussion).

Dates:
The project closing date was extended twice by a total of 26 months: from December 31, 2009 to August 31, 2011 (20
months) and from August 31, 2011 to February 29, 2012 (6 months). The first extension was granted to accommodate
a ten month delay after effectiveness in starting operations due to “considerable delays in putting together the project
implementation team at the regional level and the appropriate fiduciary system based on the decentralized country
framework” (ICR, p. xi). The second extension was to complete, in particular, the implementation of community-based
sub-projects under Component 2 and the reform agenda under Component 1, notably the formulation of the long-term
decentralization strategy, an intended key result of the project.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
High.
 The project’s objectives are relevant to the FY2013-2017 Country Partnership Strategy, notably its second pillar --
improving service delivery, supported by a foundation of strengthening governance and building resilience. The
objectives were also relevant to the second pillar of the Bank’s FY2003-FY2006 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
(strengthening the delivery of social services) and the Government’s first Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP).
Moreover, the FY2007-FY2010 CAS explicitly noted (p. 23) that the project’s aim “to provide support to local
governments in delivering basic platform of basic social and infrastructure needs” supported the reinforcement of local
governments’ capacity, with a view to increasing public sector accountability.

The project development objectives were aligned with the government strategies, since decentralization was one of its
priorities. The Ministry of Decentralization and Local Governments was created in 2004 in order to implement the
decentralization policy. A full Community Driven Development approach was included in the planned National Local
Development Program (ICR p. 2).


 b. Relevance of Design:
Substantial.
The project development objectives were complex and incorporated a number of sub-objectives. However, they were,
in principle, achievable, and the proposed project activities were relevant and directly related to their achievement.
The first component expected to establish the legal, fiscal, regulatory and organizational environment for CDD
implementation, The second Component provided financing for implementation of CDD projects on socio-economic
infrastructure and services as well as advisory services. The third component included capacity building support for all
the players from line ministries to local governments, community based organizations, micro finance institutions and
the private sector. The planned time horizon of three years was ambitious for achieving such a complex objective and
comprehensive agenda. Another issue which is discussed in more detail in Section 10 was that the PDO indicators
and the intermediate outcome indicators were weak and not closely linked to measuring the achievement of the
objective.


 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   The efficacy of the two sub-objectives -- (i) setting up an effective framework for participatory local development
and decentralization to deliver services in rural areas and targeted poorest cities efficiently; and (ii) setting up an
effective framework for resource mobilization and transfer to local governments and communities to deliver services in
rural areas and targeted poorest cities efficiently – is considered separately.


(i) Setting up an effective framework for participatory local development and decentralization to deliver services in
rural areas and targeted poorest cities efficiently . Modest.

Outputs:
         Nine legal, regulatory and organizational documents related to the decentralization framework were
developed, including terms of reference, laws, decrees, guidelines and a charter.
         A report on evaluation of costs and competencies transferred from central to regional and local levels was
completed.
         Strengthening of local tax collection was partial.
         A planned study on the implementation of mechanisms to delegate activities to local governments was
carried out.
         A study on the feasibility of a single investment fund to finance local government investments was ongoing at
the time the project was closed.
         Eight guidelines and manuals for local governments and communities to implement CDD were prepared and
collaboration between local governments was being tested in various regions at project closure.
         The project conducted 467 capacity building workshops, attended by 8,798 local leaders; 12,560 Community
Based Organization members; 920 private sector representatives; 1,216 staff from decentralized ministries; and 364
local government officers (ICR, p. 22). Training topics varied from procurement and good governance, to Health/HIV
and financial and environmental management. There was also training of trainers (ICR, p. 11).

Intermediate Outcomes :

        The aim of “validating reforms” (ICR, p. ix) to operationalize the local development and decentralization
agenda, was partially achieved. The ICR reports that most policies have been prepared and three have been adopted
by the Council of Ministers and sent to the Parliament for approval. However, two critical policies on local fiscal
revenues still needed to be defined and submitted to Parliament.
        “Local development strategy validated”, was not achieved as the strategy had not been formulated by project
closure.
         “At least 70 percent of targeted LGs have prepared and implemented local development plans according to
the mechanisms established in the Partnership Charter”, was achieved (74 percent of local authorities prepared and
implemented local development and investment plans).
        A technical reference manual for the implementation of sector policies for participatory development has
been prepared and used by at least three key sectors (education, health, and water) and applied to at least 70 percent
of LGs;
        A technical reference manual for the implementation of the partnership between local governments and
community-based organizations in planning, contracting, and monitoring and evaluation of activities is prepared,
validated, and applied by at least 70- percent of local governments.

Outcomes:
According to the ICR (p. 19), “a comprehensive agenda” containing most of the envisaged intermediate
outcomes/outputs associated with the legal, regulatory and organizational decentralization framework – i.e. legal texts,
decrees, policies, and charters - was achieved, even though it took much longer than the 18-month period envisaged
at appraisal. However, by closure, a local development strategy had not been formulated and reforms to
operationalize the local development and decentralization agenda had only been partially completed.

In terms of institutional capacity building activities, the ICR (p. 12) reports achievements at three levels: (i) at the local
government level: mayors, rural community presidents, council members and private sector actors benefited from the
project through their involvement in the local development planning and micro-project implementation; (ii) at the
regional level: Regional Development Agencies were reformed through legislation that clarified their mandate, and
they have become key actors in the decentralization process; and (iii) at the national level: the Executive Secretariat
of the National Local Development Program and the Donor Sub-Committee for Decentralization provided frequent
contacts and discussions for key ministerial representatives on decentralization. Nevertheless, the ICR (p. 29) also
notes that despite their positive performance, the Regional Development Agencies are understaffed and have
pressing needs with regard to logistics, which reduces their efficiency.

The ICR (p. 29) reports that, based on a beneficiary survey, the satisfaction rate by the beneficiaries regarding the
capacity building activities of the project for five different groups (CBOs, private sector, management committees,
MFIs and the chairmen of the local councils) ranged between 77% and 100%. However, the ICR did not provide
evidence on whether the participants have adopted the skills and new knowledge into their work practices.

The ICR did not report on whether the poorest cities were efficiently targeted by the project.


(ii) Setting up an effective framework for resource mobilization and transfer to local governments and communities
to deliver services in rural areas and targeted poorest cities efficiently . Substantial.

Outputs:
        The project provided investment funds to Local Governments for implementing micro-projects based on their
local development plans. The cumulative value of resources (by the Local Government Investment Fund and the
Local Government Operation Fund) spent on these investments was US$43.4 million (ICR p. ix).
        A total of 3,738 micro-projects were carried out by 481 local communities on construction of primary
education classrooms, health posts and water supply schemes as shown in the following table.

   Sub-                  Total          % of total         Number of               Number of             Impact
   project category      amount         sub-project        sub-projects by         beneficiaries
                         (US$           investment         type
                         million)       2007-2011
   Water supply          19.2           31                 394 wells               330,000 people        -Household water
   (2,358                                                  24 deep wells           benefited from        consumption
   sub-projects)                                           equipped                piped water           increased by 13
                                                           1104 km of water                              liters per day
                                                           pipes                   336,000 people        -improved water
                                                           21 animal               benefited from        quality
                                                           watering points, 8      wells and stand       -average
                                                           water tanks, 38         pipes                 distance to stand
                                                           deep wells                                    pipes reduced
                                                                                                         from 17.7 to 7.4,
                                                                                                         and from 12 km
                                                                                                         to 3 km for wells
                                                                                                         kilometers,
                                                                                                         - Cost of water
                                                                                                         decreased by
                                                                                                         10% or FCFA
                                                                                                         10,000/year
   Education             17.4        28                903 classrooms         22,451              -Number of
   (1,760                                              constructed, of        students            students per
   sub-projects)                                       which 706              benefited from      classroom
                                                       equipped               1,760               reduced from
                                                       248 equipped           classrooms          40-50 to 36
                                                       classrooms             (this number of     -In supported
                                                       117 classrooms         new                 schools, drop-out
                                                       rehabilitated          classrooms          rate is 2.1%
                                                       134 latrines           stated in the       compared to
                                                       constructed 131        text on p. 21 of    national drop-out
                                                       schools fenced         the ICR is          rate of 9.1%; and
                                                                              different from      0.2% of students
                                                                              the number of       repeated same
                                                                              new                 grade, compared
                                                                              classrooms in       to national
                                                                              the table on p.     repetition rate of
                                                                              21 of the ICR)      3.1%
   Health (565           9.9         16                74 Health Posts        2.1 million         Quantity of health
   sub-projects)                                       constructed, of        additional          care activities at
                                                       which 49               people have         supported
                                                       equipped;              access to           facilities
                                                       285 Health rooms       health posts        increased from
                                                       constructed, of        and health          6,900 to 8,600
                                                       which 240              rooms               activities between
                                                       equipped;                                  2008-2011 – or
                                                       63 health facilities                       60% higher than
                                                       rehabilitated                              comparable
                                                                                                  non-supported
                                                                                                  health facilities
   Economic              8.7         14                Markets                N/A                 N/A
   infrastructure        6.8         11                Meeting places,        N/A                 N/A
   and Other                                           vaccination parks,
   community and                                       storage facilities,
   agriculture (933                                    agricultural
   sub-projects)                                       transformation
                                                       equipment
   TOTAL                 62          100

Source: ICR, pp. 21-22

Intermediate Outcomes :
        Regional Development Agencies coordinated implementation of the local investment program consolidating
annual work plans, budgets, overseeing the financial management, procurement and M&E.
        13 Micro Finance Institutions (MFIs) collaborating with the project implemented their business plan,
compared to the target of 15.
        All sub-projects were screened for environmental and social issues, which were “appropriately dealt
with” (ICR, p. 11). The project thus achieved the corresponding target stated in the PAD (p. 36): “90% of subprojects
funded under Local Investment Fund (LIF) are prepared and implemented according to sector and environmental
norms.”
        The ICR did not assess the following intermediate outcome/output targets listed in the PAD (p. 35-36.):
     -   At least 40 percent of the LIF funded subprojects for the poorest quintile of rural communes and targeted
     neighborhoods according to agreed categorization system.
     -   Community-Based Organizations have implemented at least 1 subproject funded through the LIF in 90
     percent of supported Rural Communes and targeted cities according to the Partnership Charter.
     -   50% of income generating activities proposed by local actors and supported by the project has accessed
     available funding from MFIs.
     -   At least 75% of the Local Governments have produced on time their administrative and financial accounts
     and the auditors’ opinions on those accounts are unqualified.
     -   At least 75 percent of LGs are in the first category of the LG Standard Profile for Minimum Competencies by
     the end of the project
     -   At least 80 percent of new MFI clients reached through the project remain active members of the MFI and
     are satisfied with the services received.
Outcomes
As shown in the table above, the financed sub-projects had a largely beneficial impact on the welfare of the affected
communities – increased consumption of higher quality water at a lower cost, reduced distances to water sources,
increased enrolment of students with lower drop-out rates, and an increase in health care activities at
project-supported facilities. However, little evidence is provided that the services were provided efficiently.

According to a Beneficiary Survey of a randomly selected sample of 677 respondents, 70 % of beneficiaries are
satisfied with the services rendered by the LGs, and 94 % of the beneficiaries reported that they are satisfied with the
impact of the project (ICR p. 28). The beneficiary responses were not, however, compared with those from
non-beneficiary control groups.

The yearly acts transferring Local Government Operation Fund (FDD) are notified to communities’ and Local
Government Operation Fund resources are transferred to LGs before the end of June each year.

However, a planned fiscal reform for resource mobilization and transfer to local governments and communities to
deliver services in rural areas beyond the project was not carried out. The ICR (p. 9) reported that deeper
decentralization was needed and the next step would be a fiscal reform that allocates a greater share of the national
investment budget to local governments..

Little information is provided on the nature and extent of support provided to the National Local Development Program
by the development partners – other than the statement that UNDP supported the M&E effort and financed a specialist
within the M&E Unit (ICR, p. 7). It is therefore not clear whether the second PDO indicator, which called for partners to
contribute to the financing of the National Program (PAD, p. 36), was achieved (the aim was for the National Local
Development Program to serve as a conduit through which all local development activities would be channeled --
PAD, p. 4). This information would have been an important indicator of the feasibility of the National Local
Development Program, given that the overall cost of the Program was estimated to be in the range of US$450 million,
to which the project was to contribute US$50.05 million to support the start-up and first years of operation of the
Program (PAD, p. 6).

5. Efficiency:
   Modest.

The PAD did not carry out a cost-benefit analysis, since most of the activities to be financed under the project, notably
institutional strengthening and small-scale infrastructure investments “do not lend themselves to detailed ex-ante
cost-benefit and rate of return calculations” (PAD, p. 104). In fact, infrastructure investments, albeit small scale, can
be evaluated; however, the sub-projects to be financed were demand-driven and hence unknown. There was a
qualitative analysis, which focused on the performance of the National Rural Infrastructure Program and the Social
Development Fund Project, whose achievements this project sought to strengthen. Cost recovery was expected as a
result of an anticipated increase in economic activity and tax collection at the local level. Better educated and healthier
economic agents would improve the income-earning capabilities of rural poor and vulnerable groups (p. 105).

The ICR cites expected benefits for the social infrastructure investments carried out under the project, including:
time savings through reduced water fetching distances; lower cost of water; improved health due to a lower incidence
of waterborne diseases (no evidence was provided regarding this last benefit); a high social rate of return from
small-scale education investments (no evidence provided); and increased health service provision was expected to
raise
labor productivity, avoid potential death of productive family members and thus health shocks, reduce absences from
school, and increase the birth weights of newborns. There is no evidence regarding these benefits.

There was no attempt at an ex post economic rate of return analysis. Furthermore, the inconsistent figures provided
for actual project cost, both overall and by component (see Section 15 below) make it impossible to assess efficiency
conclusively.

Instead, the ICR presents a “least cost analysis” by comparing the unit cost of water supply, education and health
sector investments under the project with those of the respective line ministries. The table below depicts the unit cost
comparison (in ‘000 FCFA):

   Sub-project type        Project         Ministry of        Ministry of         Dept./           PLDP costs as % of
                                           Education           Health            Ministry of           ministerial
                                                                                 Hydraulic            departments
                                                                                  Water
   Classrooms               4,500              5,500                                                                   82
   Health posts             55,000                                   66,000                                            83
   Health rooms              6000                                    6,500                                             92
   Boreholes                  280                                                             500                      56
   Wells                    7,000                                                            10,000                    70
   Water                    4,500                                                            7,000                     64
   connections

The unit costs under the project appear to be 18 percent lower in the case of classroom construction, 17 percent less
in the case of health post and 8 percent less for health room construction, 44 percent lower for boreholes, 30 percent
lower for wells, and 36 percent less for piped water. These unit costs do not, however, indicate whether there were
any differences in quality or location between project-financed and sector ministry-funded constructions. While 93.6
percent of the interviewed community members reported satisfaction with the investments, some dissatisfaction was
reported about the “sometimes poor quality of works” (ICR, p. 28).

The ICR reports that the project funds spent on advisory services to develop local economic activities proved to be an
unnecessary distraction with little benefits. The ICR did not provide the actual cost of this sub-component 2.2.

The 26-month extension of the closing date resulted in increased operating costs under Component 4 (ICR, p. 4).
According to Table (a) in Annex 1 (p. 18), the cost of Component 4 rose by US$0.35 million, or about US$13,500 per
month of extension, assuming that no other cost increases occurred under Component 4. However, given the
inconsistencies in tables (a) and (b), the accuracy of the data is questionable (see Section 2d above).

According to the PAD (p. 128), the project intended to utilize a targeting process that was to utilize poverty criteria to
determine the poorest and to give them priority in development planning at all levels. However, the ICR does not
comment on the efficiency of targeting.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                         No
    ICR estimate                      No
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   Relevance of objectives is rated high and the design is rated substantial. The project is consistent with the goals
both Bank and Government strategies, and the project components were relevant to the achievement of the
objectives. The efficacy of the first sub-objective – “setting up an effective framework for participatory local
development and decentralization to deliver services in rural areas and targeted poorest cities efficiently” -- is rated
modest. A local development strategy was not formulated and reforms to operationalize the local development and
decentralization agenda were only partially achieved. Fiscal reform for resource mobilization and transfer to local
governments and communities to deliver services in rural areas beyond the project was not carried out as planned.
The efficacy of the second sub-objective – “setting up an effective framework for resource mobilization and transfer to
local governments and communities to deliver services in rural areas and targeted poorest cities efficiently” – is rated
substantial. Significant resources were mobilized and transferred to local governments and communities, which used
them to improve both the quantity and quality of services through a large number of sub-projects. However, there is no
evidence presented showing that the poorest cities were targeted. Efficiency is rated modest. Overall outcome is
assessed as moderately satisfactory .
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   The shift toward more participatory local development and decentralization, and resource transfer to local
governments and communities to deliver basic services in rural areas is unlikely to be reversed (ICR, p. 13).At the
local level, communities have taken responsibility for ensuring that their investments in classrooms, health posts and
potable water are adequately maintained (ICR, p. 8). While the project-supported capacity building of local
governments is considered effective, it was noted that these initiatives – as well as technical backstopping – need to be
continuous, despite the periodic turnover of elected officials at the local government level (ICR, p. 22).
The pace of future reforms is uncertain, as is the future of the National Local Development Program. The ICR does
not elaborate on the nature and extent of support provided to the Program by development partners (see Section 4),
which might provide an indication of their interest in channeling their funding through the conduit to of the National
Local Development Program. The project reportedly made little progress on reforms related to allocating a greater
share of the national investment budget to local governments, and it is uncertain when the critical important fiscal
reform enabling resource mobilization and transfer to local governments and communities to deliver services in rural
areas would take place. While the Government funded the National Local Development Program’s Executive
Secretariat until the end of 2012, it is not clear whether and how long it will continue to fund the Secretariat beyond
that point in time.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    For the most part, the project was thoroughly prepared over a 10-month period, from concept review to
appraisal. The strategic justification for the operation was sound, and its design incorporated lessons learned from
the National Rural Infrastructure Program and the Social Development Fund Project, whose achievements it
aimed to consolidate. The preparation of both the project and the National Local Development Program, which the
project was to help to establish, benefited from extensive consultations with, and endorsement by, the
development partners’ decentralization working group (ICR, p. 16).

However, quality at entry displayed several shortcomings, which, taken together, are significant : (i) the
expectation that a comprehensive set of policy and legal reforms could be completed within the first 18 months of
implementation was overly optimistic; (ii) the readiness of the Regional Development Agencies, whose regional
and local agents were to play a critical role in the implementation of participatory local investments, was
overestimated at appraisal, i.e. it was assumed that all would perform well; (iii) the risk of slow progress of the
implementation of policy reforms to support decentralization by the Government was underestimated, even though
experience elsewhere shows that a slow pace of decentralization is a common occurrence; (iv) although,
according to the project documents, other development partners participated in, and endorsed, the design of the
National Local Development Program, the risk of the limited availability of multi-donor funding appears to have
been underestimated, and the Bank’s ability to leverage financing overestimated; (v) although the project was
designed as a transition towards further budget support, by making the largest possible use of regular financing
channels of the Government design did not explicitly address the anticipated relevance of the program once the
transition to budget support had been accomplished; and (vi) the M&E framework had weaknesses in terms of
insufficient outcome and intermediate outcome indicators to measure project outcomes (see Section 10).

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    According to the ICR (p. 14), supervision prior to the April 2009 mid-term review had been “hands-off” and the
status reports over-optimistic. At the time of the mid-term review (April 27, 2009), the project had been effective
for about 30 out of the originally planned 37 months and had disbursed less than 40 percent of the credit
proceeds. This was due to delays in putting together the project implementation team and in setting up an
appropriate fiduciary system to transfer funds for the micro-projects at the local level. Implementation Progress,
as well as progress toward achievement of Development Objectives, were downgraded to Moderately
Unsatisfactory in November 2008 (ICR, p. xi). Project supervision – and project performance – improved following
the mid-term review, partly due to intensified supervision efforts, including pressure exerted by the Bank to
restructure the Regional Coordination Agencies and equip them with qualified staff, and partly to a more active
exchange between the field-based Task Team Leader and the project implementation agency. Overall, the
project achieved a significant number of the envisaged outputs, albeit over an implementation period 26 months
longer than planned.

The ICR reports persistent internal financial control weaknesses, and procurement shortcomings, which were
reportedly remedied during the course of implementation (ICR, p. 8). The ICR does not mention which mitigation
measures were recommended by the Bank’s supervision team. Supervision teams reportedly did not include
environmental or other safeguards specialists.

A moderate shortcoming of Bank supervision was the fact that the weaknesses in the M&E framework were not
addressed by the project team during implementation. Supervision missions seemed to have tracked only two out
of the three outcome indicators and five out of 15 intermediate outcome indicators stated in the PAD, and two out
of the five performance indicators listed in the Financing Agreement.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                 Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

  a. Government Performance:
      The Government advanced the implementation of participatory local development – beyond the project – by
reforming the Regional Coordination Agencies and equipping them with adequate human and operational
resources (ICR, p. 6). In addition, the Government adopted a set of legal, regulatory, and policy reforms, which
represented important steps toward the creation an effective framework for participatory decentralized
development. However, two critical reforms regarding the local tax code and the adoption of a national local
development strategy (ICR, p. 10) had not been carried out by project closure. Also, the project reportedly made
little progress on allocating a greater share of the national investment budget to local governments, and it is
uncertain when the crucial fiscal reform would take place.

The ICR (p. 15) reports that the Government provided all the agreed upon counterpart funds in a timely manner,
except in 2009, due to severe overall budgetary constraints. However, this statement is inconsistent with the
Borrower’s zero financial contribution to the project reported in table (b) on p. 18 of the ICR.

The ICR (p. 14) notes that significant start-up delays resulted from an 18-month period of “institutional instability”
caused by the transfer of the project from the Prime Minister’s office to the newly created Ministry of Local
Government and Decentralization and the appointment of a new Executive Secretary.

   Government Performance Rating                                Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
        The Executive Secretariat was the key implementing agency for the project as well as for the National Local
Development Program. Once the initial “institutional instability” (see section 9.1) was overcome, the Executive
Secretariat reportedly performed well, except for persistent internal financial control issues. There were also
instances of inadequate procurement due to staff turnover, which was reportedly resolved towards the end of
project implementation as a result of better hiring policies for consultants as well as training. The Executive
Secretariat was staffed with competent personnel, and it coordinated a variety of different actors, including
different ministries, which was a complex task, and it collaborated with the Regional Coordination Agencies, which
facilitated the implementation of hundreds of sub-projects. Regional Development Agencies had some readiness
issues at the beginning, but performed better as a result of capacity building activities. However, the Agencies
remained understaffed at closure and had pressing needs with regard to logistics, which reduced their efficiency
(ICR p. 29). Nevertheless these institutions played a key role in providing support to the central, regional and local
governments in planning and implementing local participatory development. The project complied with all legal
covenants.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The M&E system was built on those of the National Rural Infrastructure Program and the Social Development Fund
Project, which were consolidated into one integrated database for the project and the National Local Development
Program. The two M&E systems had reportedly performed well in terms of monitoring and evaluating
community-based sub-projects implemented under these two projects. The M&E Unit was an integral part of the
Executive Secretariat. UNDP strengthened the M&E function by financing a specialist within the M&E Unit. However,
PDO and intermediate outcome indicators were insufficient to capture achievement of project outcomes. For example,
some PDO indicators were vague (e.g. ‘development partners have joined the program’) and they were in general
output oriented (e.g.‘ FDD resources are transferred to local governments before the end of June each year’). No
indicator measured the effectiveness of capacity building activities. Also, participation of the most vulnerable social
groups and women (gender dimension), and social accountability were not measured.


 b. M&E Implementation:
   At the national level, the M&E Unit collaborated with focal points in the Treasury Department of the Ministry of
Economy and Finance, the Directorate of Local Governance, and relevant sectoral ministries. At the regional and local
levels, the Unit collaborated with M&E specialists of the Regional Development Agencies who trained and supervised
local staff in charge of collecting raw data (ICR, p. 7).
The ICR (p. 7) notes that the M&E system tracked physical investments and environmental aspects more closely than
social and economic aspects of the project (ICR, p. 7). A shortcoming in the implementation of the M&E system was
that it did not seem to track project-supported sub-projects separately from those financed by other development
partners.

The arrangements for results monitoring in the PAD (p. 39) contain a comprehensive set of monitoring indicators, of
which only a select number were tracked during implementation (see Section 4 above).

A program evaluation study and a beneficiary satisfaction assessment were carried out in late 2011 and early 2012.
677 interviews covered 418 household and 259 representatives from Regional Development Agencies, decentralized
technical services, local government and NGO/CBO representatives in randomly selected regions, rural communities,
and villages (ICR, p. 7 and 13).


 c. M&E Utilization:
   The monitoring data was accessible to all development partners and used for local investment planning. The ICR
reports that geo-referencing of data on local investments had started, but does not state whether the project M&E Unit
was responsible for this.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The project was classified as Category” B” for environmental assessment purposes. According to the PAD (p.23), five
safeguard policies were triggered: Environmental Assessment (OP4.01), Pest Management (OP 4.09), Involuntary
Resettlement (OP 4.12), Safety of Dams (OP 4.37), and International Waterways (OP 7.50). The ICR reports that the
Borrower prepared an Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) and a Resettlement Policy
Framework (RPF) to address any potential environmental or social impacts. A system for screening all sub-projects,
carrying out consultations and redressing grievances was established, and environmental and social issues were,
according to the ICR, appropriately dealt with. The ICR (p. 11) reports that the Bank’s environmental and social
safeguard policies were considered so useful that the Government adopted them as a new standard countrywide; they
are now applied by local governments beyond the project.

The ICR reports that no major safeguards issues were encountered during the implementation of the small-scale
infrastructure sub-projects (ICR, p. 8). A series of safeguard workshops was held to familiarize local governments,
central Government, the private sector and community-based organizations with safeguard policies. The Project
Implementation Unit within the Executive Secretariat recruited a safeguards specialist with the aim of ensuring
compliance with safeguard policies, and after the mid-term review environmental safeguard policies were monitored
more diligently (ICR, p. 14). The ICR does not explicitly mention whether all safeguard policies were complied with
and there is no systematic reporting on compliance with each of the safeguards triggered. It was noted that the Bank’s
supervision team did not include an environmental or other safeguards specialists (ICR, p. 26).

 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial Management :
The ICR reports that all audit reports were submitted on time, had unqualified external audit opinions, and were
acceptable to IDA. The ICR notes (p. 8), though, that internal control weaknesses at the national and local
government level were a recurrent issue. Most supervision missions reported that the level of financial management
risk remained high. The ICR does not elaborate on the internal control weaknesses and does not discuss what
mitigation measures were taken and to what effect.

Procurement:
There were several instances where Bank procurement procedures were not followed. These shortcomings, which
adversely affected the quality of procurement plans, bidding documents, technical proposal evaluation reports, and
contract enforcement, mostly occurred prior to the mid-term review. They were reportedly caused by the high turnover
in regional staff. The ICR does not mention what mitigation measures were adopted to remedy these shortcomings.
The ICR (p. 8) states that simplified procedures for local procurement and basic procurement training of a large
number of regional and local staff contributed to building good governance capacity at the local level.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                            ICR                IEG Review                    Reason for
                                                                                  Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Satisfactory            Moderately            Relevance of objectives and design is
                                                      Satisfactory          rated substantial. The efficacy of the
                                                                            first sub-objective is rated modest, and
                                                                            that of the second substantial.
                                                                            Efficiency is rated modest.

         Risk to Development Negligible to Low        Moderate              The participatory approach to
                    Outcome:                                                decentralized basic service delivery,
                                                                            which the project advanced in rural
                                                                            areas, is unlikely to be reversed.
                                                                            However, the future of the National
                                                                            Program, whose set up the project
                                                                            sought to support is uncertain, given
                                                                            that two critical reforms were not
                                                                            carried out under the project and that
                                                                            the ICR does not provide conclusive
                                                                            information regarding the support
                                                                            provided to the Program by other
                                                                            development partners.

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory            Moderately            There were significant shortcomings in
                                                      Satisfactory          quality at entry -- several key risks were
                                                                            underestimated and inadequately
                                                                            mitigated; the project’s time horizon
                                                                            was over-ambitious; external partners’
                                                                            buy-in to the Program was
                                                                            over-estimated; and there were
                                                                            weaknesses in the M&E framework.

       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory            Moderately            There were significant shortcomings in
                                                      Satisfactory          Government performance: two critical
                                                                            reforms on participatory rural
                                                                            development and decentralization were
                                                                            not carried out by project closure; and
                                                                            there was little progress on the reform
                                                                            for allocating greater share of the
                                                                            national investment budget to local
                                                                            governments.

                Quality of ICR:                       Unsatisfactory
NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
   The following lessons are taken from the ICR with some adaptation of language:

        Even projects that build on existing operations, such as this project, require time to set up new
mechanisms and procedures to implement effectively small-scale local infrastructure investments, and are often
delayed by institutional changes. A 3-year implementation horizon is unrealistic in the case of projects that foresee
community-driven sub-projects that are not “shovel-ready,” accompanied by a complex set of policy, legal and
regulatory reforms.

        Participatory local development requires a considerable amount of (continual) training of local actors in all
aspects of the project cycle to enable them to play their role effectively. This requires a strong institutional
presence, training, technical backstopping and coaching provided by agents at the regional level. The Regional
Coordination Agencies were partly able to play this role in the case of this project. On the Bank’s side, it was
important to have a country-based Task Team Leader to provide continuous and close follow-up for a project
delivering services at the local level.

        Effective relationships, collaboration and harmonization among development partners are paramount to
the successful implementation of participatory local development projects. In the case of this project, the donor
sub-committee for decentralization, which provided a platform for the open exchange of ideas and information, was
instrumental in negotiating key approaches with the Government. Projects such as this can also serve as a vehicle
for encouraging greater coordination and harmonization among development partners.


14. Assessment Recommended?                   Yes      No

Why?     To verify the ratings and assess progress with the National Local Development Program.



15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

Although the ICR contains much relevant and important information, a major shortcoming is the fact that it fails to
indicate against which outcome indicators it measures the achievement of the objectives. The ICR references the
three outcome indicators stated in the PAD (p. 7) but reports against five indicators (ICR p. viii), without clarifying the
origin of the two indicators not contained in the PAD. Insufficient evidence is provided to support the brief statements
regarding achievement of objectives. The discussion in Section 3.2, which focuses on intermediate outcome/output
indicators by Component – without linking them to the development outcome indicators or other measures of outcome
achievement - is inappropriate. The lack of an outcome-oriented analysis of the project’s results makes gauging the
impact on achievement of objectives of activities undertaken - and not undertaken - under the project very difficult.
Furthermore, the inconsistent figures provided for actual project cost, both overall and by component make it
impossible to establish a conclusive efficiency rating, and the inconsistent information about the actual counterpart
contribution is conducive to uncertainty about the Government’s performance during implementation.

In addition, there are numerous inconsistencies, such as: (i) discrepancies in the ratings between the data sheet and
ICR [Government performance is rated Satisfactory in the ICR (p. 15) and Moderately Satisfactory in the Data Sheet
(p. vi)]; (ii) missing ratings (such as ratings for relevance of objectives and design); (iii) actual total project cost and
actual component cost figures as well as actual financial contributions by source, especially the actual Borrower’s
contribution figures in the main text of the ICR, are inconsistent with the figures provided in tables (a) and (b) in Annex
1; (iv) output figures are inconsistent (the total number of sub-projects on page 21 of the ICR varies between 3,738
and more than 5,000, and the number of classrooms constructed in the text (1,760) differs from the one in the table on
p. 21 (903); and (v) in several instances, it is not clear whether the ICR refers to the project, i.e. the Participatory Local
Development Project or the National Local Development Program (on page 21 the ICR also erroneously refers to a
National Participatory Development Project), which makes it difficult to gauge the attribution of reported results to
project-funded activities.

The ICR does not explicitly state whether there was compliance with safeguards policies.


a.Quality of ICR Rating : Unsatisfactory
