Page  1
1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3517 
Operation Name 
ML 
–
Second Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC-2) 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Central government administration (60%);Irrigation and drainage 
(10%);General finance sector (10%);General transportation sector 
(10%);Agro-industry (10%) 
Project ID 
P103466 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF MALI 
Implementing Agency 
FINANCE, PLAN AND SECTOR MINISTRIES 
Date PID Prepared 
December 10, 2007 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
December 5, 2007 
Date of Board Approval 
January 29, 2008 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Mali’s social indicators remain among the lowest in the world.
 The country ranks 175 out of 
177 countries in the UNDP 2006 Human Development Index.  Mali is a vast landlocked country 
with a relatively narrow natural resource and human capital base. It is the largest country among 
ECOWAS countries by land area (1.22 million square kilometers), covering twice the size of 
Texas, more than 70 percent covered by desert. With a population of about 13.5 million, 
population density is very low (10 persons per square kilometer)
1
resulting in high cost of public 
service delivery, difficulty in accessing nomadic communities and some segments of the rural 
population, and high transportation costs for agricultural inputs and other goods. Mali has also 
faced challenges due to unstable economic and political conditions in neighboring countries, 
mainly Cote d’Ivoire.   
 
The country is currently in transition with new opportunities emerging.
 
Presidential and 
legislative elections have taken place this year, slowing down slightly the reform program. New 
opportunities emerge however as the newly elected Government is taking over with a renewed 
enthusiasm to move to a high and more equitable growth path and to improve delivery of basic 
services. Mali’s second Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, the Growth and Poverty 
Reduction Strategy Framework (GPRSF), adopted in 2006, highlights rapid and more 
distributive growth as its main focus. Its design builds on the lessons and accomplishments of the 
past years in areas such as public expenditure management, agriculture, transport and the social 
sectors.
 
Mali’s current economic trends are broadly favorable and the country achieved significant 
gains in the fight against poverty
.
While 2004 and early 2005 were difficult periods due to a 
terms of trade shock and the effects of drought and locust invasion, the outlook began to improve 
during the second half of 2005. As a result, Mali’s real GDP grew by about 6 percent in 2005—
1
The next largest ECOWAS country by land area, Nigeria, covers 0.9 million square km. With a population of 129 
million people, its population density is 142 persons per km
2
.
Page  2
2
reflecting a favorable cereals harvest and an improving terms of trade
—and grew 6 percent in 
2006.  The increases in prices and quantities of gold have more than compensated for the 
increases in the price of oil.  Despite being battered by exogenous shocks, real growth –driven by 
gold and remittances- averaged 5.7 percent over the past decade and a half, which enabled gross 
national income per capita (atlas method) to increase from US$240 in 1994 to US$400 in 2006.  
The increases in prices and quantities of gold have more than compensated for the increases in 
the price of oil. Overall poverty declined from about 73 percent in 1989 to 68.3 percent in 2001 
and to 64.4 in 2006
2
.
Mali’s economic performance is explained by progressive market-oriented economic 
reforms and broad-based political reforms over the last 25 years
 that spurred private sector 
development and enhanced civil society participation. Mali benefits from a stable and inclusive 
political environment, having successfully concluded four successive presidential elections since 
1990 and two sub-national elections since 1997. The latest set of elections took place during the 
period end-April through July 2007. 
 
Mali also received substantial amounts of development assistance as a result of its recent 
solid economic and policy performance
.
Overall policy performance has been good and 
gradually improving so that, currently, Mali stands among the better African performers on a 
broad range of economic policies (Mali’s 2005 CPIA was 3.7 against the Sub-Saharan Africa 
average of 3.2). As a result, Mali has received substantial amounts of external assistance that 
over the past decade averaged about 15 percent of GHI.  The Bank has been closely coordinating 
with other donors, providing the Government in recent years with an annual support of around 
US$25 million (EPPFMC for 2005-6; SAC IV for 2004-5). PRSC-I increased to US$45 million, 
and PRSC-2 would sustain the Bank’s budget support to Mali to US$42 million. 
 
Mali has continued to make gains in the quality of its governance.
 
Mali completed four 
presidential elections—the latest in April 2007. Parliamentary elections were in July 2007 with 
10 parties involved. Transition of power among elected officials has occurred smoothly and 
international observers have rated the elections high. The political environment is competitive. 
Civil society has an important place in the national dialogue. Transparency International latest 
ranking places Mali amongst the top ten in South Saharan Africa (SSA).
3
Mali’s country 
performance and institutional assessment (CPIA) of 3.7 is among the highest in SSA.  The World 
Bank Institute (WBI) ranked Mali higher than the average for SSA in all governance indicators. 
Mali’s governance institutions outperform SSA averages. Several new institutions have been 
created by the Government of Mali (GoM) to combat corruption. When compared to the best 
performers in SSA, Mali’s performance is superior on voice and accountability, rule of law, fight 
against corruption and political stability.  On issues of government effectiveness and regulatory 
quality however, Mali lags the best performers. The European Union (EU) concluded a 
governance review for Mali in 2006.  The review concurs on the progress made and emphasizes 
the need to focus on service delivery, to improve the business environment and to reduce the 
opportunities for corruption. The EU review also highlights weaknesses in the judicial sector.  
 
2
The last national household expenditure survey was completed in 2006 
3
Notably, four countries in North West Africa
—Ghana, Burkina, Senegal and Mauritania rank higher than Mali. 
This means Mali faces the challenge of keeping up with its peers in North and West Africa.  
Page  3
3
Despite the achievements over the past decade and half, Mali faces significant economic 
and social challenges.
 
Mali’s economy remains fragile in view of its vulnerability to climatic 
conditions and commodity price fluctuations (primarily of cotton, oil, gold).  The economy is 
dependent on agriculture and gold production, and exports are highly concentrated with gold and 
cotton together comprising over 90 percent of export revenues. As a land-locked country, Mali 
also faces challenges due to weak development of infrastructure and transportation services, and 
to economic and political conditions in neighboring countries. The high cost of doing business in 
Mali (reflected in elevated cost of transport, transit, electricity and compliance with regulations) 
negatively impacts domestic and foreign direct investment prospects.  The business 
environment—notably road transportation but also investment prospects—continues to suffer 
from the protracted socio-political instability in Côte d’Ivoire.  As with other low income 
countries, administrative capacity is also weak.  A significant social, structural and 
macroeconomic agenda remains for Mali to consolidate the gains of the past to sustain broad-
based growth, to further entrench market-oriented forces in the country, and to advance the 
poverty reduction agenda.  
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The proposed Credit aims to (a) strengthen the links between the GPRSF and the macroeconomic 
and budget frameworks with an emphasis on results based budgeting; and strengthening public 
finance management including procurement; (b) improve the business environment and creating 
a
strong basis for private sector-led economic growth, through measures in the financial sector, 
private sector, transport and transit facilitation, electricity, cotton, and the Office du Niger 
irrigation zone; and (c) strengthen the results orientation of sectoral MTEFs, particularly in 
education, health, and rural water supply and sanitation  strengthening the linkages between 
MTEF priorities.
 
The proposed Second Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC-2) would continue Bank 
support to the Government of Mali to implement its 2
nd
 PRSF, the Growth and Poverty 
Reduction Strategy Framework (GPRSF).
 
As discussed in the PRSC-1 program document, 
the PRSC program focuses on a set of policies and reforms intended to: 
 
·
Strengthen the macroeconomic and budget frameworks, particularly their links to the 
poverty reduction strategy, and strengthening public finance management notably 
procurement as well as management, accountability and transparency of budget 
execution.  
·
Support growth-enhancing measures in the financial sector, private sector, electricity, 
transport and transit facilitation, Office du Niger irrigation zone, and cotton.  
·
Improve access to basic social services, notably health, education and rural water supply 
and sanitation.  
These components directly support various aspects of the GPRSF. The first and second 
components of the proposed PRSC-2 would support aspects of the GPRSF’s first two pillars, 
whereas the operations third component supports the poverty strategy’s third pillar. The 
proposed operation’s selectivity, emphasis on growth, and its limited scope build on lessons from 
Page  4
4
Bank involvement stressing the advantages of flexible, graduated operations with simpler, robust 
design closely aligned with Mali’s priorities.  
 
The broad outcomes expected at the end of this first PRSC series include (Table 6):  
 
·
Continued macroeconomic stability, 
·
Improved budget and expenditures management process  
·
Decreased number of days to open a business   
·
Increased credit to the private sector  
·
Measurable increased in use of life savings health interventions  
·
Measurable increased access to clean water and sanitation facilities.  
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Overall, Mali has made steady progress in implementing its policy reform agenda, and the 
reform program outlined in the PRSC-1 matrix is judged to be on track.
 
PRSC-2 prior actions are 
set out in Table 8 (they are the bolded items from the PRSC policy matrix in Annex 2) along 
with the GPRSF area/objective to which they relate. There are (as with PRSC-1) eight prior 
actions, in some cases with sub-actions embedded therein. Table 8 also explains the evolution of 
PRSC-2 prior actions as envisaged at the time of PRSC-1.  While many PRSC-2 prior actions 
have not changed from what was envisaged at the time of PRSC-1, in a few instances the GoM 
was over ambitious in what it projected it could achieve in the time period, particularly in light of 
the presidential and legislative elections which took place between April and July 2007.
 
Public Finance Management triggers were achieved and exceeded. Six ministries and six 
regional budget departments are inter-connected through AGETIC. The PEFA rated Mali as 
performing well overall. The PAGAMGFP workplan has been adopted and implemented. Good 
progress has also been achieved in procurement and the first draft of the decree on the 
procurement code is to be adopted by December 2007. In the finance sector the Government of 
Mali strengthened its supervision capcity of micro-finance activities, creating a new department 
to that effect.  The development of the strategy for cleaning up the bad debts of the Banks’ 
portfolios has been delayed and will continue to be discussed as part of the next series. To 
improve the business environment a Cabinet decree on business start up procedures is about to 
be adopted to strengthen the underpinning the operations of the one-stop-shop center (“guichet 
unique”) in line with the single identifier law. The property transfer tax has also been reduced. 
For transport the the share of revenues from road user fees increased to more than 40%  percent 
of the 2008 road maintenance budget. The recommendations of the 2006 external audit; were 
implemented. In agriculture a department charged with managing irrigation financing has been 
created. In the cotton sector activities have progressed well according to the Cotton sector reform 
timetable. In health a results oriented MTEF has been develop with the technical support of 
WHO, UNICEF and bilateral agencies.  
 
4. Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
Page  5
5
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
36 
Total 36 
 
5. Implementation 
Arrangements 
 
Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation: 
The Ministry of Economy and Finance is the 
main interlocutor of this operation, and is responsible for overall coordination of supervision and 
monitoring of program implementation, led by the Secretary General of the Ministry of Economy 
and Finance (MEF) and drawing on MEF thematic technical advisors who liaise with individuals 
designated as focal points in the departments/agencies involved in the PRSC program. The 
participating ministries, departments and agencies will furnish relevant information and 
documentation on implementation and monitoring of their respective programs to MEF, which 
will oversee progress in achieving program objectives. 
 
Monitoring and coordination 
will be made through a committee comprising representatives of 
the Ministry of Economy and Finance (chair), Ministry of Planning and Land Management, 
PRSF Unit and donors signatory to the Joint General Budget Support Arrangement. The 
committee will meet twice a year (in June/July and November) and on an ad hoc basis as needed 
(see further annex 4). 
 
Fiduciary Aspects 
Mali’s fiduciary framework is adequate overall to receive the proceeds of the credit, given 
that the Government has adopted a public finance management (PFM) action plan based 
on the last CFAA (2002) and CPAR update (2005), and the plan addresses the main risk 
highlighted in the assessments.
 Implementation of the PFM action plan (the PAGAM) is 
supported under the first component of the proposed PRSC-2, building on achievements made 
under the SAC III, SAC IV and EPPFMC operations. In addition, the Government is establishing 
baseline indicators values through a Public Expenditure Fiduciary Assessment (PEFA), to be 
able to monitor progress on public finance management over time. This will form the basis for 
updating the CFAA in the planned Public Expenditure Management and Fiduciary Assessment 
Review, which will feed into the policy matrix for PRSC-2 and PRSC-3. 
Disbursement and Auditing
:
The proposed credit would follow the agreed disbursement 
procedures of the Joint General Budget Support Framework (see annex 4), which are in line with 
the Bank’s disbursement procedures for development policy credits. The untied budget support 
would be disbursed against satisfactory implementation of the development policy program; it is 
not tied to any specific purchases, and no procurement requirements will be needed. Once the 
Credit is approved by the Board and becomes effective, the proceeds of the Credit will be 
deposited by IDA in an account designated by the Borrower at the Central Bank of West African 
States (BCEAO) in Bamako at the request of the Borrower. The Borrower shall ensure that upon 
the deposit of the Credit into said account, an equivalent amount is credited in the Borrower’s 
budget management system. If the proceeds of the proposed credit are used for ineligible 
purposes as defined in the Development Credit Agreement, IDA would require the Borrower to 
promptly refund upon notice from IDA, an amount equal to the amount of said payment to IDA. 
Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled. Although an audit of the 
deposit account will not be required, IDA would reserve the right to require audits at any time. 
Page  6
6
The administration of this credit would be the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy and 
Finance. 
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
The PRSC-2 would be built on lessons from previous operations and considerable 
analytical and fiduciary work by the Bank, the government and other development 
partners, especially in the areas of public finance management (PFM) and growth, as 
shown in Table 5. 
Considerable analytical effort has been expended in assessing the 
effectiveness of public spending and PFM in Mali, including recent reports on the MDGs, 
Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA), Country Procurement Assessment 
Report (CPAR), the WB/IMF HIPC AAP report, an IMF Report on the Observance of Standards 
and Codes (ROSC), an EU audit of reform implementation to improve public finance 
management procedures, and a study on implementing the decentralization policy based on two 
pilot regions. These all helped identify the strengths and main shortcomings of Mali’s fiduciary 
system, and helped the authorities prepare two key action plans for reforms that integrate the 
various studies—one on PFM (the government Action Plan for Modernizing and Strengthening 
Public Finance Management 2006-2008) and the other on advancing the decentralization agenda 
to strengthen delivery of basic social services (the Institutional Development Program). These 
two action plans, now supported by all donors, are key instruments toward increased 
harmonization of development assistance in Mali. In support of the public finance management 
action plan, the government has undertaken a Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability 
(PEFA) exercise in November 2006, to establish baseline indicators for the monitoring 
framework of the PFM reforms supported under the proposed PRSC-2’s first component.  The 
PEFA is available and presented in Annex 5). The PEFA also provides the basis for updating 
selected issues of the CFAA, to be presented in a Public Expenditure and Financial 
Accountability Review (PEMFAR) planned for by end FY08. The PEMFAR is under 
preparation.  
 
The PRSC-2 would be consistent with the diagnostics and recommendations of a series of 
studies to identify sources of growth
 
and refine the growth strategy.  
The CEM on growth 
(titled From Sector Diagnostics toward an Integrated Growth Strategy) was completed in August 
2006. On the basis of retrospective analysis of growth and prospects for future growth, the CEM 
highlights priority policy measures to sustain and accelerate Mali’s economic growth. The CEM 
articulates an integrated growth strategy combining micro and macro-level dimensions in a 
consistent framework, building on previous studies complemented by new analysis. Previous 
studies that feed into the CEM include a Government-issued 2010 Growth and Development 
Proposal whose preparation was supported by technical assistance from the Bank and which 
underpinned the 1998 Mali CAS program. The assessment of success factors of Bank-supported 
irrigation reforms, presented in Aw and Diemer (2005), highlight the critical importance of 
irrigation in overcoming vulnerability to climate shocks and enhancing food security in Mali, and 
underpin the 
Office du Niger
 sub-component of the PRSC program. Supply chain analysis of the 
textile/garments, leatherwork and handicraft sectors conducted under the Support to Growth 
project in 2004, revealed regulatory constraints to investment in those sectors, and the 
Investment Climate Assessment (ICA, FY05) highlighted concrete micro-level constraints to 
Mali’s growth, including regulatory and non-price barriers that increase the time and monetary 
costs of doing business. These issues are integrated into the policy matrix. Lastly, an integrated 
Page  7
7
trade diagnostic study completed in 2004 also highlighted micro-level constraints in addition to 
cross cutting constraints stemming from the transport, transit facilitation and finance sectors 
 
1. 
The operation faces moderate external, political and budget risks.
 
External risk
 stems 
mainly from the Mali’s vulnerability to climatic/natural shocks (drought, avian flu), exchange 
rate and commodity price fluctuations (cotton, oil) and regional developments (persistent Côte 
d’Ivoire crisis). Mitigating these risks over the horizon of the proposed project remains a 
challenge: it depends on the economy’s capacity to adjust in the wake of the shocks, and the 
government’s continued ability to manage the impact of the shocks. The operation would help 
strengthen both these capacities, through policy measures that contribute to economic growth 
and diversification, and further strengthen public finance management within a sound 
macroeconomic framework. Additionally, the overall country dialogue would allow for some 
budget flexibility to address crisis-related expenses within the context of a prudently managed 
budget that supported priority growth and poverty reduction programs. The introduction of 
predictable and timely support through the PRSC series, and continued progress with donor 
coordination, will also be important elements for mitigating the external risks. 
 
2. 
Political risk
,
linked to the nomination of a new Government in October 2007 following 
elections in May 2007, is that the pace of program implementation could slow or that the 
government’s current commitment to some reforms (such as privatization in banking, cotton) 
could wane as the election approaches. This risk, which is low to moderate, is mitigated by the 
front loading of the policy measures, to be completed before submission of the Credit to the 
Board. The country team is monitoring this risk on a continual basis in order to detect problem 
areas early on so as to adjust the Bank’s response as needed.  
 
3. 
Budget risk
 stems ongoing financial crises in the cotton and electricity parastatal 
companies (CMDT, EDM) which may require cash transfers from the public treasury to cover 
the large projected deficits in those sectors. Although this risk is moderate to high, the 2007 
budget includes no provision for possible transfers to these two companies: for cotton, the 
government indicates that the required recapitalization of CMDT (equivalent to 1.3 percent of 
GDP) will be covered through debt conversion rather than cash transfer (and thus with no 
treasury impact); while for electricity the government has not yet formally acknowledged the 
company’s need for a cash infusion during 2007 (amounting to about 0.2 percent of GDP at least, 
and 0.8 percent of government expenditure) in order to remain viable. It is thus possible that 
actual implementation of the government budget during 2007 could be significantly different 
from the approved budget. This risk is being mitigated through emphasis on strengthened 
financial management in both companies and close monitoring of their respective financial and 
cash positions. 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The poverty and social impacts of the proposed PRSC-2 are expected to be favorable 
overall.
 Many of the measures have an indirect poverty and social impact through creating the 
conditions for improved governance and provision of public services (i.e., macroeconomic and 
public finance management), improved quality of infrastructure services (i.e., transport road 
maintenance, irrigation reforms), improved health of and access to financial sector services (i.e., 
Page  8
8
financial sector reforms), and lower cost of goods and services (i.e., through improved transport 
road maintenance and transit facilitation). The elimination of the export-
related “expertise tax” 
on handicrafts would benefit the poor since handicrafts are a major source of income for large 
numbers of the poor. Handicraft activities are also the main source of diversification outside 
agriculture in the rural areas, thereby translating into economic opportunities for the poorest 
Malians. As regards the cotton sector, the findings of the poverty and social impact analysis 
(PSIA) of the cotton producer price reform, suggest a much less adverse impact on farmers of the 
drop in producer prices than initially feared (Annex 9). 
 
Environmental Aspect: 
The implementation of the proposed PRSC-2 program is not expected to 
have any significant environmental impact, given the nature of the policy actions and the short-
term horizon of the operation. Implementation of the sector reforms over the three-year PRSC 
series (cotton, irrigation) could potentially have some minimal environmental impact. Potential 
implications in the transport sector are addressed through a requirement that the teams 
undertaking road maintenance activities include an environmental specialist. For any new 
irrigation activities an environmental assessment is undertaken and a mitigation plan prepared. 
Implementation of the longer-term cotton sector reforms may have environmental implications 
due to the potential increase in cotton production and attendant increase in fertilizer/pesticide 
use. An assessment of the likely environmental impact shows, however, that the magnitude of 
environmental risks strictly associated with the cotton sector is very limited, as no major 
expansion of cotton cultivated areas is expected. Environmental issues associated with the cotton 
privatization program would be incorporated in the bidding/negotiations process for each 
company privatized. 
 
The proposed PRSC-2 program, if successful, would likely contribute to expansion of private 
sector activity, inclusive of production operations in polluting sectors. These impacts would be 
addressed to some extent under future Bank projects, but would best be tackled in a perennial 
manner through the country’s environmental management agency. Yet Mali’s capacity to guide 
industrial development in sustainable manner (through, for example, the review of proposals, 
issuance of permits, and enforcement of standards) is currently assessed to be weak. 
Consideration for providing Bank support to strengthen Mali’s environment management 
capacity should be discussed in the context of the upcoming CAS exercise. 
 
8. Contact 
point 
Contact: Agnes L. B. Soucat 
Title: Sr Economist (Health) 
Tel: (202) 473-4027 
Fax: (202) 473-8216 
Email: asoucat@worldbank.org 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Page  9
9
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
