Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3355 
Project Name 
ML-Second Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC-2) 
Region 
Africa 
Sector 
Central Gvt. Adm. (60%); Irrigation & Drainage (10%); Gen. 
Finance Sector (10%); Gen. Transport Sector (10%); Agro-
Industry (10%) 
Project ID 
P103466 
Borrower(s) 
GOVT. OF MALI 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF in close association with 
several line ministries 
Environment Category 
[X] A   [] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
October 4, 2007 
Estimated 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
October 30, 2007 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
January 29, 2008 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Mali’s recent economic and policy performance has been solid and the country achieved 
important gains in the fight against poverty; it also received substantial amounts of aid
.
Despite 
being battered by exogenous shocks, real growth averaged 5.7 percent over the past decade and a half, 
and poverty declined from about 73 percent in 1989 to 68.3 percent in 2001. Overall policy performance 
has been good and gradually improving so that, currently, Mali stands among the better African 
performers on a broad range of economic policies (Mali’s 2005 CPIA was 3.7 against the Sub-Saharan 
Africa average of 3.2). As a result, Mali has been receiving substantial amounts of external assistance 
that over the past decade averaging about 15 percent of gross national income. The Bank has been 
closely coordinating with other donors, providing the Government in recent years with annual support of 
US$25 million (EPPFMC for 2005-6; SAC IV for 2004-5). The PRSC-2 would increase the Bank’s 
budget support to Mali to US$[45] million. 
 
Mali is at the end of its current PRSF and its record with its implementation is satisfactory 
although the country may not reach some of the MDG targets
.
Recent PRSP progress reports 
outlined the achievements in the past years with the latest draft report covering 2005.  The past reports 
were subject to wide regional consultations and validation by representatives of the Government, civil 
society, the private sector, and the donor community. The 2005 progress report re-estimated the official 
2001 poverty incidence of 68.3 percent and arrived at the poverty rate of 59 percent for 2005, a decline 
of about 9 percentage points. In large part, this was due to strong albeit volatile GDP growth per capita 
(averaging about 2.5 percent a year during 2002-2005). While far behind the original poverty objective 
for 2006 of 47 percent, these poverty reduction gains are not marginal. They also resulted in gains in the 
indices measuring the depth and severity of poverty compared with the 2001 household survey. 
Nevertheless, several MDGs remain out of immediate reach. 
 
Mali’s Poverty Reduction Strategy Framework (PRSF) covering the period 2002-06, provides the 
foundation for the Government’s development and poverty reduction strategy.
 This document is 
Page  2
also the basis for coordination and harmonization with donors. PRSF was endorsed by the Bank and 
Fund Boards and is broadly supported by the donor community. Mali’s economic development and 
poverty reduction strategy in the PRSF relies on four key pillars: (i) accelerating shared, private-sector 
led growth; (ii) strengthening institutions, governance and participation; (iii) developing human 
resources and access to basic services; and (iv) strengthening basic infrastructure and productive 
economic activities.  
The new poverty strategy, the Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy Framework (GPRSF), is 
being finalized. It is similar to the previous strategy but places much greater emphasis on 
economic growth. 
The GPRSF, which will be submitted to the national assembly in December as an 
input to discussions of the draft 2007 budget, covers the period 2007-2011 and has two principal 
objectives: (i) promotion of rapid growth through wealth and employment creation in a stable 
macroeconomic framework, through key growth activities in the rural sector (agriculture, livestock, 
fisheries, agro-forestry, horticulture), mining, infrastructure (energy, transport), and services (tourism, 
cultural products, telecommunications); and (ii) strengthening public sector performance through 
deepening of ongoing reforms in the following thematic areas—institutional (decentralization and de-
concentration of the public sector), governance (democracy, anti-corruption, rule of law), economic 
(financial and private sectors), and social (education, health, HIV/AIDS). 
The GPRSF’s programs are grouped under the following three pillars: (i) infrastructure development and 
strengthening of the productive sectors (including food security, rural development, SME development, 
and sustainable natural resources management); (ii) strengthening the structural reform agenda 
(comprising public sector reforms, investment climate, financial sector, governance, capacity of the civil 
society); and (iii) stringing of social sector services (including promotion of job creation, improved 
access to basic social services, HIV/AIDS).  
The proposed operation is an integral part of the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) to Mali and 
is fully consistent with the new CAS
.
The PRSC-2 and next CAS both support the Government’s 
strategy presented in the GPRSF, and the PRSCs would continue to be core instruments in the next 
CAS. The PRSC would deliver at least half of the indicative IDA resources during the FY08-11 CAS.  
The gains made in public expenditure enable Mali to absorb budgetary support. The budget in Mali is 
quite credible and comprehensive. Sector allocations follow PRSP development priorities and the rate of 
execution is high. A framework for strong METF in critical sectors is in place. The government and the 
donors coordinating work through Action Plans updated yearly. The policy dialogue under the PRSC 
would focus on governance and service delivery. The shift to support through the PRSC means that IDA 
would not have self-standing operations either in health or water. IDA would continue the dialogue and 
technical assistance. A CENA would be carried out and the assessment outcomes would be fed into new 
sector operations and TA would be developed for service delivery in support of the PRSC actions. 
The proposed Second Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC-2) is the second in a series of operations 
supporting implementation of Mali’s Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy Framework (GPRSF), 
which focuses on i) maintaining a stable macroeconomic framework and improving overall public 
expenditures management  ii) enhancing growth  iii) improving access to basic social services in view of 
reaching the MDGs.  In line with this agenda, the proposed PRSC II continues and deepens support to 
the GoM as it implements the next steps in its reform program supported by PRSC I. This includes  
 
a) strengthening the links between the GPRSF and the macroeconomic and budget frameworks 
with an emphasis on results based budgeting; and strengthening public finance management 
including procurement;  
Page  3
b) improving the business environment and creating a strong basis for private sector-led 
economic growth, through measures in the financial sector, private sector, transport and transit 
facilitation, electricity, cotton, and the 
Office du Niger
 irrigation zone;  and  
c) strengthening the results orientation of sectoral MTEFs, particularly in education, health, and 
rural water supply and sanitation  strengthening the linkages between MTEF priorities.   
.
The proposed operation would contribute to financing the Government’s 2008 budget aimed at pursuing 
the objectives of the GPRSF. Building on PRSC1, the operation would i) strengthen oversight of public 
finances and the procurement system, thereby enhancing efficiency and effectiveness of public sector 
spending; ii) provide the incentive to implement key economic, social and institutional reform to 
strengthen overall economy performance, growth and poverty alleviation; and iii) ensure delivery of 
basic service delivery in view of reaching the MDGs, particularly in health and water.  
The operation would contribute to enhancing shared private-sector-led growth, by lowering 
administrative and financial costs of doing business, by easing restrictions and cost of starting a 
business, and easing export-related costs on handicraft products, and by supporting the medium term 
reform program of the cotton sector and the 
Office du Niger
 irrigation zone. The operation would also 
contribute to reducing transport and transit costs, by ensuring regular road maintenance and lowering the 
cost burden (in money and time) on the private sector of customs administration. The Credit would 
lower the costs of financial services (and therefore enhance access to credit) through cleaning up non-
performing loans from bank balance sheets. It would also improve access to longer term resources 
vitally needed to stimulate private sector led growth, through strengthening the prospects of institutions 
with long term assets whether financial (pension funds, housing bank, insurance companies) or physical 
(leasing companies).In the social sectors (health , education and rural water supply), the operation would 
strengthen the links between the sector strategy and the budget, and lay the foundations for improved 
quality of service delivery 
 
2. Proposed objectives: 
 
The proposed Second Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC-2) would continue Bank support 
to the Government of Mali to implement its 2
nd
 PRSF, the Growth and Poverty Reduction 
Strategy Framework (GPRSF).
 
As discussed in the PRSC I program document, the PRSG program 
focuses on a set of policies and reforms intended to: 
·
Strengthen the macroeconomic and budget frameworks, particularly their links to the poverty 
reduction strategy, and strengthening public finance management notably procurement as well as 
management, accountability and transparency of budget execution.  
·
Support growth-enhancing measures in the financial sector, private sector, electricity, transport 
and transit facilitation, Office du Niger irrigation zone, and cotton.  
·
Improve access to basic social services, notably health, social development, education and rural 
water supply and sanitation.  
These components directly support various aspects of the GPRSF. The first and second components of 
the PRSC-2 support aspects of the GPRSF’s first two pillars, while the operations third component 
supports the poverty strategy’s third pillar. The proposed operation’s selectivity, emphasis on growth, 
and limited scope builds on the lessons of Bank involvement in stressing advantages of flexible, 
graduated operations with simpler, robust design closely aligned with Mali’s priorities.  
Page  4
The PRSC-
2
would be the second programmatic budget support operation underpinning Mali’s 
growth and poverty reduction strategy.
 The PRSC-2 would continue the EPPFMC reform agenda, 
and expand upon the growth support component as possible based on the recent country economic 
memorandum, with further deepening of this component expected in the 3
rd
 year of the series. The 
PRSC-2 would comprise the following components: 
Component 1: Budget framework, poverty reduction strategy, and PFM AK/CW 
Despite overall good macroeconomic performance over the past decade, maintaining 
macroeconomic stability continues to be a challenge 
for Mali that poses considerable risks for 
budgetary management and to priority growth and poverty reducing programs. The PRSC-2 would 
continue the agenda pursued under the EPPFMC to support: (i) greater linkage of the budget and poverty 
strategy with a continued prudent macroeconomic framework; and (ii) strengthening the procurement 
system. 
Component 2: Support to Growth CW 
The PRSC-2 would pursue key growth measures having high impact on broad-based long-term 
growth, by focusing on 
specific cross-sectoral measures in the following thematic areas: financial 
sector, private sector, transport and transit facilitation, electricity, cotton, and the 
Office du Niger 
irrigation zone. This component is consistent with the recommendations of the growth diagnostics 
undertaken in various studies, culminating in the Country Economic Memorandum on growth completed 
in A
ugust 2006, which indicate that Mali’s growth can only be sustained if macroeconomic and financial 
sector stability is maintained and business input and transaction costs (reflected in effectiveness and cost 
of: transport and transit services, access to medium- and long-term finance, compliance with regulations, 
and utilities notably electricity and water) are reduced (refer to Box 4.1). The policy content of this 
component is expected to be progressively deepened in the next two operations of the PRSC series, to 
reflect progress on the dialogue with the authorities on the CEM diagnostics and recommendations. 
2A. Financial Sector: 
PRSC-2 would continue the agenda supported under the EPPFMC of 
strengthening financial sector stability in addition to the foundations for expanding the access to 
finance and particularly, longer term financial resources, objectives that are vital to continued 
growth and development of Mali’s rural and private sectors. 
The PRSC-2 would support many actions that are part of the Government financial sector reform 
program. Specifically, the operation would support: (i) in the
 banking sector
,
(a) the treatment of 
the non-performing portfolio of the baking system; (b) the restructuring of BHM; (c) the 
privatization of BIM; ; (ii) in the
 micro-finance sector
,
the adequate funding of the micro-finance 
supervisory and promotion units,(b) the consolidation of the micro-finance sector; (iii) in 
the 
social security sector
,
the adoption of new laws and parameters for both CRM and INPS.
 
2B. Private Sector 
Improvements in the business environment are expected to help grow the 
private sector in Mali, which is essential to resolving the employment problem in a sustainable 
manner over the long term. As barriers to entry of firms get reduced and facilitation services are 
made available to entrepreneurs for business start-up, the number of enterprises would increase, 
and private investment ratio to GDP is expected to gradually shift from 14.7 percent to 15.5 
percent by end 2008. This should also result in a larger tax base. An improved access to credit is 
expected to result from the easier and less costly property registration. In terms of tax 
administration, further simplification of procedures would reduce the number of tax payments by 
the private sector from 60 to 20 by 2009. With respect to the labor market, increased flexibility is 
expected to encourage firms to hire more people. This is expected to result in at least 1000 
additional jobs created in the formal sector by 2009. 
Page  5
2C. Transportation and transit facilitation:
 The PRSC-2 benefits would be modest since the 
actions are early phases of the 2006-08 sector program. The immediate benefits would be: (i) the 
lowering of transport operating costs from the more regular financing and implementation of 
road maintenance; (ii) more efficient utilization of truck fleets due to faster customs clearance of 
shipment releasing trucks faster; and (iii) an increase in profitability of trucking operations due to 
the elimination of extra-legal fees collected at road blocks which did not occur under PRSC-1 as 
expected as the number of road security posts increased rather than decreased. 
Over the medium term the expected benefits would be substantial. By lowering the cost of 
transport and transit facilitation services, the PRSC actions would contribute to spurring growth 
in all sectors of Mali’s economy. Better maintained roads would reduce transport costs which 
should translate into lower market prices of food and other products. Harmonizing the tax 
treatment of formal and informal transport operators and developing freight markets would 
improve the quality of transport services, contribute to increasing profits and thereby enable 
better management and modernization of the transport fleet (including greater transition to 
container technology) as well as lower transport prices. An increase in the transport capacity and 
efficiency of transport operators would provide support for domestic trade including agricultural 
products as well as for foreign trade, reducing in particular the handicap of high land transit costs 
to this land-locked country. 
2D. Energy Sector:
 
Opportunities for Bank intervention can be summarized as the 
following
:
(i) to assist the Government in determining and co-financing if required optimal 
additional diesel powered generators to fill the projected supply gap in 2007-12 till medium and 
long term generation capacity become fully operational; (ii) to accelerate the execution of 
interconnections with Côte D’Ivoire, Burkina Faso and Ghana; (ii) to contribute financing to 
systems rehabilitation and reinforcement, and also to financing on transmission and distribution; 
(iii) to top up financing to support access expansion in rural communities; and (iv) to support the 
restructuring of EDM-SA.
 
Actions in the period of PRSC-2 to PRSC-3 related to the energy sector are expected to help the 
GOM address poor performance issues of EDM SA and also to help create sector benchmarks 
towards an improved legal and regulatory environment. In the short term, these actions would 
contribute to put EDM SA on the path to better financial and operational performance, that are 
strong pre-requisites to fully capitalize on medium term and long term interconnection 
investments. 
2E. Cotton Sector:
 Expected results for PRSC-2 include: (i) a price mechanism that guarantee 
60% of export price to farmers, (ii) adoption of the privatization law by the Government; and 
(iii) improvement of CMDT treasury management;  
For the three-year PRSC series, expected results include: (i) equitable and adequate revenue to 
farmers; (ii) a privatized and revitalized, dynamic cotton sector managed with the participation of 
farmers; (iii) significantly increased production and yields; (iv) improved supply chains for both 
input and output and increased ability to provide value-added services (ginning); and (v) 
decreased poverty in the cotton zone 
 
2F. Office du Niger Irrigation Zone :
 It is expected that these PRSC-2 measures would lay the 
foundation for: (i) establishing a sustainable irrigation funding mechanism which would attract 
private operators to invest in the ON so as to increase irrigated land, introduce improved 
technologies, and diversify produce demanded by national, sub-regional and international 
Page  6
market; (ii) ensuring the transfer of responsibility for water management, from the ON to water 
users, in line with the rationalization of water fees to maintain the canals; (iii) sustainably 
developing the ON through harmonized donor interventions in line with Mali’s decentralization 
policy; and (iv) improving yields, production, and producers’ revenues in the ON zone. 
Component 3: Access to Basic Social Services 
The PRSC-2 includes two components addressing access to quality basic social services. The first 
component focuses on health and social development, while the second focuses on rural water supply 
and sanitation. The operation doesn’t include education since the sector’s issues are addressed under a 
recently approved Second Education Sector Investment Program II (FY06; Credit number IDA-42220) 
and there are as yet no complementary policy measures to be tackled in the context of the PRSC. 
3A. Health and Social Development:
 Because the World Bank has accompanied the MOH and 
the MDS since the 1990s in its SWAP approach, the shift from financing through a project to a 
budget support would be relatively easy. The main benefits would consist in (i) putting more 
focus on results than on the process; (ii) decreasing the fragmentation of aid through 
harmonization of procedures aligned on government procedures, and (iii) helping the sectoral 
ministries better defend their budgets with the MOF and with donors. 
3B. Rural water supply and sanitation: 
The PRSC-2 would support critical reforms to provide: 
i) a unified reference framework for strategic and operational planning and monitoring of all 
rural water supply and sanitation activities through the elaboration and implementation of 
program budgets of the 
Direction Nationale de 
l’Hydraulique and the 
Direction de 
l’Environnement
 (DNACPN, and ii) an impetus to the donor coordination and harmonization 
process by facilitating dialogue and by developing synergy and efficiency through  donors 
coordination group regular meetings, annual joint sector review and implementation of a sector 
basket funds for investment.  
These reforms would strengthen the foundation for improved implementation of the sector 
program, thereby improving the prospects for meeting the sector objectives as outlined in the 
PNAEP. Key medium term targets of the PNAEP, which are adopted as PRSC benchmarks, are 
the following: (i) access to safe water in rural areas increases from 64 percent in 2004 to 70 
percent of the population in 2009; (ii) functioning rate of water points increases from 70 in 2004 
to at least 80 percent in 2009; and (iii) at least 50 public private partnerships for managing piped 
water systems in 2009. 
3C. Education: 
The PRSC2 would support the Malian Government efforts to improve the access 
to quality basic education for the most disadvantaged children in rural areas. This would be done 
by, inter alia, improving the financing of community teachers. Currently, school fees impede 
school attendance in rural areas; therefore, the transfer of the responsibility for paying teacher 
salaries from poor households to the Government would improve equity and would have a 
positive impact on demand, particularly in the education of girls from poor households who, 
confronted with the difficulty of supporting school fees, choose to send boys to school as a 
priority. 
For the PRSC 2, 100% of community teachers (10,324 community teachers) would receive the 
traditional subsidy representing one quarter of the salary of public contractual teachers.. For the 
PRSC3, all qualified community teachers would be paid at the level of public contractual 
teachers. 
Page  7
The recruitment of sufficient numbers of qualified teachers would impact positively on learning 
outcomes and would reduce inequity in access to quality basic education. For the PRSC 2, 
sufficient knowledge would be built to ensure in PRSC3 adequate deployment of qualified 
teachers to areas where they are most needed, mainly in disadvantage areas
.
3. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT  
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
42 
Total  
 
4. Contact point 
Contact:  
 
Agnes Soucat 
Title :   
 
Lead Economist 
Tel:  
 
 
(202) 473 40 27 
Email: 
 
  asoucat@worldBank.org 
Location:  
Washington, 
D.C. 
 
