Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23755
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-46150; TF-26847)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 100 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR
THE PROGRAMMATIC SOCIAL REFORM LOAN I
26/03/2002
Country Management Unit for Bolivia, Ecuador and Peru
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of 03/20/2002)
Currency Unit = Nuevo Sol
3.55 = US$ 1.00
US$ 0.28 = 1.00 Nuevo Sol
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                     Country Assistance Strategy
CEPES                   Center for Political and Social Studies (Centro de Estudios Politicos y Sociales)
CFAA                    Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CIAS                    Interministerial Commission on Social Affairs (Comision Inter-Ministerial para Asuntos
Sociales)
CLAS                    Community-Managed Health Centers (Comunidades Locales de Administraci6n de Salud)
CMAN                    Multisectoral Commission on Food and Nutrition (Comisidn Multisectorial sobre
A limenlaci6n y Nutrici6n)
CPAR                    Country Procurement Assessment Report
ESSALUD                 Social Security Health Institute
FONCODES                Social Development and Compensation Fund (Fondo NacJonal de Compensacion y
Desarrollo Social)
GDP                     Gross domestic product
IADB                    Inter-American Development Bank
ILO                     International Labor Organization
IMF                     International Monetary Fund
INEI                    National Statistical Institute (Instituto Nacional de Estadisticas e Informdtica)
INS                     National Institute of Health (Instituto Nacional de Salud)
LAC                     Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
MEF                     Ministry of Economy and Finance (Ministerio de Economaay Finanzas)
MINSA                   Ministry of Health (Ministerio de Salud)
MOE                     Ministry of Education (Ministerio de Educacidn y Cultura)
NGO                     Non-governmental organization
PCM                     Presidency of the Council of Ministers (Presidencia del Consejo de Ministros)
PEI                     Institutional Strategic Plan (Plan Estrategico Institucional)
PESEM                   Multiannual Strategic Sector Plan (Plan Estrategico Sectorial Multianual)
PROMUDEH                Ministry for the Promotion of Women and Human Development
(Ministerio para la Promocion de la Mujer y Desarrollo Humano)
PRONAA                  National Program of Food Assistance (Programa Nacional de Apoyo Alimentario)
PRONAMACHCS             National Project for the Maintenance of Water Basins and Soil Conservation
(Proyecto Nacional de Mantenimiento de Cuencas Hidrogrificas y Conservaci6n de Suelos)
PSAL                    Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loan
PSRL                    Programmatic Social Reform Loan
QAG                     Quality Assurance Group
SAL                     Structural Adjustment Loan
SIAF                    Integrated System of Financial Administration (Sistema Integrada de Administraci6n
Financiera)
SIS                     Integral Health Insurance (Seguro Integral de Salud)
SMI                     Mother and Child Health Insurance (Seguro Materno Infantil)
UN                      United Nations
Vice President:    David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Isabel Guerrero
Sector Manager/Director:    Ana-Maria Arriagada
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Evangeline Javier



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PERU
PE-Programmatic Social Reform Loan I
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Perfonnance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                             15
6. Sustainability                                                                 17
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  17
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                 19
9. Partner Comments                                                               20
10. Additional Infortnation                                                       20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frane Matrix                              23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              32
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              33
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              34
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              35
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 36
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             37
Annex 8. Partner comments (fall text)                                             38
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P071243                                       Project Name: PE-Programnratic Social Reformn
Loan I
Team Leader: Evangeline Javier                            TL Unit: LCSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: March 27, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: PE-Programrnatic Social Reform Loan I         L/C/TFNumber: SCL-46150; TF-26847
Country/Department: PERU                                                Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: SS - Social Protection Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   01/29/2001                             Effective: 07/02/2001         07/02/2001
Appraisal:  02/23/2001                               MTR:
Approval:  06/19/2001                              Closing: 09/28/2001         09/28/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF PERU/MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                         David de Ferranti
Country Manager:     Isabel M. Guerrero                        Isabel Guerrero
Sector Manager:      Ana Maria Arriagada                       Xavier Coil
Team Leader at ICR:  Evangeline Javier
ICR Primary Author:  Fred D. Levy
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The loan was expected to make an immediate contribution to economic stability and to the
protection of critical expenditures for the poor in a highly uncertain period of political transition.
Its medium-term objectives were to support the Government's social reform program by assisting
the construction of a more transparent, participatory, efficient and decentralized process for the
allocation of social expenditures and the implementation of social programs. Given the institution
building required, it was conceived as the first of several loans in support of this program.
During the 1990s, and particularly before 1997, Peru had undergone rapid and profound
economic reform, moving from widespread state control of the economy to becoming one of the
more liberalized economies of the LAC Region. Measures included, inter alia, the liberalization
of prices, interest rates, and the exchange rate, and the elimination of most state subsidies;
reduction and rationalization of tariffs; privatization of most state enterprises; tax and financial
sector reform, including the independence of the central bank; pension reform; and reopening to
private foreign investment. At the same time, infrastructure investments in the long-isolated sierra
and selva regions of the country and state expenditures on education, health and other social
programs were significantly increased. With the renegotiation of its private external debt and the
reestablishment of relations with the IFIs, Peru reintegrated into the international economy after
almost ten years of isolation.
The economy responded powerfully to the reform measures and to the substantial elimination, by
1995, of the terrorist violence that had rocked the country for more than a decade. After a
decade and a half of negative per capita GDP growth, Peru enjoyed from 1993 through 1997 one
of the most rapid growth rates in the Region. Inflation fell from more than 7,000 percent in 1990
to below 10 percent by 1997 and below 4 percent by 1999. Foreign investment in both the real
and financial sectors grew rapidly, and international reserves reached almost a year of import
coverage. Until 1997, most poverty indicators also showed significant improvement.
Growth and poverty indicators weakened after 1997, reflecting both external and internal factors.
Peru's terms of trade worsened in the wake of the successive financial crises in Asia, Russia and
Brazil, which shook international confidence generally and abruptly reduced capital inflows.
Confidence and fiscal balance were also impacted in 1997 by a brief but costly war with
neighboring Ecuador, and in 1998 Peru was hit hard by a major El Nifio climatic phenomenon.
By 1997, the pace of economic reforms had markedly slowed, with several major privatizations
put on hold, and the passage of long-pending legal reforms-e.g., a national water
law-languishing. Needed reforms of the judiciary and public administration were likewise
stymied. In contrast to the progress that had been made on the economic front, Peru remained
highly centralized politically and administratively, with substantial arbitrary power continuing to
rest in the executive offices of the government and in the military and police forces.
The failure of the authorities over the 1990s to strengthen the institutions of governance and
administration, and to build consensus around the reforms it had enacted, were of increasing
concern to people both inside and outside the government. Traditional elite groups and political
parties were increasingly blocked from access to information and influence. Their frustration and
-2 -



anger combined with the elevated expectations of the historically marginalized poor and
indigenous peoples, millions of whom had left their physically remote villages and migrated to the
cities. The result, exacerbated by the slowdown of the economy, was rapidly growing tension and
increasing heavy-handedness by a regime intent on retaining power in the 2000 elections. The
situation exploded with a corruption scandal forcing President Fujimori to resign in November
2000, only five months after his controversial reelection to a third term.
A Transition Government was formed to carry the country to new elections scheduled for April
2001, a new President to take office at the end of July. The PSRL was prepared in anticipation of
a series of two (and possibly three) loans to support a medium- term social reform program. The
first loan of these series (PSRL I) was negotiated as a one-tranche operation with the Transition
Government in the knowledge that support for the continuation of the program under subsequent
PSRL operations would have to be reconfirmed and implemented by a newly elected Government.
In parallel, a new Stand-by Arrangement between the IMF and the Transition Government had to
be put in place, the previous program having been derailed in 2000 by the political turmoil and
excessive spending.
Assessment.
The risks of negotiating and supporting a medium-term reform program with a Transition
Government, which was soon to transfer power to an unknown successor, were explicitly
recognized by the task team and reflected in the loan documents. In light of these risks, the loan,
which was originally being negotiated as a SAL, was converted to a one-tranche programmatic
adjustment loan (PSAL) with more modest financing than originally contemplated for the SAL
and with conditionality entirely front-loaded. In addition, a number of factors were seen to
mitigate the program's risks.
In the first place, the basic objectives of the reforms to protect and bring greater transparency,
participation, and efficiency to the government's poverty programs responded to popular
priorities, widely expressed in numerous conferences, public forums and seminars during
1997-2000, and were fully consistent with needs identified in the 1997 CAS. These objectives
were also included in the announced platforms of the major competing political forces. Secondly,
much of the technical work needed to underpin a more transparent allocation system-e.g., the
creation of an integrated financial information and management system within the
government-had already begun independently of the PSRL and was well advanced. Similarly,
pilot activities needed to test models for decentralized program implementation, particularly in the
health sector, had already been initiated. Agreement had also been reached between the IMF and
the Transition Government on a new Stand-by Arrangement and was supported by most of the
political parties competing in the 2001 election. Finally, as an additional precaution, it was
decided to delay loan approval until the outcome of the '2001 election was known.
The immediate objective to contribute to a stable economic transition in a period of political
uncertainty, the consistency of the reform objectives with the CAS and with clearly enunciated
national priorities, and the above-mentioned risk-mitigating factors all support the conclusion that
the overall objectives of the PSRL were important and appropriate. Moreover, as noted, the
- 3 -



reform program supported by the loan focused on strengthening public expenditure management,
improving governance, and increasing the efficiency of public service delivery, with particular
emphasis on poverty-reduction programs. The achievement of these objectives was correctly
foreseen to require several years of step-by-step progress in adjusting policies and building
institutional capacities, progress likely to require continuing external support and advice. These
were precisely the objectives and institution-building context for which the PSAL instrument was
designed. Finally, a substantial volume of economic and sector work, supported by the Bank and
others, as well as consultation with civil society groups, had been carried out over several years,
providing a good knowledge base upon which to design the program components.
A number of issues, however, deserve mention. The large number of specific actions set out as
benchmarks for the program and triggers for future PSRL support, and the correspondingly large
number of agencies whose participation has had, and will have, to be mobilized, coordinated, and
monitored, put a heavy burden on the implementation and supervision capacities of the task
managers of both the government and the Bank. Granted that a lot needed to be done to prepare
the bases for the desired institutional changes to come, the operation might have benefited from a
more concentrated emphasis on four or five key elements of the reform program.
Moreover, given the large areas of potential overlap with the financial and technical assistance of
other donors, a concerted effort was needed to assure that the respective institution-building
efforts were coordinated and appropriately dovetailed.
A third issue concerns the clarity and realism of the time frame within which the achievement of
the program's objectives could reasonably be foreseen. In addition to the technical complexity of
some of the measures to be taken, many of the reforms being sought have long been on the
agenda in Peru, but have steadfastly and successfully been resisted by strong opposing interests.
Underplaying these political economy issues in the PSRL documnents may have given an unduly
optimistic impression of the feasible speed with which the program's objectives could be realized.
These issues will become clearer as the program components are discussed below.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable.
3.3 Original Components:
As in all Bank adjustment operations, the PSRL was conditioned on the maintenance of sound
macroeconomic policies. Responsibility for the negotiation, monitoring, and evaluation of the
macroeconomic program was left to the IMF in the context of its Stand-by Arrangement with
Peru. The social reform program supported by the PSRL, as described in the President's Report,
sets out five principal objectives for reform:
*     A more clearly articulated social strategy and policy agenda, better coordination within the
government of policy implementation, and increased attention to monitoring and evaluating the
impact of social expenditures;
*     The establishment of mechanisms to protect the level of key social expenditures and
- 4 -



ensure adequate social protection during periods of crisis;
*     Improved access of the poor to critical social programs through better targeting of social
expenditures and the decentralization of social services delivery;
*     Institutionalization of participatory processes of social policy-making, supported by
improved transparency of resource allocation, and the empowerment of beneficiaries to monitor
and control policy implementation; and the
*     Rationalization of social expenditures.
The achievement of these interrelated objectives was linked to a large number of actions to be
undertaken by various government agencies, with coordination centered in the Ministry of
Economy and Finance (MEF) and the Interministerial Commission on Social Affairs (CIAS) under
the Presidency of the Council of Ministers (PCM). The focus of the first PSRL was placed on
safeguarding the level of critical social expenditures during the difficult period of fiscal adjustment
and political transition, and on the development of the basic institutional underpinnings that would
be required to carry the remainder of the program forward over the medium term. It was
envisioned that consolidation of the institution building begun under the first loan would be
supported by at least one and possibly two successor PSRLs.
3.4 Revised Components:
Not applicable.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
There has been no QAG review of PSRL I. The conclusion of this ICR is that quality at entry
was Satisfactory.
As noted above, loan preparation was informed by a rich body of economic and sector work
germane to the objectives of the program, and by extensive discussions with the responsible public
agencies and representatives of civil society groups and of potential beneficiaries. Over the
approximately two-year evolution of the operation before its presentation to the Board, it was the
subject of many formal and informal discussions within the Bank. The comments of peer
reviewers and others appear to have been conscientiously taken into account and had a significant
impact on its development. The actions to be taken during the period covered by PSRL I were
generally well related to the foundation-laying objectives of the loan.
As implied above, the operation could have benefited from a somewhat narrower scope and closer
coordination with other donors. Moreover, the rating of quality at entry must also take account
of the temporary nature of the government with which the program had been negotiated, and the
understandably general and necessarily tenuous nature of the commitments that the Transition
Government could make.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement ofobjective:
The objectives of the PSRL are grouped under five broad headings: (i) the articulation of a clearer
social strategy and policy agenda, with better coordination of implementation and increased
- 5-



attention to monitoring and evaluation; (ii) the protection of social expenditures and the
establishment of mechanisms of social protection during periods of crisis; (iii) improved access of
the poor to critical social programs and services; (iv) the institutionalization of participatory
processes of social policy-making, supported by improved transparency of resource allocation and
the empowerment of beneficiaries to monitor and influence policy implementation; and (v) the
rationalization of social expenditures. The specific program elements included under each of
these headings, and the status of their implementation as of end-2001, are summarized in Annex I.
The achievement of each of these objectives and macroeconomic performance are discussed
below.
4.2 Outputs by components:
(a) Articulation and Coordination of the Social Policy Agenda
Public social expenditures grew substantially during the 1990s. However, pre-existing and newly
created programs were scattered across multiple agencies in an ad hoc and uncoordinated fashion,
each having its own objectives, targeting criteria, institutional arrangements, and bureaucratic and
beneficiary interests. Many lacked a clear strategy, monitoring system, or criteria for evaluating
performance. Some had been designed to confront an existing emergency situation and were slow
to adapt to changing circumstances. Reflected in this disorder was an overall lack of strategic
planning and of the systems and technical and political capacities to monitor, coordinate, evaluate,
control and modify public expenditure programs.
Creating the building blocks for the institutions and systems necessary to overcome these
shortcomings was a central focus of PSRL I. Program elements included: strategy formulation
with the participation of civil society; strengthened mechanisms of coordination for policy-making
and coordination within the government; the preparation of multi-annual sector plans, including
agreed performance indicators; the completion and application of real-time monitoring systems for
social expenditures; the introduction of ex-post impact evaluation and performance budgeting for
major social programs; and improvements in the systems of public procurement and financial
administration.
Assessment:
Achievement of this objective is rated Satisfactory. The sustainability of the gains made is rated
Likely. The institution-building advances achieved so far under this objective are rated as
Modest.
As discussed in Section 4.2(d), a good start has been made in establishing participatory processes
for clarifying, formulating, and building political consensus around social policy objectives. The
Toledo Government appears committed to continuing and building on these processes. It has
generally endorsed the social policy agenda agreed with the Transition Government, while giving
heightened priority to employment generation. "
Good progress has also been achieved in carrying forward work that was already under way to
improve the "mechanical" processes and systems for controlling, monitoring and evaluating
program expenditures and outcomes. The Integrated Financial Administration System (SIAF) is
- 6 -



up and running and is self-policing, inasmuch as agencies must enter the required data in order to
receive their fiscal allocations. Its extension in 2001 to include the Ministries of Defense and
Interior closed a major hole in the previous system of financial management and fiscal
transparency.° A new procurement law and regulations were enacted in March 2001, and, with
the advice of a Bank CPAR, guidelines are being prepared for uniform documentation and the
establishment of an electronic purchases system, posted on the web and integrated with the SIAF.
These measures should increase the competitiveness of competitive bidding procedures and
provide greater transparency to the awarding of contracts. The major social agencies have
introduced software for monitoring agreed input and output indicators, and agreements on terms
of reference for impact evaluation are in place between MEF and the agencies administering five
major social programs.°) Insufficient time has transpired, however, to judge, inter alia: (i) whether
the CIAS will become an effective mechanism for giving direction to and coordinating social
policies and expenditures within the Government; (ii) what influence the introduction of
performance budgeting, multiyear sectoral plans, and impact evaluations will have on resource
allocations; and (iii) how improvements made in procurement regulations will affect government
purchasing practices.
The PSRL framework has provided an important tool for promoting coordination among agencies
and for maintaining the coherence of the strategic framework, but the necessary changes in
attitudes and traditions will take time. The Transitional Government achieved a more collegial
collaboration among its ministries than had been seen in the previous Administration. That same
collegial spirit may be more difficult to achieve and sustain, however, in the politically more
heterogeneous makeup of the present Government. Progress in this regard has been further
complicated by the high turnover of technical and managerial personnel occasioned by the change
of government. A stronger CIAS, capable of fulfilling its coordination role, will depend not only
on the enhanced technical support it is receiving from MEF, but also on a strengthened mandate
and leadership from the President of the Council of Ministers and from the President of the
Republic."
The effects of performance budgeting, sector planning, and impact assessment will become
evident only with time. The exercises that have been set in motion in the various. agencies by the
PSRL, with varying degrees of advancement among the agencies, are undoubtedly valuable for
the information they generate and for the analytical, results-oriented frame of mind they
encourage. The principal benefits are likely to come from what is learned in the process,
however, rather than from any mechanical application of the methodology. Given the necessary
subjectivity of performance evaluation, it is not clear how an assessment is to be made of whether
performance has been appropriately taken into account in subsequent budget allocations .(5 Given
bureaucratic realities, it may be easier, at least initially, to apply performance criteria to the
allocation of additional discretionary funds-e.g., for staff bonuses-than to expenditure cuts.
MEF's discretionary authority over the allocation of the Fiscal Stabilization Fund (US$ 200
million in 2002), combined with management agreements authorized in the new budget law,
provides this possibility.
- 7-



(b) Social Protection
In addition to its lack of a long-term strategy and coordinated approach for poverty elimination,
Peru has not had a well-developed system for protecting the poor in the face of short-term
economic downturns. Work with the Bank in this area began under FSAL II, which included the
identification of specific social programs whose budgets in 1999 and 2000 were to be protected
from real expenditure cuts, and a contingency plan for an emergency employment program to be
triggered by the deterioration of an agreed set of economic and social indicators. This approach
was continued and refined for PSRL I, along with the initiation of analytical work to better
understand, and focus social protection programs on, the specific risks faced by the poor during
economic crises. Particular attention was also given to the employment conditions of women and
young workers, and several revisions to existing laws were agreed.
Assessment:
Achievements under this objective are rated Satisfactory. Sustainability is considered Likely,
and institution building has thus far been Modest.
The objective of protecting the budgetary allocations of predetermined programs, and thus
reducing fiscal flexibility in the face of changing circumstances remains controversial among
public finance specialists. (6) The timing of attaching such high priority to the protection of
expenditures may also be questioned, given that many of the programs included were known to be
inefficient in accomplishing their objectives. In general, the identification of expenditures to be
protected under PSRL I appears to have been excessively broad and indiscriminate. Both the
social protection triggers and the set of protected programs are being, and will necessarily
continue to be, refined, as the socio-economic situation itself evolves and is better tracked,
program efficiencies are improved, and the results of impact evaluations become known. These
reservations notwithstanding, it is positive that a new consciousness has been created of the need
for such social protection measures, and these initiatives appear unlikely to be reversed.
Important changes have also been introduced in labor legislation aimed at protecting young and
female workers.
The gradual shift of the focus of budgeting in the social areas from allocations to agencies to
allocations for programs gives greater power to the MEF and CIAS to ensure that expenditures
conform to established priorities. This shift in the designation of resources, along with greater
fiscal transparency and the improved monitoring system, will increase the accountability of
agencies to both the fiscal authorities and to civil society.
(c) Access to Social Programs
Another identified shortcoming of Peru's many social programs has been poor targeting of
expenditures, leading to major inefficiencies of resource use in terms of their poverty alleviation
objectives.  Consequent "leakages" of resources away from those in greatest need of public
assistance have reflected the diverse and often unclear objectives of the spending agencies, as well
as poor information about actual and intended beneficiaries and failure to monitor resource flows
- 8 -



and evaluate their results. Better targeting would improve the access of those truly in need to
program resources. Also limiting the access of the poor to the potential benefits of social
programs have been the high costs associated with many programs, including direct costs to the
beneficiaries themselves, and the poor quality of the services provided.
PSRL I has sought to improve the targeting of anti-poverty programs by promoting agreement
within the government on the use of a uniform poverty map, and the development of strategies for
its application by each of several identified programs. A large number of poverty maps, each
based on different socio-economic criteria, were ostensibly in use by the various programs but
appear in practice to have had little impact on the distribution of anti-poverty expenditures.
Evidence that agreed targeting guidelines were being applied and that adequate budget had been
allocated for the 2002 population census were to be considered benchmark conditions for a
second PSRL loan.
PSRL I also provided support to cost reduction and efficiency improvements in social service
delivery. Particular priority was given to expanding the operations of community-managed health
facilities (CLAS) and the Mother and Child Health Insurance Program (SMI), and to the
development of an incentive system to attract and retain qualified teachers in rural areas.
Assessment:
Outcomes under this heading are rated Satisfactory. Sustainability is considered Likely. The
institution-building impact thus far achieved varies among sub-components, but is overall
considered Modest.
In "checklist" terms, the agreements called for in the PSRL for a uniform poverty map based on
imputed income and for the formulation of explicit targeting strategies for the five specific social
programs have been achieved. Although geographical targeting, if based on reliable information,
is undoubtedly useful for focusing anti-poverty expenditures, the attention given in PSRL I to
reaching agreement on a uniform poverty map was probably premature. Much of the information
on which the existing maps are based come from the 1993 census and is outdated. A recent study
also suggests that the differences among the existing maps in the direction of expenditures they
would lead to, if effectively applied, are quite small. "' Moreover, as the loan documentation
correctly recognizes, a poverty map per se cannot be the sole criterion for directing expenditures.
The various programs will necessarily have to adapt the map's use to their own particular needs. ('
The information to be generated by the 2003 census is badly needed, and the program gives
appropriate emphasis to its adequate funding. The principal benefit of the targeting agreements so
far would seem to be in stimulating needed data collection and analysis, and in focusing the
agencies involved on their poverty-alleviation missions, along with providing some guidelines for
holding them accountable. If sustained, these are significant steps forward.
The commitments with regard to the CLAS, the SMI, and teacher incentives are more tangible,
measurable, and are directly related to the access objectives set out. The quantitative targets for
the expansion of the CLAS and SMI established as Board presentation conditions in the PSRL
were met. Although the quality of implementation of the CLAS has varied from one location to
-9-



another, there is general satisfaction that they represent a significant advance in decentralizing the
administration of health services and promoting beneficiary participation. The rates at which
these innovations can be expanded, however, face the uncertainties of Peru's fiscal constraints,
and there are concerns regarding the adequacy of their current funding. The CLAS model shifts
decision-making and administrative authority to the local health units and away from the central
and regional authorities, and political and bureaucratic resistance to this shift has not been fully
overcome. Meanwhile, it is reported that other models for the participatory management of local
health services are being designed in MINSA.
Under the PSRL agenda, set out as a benchmark for the second loan, a pilot program is to be
launched providing incentives to attract and retain good teachers in the rural areas. A program
outline has been drafted, proposing a package of special incentives, but has not yet been launched.
A pay differential alone may not be sufficient to retain teachers in the more remote rural areas,
and fiscal constraints will limit the size and speed with which an effective program can be put in
place across the country. Moreover, improved teaching in both urban and rural schools requires a
general increase and overhaul of the incentives embodied in the pay scale for teachers and, as
discussed in Section 4.2(e), will not be easily achieved.
(d) Transparency and Social Control
Peruvian governments have a long history of lack of popular participation in decision-making and
in the monitoring and control of public programs. Although the Fujimori Government exhibited
more awareness of, and sensitivity to, the aspirations of Peru's marginalized populations than had
the traditional elitist regimes, it became increasingly centralized, secretive, and often arbitrary in
its decision-making and exercise of executive authority. By 2000, increased transparency,
participation, and social control had become loudly proclaimed priorities of Peru's citizenry.
Assessment:
The outcome assessment for this objective is Satisfactory. Sustainability is considered Likely,
and institution building has been Modest.
The requisite statutory actions for enabling the objectives under this heading have been taken,
although it is too early to see a significant impact. As described earlier, the social reform agenda
supported by the PSRL derived from a highly participatory process. Elements of the program
include the establishment of web-based infornation systems, open to the general public to track
the actual expenditures of specified social programs, and the promotion of public awareness of the
information available. A mechanism has also been created for channeling and seeking redress for
complaints through the independent public Ombudsman's Office, which is conducting an
aggressive promotional campaign for the use of its facilities. A number of program agencies,
most particularly FONCODES, have introduced their own complaint resolution mechanisms,
albeit not all are yet fully functioning. A joint public/private sector commission on education has
been formally created as an institutional focal point for a national dialogue on educational policies.
To support greater transparency and performance evaluation in the education sector, the
publication and analysis of student test results has been initiated. Greater decentralization of
-10-



personnel management decisions to school directors is also being promoted along with increased
parent participation in teacher monitoring and evaluation. In addition, a Task Force was formed
to design a mechanism for popular control of the social programs and to recommend measures for
strengthening the capacity of beneficiaries and grassroots organizations to make use of the
increased information flow. Their report has been issued and recommendation of this task force
have now been tested in pilot areas.
A vigorous process of fermentation has thus begun in Peru, but it may take several years before
that process matures and becomes institutionalized. Several hundred Mesas de Concertaci6n
(roundtables) have been started at the national, regional, and community levels. In many cases,
they simply sum up the aspirations and wish lists of the participants and run the risk of creating
expectations far beyond what is feasible to be achieved in the short or even medium term. Some
Mesas are reportedly dominated by existing entities-e.g., NGOs, local politicians, the
Church-with their own particular agendas foremost on the table. In few cases have the
discussions thus far reached the level of costs, priority-setting, conflict and issue resolution or
program evaluation. The roundtables also run the danger of confusing channels of authority,
competing with rather than complementing existing formal authorities-mayors, municipal
councils, etc. None of these problems is surprising. It will take time for the institutional
framework to evolve and function, as both government and civil society discover the advantages
of openness and how to use the growing interchange of information.
Similarly, the initiative enabling the formation of School Councils with the participation of
parents, giving the latter a voice for the first time in the selection, monitoring, and evaluation of
teachers and in school policies more generally, is a potentially important step forward. " The new
resolution, which is intended to increase the accountability of both teachers and directors, is
permissive, however, rather than mandatory, and the Councils have so far been created in
relatively few schools. The process of formation now seems to be accelerating, but it will take
time for the participants to learn and become comfortable in their roles.
(e) Rationalization of Social Expenditures
Numerous studies, including several undertaken by the Bank, have found high levels of waste in
existing social expenditure programs. In addition to the problems of inadequate targeting, unclear
objectives, and limited evaluation of results referred to above, similar and overlapping programs
are frequently administered by separate and uncoordinated agencies, resulting in high overhead
costs, conflicting standards, unproductive competition, and duplication of efforts. Resource
waste and weak performance incentives are also engendered by lack of uniformity (across
agencies and regions) and insufficient differentiation by grade level in public sector pay scales, and
inadequate information and poor control of public payrolls.
Under the social reform program, a number of interagency commissions and task forces have been
created to coordinate expenditures and evaluate specific programs. Steps have also been taken
toward the consolidation and coordination of some programs. The measures foreseen under
PSRL I have focused on the multiplicity of nutrition and supplementary feeding programs;
investments in the health sector, particularly for hospitals; and programs for mother and child
- 1 1 -



care. In addition, the loan supported steps already underway to develop and implement a
uniform, standards-based payroll system for teachers and to update and maintain a complete
database of teacher files. These measures are, for the most part, preparatory for the actual
rationalization actions, including the major overhaul or closing of some programs, which will need
to be taken over the course of the program.
Assessment:
Outcomes so far are rated as Satisfactory. Sustainability, however, may be Unlikely, "4 and the
institution building impact has thus far been Modest. Studies and interministerial coordinating
commissions have been established, but little concrete action has thus far been taken.
Political backing for potentially difficult decisions has been slow to develop. The consolidation or
elimination of longstanding programs and agencies faces formidable resistance from entrenched
bureaucracies and some segments of civil society, and similar efforts failed in the past. In some
cases-e.g., some supplemental feeding programs-existing programs provide useful vehicles for
patronage by central and local governments, which have benefited politically from their lack of
clear objectives, monitoring and impact evaluation.  Rather than confronting directly the
elimination of programs, it may be more feasible to define a clear set of budgetary priorities-e.g.,
nutritional programs that serve children under five years of age-assuring their adequate funding,
while gradually reducing allocations to other programs. Giving positive publicity to the priority
programs could help to support such an approach.
The rationalization of hospital investments must overcome the jealously guarded prerogatives of
two powerful bureaucracies. A high-level Commission was formed during the Transition
Government to exchange information among the Ministry of Health (MINSA), the Health
Security Institute (ESSALUD), the Defense and Interior Ministries, as well as private health
entities, including the Church and NGOs, on the current location of hospitals and to define a joint
investment plan. Although MINSA and the military reportedly approved the Commission's
report, it appears thus far to have had little impact within the present Government. The work is
continuing, however, and a draft common medium-term investment plan has now been presented
to MEF. MEF has indicated that it will not approve any new health sector investments without a
jointly agreed plan. '"" Meanwhile a parallel effort to achieve greater efficiency through the
interchange of goods and services between MINSA and ESSALUD has also lagged. A formal
agreement between the two agencies is pending. Meanwhile, a pilot experiment has been
launched in three regions.
The number of teachers in Peru has grown explosively since the late 1960s. With much smaller
growth of overall education expenditures, average salaries have declined precipitously along with
teaching incentives and quality. There are believed to be large numbers of payees who are not
actually teaching and may not even exist, but there are no accurate records to match teachers with
positions. What little differentiation exists in teacher pay comes largely and haphazardly from the
more than 25 separate components that make up the paycheck, many created to get around the
pension implications of the Cedula Viva (see Section 4.5). Job continuity and promotion are
divorced from performance by the teachers' Law of Stability. The rationalization of teacher
- 12 -



salaries and the introduction of merit-based criteria for hiring and promotion face the formidable
resistance of the powerful and well organized teachers' union.
The decentralization of authority over school management and the promotion of parent
participation in effect attack a political problem at the grassroots that has been immune to central
resolution. Creating the necessary database and defining a rational and uniform national pay
system, however, must be organized from the center. For the first time, the issues are now
receiving an open hearing. Congress has recently issued regulations introducing merit criteria for
the hiring of new teachers. Teachers already in the system, however, are not subject to
evaluation. An increase in average salaries may be essential to gaining broad teacher acceptance
of a wider, performance-based pay scale, but will be difficult to achieve until the actual stock of
teachers and their qualifications are known, the existing rolls are cleaned of political patronage
and "phantom" payees, and the link of pensions to current salaries is broken. Some form of
"grandfathering" may also be required.
Major progress in the rationalization of social expenditures will require bold and determined
political leadership. It is likely also to require strong support from civil society, which now has a
voice and opportunity to have a decisive impact on Peru's social agenda. The specialized groups
and round tables will need to move on from the proclamation of broad objectives and priorities to
the tough operational issues of, for example, how to make good education happen in the
classroom. It is to be hoped that effective local participation in priority setting can achieve the
coordination among public programs-e.g., health investments-that has been so elusive within
the government.
(f) Macroeconomic Management
At the time of loan negotiation, Peru was in the midst of an economic slowdown triggered by a
combination of external financial crises, the powerful 1998 El Nifno, lagging domestic reforms,
and growing political acrimony and uncertainty. Growth had averaged only one percent per year
since 1998 and had fallen to zero in 2001. Unemployment increased during the period, and
poverty indicators deteriorated. The fiscal situation had also deteriorated, as revenues declined
and pre-electoral spending increased. As a consequence, the targets of Peru's Extended Fund
Facility with the IMF had been missed for two consecutive years. In March 2001, a new Stand-by
Arrangement was approved by the IMF Board, setting the macroeconomic framework for the
PSRL. Its principal conditions were a significant fiscal adjustment, involving measures to both
increase revenues and reduce expenditures, to bring the deficit down from 2.9 percent of GDP in
2000 to 1.5 percent in 2001. As noted above, expenditures for vital social programs were to be
protected from cuts.
Assessment:
Performance under this condition has thus far been Satisfactory. Sustainability is considered
Likely. Institution-building impact: N/A.
The Stand-by program remained on track through the first half of 2001, despite stagnating output.
- 13 -



The fiscal target was missed, however, as revenue shortfalls resulted in a public sector fiscal
deficit (excluding privatization revenues) of 2.4 percent of GDP. Weak demand contributed to
falling inflation and to the improvement of the external balance. The current account deficit was
2.1 percent of GDP in 2001, compared to 3.0 percent in 2000. Core inflation was less than 1.0
percent for the year. Tax cuts, introduced in an effort to stimulate the economy, jeopardized
medium-term fiscal targets, however.!'2' Effective protection was also increased for some sectors
via selected tariff cuts on imported inputs. The Toledo Government, which assumed power at the
end of July, introduced a modest fiscal stimulus program, including increases in pensions and
public sector salaries and the introduction of an emergency employment scheme. At the same
time, some of the tax reductions enacted by the Transition Government were rescinded. ("33 The
fiscal deficit for the year was cut to an estimated 2.4 percent of GDP. Some signs of renewed
economic growth were evident in the last quarter of 2001. The Government was successful in
floating a new US$500 million debt issue in New York and in carrying out an advantageous
exchange of new bonds for outstanding Brady-bond issues. It is notable that Peru's ability to go
to the financial market was not hampered by the concurrent Argentine financial crisis.
A new Letter of Intent was agreed with the IMF in late 2001, and a two-year Stand-by Credit in
the amount of SDR 255 million was approved by the IMF Board on February 1, 2002. The credit
is considered precautionary, and the Government has indicated that it does not intend to draw on
it. Growth is projected to rise to around 3.7 percent in 2002 and 5.0 percent in 2003. The
principal structural element of the program is a broad-based tax reform. Diverse pressures in
Congress will have to be overcome, however, to achieve the tax reform objectives, to meet the
Government's ambitious privatization and concession goals, and to prevent further
growth-threatening backsliding of trade liberalization.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
As described above, establishing the foundations for institutional development in the social sectors
was a principal focus of PSRL I, setting the stage for more concrete institutional change in the
future. Assessments of the outcomes of the various components are given in the preceding
paragraphs.
In summary, considerable progress has been made in setting up mechanisms that give greater
transparency to governance in the social sectors, provide channels for popular input to the
definition and design of the social agenda, and introduce systems for monitoring, participation and
feedback concerning program implementation. Although these mechanisms can be expected to
evolve and change with time and experience, this breakthrough to more open government appears
unlikely to be reversed. Similarly, although the schemes for social protection during crisis will
also require refinement over time, this objective seems firmly set on the public agenda. More
weakly established, and with their effectiveness and sustainability still to be demonstrated, are the
mechanisms initiated, for achieving greater coordination of social policies and programs within the
- 14 -



public sector, and for eliminating duplication and waste in existing social expenditure programs.
Looking beyond the immediate objectives of the PSRL program, some remarks seem appropriate
regarding the larger context and institution-building agenda, of which the social program
discussed here is one important part. Two interrelated aspects, in particular, are pointed out here:
(i) public sector salaries; and (iii) the decentralization of government.
Low pay, large inconsistencies in pay scales across agencies and regions, and the weakness of
performance evaluation and incentives, problems focused on by the PSRL in the case of teachers,
are found throughout the public sector. In addition to the difficulty of attracting and retaining
skilled staff, the anomalies and arbitrariness of the public pay system is practically an invitation to
political and bureaucratic misuse of managers' hiring and promotion powers."4' One of the
principal obstacles to reform has been the statutory indexing of public sector pensions under the
Cedula Viva system to the pay of current employees. As a consequence, a pay increase for
current employees has a fiscal impact several times the immediate payroll cost. In an effort to get
around this constraint, resourceful managers have introduced all kinds of non-pensionable
bonuses, honoraria, and miscellaneous allowances, leading to the significant inconsistencies noted
in the pay of staff at equivalent levels of skill and responsibility."" A legal effort to break the
linkage between Cedula Viva pensions and active salaries, supported by the Bank's Pension
Reform Loan in 1997, was declared unconstitutional by the Peruvian courts. This is an issue that
Peruvian legislators will have to face if public sector pay reform, and indeed civil service reform
more generally, are to be achieved.
The limited and tentative steps being taken under the social reform program toward the
decentralization of public services responds to a long-expressed aspiration of Peruvian civil
society, and is essential to achieving greater participation and efficiency in the use of public
resources. The devolution of decision-making and executive power to the local governments runs
in the face of Peru's long tradition of centralized control. Although some local governments are
known for their competence and responsible leadership, advocates of centralized authority have
been able to point with some accuracy to weak institutions and a history of waste and corruption
at the local level. Decentralization will require an intensive effort over many years to build across
Peru's landscape the political and administrative institutions needed for efficient and effective
responsiveness to their constituents' needs. Concerted external assistance could be particularly
helpful in this regard. The growth and spread of local "roundtables" over the past couple of years
are contributing importantly to the process, but are not a substitute for elected councils.
Decentralization thus far in Peru has consisted largely of giving local authorities responsibility for
managing resources transferred from the center in accordance with terms of reference defined by
the center. (1' Greater local responsibility, guided by closer monitoring by local constituents, can
be promoted by the gradual shift of tax base, along with spending authority, from the center.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
S. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
As described above, the design and implementation of PSRL I was supported by analytical work
and negotiations carried out over more than two years and three governments. None of these
governments can be held responsible for the external economic shocks that have impacted on Peru
- 15 -



since 1997 and for the economic stagnation since 1998. Moreover, the Transition Government
and the Toledo Government inherited a situation of political uncertainty. The Toledo Government
also inherited the added fiscal stress caused by the tax measures taken during the Transition
Govermment. Although the Toledo Government indicated its general agreement with the
objectives of the PSRL and the social program it supports, they are not technically signatories to
the commitments made. Subsequent PSRL loans are contingent upon their demonstrated
ownership of the program.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Too little time has passed to properly assess the current Government's ownership of, and
determination and capacity to carry out, the agreed social reform program. A very substantial
turnover of personnel has taken place at the decision-making and management levels of practically
all of the key agencies involved. These changes appear often to have been politically motivated.
Many of the people now responsible for implementing the program are new to government and
have naturally needed time to formulate their priorities, assume control of their agencies, and
become familiar with each other. Moreover, the Congress and political parties are now more
active and influential in decision-making than has been the case for almost a decade. It is not
surprising, therefore, that those activities under the program that require close interagency
consultation and collaboration, with the added implication that some programs and agencies might
be downsized or disappear, have progressed much less rapidly than those largely technical
activities whose responsibility has a single institutional locus. Continuing support has been given
to the objectives of transparency and participation of civil society, and those elements of the
program have been progressing satisfactorily. It is evident that strong leadership from the top,
combining a clear strategic vision for reform with the willingness to take difficult decisions, must
emerge to make the program work, particularly with respect to improving the efficiency of social
expenditures. Progress in this regard has thus far been slow.
Finally, the government is responsible for the macroeconomic consistency of its policies and
decisions. It has taken steps to reduce the fiscal deficit, at the same time it seeks to stimulate
economic activity and promote employment. In its Letter of Intent to the Fund, covering the
two-year period beginning January 1, 2002, the Government has indicated its intention, inter alia,
to initiate reform of the tax system, accelerate the pace of privatization and concessions, further
strengthen banking supervision, advance reform of the pension system, and move toward entry
into the western hemisphere free trade area. The strength of its leadership in these areas and its
ability to build public consensus behind these objectives will be crucial factors in determining the
sustainability of economic growth and poverty reduction.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Implementing agencies, particularly where there has been continuity of personmel, have been
moving ahead as anticipated with the largely technical tasks of introducing and activating
information systems, and with the expansion of ongoing pilot activities. Slower progress has been
achieved in the effective coordination or elimination of duplicative activities among agencies, and
with action-oriented evaluations of existing programs. As indicated above, progress in these latter
areas depends heavily on higher-level leadership.
- 16 -



5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Not applicable.
6. Sustainabiity
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability ratings have been assigned above to the individual component categories. Overall,
the sustainability of the program is rated as Likely. The time is ripe, socially and politically, in
Peru to achieve the transparency and improved governance objectives that are being supported by
the first stages of the reform program, and to bring greater focus, coherence and priority to the
social agenda. Progress in these areas is likely to be closely monitored and actively assessed by a
civil society whose expectations of transparency and performance have been strongly aroused.
For the same reason, progress seems likely to continue, albeit constrained by available fiscal and
staff resources, in applying the service delivery models being tested, particularly in the health
sector. Less certain, for the reasons noted, is the sustainability of actions to improve the
efficiency of expenditures in existing programs, particularly in the areas of nutrition and food
supplementation and the rationalization of teacher compensation. Meeting the Government's
macroeconomic targets will also require forceful leadership in today's open political enviromnent.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Not applicable.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's lending performance has been Satisfactory. The PSRL was preceded by a substantial
amount of good analytical work and extensive discussions with top government officials and the
relevant implementing agencies and with civil society organizations. The Bank has given strong
support, augmented by the highly professional and dedicated staff in the Country Office, to the
participatory development of the social policy agenda and to its broad adoption across the
political spectrum. The risk inherent in adjustment lending to a transition government was
explicitly considered and was worth taking under the circumstances, as was the decision to await
the election results before seeking Board approval. The decision taken during loan preparation to
shift from a traditional SAL to the PSAL instrument was also appropriate.
Coordination with the IMF has been close and appropriate. The reduction from earlier
expectations of the Bank's up-front financial commitment, and its delay in sending the PSRL to
the Board, were potential sources of friction between the two institutions. In the event, however,
good communications prevented surprises and facilitated smooth adjustment of the program.
In April 2001, the IDB Board approved a US$250 million, one-tranche, fast-disbursing loan in
support of a Sector Program for Transparency and Reform of Fiscal, Social, and Judicial Policy.")
Although the IDB loan was more heavily focused on fiscal administration, and the coverage of its
governance and administration conditions goes beyond the social sectors, there was considerable
overlap with the transparency, coordination, and social protection objectives of PSRL I. As
agreed between the two institutions, the IDB loan was also conditioned on the carrying out of a
-17-



number of technical studies and administrative actions complementary to the PSRL's objectives."
For example, the IDB program included studies related to performance budgeting and also
required the staffing of strong technical secretariat for the CIAS to support its coordination
mandate. Information sharing was generally good during the preparation of the respective
operations, but active engagement in strategy formulation and operational coordination was
limited.
A greater effort might also have been made to consult and coordinate loan design and
complementary assistance with other donors, particularly bilateral agencies, active in the social
areas. Given broad donor interest in Peru, the fight against poverty, and the promotion of more
open and participatory government, the social reform program supported by PSRL offers an
excellent vehicle for coordinating technical assistance efforts, which neither the Bank nor the
Government appear thus far to have adequately exploited. ( )
7.2 Supervision:
Inasmuch as PSRL I was a one-tranche operation, the major task of supervision has been to help
smooth the passage between the Transition Government and the Toledo Government, assisting to
"transfer ownership" of the program to new agency heads and to keep progress on track.
Although progress has been achieved, it is too early to assess fully the fruits of this effort, which
will become more apparent in the design and negotiation of an eventual PSRL II.
7.3 OverallBankperformance:
Overall, Bank performance has been Satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower preparation was Satisfactory, particularly in light of the very difficult context in which
it was carzied out. A counterpart teamn, including the several ministries and agencies involved,
was formed to work with the Bank team. For the first time, the MEF has taken an active interest
and role in social and poverty issues and in promoting greater transparency and participation in
policy and decision-making. At the technical level, many government participants were
carryovers from the previous Administration, permitting continuity with the discussions and
preparations that were already under way. Loan preparation also received the support and
participation of top officials of the Transition Government.
7. 5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation has been Satisfactory, making due allowance for the natural delays
engendered by the govermnental transition and personnel turnover. The progress of specific
program elements has been described above. As noted, the greatest progress can be seen in those
elements involving the introduction of fiscal information and control systems and the activation of
channels for popular participation and feedback in defining social objectives and monitoring
program execution. Intensified attention and leadership at the top level will be needed to carry
the action program to the next stage.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The counterpart team's performance has also been Satisfactory. They have worked diligently to
- 18 -



keep the program on track and the various executing agencies engaged in the program through
the transfer of power and the turnover of personnel. As emphasized throughout this ICR,
however, they will need strong support from the political leadership to make effective the
interagency coordination and efficiency-raising objectives of the program.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall borrower performance has been Satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The approach that has been taken in designing and negotiating the PSRL program and the
political context in which it is being implemented contrast dramatically with earlier adjustment
lending in Peru. In the 90's Govermment efforts led to rapid progress in carrying out radical
reforms in economic structures and policies, but failed to build a public consensus around many
aspects of reform, thereby leaving doubts about their sustainability. Bank efforts to promote a
more participatory discussion of the agenda and the issues, both inside and outside the
government, were not always favorably received, and by 1997 the momentum behind reforms had
largely dissipated. The PSRL, conversely, has been conceived in a highly participatory fashion,
giving its program greater potential for long-term sustainability. However, its implementation by
a new government, facing a divided and more independent Congress, will have to overcome the
doubts and organized resistance of diverse interests and philosophies. Its success and the
sustainability of the agenda will depend heavily on the leadership provided by the Government,
and the latter's ability to mobilize consensus through the newly invigorated democratic processes.
It is too early to draw a definitive lesson, but much may be learned about the proper role of the
Bank and the limits on its ability to promote national consensus.
Consultation, participation, coordination, transparency, feedback, complaint resolution, etc. offer
significant benefits, including the mobilization of additional resources and information and real
increases in efficiency and the sustainability of reforms.  But time is needed to work out
modalities in context of each country's unique history and culture. Start-up costs are likely to be
especially high, however, and may involve some wasteful wheel spinning in the transition from a
previously highly centralized and autocratic system. These costs should be viewed as an
investment, and the governments and international donors that support their undertaking must be
prepared for a lengthy gestation period and must be willing to accept the uncertainties involved.
The PSAL appears to be an instrument well adapted to this situation.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
-19-



Lecciones Aprendidas
a. Sobre el desempeno del Banco
El Gobierno Peruano considera que este Prestamo ha sido exitoso, dado que ha
contribuido en i) iniciar una reforma integral del sector social, a fin de mejorar la
canalizaci6n y eficiencia de los fondos pu blicos a las personas de mas bajos recursos y, ii)
mantener el equilibrio financiero de balanza de pagos.
Asimismo, el Gobierno esta conforme con el desempeno del Banco Mundial, su apoyo
tecnico y fluida comunicaci6n.
b. Sobre el desempeno del Beneficiario
El Gobiemo es consciente de las dificultades que se han presentado para la
implementaci6n de la reforma social, debido a los conflictos y problematica que caracteriza
al sector, aunado a los factores politicos que caracterizaron el periodo 1999-2001.
No obstante, el Gobierno como parte prioritaria del Programa General del Gobierno
continuara realizando las actividades necesarias para mejorar la condici6n socio-
econ6mica de las personas de mas bajos recursos, a traves de la implementaci6n de una
estrategia de lucha contra la pobreza, que incluya la promoci6n de oportunidades y
capacidades econ6micas para las personas y familias en situaci6n de pobreza, el
desarrollo de las capacidades humanas y el establecimiento de una red de protecci6n
social.
Lima, enero de 2002
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable
10. Additional Information
Footnotes
(l)The detailed objectives and components of the employment program are still evolving, however, and how it will
interrelate and impact on existing social programs remains to be clarified. Unless judiciously integrated into an
overall social strategy, it could become one more independent program or set of programs in the patchwork quilt of
existing programs.
(2) In 1999, the 22 percent of central government expenditures that went to defense and security were outside of
both the financial management system and the effective control of the Contraloria de la Reputblica.
(3)The five programs are FONCODES, PRONAA, Rural Roads, PRONAMACHCS, and Rural Electrification.
(4) The envisioned role of CIAS goes beyond that of providing an efficient mechanism for decision-making and the
resolution of interagency issues. With the support of a strong technical staff, it is also intended to be an effective
forum contributing to Ministers' understanding of long-term problems and building consensus around solutions.
Assembling a capable technical staff with the continuity needed to sustain such a role is likely to require several
- 20 -



years and more far-reaching civil service reform.
(5) For example, a performance shortfall, depending on the circumstances, could provide a basis for arguing in
favor of an increased rather than a smaller budgetary allocation. The adoption of performance indicators can
inform judgments but cannot substitute for judgments. Moreover, the achievement or failure to achieve the desired
impacts will, in most cases, be determined by complex interactions among far more variables that can be managed
by any one government program.
(6) It is estimated that only about 15% of fiscal spending in Peru is discretionary in the short term, given the size
and rigidity of salaries, pensions, debt service, and overhead costs.  The introduction of protected programs
potentially increases this rigidity. Actual incremental protection also varies from one program to another,
inasmuch as they may vary widely in the proportion of expenditures already rigid in the short term. Some also have
revenue sources independent of the fiscal budget. Nevertheless, flexibility overall was not significantly reduced in
2001. Since the PSRL program only protected aggregate spending levels for the defined programs, MEF continued
to enjoy room for maneuver in allocations among programs. Its discretionary authority over the use of the Fiscal
Stabilization Fund also provided additional flexibility.
(7)Norbert R. Schady, "Picking the Poor: Indicators for Geographic Targeting in Peru," World Bank, (draft),
January 16, 2002.
(8)It is striking, for example, that only 40 percent of families classified as being in extreme poverty in 2000 had
undemourished children. The education level of mothers seems to have more to do with child nutrition than
income. Similarly, while it is appropriate that decisions regarding the location of infrastructure investments take
local poverty indicators into account, they must also take account of the area's economic prospects, the availability
of complementary resources, enviromnental considerations, etc.
(9) An earlier initiative in 1996 to devolve authority to the school level had mixed results, as many school
directors, without the constraints of countervailing powers, reportedly used the new authority to establish petty
fiefdoms.
(10) The "Unlikely" rating for sustainability is not meant, at this point in time, to denote a negative conclusion. It
is used here to highlight the reviewer's view that the sustainability of this element of the program remains
problematic. A rating of "in question" would have been preferable but is not available in the ICR rating system.
(11 )The military is apparently no longer required to participate in this plan.
(12)The tax rate cuts proposed by the Transition Govermment were intended to be accompanied by measures to
broaden the tax base, removing a number of sectoral and regional tax preferences. Congress, however, rejected the
latter part of the Government's proposal.
(13)Although the new Congress restored several preference items, the Government succeeded in removing the
most costly tax preferences introduced by the previous Congress.
(14)In an effort to attract and retain skilled staff, external donors often contribute to the problem by establishing
enclave project implementation units enjoying substantial salary supplements.
(15)The public sector pay increase introduced in 2001 was apparently the first "pensionable" increase in 25 years.
(16) In 2001, the Transition Government increased the rate of transfer without a parallel transfer of expenditure
responsibilities. Such unbalanced transfers of fiscal resources have created structural deficits in a number of Latin
- 21-



American countries.
(17) Loan No. PE-0212.
(18) For example, the IDB program included studies related to performance budgeting and also required the
staffing of strong technical secretariat for the CIAS to support its coordination mandate.
(19) A consultative meeting of donors with the Government was held in Madrid in late 2001 but does not appear to
have generated a substantive strategy discussion or proactive coordination of the respective programs.
- 22 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
ISSUESu         | ACTIONS TAKEN BEFORE BOARD AND STATUS AS OF FEB. 2002
A. SOCIAL POLICY ARTICULATION AND COORDINATION
1.  Issue: Peru   A Letter of Social Policy was sent to the Bank by the Transition Government on March 8, 2001.
has lacked a clearly The Letter noted that its preparation was based on a broad social dialogue that sought to achieve a
formulated social  consensus that would carry beyond the life of that Government. It set out, in general terms, the
policy agenda, and  nation's social priorities and the intention to improve the effectiveness of social programs and
the coordination of  enhance the access of the poor to them through better targeting, progressive decentralization of
social policy     service delivery, and enhanced participation of civil society in the monitoring and evaluation of
implementation has social expenditures. The Letter also indicated the intention to protect priority social programs from
been inadequate.  budgetary cuts in 2001 and to introduce an emergency social program to be triggered by defined
contingencies. On December 4, 2001, after continuing discussions by the Mesas de Concertaci6n,
the Toledo Government issued a revised Letter of Social Policy 2001-2006 as a working paper.
This revised Letter provides more detail with respect to the empowerment of citizens and regarding
the objectives to be realized in the nutrition, health and education sectors; gives heightened priority,
in particular, to employment promotion; and states more clearly the need for better coordination and
integration of social programs.
The Interministerial Committee on Social Affairs (CIAS) is working closely with, and is receiving
technical support from, MEF, which is also taking a more active interest and role than previously in
the monitoring of social priorities. However, the mandate and effectiveness of CIAS as a locus of
coordination among the relevant ministries and agencies remains to be solidified.
XThe ordering of issues, as defined at the initiation of the program, follows that of the Policy Matrix for PSRL I, presented
as Annex 2 of the President's Report.
- 23-



2. Issue: Budgets  Prior to the approval of PSRL I, MEF coordinated the preparation of multiannual strategic sectoral
for social sectors  plans (PESEM), covering the period 2001-2005, for each of the social sectors and consolidated into
have not been linked Institutional Strategic Plans (PEI). In contrast to the previous regime, the sectoral ministries were
to program        heavily involved with the preparation of these plans and the diagnoses on which they were based. A
objectives and have  Users' Manual and requisite software were prepared by MEF to guide the exercise and to facilitate
provided little   performance-based monitoring of implementation.
incentive for high
quality and efficient
program delivery.  On January 5, 2002 a new Ministerial Resolution' was published to govern the formulation of the
2002-2006 PEI, which will consolidate the updated PESEMs elaborated by the sectors. Approval
of the PESEMs by the Council of Ministers is expected in February 2002. MEF is also being
restructured, with the creation of a Department for Macro-Social Studies, to strengthen its focus
and monitoring capacity in the social sectors. 2 The monitoring program calls for biannual reports
from each sector, based on quarterly reports of their respective budgetary units and using agreed
performance and outcome indicators. Indicators for the Ministries of Health, Education, the
Presidency, and PROMUDEH have been agreed.
3.   Issue: The   Since January of 2001, a decision was made to include all Executive Units of the Ministries of
monitoring of social Defense and Interior included in the System of Integrated Financial Administration (SIAF), so that
expenditures has  all central government operations can be processed through that system. Funds are released to
been inadequate, and executing agencies only after the requisite information is entered into the SLAF. SIAF information
major programs have is posted on the web and can be accessed by the public.
not been
appropriately     Moreover, support is being given to development of this type of system for the municipalities,
evaluated.        which will allow transparency of expenditures at the local level. Pilots are being implemented in
some provincial municipalities.
An agreement on monitoring indicators for five major social programs FONCODES, PRONAA,
Caminos Rurales, PRONAMACHCS, and Electrificaci6n Rural was signed by MEF and the
respective program directors on February 27, 2001. Agreement was also reached on base lines,
progress measures, targeting instruments, and mechanisms to increase expenditure transparency for
each sector.
These plans were mandated and regulated by Supreme Decree No 108 of October 5, 2000 and Ministerial Resolution N°
084 issued on March 13, 2001.
No. 399-2001-EF/10.
The staffing of this new Department was approved by Supreme Resolution N° 029-2002-EF of January 15, 2002.
- 24 -



4.   Issue: Although  A new Law of Public Procurement and Contracting and accompanying regulations was issued in
significant progress has  March 2001."' The Comptrollers Office has issued control forms to be used by public entities.
been made, further    Guidelines and procedures to implement electronic purchases by the public sector are being
improvements are     developed. All procurement decisions and contracts are to be registered in the SLAF in order to
needed in the         assure the uniformity of information formatting and avoid duplication, and a web module is under
procurement and       preparation to encourage competition for public contracts and bring transparency to the awarding
financial administration  of public contracts.
systems.            I
B. SOCIAL PROTECTION DURING CRISIS
1.  Issue: Social    CIAS approved the list of protected programs in February 2001, and the aggregate 2001 budget
programs of particular  for the specified protected programs was higher in real terms than actual aggregate expenditures
importance for the poor  on those programs in 2000. Actual expenditures for the year are estimated to have been slightly
risk inadequate funding  above the amounts programmed.
during economic
downturns.
The new Government has revised the list of protected programs in an effort to improve the
efficiency and targeting of expenditure. The National Budget Office of MEF has authorized the
allocation of (i) no less than 14,940 million Soles (7.4 percent of GDP) to four budgetary
categories social assistance and security, education and culture, health and sanitation and
transport; and (ii) 2,730 million soles (1.4 percent of GDP) to six specific programs: pre-school
education, primary education, secondary education, individual health, collective health, and social
and community promotion and assistance.
2.   Issue: A coherent A short-term Contingency Plan, including a strategy for the design and operation of a Social
social protection     Safety Net, including the definition of 11 activating triggers, was delivered to the Bank on March
strategy and a clear  13, 2001.
mechanism to transfer
additional public   A study is being carried out by the Universidad del Pacifico to prepare a proposal for a social
resources to low-income safety net that would rationalize social expenditures, particularly those related to poverty, and
households during   protect against risks caused by exogenous factors.
economic crises are
lacking.
m Law N° 26850 and Supreme Decrees Nos. 012-2001-PCM and 013-2001-PCM
- 25 -



3.   Issue: Women    A large number of laws to protect women and youth workers have been enacted since the
and youth workers have  beginning of 2001. In addition to those listed in Annex 2 of the President's Report for PSRL I,
not enjoyed adequate  they include ensured funding for the National Program Against Family and Sexual Violence;
legal protection.    preferential treatment for pregnant women, the elderly, and children in public facilities;
promotion of adolescent girls' education in rural areas; extending post-natal rest for multiple
deliveries; and creating temporary shelters for child victims of rape.
Resolutions have also been issued approving the founding of the Ibero-American Youth
Organization; approving the international Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of
Discrimination Against Women; approving the ILO Convention on the minimum working age,
and the UN Conventions against organized delinquency and the illicit traffic of women and
children and migrants.
C. ACCESS OF THE POOR TO SOCIAL PROGRAMS
1.  Issue: Many      A new poverty map based on imputed per capital expenditures at the district level was
important poverty    completed, but relies largely on data from the 1993 census. In addition, a document, "In search
alleviation programs are of a new targeting instrument for assignment of resources for additional social investment within
poorly targeted.     the framework of the fight against poverty," was submitted to the Bank on March 13, 2001.
Agreement was also reached between MEF and the directors of the five major anti-poverty
programs listed above on a targeting strategy, including the use of the new poverty map as well
as other targeting indicators.
A new map, based on a household survey currently being carried out by INEI, is expected to be
ready in May 2002, although the set of poverty indicators is not yet agreed.
As a complement to the targeting strategy the National Budget Department of MEF has issued a
Directive,tm indicating that the monthly programming of expenditures should be based, inter alia,
on geographical criteria to increase the productivity of public resource use, particularly with
respect to the fight against poverty.
Directive N° 001-2002-EF/76.01.
- 26 -



2.   Issue: Despite an  The Mother and Child Insurance program (SMI) was formally created in September 1999 '
increase in their supply, and, by the time of PSRL I, was operating in 13 Regional Health Departments. It has to date
many poor people do not expanded its implementation to over 20 Departments, and has been integrated with the
utilize health services  Student Insurance program under a new title, the Integral Health Insurance program (SIS).
because of economic   Approximately 29 percent of the targeted population of pregnant women and 20 percent of
and cultural barriers.  the targeted children below age 4 were reached during 2001. These results were substantially
below the numbers originally targeted, and the preliminary budget for the program in 2002
will not permit significant expansion. Benchmark included in PSRL II are intended to
improve this situation.
The proportion of public primary clinics run by communities under the CLAS program has
increased from about 15 percent in early 1999 to 20 percent in December 2000 and to over
23 percent (about 1,250 establishments) currently. Meanwhile, MINSA is reportedly
elaborating proposals for new models of participatory management of health services.
3.   Issue: Although  A draft "Pilot Plan for Rural Education and Teacher Development" was issued by the
educational coverage  Coordination Office for the Development of Rural Education of the Ministry of Education in
statistically approaches  October 2001. It would include a package of incentives, including a pay premium and
100%, the quality of  possibly housing and preferential training opportunities for teachers in remote areas.
education received by
rural and indigenous  Currently the pilot has been executed in four areas: Suyo and Frias (Piura), El Dorado (San
children, in particular is Martin) and Canas (Cusco). In each case a management team has been conformed (project
poor.                 chief, coordinator or USE or ADE head, and administrator) counting with a 2002 operational
plan and its respective budget, which provides for expansion of coverage, quality
improvement and greater expenditure efficiency. Teachers in the pilot project will be trained,
a bid will be called for executing entities for pedagogical and institutional management to
execute actions contemplated in the annual operative plan.
X Ministerial Resolution No. 448-99-SA/DM of September 15, 1999.
- 27 -



I. TRANSPARENCY AND EMPOWERMENT OF BENEFICIARIES
1.  Issue: Expenditures Supreme Decree No. 001-2001-PROMUDEH, published on January 19, 2001 created the
by social programs are  Roundtable for the Fight Against Poverty (Mesa De Concertaci6n de Lucha contra la Pobreza)
not transparent, and no  as a locus of dialogue and coordination between the state and civil society. More than 450
mechanism exists for  Mesas have been fimctioning at the departmental and district levels developing proposals to be
complaints and recourse discussed at national meetings. Discussions have included the new draft Social Policy Letter,
by intended beneficiaries. and many Mesas have prepared departmental development plans setting out priorities for local
investments.
greements were signed on February 27, 2001 between MEF and the directors of the five
specified social programs setting out institutional strategies for ensuring the transparency of
heir expenditures. Web sites have been created by MEF, the Ministries and these programs.
klthough not all are fully updated, the sites provide information on programmed and actual
budgetary transfers and expenditures at the provincial and district levels.
On December 14, 2000 the Office of the Public Ombudsman issued Resolution N°
067-2000-DCP, guaranteeing the political neutrality of the Ombudsman's staff and directives
for the supervising the State during the 2001 electoral process. The Office also carried out a
vigorous information campaign to establish its role as a channel for citizens' complaints
egarding the political use of social programs. This campaign gave priority attention to women,
iative communities, the disabled, and former victims of political violence. A similar oversight
role is expected to be played during the 2002 regional and municipal elections.
A Task Force was created in February 2001 to design and implement a social control
mechanism intended to increase citizen oversight over social programs. The Task Force, which
ncludes representatives from the Ombudsman's Office, MEF, CEPES, and the World Bank,
with the participation also of NGOs, other donors and consultants, issued a report in June
2001. Pilot exercises are now being carried out in Ayacucho, Huancavelica, and Apurimac,
involving workshops and citizen consultations with a view to finalizing an action plan.
- 28 -



2.1ssue: Transparency  Results of the 1998 student achievement tests in mathematics, language, and social and natural
and social participation  sciences, and of the OREALC/UNESCO 1997 regional tests, were published in bulletins
in the education sector  CRECER, N's 7-11, during the first half of 2001.
need significant
improvement          On November 2001, the Quality Measurement Unit of MOE gave a test to 5,000 high school
students. The test is to evaluate student's knowledge and capacities to face life's challenges, It
includes mathematics and basic sciences, emphasizing not only learning of contents but
development of capacities.
The Commission for a National Consensus on Education was created on January 15, 2001 , and
a final report was issued and published in the newspapers in September 2001. The Commission,
comprised of a broad cross-section of stakeholders in the education sector, was confirmed by the
Toledo Government and continues to work on questions related to the quality of education. In
addition, a National Council on Education, composed of recognized sector leaders, has been
created as a consultative group.
A Ministerial Resolution 2l was published on November 23, 2000, empowering parents in rural
areas to keep teacher attendance and to report non-compliance to regional offices; and a Supreme
Decreeti was published Feb. 13, 2001, regulating the activities of educational centers and
authorizing local school directors to take decisions on the management of personnel and school
resources. Workshops were conducted in September and November 2001 to inform
communities in the interior of the country about the Decree and to solicit suggestions toward a
strategy of decentralization. More than 500 School Councils (Consejos Escolares) had been
inaugurated by end-2001. In addition, a pilot system for receiving complaints regarding
corruption and abuse of power within the educational establishment was publicly launched on
December 12, 2001. It is expected to be fully functional by May 2002. The Ministry of
Education has also signed a Convenio with the Office of the Ombudsman to channel and achieve
the rapid resolution of complaints.
LSupreme Resolution N° 030-2001-ED.
m NO 708-2000-ED.
No. 007-2001 -ED.
- 29 -



E. RATIONALIZATION OF SOCIAL EXPENDITURES
1.  Issue: There is  A Multisectoral Commission on Food and Nutrition (CMAN), chaired by MINSA and
extensive duplication of including the Ministries of Agriculture, Education, and Fisheries, was created on February 1,
nutrition and food   2001 to coordinate public and private sector programs related to food and nutrition. At the
supplementation       fonmal request of MEF, CMAN incorporated the evaluation of the Vaso de Leche program into
programs, with little  its work plan. The current Ministry of Health has not ratified the CMAN, however, and its
apparent impact on the  work is presently on hold. The CIAS also formed a working group, composed of both public
nutrition levels of the  and private institutions, which served as part of the CMAN. The working group is meeting
population.           weekly to discuss proposals for the sector.
A Supreme Decree was published December 3, 2000, transferring the school breakfast and
food supplementation programs of FONCODES to the National Institute of Health in MINSA.
On December 20, 2001, the Council of Ministers approved a proposal to simiilarly unify the
school breakfast programs of INS and PRONAA. This decision remains to be acted upon.
A multisectoral Task Force (including, inter alia, MEF, the CMAN, and municipal
government representatives) was formed to propose concrete recommendations for the
reform of the Vaso de Leche Program within the context of a decentralization strategy.
A separate Task Force (including, inter alia, PROMUDEH, MEF, the CMAN, and
women's organizations) was also formed to propose concrete recommendations for the
reform of the Comedores Populares and to adjust PRONAA programs to the
nutritional objectives established by MINSA. To date, no concrete recommendations
have been made.
La Supreme Decree No 002-2001-SA.
Resoluci6n Suprema No. 032-2000-PCM.
- 30-



1.  Issue: There is   Several Ministerial Resolutions were issued during 2001 to unify all MINSA mother and child
extensive duplication of health care programs under one operational plan and budget; to streamline the administrative
investments and       structure of MINSA, and to unify the SMI and Student Health Insurance into a single Integral
programs in the health  Health Insurance program.
sector, resulting in excess A Supreme Resolution published on March 12, 2001 created a Technical Commission to
capacity in some      elaborate a joint program of health investments including MINSA, ESSALUD, the armed forces
geographical areas, while and the police; formulate the technical bases for an efficient exchange of health and related
other areas remain    services and to rationalize the current expenditures of these institutions; and to design a strategy
seriously underserved.  for separating the functions of service provision, financing, regulation, and supervision of
health. The Commission issued an agreed investment plan during the Transition Government,
but little progress has been made in its implementation. MEF has indicated that it will not
approve new health sector investments without a jointly agreed plan. Other aspects of the
coordination indicated above are still pending agreement among the agencies. Meanwhile, pilot
,programs are going forward in Tacna and Cajamarca.
2.   Issue: There are no Supreme Decrees were published in February 2001, instructing the Presidents of the
reliable data or system to Regional Governments that the norms and technical guidelines for the processing of the
verify actual teachers and education payroll would henceforth be regulated by the Ministry of Education.
teaching positions; and
there has been confusion The payroll system has thus far been installed in Lima, Piura, La Libertad, Ica, and
about the locus of    Arequipa. In December 2001, Congress issued regulations of the law governing teacher
responsibilities for  appointments, introducing merit criteria as the basis for hiring. This change affects only new
regulating payrolls, and a teachers entering the system; teachers already in the system are not evaluated.
lack of uniformity of pay
scales and of a systematic
relationship between pay
levels and teacher
qualifications and
performance.
W Included are Ministerial Resolution Nos. 016-2001-SA/DM of January 10, 2001; 135-2001-SA/DM of March 2, 2001;
and 162-2001-SA/DM and 163-2001-SA/DM of March 14, 2001.
No. 166-2001-EF.
Nos. 011-2001-ED and 124-2001-ED.
- 31 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Not Applicable.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
- 32 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
N.A.
- 33-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty         Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count          Specialty                    Progress     Objective
Lending
HQ/RM                      8    TM, E, SS, CSS,NS                S            S
(Identification/
Preparation)
HQ/RM                     12    TM, SM, E, SS, NS, CSS, PA       S            S
(Appraisal/
Negotiations)
Supervision
Date - HQ/RM               10   TM,SS, E,CSS,NS, FS, PS,         S            S
PA
ICR
HQ/RM                      2    E,C,                             S            S
TM: Task Manager            E: Economist                 NS: Nutrition Specialist
SM: Sector Manager          SS: Sector Especialist      CSS: Civil Society Specialist
FS: Financial Specialist    PS: Procurement Specialist   P.A.:Program Assistant      C:
Consultant
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                 Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ c000)
Lending                               41.45                 237,927.27
Supervision                           13.98                  71,430.67
ICR                                    6.0*                  35,817.83
Total                                 61.43                 345,175.77
*ICR preparation carried out by 2 consultants
- 34 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
L Macro policies                      O H OSU*M       O N  O NA
Li Sector Policies                    OH OSU*M        ON   O NA
El Physical                           O H OSUOM       O N  * NA
Oi Financial                          O H OSUOM O N        * NA
L Institutional Development           0 H  O SU *M    0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                       OH OSUOM        ON   * NA
Social
i Poverty Reduction             O H OSU*M       O N  O NA
Ol Gender                       O H OSU*M       O N  O NA
El Other (Please specify)       O H OSUOM O N        * NA
Li Private sector development         0 H O SU O M 0 N     0 NA
L Public sector management            0 H O SU O M    0 N  0 NA
L Other (Please specify)              O H OSUOM       O N  * NA
- 35-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperfornance                                Rating
OI Lending                                         OHS OS       OU    OHU
O Supervision                                      OHS OS       OU    OHU
O Overall                                          OHS OS       OU    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
OI Preparation                                     OHS OS       O   U  0 HU
rO Government implementation performance           O HS OS      O U   0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                OHS OS       O   U  0 HU
LI Overall                                         OHS OS       OU    0 HU
- 36-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. World Bank, Peru: "Proposed Programmatic Social Reform Loan", President's Report,
Report No. P7447-PE, April 2, 2001.
2. World Bank, Peru: "Initiating Memorandum for a Programmatic Social Reform II Loan"
(Draft), December 1, 2001.
3. Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas: "Informe de Cierre de las Operaciones del Prestamo
Programatico de Reforina Social", Lima, enero de 2002.
4. Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas: "Situaci6n de la Matriz de Condicionalidades del
Prestamo Programatico de Reforma Social", Lima 28 de junio del 2001.
5. Presidencia de la Republica: "Carta de Politica Social 2001-2006", Documento de
Trabajo, Lima, 4 de diciembre de 2001.
6. World Bank, "Poverty and Social Developments in Peru, 1994-199T', A World Bank
Country Study.
7. World Bank "Peruvian Education at a Crossroads", A world Bank Country Study.
8. World Bank "Peru Improving Health Care for the Poor" Report No 18549-PE, May 28,
1999.
9. INEI "Nuevas Estimaciones de la Pobreza en el Peru, 1997-2000", Lima, Agosto 2001.
10. Ministerio de Educaci6n: "Plan Estrat6gico Sectorial Multianual 2002-2006" Junio 2001.
11. Ministerio de Salud "Plan Estrategico Multianual de Salud 2002-2006"Lima.
- 37-



Additional Annex 8. Partners comments full text
INFORME DE CIERRE DE LAS OPERACIONES DEL
PRESTAMO PROGRAMATICO DE REFORMA SOCIAL (Prestamo No. 4615-PE)
(Programmatic Social Reform Loan - PSRL)
I.    Introducci6n
Durante el ano 2001, el Banco Mundial otorg6 al Gobierno Peruano el Prestamo
Programatico de Reforma Social, por un monto de US$ 100 millones - el cual forma
parte del programa de apoyo financiero a la balanza de pagos - cuyo objetivo es
fortalecer las capacidades institucionales en el sector publico para disefiar e
implementar un sistema integral y eficiente de protecci6n social contingente en
beneficio de la poblaci6n mas pobre del pafs; asi como poner en marcha, medidas
conducentes a la racionalizaci6n del gasto social.
En este contexto, el prestamo ha permitido un ordenamiento y mejor disposici6n de los
recursos publicos, ayudando a preservar los intereses y beneficios de los sectores
menos favorecidos de la sociedad (sobre todo para los periodos de ajuste fiscal y de
transici6n politica), y sentando las bases para que la administraci6n de los recursos
publicos se realice a traves de sistemas mas eficientes y de mayor control y
transparencia.
II.   El contexto macroecon6mnco
El PerCi tuvo que afrontar, durante el 'primer semestre del anio 2000, una situaci6n
econ6mica delicada originada por el contexto econ6mico internacional y la
incertidumbre politica.
A partir de agosto de ese mismo ano, el Gobierno asumi6 la tarea de proteger la
estabilidad macroecon6mica y desarrollar bases s6lidas para iniciar un proceso de
expansi6n sostenido de la economia.
No obstante las dificultades politicas, manifestadas en las demandas de diferentes
sectores sociales y politicos para adoptar medidas populistas, el actual Gobierno ha
demostrado tener la disposici6n y capacidad suficiente de continuar con una politica
econ6mica de mercado, promoviendo la concertaci6n de los sectores involucrados.
La perspectiva internacional actual es muy favorable debido a determinadas medidas
que el Gobiemo ha realizado o tiene previstas llevar a cabo:
1.    Sector Fiscal
En general el Gobiemo mantendra una estricta disciplina fiscal con metas de gastos,
es decir    que toda propuesta de gasto se encuentre autofinanciada y en ningun
caso genere deficit, y mejorar la Ley de Prudencia y Transparencia Fiscal.
- 38-



Asimismo y con la finalidad de incrementar la recaudaci6n, el Gobierno esta tomando
las acciones necesarias para realizar una profunda reforma tributaria, basada en los
principios de neutralidad y equidad.
Una de las importantes medidas adoptadas y que a su vez tendra un impacto favorable
en las cuentas fiscales, es el inicio de la reforma del sistema nacional de pensiones
cuyo objetivo es equiparar los diferentes regimenes previsionales a cargo del Estado,
reduciendo los beneficios de la Cedula Viva e incrementando la pensi6n minima de los
jubilados de menos recursos.
Por otro lado, esta prevista la realizaci6n de un importante proceso de privatizaci6n
(por US$ 700 millones para el anio 2002), lo cual no s6lo nos permitira reducir el deficit
fiscal, sino que es una serial favorable para la inversi6n privada interna y extranjera.
2.    Sector Monetaro
Entre las principales fortalezas de la economia peruana se encuentran la fuerte
posici6n de liquidez, la baja inflaci6n y el manejable deficit de cuenta corriente.
Asimismo, mantiene una politica de tipo de cambio flotante, que le proporciona holgura
de manejo monetario en prevenci6n de una crisis externa.
Es necesario indicar que el Gobierno con el fin de diversificar riesgos, ha iniciado un
proceso de reestructuraci6n de la deuda publica basada en la emisi6n de bonos en el
extranjero, lo cual permitira, ademas, el desarrollo del mercado de capitales.
Otra medida importante que se esta llevando a cabo es el desarrollo de programas de
vivienda, a traves del fortalecimiento del Programa Mi Vivienda y la creaci6n del
Programa Mi Barrio, los cuales no s6lo tienen como objetivo satisfacer las necesidades
de vivienda de la poblaci6n de mas bajos recursos, sino propiciar el desarrollo del
mercado de hipotecas.
Ill.  Objetivos del Prestamo
Uno de los principales objetivos del actual Gobierno es luchar contra la pobreza, raz6n
por la cual se ha elaborado el marco, los lineamientos y la estrategia social contenidos
en la Carta de Politica Social 2001-2006 publicada el 04.Dic.2001.
Al respecto, la estrategia del Gobierno sobre el tema involucra la: i) promoci6n y el
respeto de los derechos y deberes de la persona y la responsabilidad de las
instituciones, ii) el empoderamiento del ciudadano y de la sociedad civil, iii) la
asignaci6n de los recursos con criterios de equidad, iv) la descentralizaci6n, v) la
concertaci6n entre los diversos actores involucrados y vi) la transparencia en la gesti6n
de los recursos publicos, temas estrechamente relacionados con los trabajos que se
han estado realizando con la colaboraci6n del Banco Mundial.
A.    Articulaci6n v coordinaci6n de la Politica Social
- 39 -



1.    Planes Estrategicos Sectoriales Multianuales (PESEM)
Uno de los elementos claves para la conducci6n responsable de la politica fiscal del
Gobierno es la etapa del de planeamiento. La Programaci6n Estrategica en el Sector
Publico, que involucra como actores principales a los sectores institucionales del gasto
publico, comprende la propuesta de un conjunto de prioridades sectoriales sobre la
base de un diagn6stico y analisis del desempeno durante la ultima decada. Para el
horizonte de acci6n 2002-2006, considera la definici6n de la visi6n, misi6n y objetivos
estrategicos generales y especificos de cada uno de los 26 sectores de la
Administraci6n POblica. Implica, ademas, la asignaci6n de montos asociados al
cumplimiento de dichas misiones y objetivos, los cuales agregados satisfacen las
metas del gasto total previstas en un escenario macroecon6mico que garantiza el
equilibrio fiscal.
La participaci6n de los sectores en la elaboraci6n de los PESEM ha sido muy
importante debido a que ha permitido: i) aprovechar el conocimiento que tiene cada
sector de sus potencialidades; ii) generar responsabilidades directas en el
cumplimiento de sus propuestas de visi6n, misi6n y objetivos sectoriales; iii) facilitar los
procesos de coordinaci6n intersectorial; y, iv) permitir a los sectores comprender la
importancia de la programaci6n en el marco de una visi6n moderna del Estado y una
cultura de evaluaci6n del gasto publico.
Sobre el particular, con fecha 05.Ene.2002 se public6 la Resoluci6n Ministerial N°
399-2001-EF/10 (Ver Anexo No. 1) para la Formulaci6n de los Planes Estrategicos
Institucionales 2002 - 2006, los cuales consolidan los PESEM elaborados por los
sectores, y que tiene por objetivo coordinar el esfuerzo conjunto de todas las entidades
del sector pOblico hacia la consecuci6n de objetivos de mediano y largo plazo,
mejorando la productividad en el uso de los recursos puiblicos.
Esta pendiente la aprobaci6n, por parte del Consejo de Ministros, del nuevo PESEM lo
cual se tiene previsto para el mes de febrero 2002.
2.    Sistema de Monitoreo de Sectores Sociales
La Direcci6n General de Asuntos Econ6micos y Financieros (DGAEF) elabor6 (durante
el primer semestre 2001) el Manual del Usuario, que permite la actualizaci6n,
seguimiento y evaluaci6n de los Planes Estrategicos Sectoriales Multianuales 2002 -
2006.
Posteriormente, con la finalidad de fortalecer las labores de monitoreo de los temas
sociales, entre otros, se reestructur6 organicamente el Viceministerio de Economfa, lo
cual ha permitido la creaci6n de una Direcci6n de Estudios Macro Sociales (DEMS)
dentro de la Direcci6n General de Asuntos Econ6micos y Sociales (ex-DGAEF). En
este contexto y con fecha 15.Ene.2002, mediante Resoluci6n Suprema NO
029-2002-EF se aprob6 el Cuadro de Asignaci6n de Personal del Viceministerio de
Economia y sus 6rganos dependientes, en el que se indica que la DEMS debera
asignarse 5 personas: 1 Director del Programa, 1 Subdirector, 2 Economistas IV y 1
tecnico en Economfa I, que tendran a su cargo el seguimiento y evaluaci6n de la
politica social.
-40 -



Ademas, la Direcci6n General de Coordinaci6n Intersectorial (DGCI) de la PCM y la
Secretaria Tdcnica del CIAS tambien vienen desarrollando acciones destinadas a
implementar un sistema de seguimiento de las polifticas sociales. En este sentido, la
DEMS y el CIAS estan trabajando coordinadamente para cumplir con sus respectivos
encargos interinstitucionales.
Asimismo, en el PESEM 2002-2006 se tiene previsto, como parte del programa de
monitoreo, la elaboraci6n de informes semestrales por cada sector, sobre la base de
informes trimestrales de los respectivos pliegos presupuestarios y sobre los Planes
Estrategicos Institucionales aprobados por cada pliego. Para dicho fin se utilizaran
indicadores de producto y resultado.
3.    Aplicaci6n del Sistema Integrado de Administraci6n Financiera - SIAF
Desde enero 2001, las cinco Unidades Ejecutoras del Sector Defensa y las diecinueve
Unidades Ejecutoras del Sector Interior registran sus operaciones en el SIAF. De esta
manera el 100% de las operaciones del Gobierno Central se procesan en el Sistema.
Asimismo, en la siguiente direcci6n:
http://transparencia-economica.mef.aob.De/citrixlfonafe.asp se tiene acceso a la
informaci6n sobre las empresas SEDAPAL y ESSALUD (M6dulo FONAFE).
4.    Guias para Monitoreo y Evaluaci6n de Programas Sociales Protegidos
El Gobierno esta realizando una revisi6n de la lista de los Programas Sociales
Protegidos a fin de mejorar la eficiencia y focalizaci6n del gasto, la cual se tiene
prevista aprobar, por parte de la Comisi6n Interministeral de Asuntos Sociales (CIAS),
durante el primer trimestre 2002.
No obstante, los programas Caminos Rurales, FONCODES y Electrificaci6n Rural se
vienen reuniendo peri6dicamente'. para continuar con los acuerdos tomados sobre los
temas de monitoreo, evaluaci6n y transparencia. El objetivo que se espera alcanzar es
la elaboraci6n de un mapa conjunto de indicadores y el desarrollo de acciones
articuladas en las mismas areas geograficas, las que seran de puiblico conocimiento.
5.    Ley de Adquisiciones Publicas y Contratos
La Ley NO 26850 - Ley de Contrataciones y Adquisiciones del Estado estableci6 los
procedimientos del caso. Posteriormente, mediante Decretos Supremos N's 012 y
013-2001-PCM, se establecieron el Texto Unico Ordenado de Ley y el Reglamento de
la Ley,respectivamente. Adicionalmente, la Contraloria General de la Rep6iblica ha
establecido formatos de control (Directivas NO 002-2001-CG del 07.Feb.2001 y NO
006-2001-CG del 16.Abr.2001) para las entidades del Sector Publico; los que estan
publicados en la pagina web (www.contraloria.aob.De).
-____________ Entre dos a tres veces por mes
Entre las principales actividades que se estan realizando destacan:
-41 -



La formulaci6n de una Guia de Politica para la implementaci6n de un sistema de
adquisiciones electr6nicas gubernamentales que asegure mejores condiciones de
transparencia, economia y eficiencia en las contrataciones estatales.
La suscripci6n de un Convenio Interinstitucional entre la Contraloria General y
CONSUCODE que identifique las areas de actuaci6n en temas de control de la CRG y
de supervisi6n de la segunda (Anexo No. 2).
Cabe indicar que esta por incorporarse en el SIAF-SP el M6dulo CONSUCODE el cual
registrara los procesos de selecci6n, adjudicaci6n de la buena pro y contratos exigidos
a las instituciones publicas, a fin de evitar duplicidad de esfuerzos en el ingreso de la
informaci6n utilizando diversos formatos y sistemas. Ademas se ha estado evaluando
con la Contralorfa la posibilidad de consolidar sus requerimientos sobre el tema en el
mismo m6dulo.
Asimismo, se esta desarrollando, en coordinaci6n con CONSUCODE, un m6dulo de
comercio electr6nico para las adquisiciones de menor cuantia.
B.    Protecci6n Social
1.    Los presupuestos de los Programas Sociales Protegidos (PSPs) durante el
periodo 2001 no son menores que los correspondientes del ano 2000.
Los Programas Protegidos, en el ahio 2000 se ejecutaron 2 379,2 millones de soles, en
tanto que en el 2001 se presupuest6 la suma de 3 431,8 millones de soles.
Comparando el primer cuatrimestre 2000 y 2001, se puede constatar que se cumpli6
con lo programado, empleando recursos ordinarios complementados con otras fuentes
debido a limitaciones presupuestales.
En el marco de la segunda operaci6n del PSRL II, el Gobiemo esta revisando la lista
de los Programas Protegidos, a fin de mejorar la eficiencia y focalizaci6n del gasto: La
primera revisi6n se efectu6 en diciembre 2001 y, la segunda revisi6n esta en curso por
parte del CIAS, la Direcci6n General de Coordinaci6n Intersectorial (PCM), Direcci6n
General de Gesti6n Publica (PCM) y la Direcci6n General de Asuntos Econ6micos y
Sociales (MEF), la que se espera concluir y aprobar por el CIAS antes de finalizar el
primer trimestre 2002.
Sobre el particular, entre los primeros acuerdos que se han tomado sobre el tema
destaca la autorizaci6n de la Direcci6n Nacional del Presupuesto Publico de asignar
calendarios de compromisos por no menos de:
* SW. 14,940 millones, equivalente aproximadamente a 7,4 por ciento del Producto
Bruto Interno, para atender gastos que por todo concepto se efectuien con cargo a
las fuentes de financiamiento Recursos Ordinarios y Operaciones Oficiales de
Credito Externo, en las siguientes cuatro (4) funciones presupuestarias:
-     Asistencia y Previsi6n Social
-     Educaci6n y Cultura
-42-



-     Salud y Saneamiento, y
-     Transporte.
* S/.2,730 millones, equivalente a aproximadamente 1,4 por ciento del Producto
Bruto Interno, para atender gastos no financieros, ni previsionales ni de personal
que con cargo a las fuentes de financiamiento Recursos Ordinarios y Operaciones
Oficiales de Credito Externo se efectuen en los seis (6) programas presupuestarios
que a continuaci6n se indican y de manera preferente en los siguientes niveles:
-     Educaci6n Inicial, SL. 230 millones
-     Educaci6n Primaria, S/. 229 millones
-     Educaci6n Secundaria, S/. 212 millones
-     Salud Individual, SI. 835 millones
-     Salud Colectiva, SL. 432 millones, y
-     Promoci6n y Asistencia Social y Comunitaria, S/. 792 millones.
2.    CIAS ha aprobado el presupuesto trimestral para los Programas Sociales
Protegidos
El Gobierno esta revisando la actual lista de los Programas Sociales Protegidos a fin
de mejorar la eficiencia y focalizaci6n del gasto, la cual se tiene prevista aprobar, por
parte de la Comisi6n Interministerial de Asuntos Sociales (CIAS), en el primer trmestre
2002.
3.    Plan de Protecci6n Social de Contingencia
Se entreg6 al Banco el documento que contiene el Plan de Contingencia para el corto
plazo,estrategia de disefio y operaci6n de la Red de Protecci6n Social, donde se
incluyen once sehales de alerta.
4.    Estrategia de Protecci6n Social
Actualmente, se esta desarrollando un estudio sobre la red de protecci6n social, a
cargo del Centro de Investigaci6n de la Universidad el Pacffico, cuyo objetivo es
elaborar una propuesta para la implementaci6n de una red de protecci6n social que
permita i) racionalizar el gasto social, especialmente el vinculado a los programas de
lucha contra la pobreza y, ii) hacer frente a situaciones de riesgo social debido a
factores ex6genos, activando, cuando se requiera, programas de apoyo a poblaciones
vulnerables a este tipo de crisis.
Se espera que el mencionado estudio concluya a inicios del segundo trimestre del
presente aho.
5.    Legislaci6n sobre protecci6n a trabajadores mujeres yj6venes
Norma                               Detalle
Decretos de Urgencia y Leyes
Decreto de Urgencia N° 059-2001 (Publicadc Incorpora al Programa Nacional Contra la Violencia
el 02/06/2001)                      Familiar y Sexual dentro del numeral 6.2 del Artfculo 60 de
la Ley No 27427 (referido a los programas en los que no se
aplicaran normas de austeridad establecidas por ley).
-43-



Ley No 27408 (Publicada el 24/0112001)  Establece  la atenci6n  preferente  a  las  mujeres
embarazadas, las ninas, ninos, los adultos mayores, en
lugares de atencid6n al publico.
Ley N° 27432 (Publicada el 07/03/2001)  Prorroga la entrada en vigencia de la competencia del
Ministerio de Promoci6n de la Mujer y del Desarrollo
Humano en materia tutelar establecida en la Ley N0
27337, C6digo de los Nifios y Adolescentes.
Ley No 27470 (Publicada el 03/06/2001)  Establece normas complementarias para la ejecuci6n del
Programa del Vaso de Leche.
Ley No 27473 (Publicada el 07/06/2001)  Sustituye el Artfculo 770 y la Primera Disposici6n
Complementaria de la Ley N0 27337, C6digo de los Ninos
y Adolescentes.
Ley N0 27558 (Publicada el 23/11/2001)  Fomento de la educaci6n de las ninas y adolescentes en
areas rurales.
Ley N0 27604 (Publicada el 22/12/2001)  Modifica la Ley General de Salud NO 26842, respecto de la
obligaci6n de los establecimientos de salud a dar atenci6n
en casos de emergencias y partos.
Ley No 27606 (Publicada el 23/12/2001)  Modifica la Ley NO 26644 estableciendo la extensi6n del
descanso postnatal en los casos de nacimiento multiple.
Ley N0 27627 (Publicada el 09/01/2002)  Establece que los servicios basicos de agua y energia
electrica de los centros educativos puiblicos sean pagados
con fondos del Tesoro Puiblico y los recursos propios se
destinen a mejorar la calidad de la educaci6n.
Ley N0 27637 (Publicada el 16/01/2002).  Crea hogares de refugio temporales para menores
victimas de violaci6n sexual.
Resoluci6n Legislativa N0 27407 (Publicada el Aprueba el Acta de Fundaci6n de la Organizaci6n
23/01/2001)                           Iberoamericana de la Juventud (OIJ).
Resoluci6n Legislativa No 27429 (Publicada el Aprueba el 'Protocolo Facultativo de la Convenci6n sobre
23/02/2001)                          la Eliminaci6n de todas las formas de discriminaci6n
contra la mujer"
Resoluci6n Legislativa N*27453 (Publicada e Aprueba el Convenio N0 138 de la OIT sobre la edad
23/05/2001)                           minima de admisi6n al empleo.
Resoluci6n Legislativa N0 27527 (Publicada el Aprueba la Convenci6n de las Naciones Unidas contra la
08/10(2001)                           delincuencia  organizada  transnacional y  sus  dos
protocolos adicionales: 'Protocolo para prevenir, reprmir y
sancionar la trata de personas especialmente mujeres
nifnos, que complementa la Convenci6n de las Naciones
Unidas contra la delincuencia organizada y transnacional"
y 'El Protocolo contra el Trafico Illcito de Migrantes po
tierra, mar y aire".
C.    Acceso de los Pobres a los Proaramas Sociales Proteaidos
1.    Mapa de Pobreza y uso como instrumento de focalizaci6n
Se entreg6 al Banco el documento "Hacia la buisqueda de un nuevo instrumento de
focalizaci6n para la asignaci6n de recursos destinados a la Inversi6n Social adicional
en el marco de la lucha contra la pobreza".
Actualmente, se esta diseniando un nuevo mapa, siendo la entidad responsable el
Instituto Nacional de Estadistica e Informatica (INEI). El mapa se esta elaborando en
- 44 -



base a las Encuestas Nacionales de Hogares (ENAHO) 2001 - IV trimestre y se espera
concluirlo en marzo del presente afio.
Ademas, cabe indicar que como parte complementaria de la estrategia de focalizaci6n,
la Direcci6n Nacional del Presupuesto Publico emiti6 la Directiva No.
001-2002-EF/76.01, en la que se indica que la programaci6n mensual de gastos debe
reflejar, ademas, la aplicaci6n de una estrategia de focalizaci6n que incluya, entre
otros, criterios geograficos, con el prop6sito de incrementar la productividad en el uso
de los escasos recursos publicos, especialmente aquellos vinculados a programas de
lucha contra la pobreza (Anexo No. 3).
2.    Seguro Materno Infantil (SMI)
Por Resoluci6n Ministerial NO 448-99-SA/DM del 15.Set.1999 se cre6 el Seguro
Matemo Infantil (SMI), el informe entregado al Banco actualizado a febrero de 2001,
senala que el SMI tiene operaciones en 18 regiones de salud del pafs.
A la fecha se ha unificado el Seguro Materno Infantil con el Seguro Escolar,
denominandose al nuevo producto "Seguro Integral de Salud" (SIS), el cual se ha
expandido a mas de 20 regiones de salud.
3.    Comunidades Locales de Administraci6n de Salud (CLAS)
Actualmente, mas del 23% de los establecimientos de salud se encuentran bajo el
programa CLAS. Asimismo, cabe sehialar que el MINSA esta elaborando propuestas de
nuevos modelos de cogesti6n de los establecimientos de salud del primer nivel de
atenci6n.
D.    Transparencia v EmDoderamiento
1.    Mesa de Concertaci6n de lucha contra la Pobreza
Mediante Decreto Supremo NO 001-2001-PROMUDEH, publicado el 19.Ene.2001 se
constituy6 la Mesa de Concertaci6n de Lucha contra la Pobreza.
Hasta la fecha se han reunido mas de 450 mesas regionales y distritales.
2.    Presupuestos y gastos de los Programas Sociales Protegidos
Se han creado las siguientes direcciones electr6nicas, sin embargo esta pendiente
actualizar la respectiva informacion:
-     PRONAA:
httD://www.pronaa.-ob.ce/scripts/foxweb.exe/intraneu/GPP/inversion2000a .
-     PRONAMACHCS: htto:/lwww.mef.pob.De/aef/Dublictindex.htm.
-     FONCODES: httg://www.mef.pob.pelaef/Dublic/index.htm.
-     Electrificaci6n                                             Rural:
httD://www.dep.mem.aob.oe/institut/lopros/LOGROS PROY.htm
-45-



-     Caminos Rurales: htto://www.mef.aob.oe/aef/public/Index.htm
3.    Presupuesto de Transferencias de Comedores Populares y el Vaso de Leche
Se han creado las siguientes direcciones electr6nicas, sin embargo esta pendiente
actualizar la respectiva informaci6n:
http://transparencia-economica.mef.pob.pe/proveccion/sectorsocial/vdleche2000/vdlech
e2000-dist.asp
http://transparencia-economica.mef.pob.De/proyeccion/sectorsocial/vdleche200I /vdlech
e2001-dist.asy
4.    Estrategia de Transparencia para los Programas Sociales
Los programas Caminos Rurales, FONCODES y Electrificacion Rural se vienen
reuniendo peri6dicamente. para continuar con los acuerdos tomados sobre los temas
de monitoreo, evaluaci6n y transparencia2. El objetivo que se espera alcanzar es la
elaboraci6n de un mapa conjunto de indicadores y el desarrollo de acciones articuladas
en las mismas areas geograficas, las que seran de publico conocimiento.
5.    Mecanismo de Informacibn de Programas Sociales de la Ofrcina del Defensor
del Pueblo
La Defensoria del Pueblo emiti6 la Resoluci6n Defensorial NO 067-2000-DCP, por la
que se establecia la neutralidad de los funcionarios de la Defensoria y se dictaban
directivas para la supervisi6n del Estado durante el Proceso Electoral del ano 2001.
Se preve tomar las mismas acciones para las elecciones municipales y regionales del
presente ano.
2Entre dos a tres veces por mes
Ademas, se viene evaluando una implementaci6n piloto de un Sistema de Vigilancia
Social (SIVISO) en los departamentos de Ayacucho, Huancavelica y Apurimac. Se
estan realizando talleres y reuniones zonales, consultas ciudadanas para la validaci6n
de indicadores propuestos y elaboraci6n de propuestas de estrategias de
comunicaciones con la finalidad de organizar una red local de vigilancia social que se
articule con el trabajo de las oficinas descentralizadas de la Defensoria del Pueblo.
6.    Mecanismos de Control de los Programas Sociales Protegidos
Los programas Caminos Rurales, FONCODES y Electrificaci6n Rural se vienen
reuniendo peri6dicamente3. para continuar con los acuerdos tomados sobre los temas
de monitoreo, evaluaci6n y transparencia. El objetivo que se espera alcanzar es la
elaboraci6n de un mapa conjunto de indicadores y el desarrollo de acciones articuladas
en las mismas areas geograficas, las que seran de puiblico conocimiento.
7.    Publicaci6n de datos de pruebas de estudiantes realizadas
-46 -



En los boletines CRECER N's 7, 8, 9, 10 y 11 de febrero 2001 se publicaron los
resultados de las pruebas tomadas a nivel nacional en 1998.
Se ha aplicado una nueva prueba de estudiantes el pasado noviembre del 2001.
8.    Consejo Nacional de la Comisi6n de Educaci6n
Mediante Resolucion Suprema NO 030-2001-ED, publicada el 15 de enero de 2001 se
constituy6 la Comisi6n para un Acuerdo Nacional por la Educaci6n, que agrupa y
recoge diversas inquietudes, planteamientos y propuestas para mejorar el sistema
educativo peruano. Se aplicaron encuestas entre abril y mayo a un promedio de 400
mil personas, diversas instituciones y profesionales, cuyos resultados fueron
publicados en la pagina web del MINEDU.
9.    Medidas de Empoderamiento Educacional
Entre las principales medidas normativas adoptadas entre el 2000 y el 2001 destacan:
* Resoluci6n Ministerial NO 708-2000-ED publicada el 23.NOV.2000, aprueba las
normas para la participaci6n de los padres de familia en el control de la asistencia y
puntualidad del personal docente y administrativo de los centros educativos
ubicados en zonas rurales.
* Decreto Supremo NO 007-2001-ED publicado el 13.FEB.2001, aprueba las normas
para la gesti6n y desarrollo de las actividades en los centros y programas
educativos, incrementando la capacidad de los directores de las escuelas.
_   Entre dos a tres veces por mes
Al respecto, se han realizado talleres de difusi6n del D.S. 007-2001-ED al interior del
pals durante los meses de septiembre y noviembre 2001 y se ha llevado a cabo una
progresiva la implementaci6n de las Comisiones de Democratizaci6n y Moralizaci6n de
las Direcciones Regionales a fin de recoger sugerencias sobre estrategias de
descentralizaci6n.
Asimismo, se ha cumplido con la meta programada de Consejos Escolares, al haberse
implementado, al mes de diciembre 2001, 518 Consejos Escolares.
En lo que se refiere al Sistema Piloto de Recepci6n de Quejas, Asistencia y
Conciliaci6n, se lanz6 publicamente el pasado 12.Dic.2001, al haberse instalado la
linea telef6nica gratuita 0800-13687, y con ello iniciado el proceso de recepci6n de
quejas y denuncias de la comunidad educativa sobre corrupci6n, abuso de autoridad,
etc., en los centros educativos, Direcciones Regionales, Sub Regionales y Unidades de
Servicios Educativos, quejas que seran atendidas por un equipo de especialistas del
sector. Este servicio funciona provisionalmente y de manera  restringida en una de
las oficinas del Ministerio de Educaci6n (MINEDU). Funcionarios del MINEDU afirman
que la sede central del Sistema funcionara en el Colegio Alfonso Ugarte, que esta en
proceso de implernentaci6n y entrara en funciones en febrero 2002. La r6plica a nivel
nacional de las oficinas de recepci6n de quejas sera progresiva y se espera cubrir todo
-47-



el ambito nacional a fines del 2002.
De otro lado, se firm6 el Convenio MINEDU-Defensoria del Pueblo que tiene por
finalidad establecer relaciones de cooperaci6n entre la Defensoria y el Sistema Piloto
de Recepci6n de Quejas, Asistencia y Conciliaci6n del MINEDU, para promover el
mayor acceso a la informaci6n publica referida al sector, derivando las quejas y
denuncias que las oficinas regionales de Defensorfa recepcionen, brindando el debido
apoyo en la rapida y adecuada resoluci6n de conflictos, garantizar la mayor
transparencia en la gesti6n de los funcionarios del sector educaci6n, y aprovechar de
la experiencia y la asesoria tecnica en la sistematizaci6n de informaci6n sobre quejas,
petitorios y consultas. Adicionalmente, se aprovechara la infraestructura con la que
cuenta Defensoria en el interior del pais, para canalizar denuncias provenientes de la
comunidad educativa.
Asimismo, cabe sehalar que se ha elaborado un Plan Operativo de Piloto Rural que
contiene un sistema de incentivos a docentes rurales que incluye el tema de
financiamiento
E.    Racionalizaci6n de Gastos Sociales
1.    Programa de Desayunos Escolares de FONCODES
El Decreto Supremo NO 032-2000-PCM publicado el 03.Dic.2000 dispone la
transferencia de los Programas Sociales de Desayunos Escolares y de
Suplementaci6n Alimentaria que desarrolla FONCODES al Instituto Nacional de Salud
del MINSA.
El Consejo de Ministros aprob6 la unificaci6n de los desayunos escolares a cargo del
PRONAA y el MINSA.
2.    Comisi6n Multi-sectorial de Alimentos y Nutrici6n y grupos de trabajo de reforma
de PRONAA, Comedores Populares y el Vaso de Leche
Mediante el Decreto Supremo NO 002-2001-SA, publicado el 19.Ene.2001 se constituy6
la Comisi6n Multisectorial de Alimentaci6n y Nutrici6n encargada de coordinar las
acciones intersectoriales requeridas para implementar reformas en los programas
alimentarios nutricionales. Sin embrago, con el cambio de Gobiemo esta comisi6n se
desactiv6 por omisi6n de continuidad.
Al respecto, el CIAS ha conformado una Mesa de Trabajo (instituciones publicas y
privadas) que desde noviembre 2002 viene retomando las tareas encargadas a la
Comisi6n. Esta Mesa se re(ine peri6dicamente para realizar un analisis de las
propuestas relacionadas con el tema.
3.    Unificaci6n de programas de Cuidado de Salud de Madres y Nirios y Comite
Tecnico para evaluar unificaci6n de Seguro Escolar Gratuito y del Seguro Materno
Infantil
-48 -



Durante el anio 2001, se emitieron las siguientes normas sobre el tema:
* Resoluci6n Ministerial NO 162-2001-SA/DM de fecha 14.Mar.2001 modifica el
Reglamento de Organizaci6n y Funciones del MINSA para reestructurar la Direcci6n
General de Salud de las personas, en donde se incluye los programas madre nino.
*   Resoluci6n Ministerial N° 016-2001-SA/DM del 10.Ene.2001 constituye una Comisi6n
encargada de formular recomendaciones para integrar el Programa de Administraci6n
de Riesgo de Salud Escolar con el Seguro Materno Infantil.
*   Resoluci6n Ministerial N° 135-2001-SA/DM del 02.Mar.2001, constituye una Comisi6n
Ejecutiva de Integraci6n del Programa de Administraci6n de Riesgo de Salud Escolar
con el Seguro Materno Infantil.
*   Resoluci6n Suprema No. 445-2001-SA del 01.Nov.2001, constituye la Unidad de
Seguro Integral de Salud encargada de dirigir el SIS.
4.    Comisi6n de Inversiones ESSALUD - MINSA
La Resoluci6n Suprema NO 166-2001-EF, publicada el 12.Mar.2001 conforma la
Comisi6n Tecnica encargada de elaborar un Plan Conjunto de Inversiones entre el
Ministerio de Salud, ESSALUD y las Fuerzas Armadas y Policiales para el periodo
2001 - 2006; de formular las bases tecnicas para el intercambio de servicios de salud y
otros asociados, asi como para la racionalizaci6n del gasto corriente de estas
instituciones; y, de disenar la estrategia de separaci6n de las funciones de prestaci6n,
financiamiento, regulaci6n y de supervisi6n en salud.
Al respecto, en setiembre 2001 esta Comisi6n concluy6 sus funciones siendo
continuada por laComisi6n de Alto Nivel encargada de reiniciar el proceso de
organizaci6n del Sistema Nacional de Salud. Ademas, el MINSA y ESSALUD han
formado grupos para trabajar el Plan de Inversiones Conjunto e Intercambio de
Servicios, los que estan previstos formalizar a traves de un Convenio Institucional
Especifico para validarlos en los departamentos de Tacna y Cajamarca.
5.    Sistema de Procesamiento Estandarizado de Planillas de Educaci6n
Entre las principales acciones emitidas durante el anio 2001 destacan:
Decreto Supremo NO 011-2001-ED del 27.Feb.2001 establece que el Ministerio de
Educaci6n determinara normas y lineamientos t6cnicos sobre remuneraciones, para el
procesamiento de las planillas del personal de las diversas Direcciones de Educaci6n.
Resoluci6n Ministerial NO 124-2001-ED del 27.Feb.2001, aprueba el Sistema Unico de
Planillas y establece su aplicaci6n progresiva a nivel nacional.
Con relaci6n a este ultimo tema, a la fecha el sistema se encuentra operativo en cinco
departamentos: Lima, Piura, La Libertad, Ica, Arequipa. El resto del sistema se
encuentra instalado en paralelo. El MINEDU ha presentado un informe, que a solicitud
del CIAS tiene que ser revisado y completado con mayor detalle y analisis. El tema de
las planillas constituye uno de los problemas mas dificiles de afrontar desde el
MINEDU por las fuertes y esperadas reacciones sociales que puede tener el
sinceramiento del sistema. Al respecto, el CIAS y el MINEDU estan Ilevando a cabo
-49 -



reuniones para determinar la mejor manera de solucionar las dificultades asociadas.
Por otro lado, con relaci6n al Reglamento del Concurso Publico para Nombramiento en
Plazas Docentes, autorizado por la Ley No. 27491, en el mes de diciembre 2001 se
han realizado algunas modificaciones mediante el D.S. 071-2001-ED (18.Dic.2001),
producto de opiniones recibidas de expertos, SUTEP y congresistas. Dichas
modificaciones no cambian sustancialmente el espiritu de la ley pero se ha establecido
que: i) la Defensoria del Pueblo y la Asociaci6n Civil Transparencia actuen como
observadores en todas las fases del concurso, ii) una mayor difusi6n del proceso, iii)
rebaja de los puntuajes de evaluaci6n y, iv) determinaci6n y ampliaci6n de plazos e
instancias a fin de atender probables reclamos y brindar las mayores facilidades para
la inscripci6n en el concurso mediante la publicaci6n en medios de prensa y en la
pagina web del MINEDU.
IV.   Lecciones Aprendidas
a.    Sobre el desempeno del Banco
El Gobiemo Peruano considera que este Prestamo ha sido exitoso, dado que ha
contribuido en i) iniciar una reforma integral del sector social, a fin de mejorar la
canalizaci6n y eficiencia de los fondos publicos a las personas de mcas bajos recursos
y, ii) mantener el equilibrio financiero de balanza de pagos.
Asimismo, el Gobierno esta conforme con el desempenio del Banco Mundial, su apoyo
tecnico y fluida comunicaci6n.
b.    Sobre el desempeno del Beneficiario
El Gobiemo es consciente de las dificultades que se han presentado para la
implementaci6n de la reforma social, debido a los conflictos y problematica que
caracteriza al sector, aunado a los factores politicos que caracterizaron el periodo
1999-2001.
No obstante, el Gobiemo como parte proritaria del Programa General del Gobierno
continuara realizando las actividades necesarias para mejorar la condici6n
socio-econ6mica de las personas de mas bajos recursos, a trav6s de la
implementaci6n de una estrategia de lucha contra la pobreza, que incluya la promoci6n
de oportunidades y capacidades econ6micas para las personas y familias en situaci6n
de pobreza, el desarrollo de las capacidades humanas y el establecimiento de una red
de protecci6n social.
- 50-



IBRD 26572R1
F I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- .,r\  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J--4
rr) ~~~~~~~~~~~~ RIIh 
2U  '                          --                       -  -   rU
SAANC Ai                                              -iiiHI
'~~~A  ~~~~ 9~~   A C.
£  ALA  LIIERTAD  -, I-  I ~~~~-,. ,:  --            :K\4j   BP    -   -  
L  PJ ~  ~ ~  ~                       ,      %               .EL-i  9i:F.F
,J  {~~~~~A  PASC~~~~.,)    .t..
¼: tIFF  F       - - ~  ~    ~~~~~C u 
LIMA'  &  UNIN~~~~A UR MA 
HUANIAVELA UCH     CuZCO l
3,~~~~~~~~~~~J
ARE QUIPA>
.IO-IF F;. F K  -                                        OOUEFJ,UA\
fk. i  . c.,~Y..ced  b,  he Aiap [2eIQ pn :  ci [hr   Aorld E.an  PAil
.nFA,  FF4 de ,rc FFIF3  h9e :I2rF :1 The I' arId &a7r& FF3.A C NL A/ 
.dseFc  rhe IFg.3IFFoFL- clar, Fera.FrF  a., on, edarorr.ef-nr o.
AO,                                                     72          r  rHILE
MAY 1 999



