Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P 7447-PE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED PROGRAMMATIC SOCIAL REFORM LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$100 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF PERU
April 2, 2001
Human Development Department
Bolivia, Ecuador and Peru Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of theD
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



PERU - PROGRAMMATIC SOCIAL REFORM LOAN
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of 04/2/2001)
Currency Unit = Nuevo Sol
US$1.00 = 3.57
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCRP               Central Bank of Peru (Banco Central de Reserva del Perui)
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA               Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CIAS               Inter-Ministerial Social Policy Commission (Comisi6n Interministerial de Asuntos Sociales)
CLAS               Community Managed Health Facilities (Comunidades Locales de Administracion de Salud)
CONAM              National Council for the Environment
CPAR               Country Procurement Assessment Report
CTAR               Transitory Council of Regional Administration (Consejos Transitorios de Administraci6n Regional)
COOPOP             Popular Cooperation (Cooperaci6n Popular)
CUANTO             CUANTO, Investigation Center (Centro de Investigaci6n CUANTO)
DISA               Regional Health Department (Direcciones de Salud)
GOP                Government of Peru
GRADE              Analysis & Development Group (Grupo de Anailisis para el Desarrollo- GRADE)
EFF                Extended Fund Facility
ESSALUD            Health Social Security Institute (formerly known as IPSS)
FONCODES           Social Investment and Compensation Fund (Fondo Nacional de Compensaci6n y Desarrollo Social)
IADB               Inter-American Development Bank
IDA                International Development Agency
INEI               National Statistics Institute (Instituto Nacional de Estadistica e Informatica)
INFES              National Infrastructure Institute for Education and Heath
(Instituto Nacional de Infraestructura en Educaci6n y Salud)
INS                National Health Institute (Instituto Nacional de Salud)
IMF                International Monetary Fund
JBIC               Japan Bank for International Cooperation
MEF                Ministry of Economy and Finance
MINSA              Ministry of Health
MOE                Ministry of Education
NGO                Non-Governmental Organization
PAR Salud          Health Reform Program (Programa de Apoyo para la Reforma de Salud)
PROMUDEH           Ministry of Women's Promotion and Human Development
PRONAA             National Complementary Food Program (Programa Nacional de Apoyo Alimentario)
PRONAMACHCS   National Project for the Management of Water Sheds Basin and Soil Conservation
(Proyecto Nacional de Mantenimiento de Cuencas Hidrograficas y Conservacion de Suelos)
PSRL               Programmatic Social Reform Loan
SEDAPAL            Lima Water Service (Servicio de Agua Potabley Alcantarillado de Lima)
SIN                National Intelligence Service (Sistema Nacional de Inteligencia)
SMI                Mother and Child Health Insurance (Seguro MWaterno Infantil)
SEG                Student Insurance (Seguro Escolar)
Vice President:  David de Ferranti
Country Director:  Isabel Guerrero
Sector Director:  Xavier Coll
Lead Economist:  David Yuravlivker
Sector/Team Leader:  Evangeline Javier



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF PERU
PROGRAMMATIC SOCIAL REFORM LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Peru
Amount:              US$100 million
Terms:               Single currency loan (SCL) in US Dollars with 17 years rmaturity
including 5 years grace period with Libor-based variable interest
rate
Commitment Fee:   Three-fourths of one percent per annum
Objectives and
Description:         The proposed loan is a Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loan (PSAL). Its
objective is to support the medium-term social reformr program of the
Government of Peru. The social reform program, would help build the bases for
a transparent and participatory resource allocation mechanism. rationalization of
expenditures, decentralized implementation and systematic performance-tracking
of social programs. The first loan of this program would empilasize safeguarding
of critical social expenditures especially beneficial to the pOOl during a difficult
fiscal adjustment and political transition period. It will also lay the groundwork
for medium-term  reforms, including increasing capacity for targeting and
monitoring of poverty-alleviation programs, launching public access to social
expenditure information, and unifying health and nutrition programs. The second
loan of the program would help consolidate the institution-building started in the
first loan, focusing on de-politicization of resource allocation and utilization,
further elimination of program duplication, improvement of safety net for a
variety of social risks, as well as a strengthening social control by civil society.
The Bank would provide US$200 million financing for the reform program, with
the second loan contingent on satisfactory progress of implementation. A third
loan may be considered to be developed with the incoming government to
continue supporting the medium-term reforms. The proposed program is being
cofinanced with IDB.
Benefits:            The Loan's immediate major benefit is its contribution to Peru's attaining a
stable economic transition during a period of political uncertainties. In the short-
term, the social reform program supported by the Loan will help protect critical
social and economic expenditures for the poor, increase the poor's access to basic
health and education services, and help lay the groundwork for medium-terni
Substantial background work by the Government of Peru made this operation possible. On the Bank side, the core
task team included: Evangeline Javier (Task Team Leader, LCCPE); Laura Altobelli (Consultant).; Judy Baker
(LCSPP); Livia Benavides (LCSHD); Daniel Cotlear (LCSHD); Elizabeth Dasso (ESSD); Keta Ruiz (LCCPE); and
Norbert Schady (LCSPP). Important contributions were received from: Judith Mcguire, Maurizia Tovo, Ana Maria
Arriagada, Charles Griffin, Jamil Saimi (LCSHD); Pierre Werbrouck (LCCPE); Armando Armujo, Keisgner Alfaro
(LCOPR); and Paul Sisk (LCOAA). The peer reviewers were: Norman Hicks (LCSPP); Michael Walton (LCRCE);
and Lant Prichett (Harvard University). Ana Maria Arteaga (LCCPE) and Patricia Bernedo (LCSHD) provided
excellent processing assistance.
This document has a restricted distribution  and may be used by recipients only  in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



reforms. For the medium-term, the institutionalization of a transparent and
participatory process of resource allocation and performance-based tracking for
social expenditures enhances the poor's possibility to exert influence and voice in
the use of scarce fiscal resources. More so, as the reform program proceeds to
strengthen social control mechanisms, eliminate duplication of programs and
increasingly provide incentives for decentralization of social services. The Loan
supports the GOP's commitment to strengthen anti-corruption efforts and to
promote the empowerment of civil society and the private sector while
streamlining the public sector's role in an open Peruvian society.
Risks:               The most immediate risk to the social reform program is that the change of
government in July 2001 could imply changes in policy direction and priorities,
as well as major actors in the finiance and the social sectors. While the policies
and reforms being supported under the Loan have been the results of numerous
civil society consultations and their direction has been maintained in the past two
years, there is nonetheless, no assurance that the new government would commit
to these reforms.  The programmatic structural adjustment loan instrument,
however, allows flexibility and ensures that subsequent loan financing only
continues if the thrust of the reform program is maintained. Another important
risk is the possibility of failure to maintain fiscal stability because of the limited
revenue improvement options during the first year of the PSRL operation. The
coordinated package of external financing assistance from multilaterals and some
bilaterals, including the IMF Stand-by Arrangements would help mitigate this
risk.  Finally, the push for decentralization, including possible increased
engagement of local governments for social services delivery over the reform
period would imply a tremendous amount of cultural change and capacity-
building at local levels. This would be a high risk undertaking that would be
complemented by other interventions in the Bank's assistance strategy for Peru in
future years.
Schedule of
Disbursements:       US$100 million immediately after loan effectiveness
(expected in April 2001).
Poverty Category:    Program of Targeted Intervention
Rate of Return:      Not applicable
Project ID Number:  PE-P071243
Map:                 IBRD No. 26572RI



TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. THE POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC SETTING ...............................................................................1                                                                         I
A.  PERU: A   COUNTRY  IN  DEMOCRATIC  TRANSITION ...............................................................................1I
B. MACROECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND OUTLOOK ................................................................................2
11. THE SOCIAL REFORM  PROGRAM  ................................................................................4
A. POVERTY AND SOCIAL CONDITIONS ................................................................................4
B. THE REFORM PROGRAM: FROM POLITICIZATION TO INSTITUTIONALIZATION .....................................................4
C.  SOCIAL  POLICY  ARTICULATION  AND  COORDINATION ................................................................................                                                      7
D.  SOCIAL PROTECTION DURING CRISIS ................................................................................9
E. ACCESS OF THE POOR TO SOCIAL PROGRAMS ...............................................................................                                                                II
F. TRANSPARENCY OF SOCIAL EXPENDITURES AND EMPOWERMENT OF BENEFICIARIES ........................................ 16
G.  RATIONALIZATION  OF PUBLIC  SOCIAL  EXPENDITURES ...............................................................................                                                     18
111. THE PROPOSED  LOAN ............................................................................... 23
A. LINK TO COUNTRY AS SIS TANCE STRATEGY ...............................................................................                                                                23
B. PROGRAM OBJECTIVES, BENCHMARKS AND TRIGGERS ...............................................................................                                                           24
C. DESCRIPTION OF FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE ...............................................................................                                                                  25
D. PROCUREMENT AND FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION ...............................................................................                                                             26
E. ENVIRONMENTAL  ASPECTS  ............................................................................... 26
F. BENEFITS  AND  RISKS ...............................................................................  27
TABLES
TABLE I BUDGET CUTS 2001 ........................................................................                                                                                              3
TABLE 2 PUBLIC SECTOR ACCOUNTS AND EXTERNAL DEBT SERVICE, 1998 - 2003 ................................... 3
TABLE 3 PERU'S SOCIAL REFORM PROGRAM .......................................................................                                                                                   5
TABLE 4 EXPENDITURES ON POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROGRAMS, 1998-200 ...............................................1  2
TABLE 5 EXPENDITURES ON EDUCATION, HEALTH AND SANITATION AND POVERTY ALLEVIATION
PROGRAMS  1997-2000 ........................................................................                                                                                 12
FIGURES
FIGURE I FISCAL ADJUSTMENT NEEDS TO BE ACHIEVED THROUGH LOWER EXPENDITIJRES ....................... 2
FIGURE 2 A DRAMATIC FISCAL ADJUSTMENT IS REQUIRED ....................................................................... 2
ANNEXES
ANNEX I SOCIAL POLICY LETTER .......................................................................                                                                                         29
ANNEX 2 PROGRAMMATIC SOCIAL REFORM LOAN - POLICY MATRIX ...................................................... 43
ANNEX 3 LIST OF PROTECTED  SOCIAL PROGRAMS .......................................................................                                                                           53
ANNEX 4 CONTINGENCY SOCIAL PROTECTION PLAN ........................................................................                                                                           55
ANNEX 5 CIVIL SOCIETY CONSULTATION PROCESS RELATED TO THE ADJUSMENT LOAN ........................... 57
ANNEX 6 PERU AT A GLANCE ........................................................................                                                                                            60
ANNEX 7 KEY ECONOMICS AND PROGRAM INDICATORS ........................................................................  62
ANNEX 8 BANK GROUP PROGRAM SUMMARY .......................................................................                                                                                   63
ANNEX 9 IFC FOR PERU .......................................................................                                                                                                 64
MAP -IBRD No. 26572R1 .......................................................................                                                                                                65






MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESID]ENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED PROGRAMMATIC SOCIAL REFORM LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF PERU
1.    I submit for your approval the following Report and Recommendation on a proposed
Programmatic Social Reform Loan (PSRL) to the Republic of Peru for US$100 million to support the
Government's medium-term social reform program. The loan will be a single currency loan (SCL) in US
Dollars with 17 years maturity including 5 years of grace with Libor-based variable interest rate.
2.    The PSRL will be the first of two loans using a Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loan
(PSAL) instrument. The loan will support the reform program covering social expenditure transparency
and rationalization, increasing decentralization of social services as well as measures to empower and
protect the poor. A decision about whether and when the second operation would go forward would
depend on the progress of the reform program. Thus, the program would consist of two single-tranche
loans, adding to US$200 million in total. The Government has also requested the Bank to consider a
possible third loan of US$100 million to be developed with the new government to continue supporting
the medium-term social reform program.
l. The Political and Economic Setting
A. Peru: A Country in Democratic Transition
3.    Only a few months after former President Fujimori's controversial reelecticin for a third term, a
corruption scandal involving his key advisor, was the spark that lit a bonfire irnto Peruvian politics
bringing down his regime after a decade in power. The spark, a video showing his advisor bribing an
opposition congressman to switch loyalties, was broadcast on September 14, 2000. On September 16,
President Fujimori surprised the country by announcing fresh general elections in which he would not
stand as a candidate. After a tumultuous but peaceful two months, Congress ousted Fujimori and the
process of uncovering the network of corruption began. Valentin Paniagua-Corazao, the interim Peruvian
president, was sworn in late November. He leads a technical cabinet with the mandate of conducting
clean and orderly elections for April 8, 2001 and establishing the conditions fcr a smooth political
transition and the basis for economic recovery.
4.     Since taking office, the transition government has taken important steps to strengthen democracy
based on the ethical principles of transparency, responsibility and confidence. Governance is no doubt
the limelight of the transition administration.  In addition to the investigations of corruption and
misconduct cases that will lead to prosecutions, one important step to improve governance in a preventive
way has been the launching of a "Economic Transparency gateway," a website that displays detailed
information on fiscal accounts, including defense and interior, and major social var-iables and programs.
The proposed PSRL is supporting measures like this to improve governance and social control and
prevent corruption.
5.    The fall of the Fujimori regime, introduced great political uncertainty as evAdenced by immediate
reactions in the stock market. This uncertainty has continued and investors are delaying their decisions
until the new President and his or her team take office on July 28, 2001. The imnpact of the political
uncertainty on private investment has been translated into a continuing slowdown in economic activity.



2
This is not helping Peru's economic recovery even though opinion polls have shown a very high approval
(over three quarters of the population) for the actions of the interim administration.
B. Macroeconomic Conditions and Outlook
6.     The transition  administration  received  a  country  which  faces many  challenges.
Compounding two years of economic slowdown, there was zero growth in the last semester of 2000. The
uncertainty faced by the public and entrepreneurs at all levels, made consumption and investment
recovery impossible. At the same time the fiscal situation had deteriorated. This was a result of both
declining tax revenues, and the pre-electoral overspending of the first semester (see Figures 1 and 2). To
make this worse, the Fujimori government had not met the targets under the Extended Fund Facility
(EFF) program for two consecutive years, which made government's financing uncertain for the first time
in many years. All these resulted in a deterioration of the country risk. Peru's international credit ratings
were unchanged in 2001, but Moody's lowered its outlook from stable to negative. The analysis that
follows focuses on the main macroeconomic issues relevant to the proposed PSRL. A detailed account of
Peru's recent economic developments and macroeconomic projections and prospects is provided in the
accompanying CAS Progress Report (Report No. 22033).
Figure 1 - Fiscal Adjustment needs to be              Figure 2
A Dramatic Fiscal Adjustment
achieved through Lower Expenditures                   is Required
c           ~~~~~~~Fiw.-IAdjustm.nt
"'   i  9.kea n      1 0
088
16 
1*1~~~~~~~~~~~ 2.8   31 2 ll                             ba _fC   _F      CMS_.8  A .@ S2.) =_ 9 - 
2                           .
~0
-0.2
1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1999 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001
Source: Central Bank of Peru            Source: Central Bank of Peru
7.    The main macroeconomic imbalance is the fiscal deficit, which sharply increased in recent
years. It increased from 0.8 percent of GDP in 1998 to 3.0 percent in 1999, due to reduced tax rates and
new tax exemptions, and to an increase in government expenditures because of a long awaited wage
increase. In 2000, government tax revenues also fell due to the economic downturn, a relaxation of tax
collections, and a fiscal amnesty that was declared in August. As mentioned earlier, expenditures
increased during the pre-electoral season. Although expenditures were tightened in the second half, the
fiscal deficit target of 2 percent of GDP, as required by the 1999 Fiscal Responsibility Law, was not
attained; the deficit reached 2.9 percent of GDP. The transition government realizes that restoring
confidence in macroeconomic policy is crucial and has adopted measures to stabilize the economy,
quickly reaching an agreement with the Fund. A Stand-by Agreement approved by the IMF Board in
March, which focuses on measures to bring the fiscal deficit down to 1.5% of GDP in 2001, as required
by the Fiscal Responsibility Law, has replaced the EFF.  This program  provides the appropriate
macroeconomic framework for the proposed PSRL.
8.     But the fiscal adjustment required to reach a 1.5% deficit is dramatic (see figure 2). And in
the context of a recession, most of the adjustment needs to be achieved through lower expenditure. The
government has preferred to make strong cuts in defense expenditures, internal security and the poorly
targeted social programs in the Ministry of the Presidency (See Table 1). These cuts have implied a



3
preliminary redefinition of the role of the Army. Priority social programs are being protected, as per the
conditionality in the proposed PSRL and in close consultation with the IMF. These expenditure cuts will
in no way jeopardize othier important investments, e.g., in rural roads since the priority social programs
include a broad definition of "social." The Congress has also given extraordinary faculties to the Ministry
of Finance to rationalize the tax system and tax exemptions. The public deficit target should also result
from several measures to increase revenues by about 2 percent of GDP in spite of the economic
slowdown.
9.      The public deficit will be financed mostly with privatizations and foreign financing (See
Table 2). On the debt side, the government will not seek restructuring of the public external debt, which
represents about one quarter of government revenues. In spite of the political uncertainty, negotiations
and agreements are well under way to materialize privatizations of around US$500 million.  These
include gas exploration, airports and other important infrastructure and concession progiams that will help
economic recovery. Disbursements from  external financing by multilateral and bilateral sources should
amount to about US$1.2 billion. A slowdown in the global economy, could lead to a fall in mineral
prices, that could hurt Peru's recovery and delay some privatizations. This risk makes the proposed
financing even more critical and the international financial institutions are closely coordinating to ensure
the required finanicinig is forthicoming.  One alternative to external financing could be local financing
through  issuing domestic bonds.  Following                  Table 1
the recommendation  by  a joint Bank-Fund                     Budget Cuts (2001)
financial assessment, the implementation of a
strategy to develop the domestic capital market                 Sector                 0,tl1i .tii
to  deal  with  the  currency  mismatch  of                                             2 43
government  debt  and  revenue  hias  been                      rn                      253
initiated with small domestic bond issues for                   O
about  US$140   million   for   this   year.                    T-l                    1 276
Borrowing in foreign capital markets is not
currently being considered by the government    Source. Ministry of Economy and Finance
since it would be quite costly and relatively
short-term under present conditions.
Public Sector Accounts (US$ million)
I otal Revenue                                   10,153     8,491    8,504     8,645    9,000    9,690
Total Exp)enditure                               10,606    10,109    10,147    9,466    9,687    10,046
NIFPS Deficit                                       454     1,618    t1,643     822      687       356
Net External Financing                           219        33      653       202      285       46
Disbursements                                  790     1,237    1,485     1,130    1,223     1.143
Amortization                                   571     1,270      832      928       938     1,097
Privatization                                    261       389      409       500     1,000    1,000
Domestic Financing                               -26      1,261     581       120     -597      -689
External Public Debt Service (US$ million) 1i     1,526     2,015    2.177     2,116    2,261    2,460
By Financing Instltlion
Multilaterals                                     555      623      938       835      892       971
Pans Club                                        618       737      771       937     ,001     1,089
Other                                            353       65s      826       344      368       400
Sources IMF, Ministry of Economy and Finance, Central Bank ot Peeu; World Bank Staff estimates
10.     Financing under the proposed PSRL will support Peru's economic and social stability. The
PSRL would support the medium  tern  fiscal adjustment and social sector reform  program  during the
transition phase before the new administration takes office in July 2001 and during its first year. In



4
particular, the proposed PSRL will finance social programs to mitigate the impact of the economic
slowdown on the poor, while the government adjusts its fiscal position. The proposed PSRL and the
external financing package would also provide a cushion to the government in case of external shocks.
Otherwise, if everything goes as projected in the years 2002 and 2003, there would be a build-up of
government accounts in the banking system, which will allow a larger volume of credit to the private
sector within the existing credit ceilings. As mentioned above, the targeted return to an equilibrium
position with a fiscal deficit of 1.5 percent of GDP requires a sharp reduction in government expenditures.
In this context, and after several years of slowdown in economic activity, it is crucial to protect the social
programs under the proposed PSRL, which amount to about 10 percent of total expenditures. The
protection of these programs should help ease the tensions with the rising vulnerable population and help
preserve the recent gains in poverty alleviation.
II. The Social Reform Program
A. Poverty and Social Conditions
11.    Poverty and social conditions in Peru between 1994 and 1997 improved considerably, consistent
with an impressive economic performance during the period. Driven partly by an average per capita
growth of 3.5 percent, the creation of 1.3 million jobs, and increased public social expenditures, the
national poverty rate declined from 53.5 to 49 percent. Extreme poverty also declined to 15 percent by
1997. Social indicators track record also improved notably, e.g.; by 1997 literacy rate increased to 90
percent, infant mortality rate declined to 43 per 1,000 live births and malnutrition rates have decreased
substantially in the urban and rural areas.
12.   Nonetheless, there are reasons for concern. First, the economic shocks between 1997 and 2000
had negative repercussions on social welfare. Preliminary analysis' showed that poverty rate for 2000
was back at the 1994 level (at 54.1 percent). The rise in poverty rate was due mostly to the increasing
number of the non-extreme poor, that is, more households are falling back below the poverty line.
Extreme poverty was maintained at 1997 level of about 14.8. These numbers indicate that gains of the
first part of the 1990s are slowly being wiped out. Clearly, poverty is a serious problem with half of the
population below the poverty line. Second, regional disparities have increased throughout the decade: of
the total poverty reduction in 1997, almost 80 percent came from two regions alone, Lima and the urban
Sierra, while other regions, such as the rural highlands, have fallen behind. Third, income inequality
increased, with the indigenous population lagging behind across a wide range of indicators.
13.    Social expenditures rose significantly in the past decade. The share of total social expenditure to
GDP evolved from 3.9 percent in 1990 to 8 percent in 2000. Per capita social expenditures (in 1990
constant dollars) showed an increasing trend between 1990 to 1995 (US$91 to US$187). However, by
the year 2000, per capita social expenditures declined to US$168. Because of Peru's deteriorating fiscal
situation, GOP protected the budget of a critical set of social programs (as agreed with the Bank under
FSAL 11) that are beneficial to the poor. Increasing program efficiency has also become a high priority in
GOP policy.
B. The Reform Program: From Politicization to Institutionalization
14.    The GOP has embarked on a medium-term social reform program consolidating the positive
shifts of past social expenditures but markedly de-politicizing resource allocation. The main thrust of the
reform program will be: Transparency, Participation and increasing Decentralization of social
' Source: MEF paper on the Lineamientos Basicos de Politica Social (January 12, 2001); data source - ENNIV.



5
services delivery.  The reform  program  will focus on building institutions, systems, and capacities in the
social areas including an objective allocation of resources and their performance-basecl tracking.  Social
institutions that were weakened in the past decades will be reconstructed with the liope that they would
withstanid future government changes and political whims.  Technical tools to facilitate the process are
either being developed or will be improved under the reform program. The proposed PSRL is designed
to support the fulfillment this medium-tern  vision.
21;?io v
1. Improve social policy articulation  A.  Adoption of common strategic vision for sociai           *   CIAS and MEF
and coordination. Achieve coherent        ministries/agencies Resource allocation would push for:   *   MIINSA
social policy with objective resource     +   Decentralization of social services                   *   MOE
allocation norms and transparent          *   Transparency of expenditures and empowerment of            MINPRES
performance monitoring and                     beneficiaries                                        *    PROMUDEH
evaluation                                *   I'rotection of the poor and vulnerable groups
*   Rationalization of social expenditures
B   Itnstitution. Revitalize leadership and coordination of social
policy
C    Tools:
*   Multi-annual Sector Strategic Plans
*   IPerformance-based Budgets
*   Expansion of SIAF application
*   Unified poverty map and sector/program-specific
targeting strategy
*   Regular Monitoring for decision feedback
*   Ex-post evaluation of program results
11. Fstablish adequate social protection   A    Budget protection of social programs critical to the poor  *   MEFiCIAS
during crisis                        B.  Transferring Resources to Households                       *   MINSA
*   Short-term social contingency plan                    *   MOE
*   Medium-term social protection strategy and operating  *   PROMUDEH
mechanisms
A.  Labor. employment conditions for women and youth workers
111. Improve access of the poor to   A.  Targeting of poverty-alleviation programs                  *   MEF/Social
social programs                      B.  Hlealth Sector                                                  Programs
*   Mother-Child Health Insurance                         *   MINSA
*   CLAS                                                  *   MOE
C.  Education Sector                                           *   PROMUDEH
*   Incentives for rural teachers
IV lmprove transparency in resource   A.  Periodic publication of detailed budget transfers to the major    *   MEF
allocation and empowerment of             poverty-alleviation programs                              *   Selected poverty
beneficiaries for better social control   B.  Public declaration of political neutrality of some social  alleviation
agencies                                                       programs
C    Design of social control and complaint mechanism          *   PROMUDEH
D    Education Sector                                          *   Defensor del
*   Publication of student achievement test results            Pueblo (Public
*   National consultation to define education vision           Ombudsman)
*   Empowering parents to follow-up teacher attendance
V Rationalize resource use: eliminate   A.  Nutrition versus food supplementation programs           *   MINSA/INS
program duplication                  B.  Flealth Sector                                             *   PRONAA
*   Unification of mother and child-health programs; and  *   MOE
health expense reimbursement mechanisms (SMI and     *   ESSALUD
SEG)
+    Reduce duplication of ESSALJD and MINSA
investments
C.  Edttcation Sector
*   Application of teacher payroll and tracking system  |        _J
15.      Table 3 presents a roadmap of the major objectives, the principal reform  areas and the major
actors involved in the reform process. In summary, the major objectives are:



6
(i) A more transparent and participatory articulation of the social policy agenda, including priority
for monitoring and evaluation of social expenditure impact;
(ii) Establishment of adequate social protection during crisis;
(iii) Improving access of the poor to critical social programs, through better targeting of social
expenditures and initiation of the decentralization of social services delivery;
(iv) Improving transparency in resource allocation and empowering beneficiaries for better social
control; and
(v) Rationalization of social expenditures
16.    The bulk of the reform actions under each of the above objectives has a long trajectory of
development. As well, they complement various structural reforms already in execution or planned in the
social sectors. Starting from the initial preparation of a Poverty SAL in 19992, the Ministry of Finance
(MEF), in coordination with the Ministry of the Presidency, has taken the leadership of coordinating the
development of coherent social expenditure and related policy reforms in the social sectors. MEF's active
involvement in social issues has been a welcome development for the social sectors. This has put the
social concerns high on the policy agenda of the GOP. The social sector agencies participated actively in
the development of the reforn program proposed under the PSRL.
17.    The Bank started to assist the development of the reforms proposed to be supported by the PSRL
in various ways. A Poverty Assessment Report3 was prepared with active participation of Peruvian
professionals. This was followed by a Poverty Forum each year between 1998 to 2000. Sector analytical
work was carried out in health and education4 leading to sector investment operations which will help
implement the structural changes arising from the policy decisions taken (and to be adopted) under the
PSRL. Likewise, a Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (June 1999) already initiated a social protection
and contingency plan design which will be followed up by the present loan. Thus, under two cabinet
regimes of former President Fujimori and now under the present transition GOP, the thrust of the
social sector reforms has remained stable. Because many of the reforms have resulted from demands
expressed in various consultations with the civil society (see section below) the probability of their
continuation under the new GOP after the April 8 Presidential elections is judged to be high.
18.    One of the most important initiatives being led by the transition government is an anti- corruption
program. In addition to prosecuting illegal enrichment, the government realizes that fighting corruption
requires, in the medium-term, building strong and transparent institutions. An assessment of the type and
areas of corruption will be carried out with the support of the World Bank, through surveys of the
population, entrepreneurs and public officials themselves. This assessment would be followed by
dissemination and strategic workshops aimed at raising awareness and working out a plan of how to
eliminate corruption. The anticorruption initiative is being complemented by an Institutional and
Governance Review which will make a more in depth analysis of the incentive structure that has led to
the current institutional and governance system that Peru has.
19.    Consultations with Stakeholders.  The social reform program is supported by the results of
open consultations with civil society in Peru. Of the three National Poverty Fora held in Peru, the first
2 Later converted to the current proposed Programmatic Social Reform Loan.
3 Poverty and Social Developments in Peru, 1994-1997 (Red Cover 1999)
4Peru: Improving Health Care for the Poor (Red Cover 1999); Peru: Education at a Crossroads (Grey Cover, 1999;
Red Cover to be printed 2001)



7
one concluded that there were duplication, overlap and gaps in the poverty alleviation and social
programs of the different government agencies and donors (point v above). The second forum held in
August to September 1999 (which included regional Fora in Piura, Cusco, Tarapoto, and Lima) focussed
on the access of the poor to social services (point iii and iv above). More than 250 participants from
government, donors, NGOs and academia contributed ideas towards an evolving social agenda. The most
recent Poverty Forum (2000/2001) highlighted the employment issues and included the participation of
entrepreneurs and candidates for the forthcoming April presidential elections. Some of the conclusions
touched on rural education, roads and labor legislation (included in points ii and iii al)ove). Apart from
the Poverty Forum, other civil society organizations promoted discussions and debate on social issues. A
summary of all these discussions is presented in Annex 5. It also became clear from these consultations
that a systematic social control mechanism can be developed to support the iocial expenditure
transparency objective of the reform program.
C. Social Policy Articulation and Coordination
20.    Social policy in Peru has evolved from an emergency phase in the early to rnid-90's to a more
developmental phase from  1996 onwards.  To alleviate the impact of a severe macroeconomic
stabilization and a profound phase of structural reforms in the first half of the 90's, the GOP established
emergency programs to protect the poor. These included provision of temporal employment opportunities
primarily through the social infrastructure programs of FONCODES; creation of PRONAA to provide
supplementary food programs; establishment of vertical programs in some sectorial agencies; and creation
of other social assistance programs managed by the Ministry of the Presidency.
21.   In the mid-90's, once stabilization and some structural reforms were achieved, the GOP started to
define a medium-term strategy to develop social sector policies and institutions. However, existing
emergency and vertical programs did not cease to exist. In turn, the strengthening of social institutions
created new opportunities for delivering health, education, nutrition and employment possibilities, some
of which were directly financed from the center and delivered with community participation. While some
of the new programs introduced important innovations in the sector (e.g. CLAS in health), significant
duplication of activities resulted. This situation has created an unwieldy and costly burden on limited
public resources. A number of these social programs have also been shown to have significant leakage to
non-poor segments of the society who may be able to deal with a maturing private sector market for
education and health services.
22.    Social Policy Coordination. The GOP aims to put some order on the proliferation of programs
requiring ever increasing budget resources. Likewise, it would like to ensure coherence in the policies
emanating from the social sectors and to hold the sectors responsible for performance criteria vis-a- vis
their expenditures. The attempt to coordinate special and regular line ministry social programs is not new
in Peru. In the 80's, an Inter-Ministerial Social Policy Commission (CIAS) was set uip to coordinate and
improve the allocation of social expenditures among agencies and ministries. Its composition and
functions were further re-enforced in 1997. The CIAS is composed of Ministers Mnd heads of social
agencies and it is headed by the President of the Council of Ministers. However, in the past CIAS
did not really exercise its mandated role with sufficient power. Instead, the line ministries and special
programs have always responded directly to the President of the Republic.
23.    The transition GOP has now revived the role of the CIAS but with one change - MEF will
provide analytical inputs to support the small technical secretariat of ClAS. The MEF group which has
been coordinating the social sectors for the preparation of the PSRL is expected to provide the technical
support to the CIAS secretariat. With good technical support, CIAS will be able to exercise better its
decision-making and coordination function on social policy issues.



8
24.    For the first loan of the PSRL, the GOP sent the Bank a Social Policy Letter which encapsulates
the medium-term vision of social policy reforms (see Annex 1). This vision, as summarized in Table 3,
will promote the building of institutions, systems and tools to ensure the transparency and rationalization
of expenditures, empowerment of beneficiaries, protection of the critical programs for the poor, and
increased decentralization of the delivery of social services. The policy letter also highlights the GOP
objective of reaching the indigenous population and specifies the priority social areas for development in
the medium-term. On January 29, 2001, MEF held a workshop in Lima attended by representatives from
government, civil society andprivate sector to discuss theLineamientos Bcisicos de Politica Socialwhich
is a key input to the Social Policy Letter. This workshop is an example of the open environment for
decision-making now prevailing in Peru. One of the triggers for the second loan is a confirmation (or, as
desired, expansion) by the newly-elected government of the reform agenda set out in the social policy
letter (Annex 2).
25.    Strategic Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation of Social Programs. In addition to a weak
social policy, there has been a lack of coherence in the strategies, plans, and programs of the social
agencies. As well, there has been inadequate monitoring and evaluation of social expenditures and
programs. Under the medium-term reform program, GOP aims to substantially strengthen the capacity of
social agencies and programs to plan and budget based on expected results, monitor implementation, and
determine the impact that programs have had on critical dimensions of poverty. The latter dimensions
would include per capita expenditures, nutrition, health and education outcomes. The results of the
monitoring and ex-post evaluation would provide policy makers, beneficiaries, and others with timely
information which should allow them to re-design and improve interventions which seek to improve the
lives of the poor. The GOP has developed some tools to help in this endeavor, including (a) the Multi-
Annual Sector Strategic Plans to lead performance-based budgets, and (b) the System of Integrated
Financial Administration (SIAF).
a. Performance-based Budget Development. To start the link of social expenditures with performance
targets, the GOP (MEF and the social sectors) has developed a Multi-Annual Strategic Plan for each
of the sectors with quantifiable performance targets for the years 2001- 2005. The Plans which have
been approved by Supreme Decree No. 108-2000-EF on October 5, 2000 are fundamental documents
that aim to establish priorities in social expenditures. While the Plans have been a good start, their
indicators and targets need to be improved. The indicators in these Plans are undergoing revisions.
For the first loan of the PSRL, the MEF: (a) completed the performance-based monitoring software
for input and output indicators; and (b) agreed with four key ministries involved in the execution of
social programs - MINSA, MOE, MINPRES, AND PROMUDEH - on the input and output
indicators to be used for the performance targets. The benchmark for the second loan is that the 2002
budget to be presented to Congress would take into account the performance indicators developed
under the Multi-Annual Strategic Plans; and MEF would issue the norms to implement a
performance-based budgetary allocation for the social sector.
b. System of Integrated Financial Administration (SIAF): In 1999 MEF fully operationalized SIAF
to better track public income and expenditures. The information is available at the provincial level
(for most expenditures) in approximately 559 Executing Units (UEs) in various ministries. SIAF
consolidates information on income and expenditures which had been sent by the Executing Units to
the National Directorate for Public Budgets (DNPP), the General Directorate for Public Treasury
(DGTP), and the National Public Accountant (CPN). Through SIAF the UEs receive their monthly
transfers from the DNPP, and in turn register their operational income and expenditures which is
transmitted to MEF for verification and approval. The system has helped to improve overall financial
management in Peru by providing reliable information on a regular basis, as well as increasing
transparency in the process.



9
c. By end-2000, SIAF has already been applied to all social sectors. As part of the push towards
transparency, for the first loan of the PSRL, SIAF was further extended in January 2001 to the
Ministries of the Interior and Defense. This is an important step towards improvlig transparency in
the execution of social expenditures as it will ensure that these ministries' fund utilization, formerly a
well-guarded information, can also be tracked by MEF. The publication of the SIAF information in
the recently-launched Portal: Transparencia Economica (MEF Economic Transparency Website)
permits the access of the general public to this information. For the second loan, SIAF or a similar
system will be applied to a sample number of municipal governments. In addition, the MEF would
develop an integrated system to track all of the transfers made by the central government to local
governments. Both of these initiatives will make SIAF an even more powerful -ool for monitoring
government income and expenditures in the medium-term.
d. Monitoring and Ex-post impact evaluation. In addition to shortcomings regarding monitoring,
poverty alleviation programs in Peru generally do not have a strong record evaluating the impact of
their interventions on the welfare of the poor. Very few programs in Peru have conducted an impact
evaluation. This makes it difficult to establish whether they have performed well in meeting their
goals. There are some exceptions (e.g. FONCODES' annual beneficiary assessments and ex-post
impact evaluations conducted by FONCODES, Caminos Rurales, and PRONAMACHCS). However,
these are ad-hoc initiatives, implemented in the context of Bank and IDB loans, and the extent to
which they have become institutionalized is not clear. The first loan of the PSRL will support an
institutionalization of an evaluation culture, whereby poverty alleviation programs are regularly
evaluated to assess the extent to which they have truly improved the conditions of poor households.
In this context, the MEF is currently in the process of designing a strategy jointly with the heads of
major poverty alleviation programs to ensure that they conduct systematic ex-posi: impact evaluations
on a regular basis. For the first loan of the PSRL, MEF has reached agreement with FONCODES,
PRONAA, Caminos Rurales, PRONAMACHCS, and Rural Electrification program on developing
monitoring strategy and evaluation guidelines which include an ex-post impact evaluation for those
programs which have not conducted one in the last two years. An integral part of this system will be
the participation of civil society in the review process, as well as its increased access to information
about the majorpoverty alleviation programs (see Table 4). Part of the benchmarks for the second
loan would be evidence of application of these agreed strategies by these five pro&rams.
D. Social Protection During Crisis
26.    While it has a multitude of social programs, Peru does not have a well-developed social
protection system which would allow the poor to weather sudden shocks, whether these are systemic or
idiosyncratic. This PSRL seeks to assist in the development of such a system by moving both on short-
term policies and on a comprehensive assessment of the extent to which current programs meet the
protection needs of the poor, including a review of the institutional reforms which would be needed.
27.    The continuing economic downturn in 2000, which may still worsen this year, has led to serious
fiscal problems and deteriorating incomes for many segments of the population. The GOP has ruled out
increasing taxes as a means of confronting this crisis. Hence, at least for 2001, the more practical
immediate approach to cushioning the effects of the crisis on the poor will have to ccme from the public
expenditure side. Under the reform program, the GOP will: (i) seek to protect expenlitures on key social
programs which are particularly important for poor households, (ii) develop a social contingency plan for
the short term, including the triggers which will initiate public actions under various scenarios, and an



10
information strategy to gather data on the effects of a crisis; and (iii) a broader social protection strategy
for the medium-term.
28.    Protecting Key Social Services. The 2001 budget presented to Congress In August 2000 has
now become unrealistic as it was based on macroeconomic projections as of April 2000. MEF recently
issued a Decreto de Urgencia No. 128-2000 - Racionalidad y Limites en el Gasto Publico Para el Ano
Fiscal 2001 to provide a new set of budget allocations for 2001. This decree reflects decreased budget
allocations for the Ministries of the Presidency, Defense and Interior, among others, compared to the
budget approved by Congress. At the same time, it stipulates the priority of 12 program area for budget
allocation in anticipation of complying with the condition of the proposed Loan. The list reflects the
priority areas that were already protected in 1999 and 2000 under the Second Financial Sector Adjustment
Loan (FSAL).
29.    Within the 12 priority program  areas, the GOP further narrowed the number of protected
programs/projects to focus on those that would help improve the social and economic conditions of the
poor, have high degree of community participation and are likely to experience increased utilization
during this crisis year (see Annex 3). The specific list includes projects/activities with a total budget of
US$1.0 billion or about 10 percent of the total national budget. The allocated budget for this list of
protected programs/projects will be maintained during the year and possibly increased whenever the
regular government revenues exceed the levels projected at the time of this budget allocation. Thirty
percent of the protected budget is assigned to education (pre-primary, primary and secondary) and a bit
less than 20 percent to health. Some of the protected programs are especially directed to the dispersed
population, primarily composed of indigenous population (e.g. mobile health units in the amazon areas;
energy generation based on traditional methods, increased importance of bilingual education). As a
benchmark for the first loan of the PSRL, it was agreed that the budget assigned to these programs in
2001 will be no lower, in real terms, than the budget they received In 2000, and the quarterly
disbursements to these programs will be approved by CIAS to ensure that actual disbursements do not fall
below the projected budgets.
30.    The status of actual budget allocation and expenditures for the protected programs will be
monitored as follows: (a) CIAS will meet periodically to approve the quarterly allocation and will be
receiving report from  MEF on status of actual expenditures; (b) the IDB adjustment loan has a
complementary condition requiring MEF to report on the quarterly allocation and actual expenditures of
the protected programs; and (c) the maintenance of actual budget transfers to the protected programs as
agreed under the PSRL I will be a trigger indicator for PSRL 11.
31.    Transferring Resources to Households. A contingency plan for providing social protection in
the advent of a crisis was developed by the GOP for the Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
(FSAL) (see Annex 4). The trigger points to implement the plan did not occur in 2000. While it would
be reasonable to use the same plan for 2001 for the purposes of this operation, the GOP and the Bank
agreed to conduct further analytical work for Peru to have systematic responses for all types of social
risks affecting the population. For example, MEF is coordinating with other agencies to develop special
assessments and surveys (e.g. rapid qualitative assessments) that will provide timely information to
monitor and evaluate the impact of a crisis. To comply with one of the benchmarks of the first loan, the
GOP has recently sent the Bank a proposed social protection contingenlcy plan, expanding on the one
developed for the FSAL as mentioned above. The triggers of this contingency plani will be monitored by
MEF to determine the timing and extent of the plan activation.
5 The program areas are: (i) agriculture development, (ii) social assistance and community development; (iii)
internal security; (iv) pre-primary education; (v) primary education; (vi)secondary education; (vii) energy; (viii)
justice; (ix) individual health; (x) collective health; (xi)sanitation; (xii) rural roads and highway rehabilitation



11
32.   The lessons from the East Asian crisis suggest that in the short term countries are best served by
using existing social programs to protect the poor during a crisis, rather than by crealing new programs, in
particular when institutional capacity is low. In the long term, however, a major overhaul of programs
and institutional responsibilities may be necessary. Indeed, preliminary analysis shows that existing
programs in Peru may not be well suited - as presently designed- to serve as insurance for poor
households in the event of a crisis. For the second loan, the government has begun some background
analytical work on the design of a social protection strategy iltended to systematically protect the poor
from a variety of social risks. Draft terms of reference for this activity has been sent to the Bank. The
adoption of the social protection strategy (including its action plan, definition of responsibilities, and
budget) is one of the benchmarks for the second PSRL.
33.    Employment Conditions for Women and Youth Labor. In January 2001, the GOP passed a
number of legal amendments that will help improve the labor conditions for wome n and youth labor in
Peru. These include:
*  Law No. 27403 allows working mothers one hour paid breast feeding time per day for up to six
months after the child is born.
*  Law No. 27402, amending the third article of Law No. 26644. The amendrnent clarifies that if a
child is born after an expected delivery date, unused days will be considered medical rest for
temporary disability and paid as such.
*  Women adopting children of less than 12 years will be allowed paid leave of 30 days under Law
No. 27409.
*  Law No. 27404, modifying the Youth Labor Promotion Law (Ley del Programa de Formaci6n y
Promoci6n Laboral Juvenil) to reduce from three years to one year the temporary employment
contract of young workers. Also youth employment cannot be more than (0 percent of the total
personnel of any employer. This is to minimize abuses of some employers who try to avoid
paying the labor benefits of employed young adults.
34.   GOP's adoption of these legal amendments indicates an increasing concern for the need to
protect the vulnerable group of working mothers and children in Peru. Thus, they form part of the social
protection strategy currently being developed under this operation. Within the framework of this strategy,
for the second loan, the GOP is considering the amendment of the child labor age from 12 to 15 years
following international norms.
E. Access of the Poor to Social Programs
35.   This Section includes specific sector reforms which relate to increasing the access of the poor to
basic health, education and other social needs. Many of the reforms have beei- developed/are beilg
developed with complementary assistance of sector investment operations.
36.    Targeting of Poverty Alleviation Programs. Since 1990, the GOP has dramatically increased
expenditures on programs which seek to transfer resources to poor households, creating/strengthening,
among others, the Peruvian Social Fund (FONCODES), the feeding programs run by PRONAA (such as
the comedores populares) and the municipalities (such as the Vaso de Leche) and the agriculture program
PRONAMACHCS. Table 4 below shows the evolution of expenditures on these and other programs
which the MEF has explicitly designated "poverty alleviation programs" between 1997 and 2000. Table
5 shows expenditures on these programs in relation to expenditures on education, health and sanitation, as
well as a fraction of total public expenditures (excluding expenditures by the Miflistries of Defense and
Interior, and the National Intelligence Service (SIN)). These figures suggest that expenditures on the



12
MEF-designated "poverty alleviation programs" are about 7 percent to 8 percent of total public
expenditures.
37.       Targeting of poverty alleviation programs in Peru is important because, unlike most expenditures
made by the line ministries, these programs do not aim  to be universalistic. Rather, they seek to improve
the welfare of poor and extremely poor households. All of these programs must therefore attempt to
separate poor and non-poor households, accurately but cost-effectively, and chainel resources primarily
to poor households.
Social Assistance                                                            626            632       825                629
Vaso de Leche                                                                265            285       305                244
PRONA-A                                                                      244            223       290                240
Assistance for Resettlement                                                   33             19        22                 22
Agriculture-Land Titling                                                      35             36        64                 25
Commission for Formalization of Informal                                      15             25        86                 54
Properties
Literacy                                                                      35             44        59                 43
Social and Economic Infrastructure                                         1,233            985     1,257                688
FONCODES                                                                     638            509       774                377
COOPOP                                                                        2 1             4         8
PRONAMACHCS                                                                  134            140       191                146
Rural Electrification                                                         22              9         9                  4
Caminos Rurales                                                              205            195       190                110
INFES                                                                        213            127        85                 47
TOTAL                                                                      1,859          1,617     2,082              1,317
Educationi                                                                 4,141          4,487     5.177              397
Healthi and Sanitation                                                     2,031          2,209     2,420              i.7471
Poverty Alleviation Programs                                               1,859           1,617    2,082              1,317
jTOTAL PUBLIC SECTOR EXPENDITtJRES                                         24,063         22,908    27,118             20,287
Sotirce: MEF
Note: All expenidituires are in inominial soles, inflationi was 6.46 percenit iii 1997, 6.01 percent in 1998, 3.73 percent in 1999, aind 3.27 peicent in the fiist riise
moniths of 2000.
38.      Over the course of the last decade, there has been a great deal of discussion in Peru about how
best to target poverty alleviation  programs.  This discussion has focussed mainly on the use of poverty
maps for geographic targeting. There is a proliferation of district-level poverty rnaps in Peru. These have
been developed, amongst others, by FONCODES, the Ministry of the Presidency, the Peruvian Statistics



13
Office (INEI) and, most recently, the Peruvian think-tank GRADE and MEF. The maps developed by
FONCODES and the Ministry of the Presidency took a number of variables from the 1993 Census-the
fraction of households without access to services such as electricity, running water, and sewerage, as well
as indicators of educational attainment and nutritional status-and aggregated these into an index of
"Unmet Basic Needs". The INEI, GRADE, and MEF maps, by contrast, combined inf ormation from the
Census with information from a household survey to "impute" household (and therefore district)
consumption or income.
39.    Despite the proliferation of poverty maps, very few  programs have actually used them.
FONCODES has used its map to make "referential allocations" to districts. However, because of the
demand-driven nature of the program, there can be large discrepancies between district-level allocations
and actual expenditures. The Municipal Compensation Fund, the main block grant from the central GOP
to the municipalities, uses a formula which is based on the (imputed) infant mortalii:y rate, the fraction
rural, and population to assign resources to districts and provinces.  But most poverty-alleviation
programs in Peru, in particular the feeding programs run by PRONAA, have not systematically used any
poverty map to prioritize investments in some areas over others.
40.    There is a great deal of heterogeneity across districts in Peru. There is, therefore, substantial
potential for geographic targeting. In addition to the large differences across districts, however, there are
also large differences within a given district, especially urban districts, which tend to be much larger and
have a larger variation in mean income and other measures of well-being. Moreover, because all poverty
maps in Peru necessarily have to go back to the 1993 Census, they are somewhat outdated. Ideally,
poverty alleviation programs in Peru should therefore use a combination of geographic targeting and other
targeting, including self-targeting (for example, when programs which build infrastructure pay wages for
unskilled labor which are below prevailing market wages), or indicator targeting (whien programs make
site visits).
41.    Under the social reform program, the GOP aims to improve geographic targeting in Peru in two
ways: by developing a unified poverty map, and by ensuring that poverty alleviation programs adopt this
map as one of the elements in their respective targeting strategy. The Bank has reviewed and provided
comments to a draft poverty map developed by MEF (updating the best characteristics of other existing
poverty maps in Peru). This map was disseminated and scrutinized in a workshop (held in Lima in
December 2000) attended by representatives from GOP agencies, academics and NGOs. On the basis of
these consultations, MEF will finalize the poverty map and will issue a norm officially adopting it as a
common reference for social programs that should be targeted to the poor. In acdclition, each of the
programs using the common poverty map as a first reference would develop its own detailed targeting
strategy taking into account the peculiarities of each program design and local conditions for
implementation. For first loan of the PSRL, MEF reached agreement with FONCODES, PRONAA,
Caminos Rurales, PRONAMACHCS, and Rural electrification on a targeting strategy which includes but
is not limited to the updated poverty map. To update the population database and household
characteristics database, there is a need to proceed with the new population census in 2002. The
allocation of appropriate budget for this census in 2002 and evidence of the application of the agreed
targeting guidelines are part of the benchmarks for the second loan.
42.    Health6. The access of the poor to better health depends not only on the supply of services, but
also on their demand for services. Even during the mid-1990s years of relative bonanza, the cost of
medical attention constituted a deterrent for the poor to be able to exercise effectively this demand.
Public clinics and public hospitals charge users for medical services, drugs and diagnostic services. Most
6Health and education sector issues and reforms are discussed under different cross-sectoral objectives of the PSRL:
Improving access of the poor; Improving transparency in resource allocation; and Rationalizing social expenditures.



14
Ministry of Health (MINSA) facilities attempt to partially compensate for these charges by reducing
prices or by excepting some of the poor of some of the charges for medical services. The existing system
of exceptions is however very imperfect, poorly targeted and partial (e.g. it does not cover drugs or
medical inputs). Worse, as the subsidy is provided by the health establishment from its own revenues, the
possibility of funding the subsidy goes down and the needs go up in times of recession. The GOP began
to confront this barrier with the creation of two "public insurance schemes" which pay health providers
for high priority interventions for school children attending public schools (Seguro Escolar created in
1997) and for mothers and children (Seguro Materno Infantil - SMI - created in 1999). These schemes
eliminate the cost to the user, but maintain the incentive to supply the service for the provider by making
available a fee per service provided.
43.   In the last few years, the efficiency of primary health clinics was increased with the introduction
of management techniques which emphasized results, and by empowering local communities to manage
their own clinics using local health plans agreed with MINSA (the CLAS - Comunidades Locales de
Administraci6n de Servicios de Salud). In the three years after 1994, 611 public clinics were transferred
to the communities to form CLAS. There are indications that these clinics have numerous advantages in
relation to the traditional clinics (including improved planning, improved incentives to raise productivity
and accountability, flexibility in the management of budgets and in the hiring of staff and improved
quality of care). Despite these advantages, from 1997 until mid-1999 the rate of creation of new CLAS
slowed down considerably despite the existence of numerous requests. This resistance was mainly due to
concerns of Regional health officials with the loss of direct control over health facilities and staff. Public
sector unions also viewed the system as a threat.
44.    Stimulated by the social reform discussions for the preparation of the PSRL, as well as by
the preparation of the Health Reform Program7, the health sector has progressed significantly in
almost all of the policy decisions and actions to be supported under this adjustment operation.
Clearly, sector discussions linked to a policy-based lending led by the MEF, helped significantly to push
the sector actions. In the early stage of preparation of the first loan, the Bank and the GOP agreed on the
following benchmarks: (a) create the SMI and expand its implementation to 13 health departments; and
(b) expand the proportion of public primary clinics under the CLAS arrangement from 15 percent to 20
percent.
45.   In anticipation of complying with the above benchmarks (and in line with the objectives of the
Health Reform Program investment loans), the SMI was created by Ministerial Resolution No. 448-99-
SA/DM dated September 15, 1999. The SMI expansion has been faster than originally forecasted in
1999. The system is now operating in 18 health departments (or DISA) in 13 regions. A total of 300,000
families are affiliated in the SMI, over a million interventions have been reimbursed in centers and clinics
and in public hospitals with a total expenditure of 15 million soles. While the system is in use in a large
proportion of the providers in the DISAs involved (84 percent of the redes-health networks, 64 percent of
health posts, 85 percent of health centers and 91 percent of hospitals), it still has a thin coverage of the
mother and child interventions provided (e.g. only 15 thousand births have been financed to date). For
the second loan of the PSRL, the SMI is anticipated to continue its expansion. However, the budget
allocated to SMI in 2001 may not be sufficient to reach 22 DISAs given that it would be very difficult to
reduce the allocations in the initial 18 health departments.  Nonetheless, the rationalization of
expenditures within the sector (e.g., the transfer of funds from the vertical mother and child programs
(except vaccines) may help the SMI operation. The exact targets for the second loan will be discussed
with the incoming government.
7 Financed both by IDB and the World Bank.



15
46.    Following two years during which the rate of CLAS formation was stagnant, the system has now
been expanded and a number of activities have been put in place to further support its expansion and
improve its efficiency. The number of establishments under the CLAS system has expanded from 853 in
early 1999 to 1242 by end- 2000, reaching 20 percent of the total number of public primary care
establishments (and thus, complying with the PSRL first loan benchmark). The expansion took place in
13 DISAs, including 4 where the system did not previously exist. The expansion included strengthening
of the CLAS process by establishing a responsible official for CLAS support in each I)ISA of the country
and by clarifying the legality of the CLAS status and of the transfers of public funds to CLAS (Supreme
Decree 002-2000-SA). The covered population now exceeds 5 million people.
47.    Additional activities undertaken in 2000 favoring the CLAS included: The implementation of
intra- and inter-regional meetings of CLAS which was useful to exchange experiences and organize an
agenda of future change; and a change in the role of the DISAs in relation to thie CLAS i.e., DISAs have a
greater role in providing technical support to the communities, and a lesser role in channeling the funds to
the communities (funds are channeled directly to the communities by MINSA). In addition, the Health
Reform Program which is assisting in reaching the PSRL benchmarks, will help clarify the role of the
CLAS and the DISAs within a decentralized health system. There is a good chalice of reaching the
agreed benchmarks for CLAS in the second loan of the PSRL. A large part of the technical work
towards conversion has been completed.
48.    Education8. Peruvian education has achieved important successes in the last few decades.
Primary education enrollment is nearly universal, while secondary school enrollment is about 80 percent.
These achievements have been attained with a relatively low expenditure on education (3 percent of GDP
versus the 4.5 percent average in Latin America).  These positive results, with relatively low
expenditures, have been accomplished as a result of a first generation of reform characterized by
rationalization of the public sector, regionalization of administration, deconcentration of social services,
encouragement of private education and extension of free and compulsory education.
49.    While enrollment gains have been impressive, quality and internal efficiency indicators show that
there is much room for improvement in these areas. Available data on student performance results show
that the quality of education in Peru is relatively low, when compared to neighboring countries. High
repetition and low retention rates also indicate low internal efficiency of the systern9. This means that
children spend time in the system  without attaining the education level and mastering the skill
commensurate with the number of years of enrollment
50.   In addition to the overall quality and internal inefficiency of the system, significant disparities are
evident between rural and urban areas and between indigenous and non-indigenou.s populations. The
rural population has, on average, 4.4 years of education as compared to 8.7 years for urban populations.
The statistics for rural women are even more discouraging; they average only 3.7 years of education as
compared to 8.3 for urban women. Children in rural areas of Peru present a history of late-entry, failure,
and repetition which has caused severe delays in the progress of primary education Repetition rates in
rural areas average 35 percent and drop-out is approximately 71 percent of students enrolled in first grade
completing this grade at an appropriate age; only 42.5 percent complete sixth grade at the normative age.
Repetition is the result of late entry and high absenteeism from school (because of the need to help their
families and due to vulnerability to climatic factors).
8 Health and education sector issues and reforms are discussed under different cross-sectoral objectives of the PSRL:
Improving access of the poor; Improving transparency in resource allocation; and Rationalizing social expenditures
9Official statistics on repetition and dropout show that 80 percent of a cohort reaches Grade 6, while 60 percent of
the same cohort reaches Grade I1. Only 40 percent of Grade 6 students and 20 percent of Grade I I students had not
repeated during their course of study. Dropouts spent an average of 6.7 years in the system.



16
51.    Of the 248,000 primary and secondary school teachers in the Peruvian public school system,
about 62 percent are qualified with diplomas or "titles" (con titulos) from the tertiary-level teacher
training institutes (Instituto Superior Pedagogico -ISP) or the education faculties in the universities. The
remaining 38 percent are untrained (sin titulos) and these tend to be deployed in the rural areas. While
progress has been made in the overall proportion of teachers with titles, they tend to concentrate in urban
areas (where 81 percent have titles) as opposed to small rural schools (where only 50 percent have titles).
There is considerable unwillingness on the part of qualified teachers to work in remote, rural
communities stemming from a lack of real incentives to attract and retain competent people in
teaching and to improve teacher performance in these areas. Even though 92 percent of rural schools
are single teacher or multigrade, virtually no teacher has had specific training in managing classroom
activities in these types of schools. In the case of areas where the mother tongue is other than Spanish,
even those who have teaching diplomas are not trained for multigrade bilingual or inter-cultural teaching
and only 54 percent of the teachers state that they understand and speak the local language sufficiently
well to use it as a language of instruction.
52.    Frequently, rural schools are a point of entry for new teachers into the education system and
turnover rates are much higher -- the average number of years of teaching in small to medium rural
schools ranges between 2.3 to 3.6 while in urban schools it averages 5.9 years. There are various factors
which contribute to this high turnover. Often, because of lack of personnel, teachers in rural areas also
carry out administrative work together with their teaching load.  Long distances and deficient
transportation have a direct impact on the punctuality and attendance of the teacher in school. Housing
for teachers is practically non-existent, forcing them to improvise accommodation. The uncomfortable
living arrangements motivate teachers to leave the school area during the weekends, running the risk of
not arriving back on time for class, or having to leave before the end of the school week. Even if teachers
do not leave for the weekend, they have to go to the provincial capital at least once a month to pickup
their paychecks, forcing them to leave the classroom unattended for several days.
53.    Under the social reform program, the PSRL will support the development of incentive systems
for rural teachers, especially taking into account that the emphasis on improving bilingual education
will be beneficial to the indigenous population. The Ministry of Education (MOE) has carried out an
initial study that assessed the demands of teachers in rural areas in order to design a possible package of
incentives. However, this study did not look at urban teachers who might be willing to work in rural
areas and did not propose a final design of a pilot in rural areas. The GOP will carry out the second phase
of the rural teachers incentives study, under TOR agreed with the Bank, and to design the pilot
implementation plan. Before end-2001, it is expected that the GOP and the Bank would have agreed on a
final pilot design for an incentive system for rural teachers and financing would have been committed for
its implementation in the 2002 school year. The allocation of appropriate budget for the implementation
of the pilot incentive system for rural teachers is a benchmark for the second PSRL.
F. Transparency of Social Expenditures and Empowerment of Beneficiaries
54.    Transparency of Expenditures. The collapse of the Fujimori government, and the attendant list
of scandals involving well-known personalities in political parties, the judiciary, the media, and the
private sector have all resulted in a widespread demand in the Peruvian society for greater transparency of
public institutions, including the major social programs. Transparency regarding allocations,
expenditures, and the on-the-ground operation of poverty alleviation programs is important to facilitate
appropriate targeting, prevent any politically-motivated use of expenditures, and eliminate corruption.
Ensuring transparency of poverty alleviation programs is particularly important given the difficult



17
political and economic circumstances currently in Peru, and the large numbers of complaints that were
made about an allegedly political use of expenditures prior to the 2000 presidential eleztion.
55.   A number of poverty alleviation programs, including FONCODES and PRONAMACHCS,
publish information on the geographic distribution of the expenditures they make. This information is
often presented at quite an aggregated level-for example, at the department rather than district level.
Moreover, because the allocation formulas that these and other poverty alleviation programs use are not
themselves published, it is not clear whether expenditures were actually made in those areas which were
intended.
56.    Under the social reform program, the GOP seeks to strengthen the transparency of social
expenditures, and empower beneficiaries to exercise an effective social control over social programs in a
number of ways. In January 2001, the GOP established a Round-Table for Attacking Poverty (Mesa de
Concertaci6n para la Lucha Contra la Pobreza) whose mandate is to ensure that social policies and
actions would be transparent, efficient and have effective impact on attacking poverty. It would seek to
institutionalize the participation of the civil society in the design, decision-making and control of poverty-
related programs
57.   In compliance of the benchmarks for the first loan, district-by-district expenditures made by a
number of social programs, including  the  Vaso  de  Leche, PRONAA, FONCODES, and
PRONAMACHCS, in the year 2000 have been published on the web.'0 In addition, PRONAA is
publishing the transfers made to every one of the more than 15,000 comedores populares in 2000. The
expenditures of Caminos Rurales and Rural Electrification have been published on the web at a more
aggregate level taking into account the specific areas defined for each of these programs. MEF launched
on February 26, 2001 the Economic Transparency Website (Portal. Transparencia Economica) where
monthly information on budget transfers to the programs mentioned above, amorig others, is made
available. This website also includes information on the social programs of the Ministries of Defense and
the Interior.
58.   The above information and data will help beneficiaries, NGOs, civil society and others to exercise
social control over social programs by allowing them to verify whether programs are actually spending
resources in those areas where they claim to be, whether geographic targeting is appropriate, and whether
there appears to be any politically-motivated use of social expenditures. The MEF will also work with the
administrators of some of the most important poverty-alleviation programs to help them develop a
strategy that ensures the transparency of the expenditures they make and empowers beneficiaries and
others in the communities in which they operate. For the first loan of the PSRL, GOP presented evidence
of the above publication of expenditures in websites, and agreements were signed between the MEF and
FONCODES, PRONAA, Caminos Rurales, PRONAMACHCS, and Rural Electrification on a strategy to
ensure transparency of expenditures. For the second loan, the GOP will announce ,n major newspapers
the availability in the web of all the above mentioned expenditure information., as well as publish
evidence of the website publication of the actual district-level expenditures of the above programs. The
maintenance of the transparency measures adopted under the first loan is part of the triggers for
proceeding with the second loan.
59.   Social Control Mechanisms. In addition to demands for greater transparency, the resignation of
Alberto Fujimori in November 2000 has precipitated a series of initiatives and reforms which seek to
reduce corruption, and ensure political neutrality in the operation of social programs in Peru. The
Defensoria del Pueblo (public Ombudsman's office) has established a well-publicized information
' There are more than 1800 districts in Peru, so mostly of these districts tend to be reasonably small (between
10,000 and 20,000 inhabitants).



18
campaign and complaint mechanism to avoid the political use of social programs. Numerous bodies,
including the Defensoria, the executive, and the ministry of women (PROMUDEH) have adopted
resolutions intended to guarantee the political neutrality of their staff and of the programs they administer
in this pre-electoral context. In addition, the process of consultations and dialogue in the last years has
confirmed the existence of an emerging civil society movement in Lima and in the regions. The vibrant
role of civil society has become more relevant with the open atmosphere of public debate engendered by
the transition government (see Annex 5).
60.   The social reform program seeks to enhance the social control mechanism by supporting ongoing
efforts by the MEF, the Defensoria, and civil society to foster greater empowerment of beneficiaries. For
the first loan of the PSRL, a Task Force charged with the design of the social control mechanism has been
created jointly by the MEF and the Defensoria. The Task Force will recommend measures for building
the capacity of beneficiaries/grass roots organizations to utilize proactively budget information that will
be increasingly available to the general public. This Task Force will count on technical assistance, in the
form of a national consultant, as well as an international consultant with experience in other Latin
American countries which have implemented such a social control mechanism (for example, Brazil or
Bolivia), and will be funded by the Bank. In addition, the Bank will work to help organize and fund an
international conference on empowerment and mechanisms of public accountability for social
expenditures tentatively scheduled to be held in Lima in July 2001. One of the expected outputs from this
conference is a series of concrete recommendations for policy-makers in Peru about how best to establish
or consolidate a social control mechanism. The implementation of the recommendations of the Task
Force on social control mechanisms will be a trigger action for the second PSRL.
G. Rationalization of Public Social Expenditures
61.   Nutrition and Supplementary Food Programs. Numerous Bank studies, as well as the
conclusion of the first Poverty Forum, have pointed out that there is considerable overlap in poverty
alleviation programs. Confusion is significantly evident among feeding and nutrition programs, with at
least 13 different programs running out of the Ministries of Health, Education, the Presidency, and
PROMUDEH, as well as by municipal GOPs. Some of these interventions are coordinated with
initiatives in health, in particular those run out of the Ministry of Health, but most are not. Only very few
feeding programs are directed at the most vulnerable populations-pregnant and lactating mothers, and
children under the age of two. These better-targeted programs are not among the four largest feeding
programs that comprise approximately 80% of public expenditure in the category of food and nutrition.
These are: the Vaso de Leche program (36% of all social spending on food and nutrition) administered
by local municipalities, the FONCODES School Breakfast Program (18%), the PRONAA Community
Kitchen (Comedores Populares) program (13%), and the PRONAA School Feeding program (12%). All
other programs comprise 5% or less of the total. Most of these programs have not been evaluated
systematically to measure either their efficiency or impact.
62.   A good deal of the confusion is a result of the unclear separation or identification of programs
which use food for non-nutritional aims-for example, as a means of transferring income, or improving
school attainment-from those which have nutritional objectives. Ideally, the former should be compared
to other means of transferring resources-for example, income transfers conditional on keeping children
in school, or local development initiatives such as community banks -and evaluated accordingly, while
the latter should be targeted to the nutritionally vulnerable, coordinated with other programs in health and
education, and evaluated accordingly.
63.   Under the PSRL, the reform program will seek to improve the efficacy of interventions in the
food and nutrition sector by clearly separating food from nutrition, and developing appropriate



19
performance indicators for both kinds of programs. In addition, the reform will suppoit a rationalization
of the sector, including the gradual elimination of programs which do not have clear goals or have
obvious overlaps with other programs, and the unification of similar programs into a single administration
for improved efficiency. The transition GOP has announced in a number of occasions their objective to
end asistencialismo while preserving the real nutrition objectives of a handful of programs for the
vulnerable groups.
64.    In compliance with the benchmarks for the first loan, the GOP decided to: (1)  transfer in
December 2000, the FONCODES School Breakfast Program to the National Institute of Health (INS) of
MINSA, and (2) create by Presidential Decree a Multisectoral Commission on Food and Nutrition with
the mandate to coordinate all public and private sector programs related to food and nutrition.
65.    INS already manages 4 other health-related nutrition programs!' All of INS rutrition programs
(including the recently transferred School Breakfast program) are now under technical and administrative
redesign. Plans are to decentralize and streamline the administration of all programs at the regional level,
continue the subcontracting of implementation (at least of the School Breakfast Programi - subcontracting
of the other programs is under consideration), and increase resources for superxision and impact
evaluation. On the technical side, plans include improvement of targeting and incorporation of a strong
nutrition education component appropriate to each target population to strengthen sustainability of the
nutrition and health impacts. The new initiative is being considered by a special comrnission in the INS,
with the participation of researchers and other technical experts the fields of nutrition, public health, and
economics.
66.    To put the school feeding program into a context of a larger school health and nutrition service,
by December 2001/January 2002, the Ministries of Health and Education will enter inlo an agreement on
an integrated preventive health and nutrition service for school-age children. This new activity will
provide school-age children in state-run schools with:  periodic antiparasite medication; periodic
screening for growth, vision, hearing, skin and other problems; micronutrient supplementation; first aid;
nutrition education for students and parents. Where and when necessary in food insecure or extreme
poverty areas, this service will include supplementary feeding programs. The finaicing of this new
service out of the Seguro Escolar Gratuito (SEG) program would increase that program's efficiency and
effectiveness through a preventive approach.
67.   In addition, for the first loan, the GOP formed a Multi-sectoral Task Force (including MEF and
the Comision Multisectorial de Alimentacion y Nutrici6n, municipal government representatives, among
others) to propose concrete recommendations for the reform of the Vaso de Leche Program in the context
of a decentralization strategy. Likewise, another Multi-sectoral Task Force (inclu(ding PROMUDEH,
MEF, the Comision Multisectorial de Alimentacion y Nutrici6n, women's organizations, among others)
was formed to propose concrete recommendations for (a) the reform of the Cormedores Populares
Program; and (b) to adjust PRONAA programs to the nutritional objectives established by MINSA,
including the transfer of the Programa de Alimentaci6n Escolar (PAE) to INS. Given these programs
nutritional objectives imply the design of nutritional norms, targeting on the basis of nutritional need,
training, nutrition education, and nutritional status impact evaluation. Other factors that would be taken
into consideration are: (a) the program/s would be terminated if it does not show effectiveness or impact
within one year; (b) technical assistance would be provided to local governments (For Vaso de Leche)
" (i) PACFO (Program de Alimentaci6n Complementaria para Grupos en Mayor Riesgo) which functions in 5
departments of the sierra and is available to children under 3 years of age in those areas; (ii) PANFAR (Programa de
Alimentaci6n y Nutrici6n para Familias de Alto Riesgo) which functions in most MINSA facilities for malnourished
children under age five; (iii) PANTBC for patients (mainly adults) under tuberculosis treatment, and (iv)
PANMARN for orphanages and publicly-supported homes for the elderly.



20
and/or community kitchens for a maximum of one year, to facilitate the change over from a food subsidy
to another type of income transfer program or other type of program; (c) all program implementors
would fulfill strict requirements on targeting, monitoring and information systems, quality of service,
adherence to norms, and transparency in the selection of beneficiaries.
68.    The implementation of the recommendations of these Task Forces will be a benchmark for the
second PSRL. The MEF will also issue a report on the performance of the food supplementatioll
programs for the first semester of 2001, reflecting: (a) targeting - who actually received the program
benefits; (b) expenditures compared to programmed amounts; and (c) system  used to purchase and
distribute food supplements. The role of food supplementation as income support alternative will be
analyzed within the context of the social protection strategy to be developed under the second loan of the
PSRL.
69.    Health.12 The health sector in Peru spends around US$2.7 billion per year and is characterized by
striking inefficiencies and duplication across several public programs and the private sector that compose
the sector. The main public programs are the Ministry of Health (financed by general revenues) and the
Social Security Institute (ESSALUD -- financed by payroll taxes). Each of these institutions spends
about a US$600 million per year, and each of them owns and runs their own hospitals and clinics.
MINSA's underutilized hospitals stand side by side with ESSALUD's underutilized hospitals in 20
departmental capitals; II of these also have a military or police hospital. During the last year, despite the
existing underutilization, ESSALUD has had an active program of construction of new hospitals and
clinics.
70.    During the 1990s, most of the reforms took place in the primary care programs of the MINSA
(which spend about a third of the total spent by the Ministry). There have also been some reforms to
expose ESSALUD to some competition from the private insurance sector (by eliminating the state
monopoly over occupational risk insurance and by allowing partial "opting out" for health insurance), but
there has been no effort to eliminate the barriers between sectors to foster competition between providers.
In recent years, the institution initiated a number of management improvements, which are insufficiently
documented and could serve as a platform for future institutional modernization. There is scope for a
much wider reform that could position ESSALUD as a financial agent purchasing services for patients in
a way that generates competition between providers of the three sectors (social security, the Ministry of
Health and the private sector).
71.    Under the social reform program, the GOP will create a mechanism that will coordinate public
investments of MINSA and ESSALUD and that will facilitate buying-selling of services from each other
to take advantage of existing capacity. The mechanism has been created partly as part of the Budget Law,
which in 2001 includes ESSALUD, limiting its past autonomy to make investments in an uncoordinated
fashion. As a benchmark for the first loan, the GOP formed a Commission composed of representatives
of MEF, MINSA, ESSALUD, the Ministry of the Presidency, the Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of
Interior to elaborate a joint investment plan for the health sector. This Commission will review and
approve the terms of reference of a study on ESSALUD which comprises: (a) possibilities of separation
of ESSALUD'S financing from provision functions; (b) decentralization of services; and (c) systems of
payment and contracting (compra y venta) of services. The issuance of a joint investment plan elaborated
by MINSA and ESSALUD, as well as an action plan for ESSALUD's medium-term reform is a
benchmark for the second PSRL.
12 Health and education sector issues and reforms are discussed under different cross-sectoral objectives of the
PSRL: Improving access of the poor; Improving transparency in resource allocation; and Rationalizing social
expenditures.



21
72.    Rationalization of Mother and Child Programs. In an effort to reduce fragmentation and
investment duplication of public health programs, MINSA has worked on a plan to streamline eight
national programs related to mother and child health (immunizations, child growth and development,
diarrhea and cholera, acute respiratory infections, maternal-perinatal health, family planning, school-
age/adolescent health and micronutrient deficiency prevention). The elaboration of this plan was carried
out during the preparation of the Health Reform Program in 1999/2000.
73.    As a benchmark for the first loan, MINSA has taken a decision (Ministerial Resolution No. 163-
2001 SA/DM) to unify all the MOH Mother and Child Care programs with one operation plan and
budget. The unification would take place as part of a wider reorganization of Direccion General de la
Salud de las Personas (DGSP) which would pull together the mother and child care programs, would
group other programs that provide services to individuals and would separate these blocks from programs
charged with environmental management (such as vector control). The change in moclus operandi will be
strengthened by a proposed transfer of at least 50 percent of the budget for inputs and operation from the
DGSP to the SMI increasingly leaving DGSP as a technical agency (benchmark for second loan).
74.    Most regional hospitals run by MINSA (note that these are different from the tertiary care
hospitals) are heavily underutilized, with low occupation of beds and of staff. At the same time, in many
of these hospitals, the obstetric care departments are very busy and operate with insufficient resources.
As the implementation of the SMI is expected to increase the flow of patients into these hospitals, there is
a need to reassign resources from other units into the obstetric unit to increase capacity and to improve
quality. Quality improvements are also likely to accelerate if there is some form of popular participation
in the oversight of the maternity and pediatric units. The GOP has launched an initiative to reduce
maternal mortality in late October2000 (Plan de Reduccidn de la Mortalidad Maternia). As part of this
initiative, all regions will develop local plans to improve hospital maternity services. The GOP commits
to approve the local plans (arising out of the Plan de Reducci6n de la Mortalidad Materna) to improve
hospital maternity services in all regions where the SMI is functioning. Also, before end-2001, the GOP
will implement a supervision strategy of above local plans over obstetric services which includes popular
participation in all regions where the SMI is functioning.
75.    For the first loan of the PSRL, the GOP issued Ministerial Resolution (016-2001 SA/DM dated
January 10, 2001) creating a Committee to study the unification of the administratior. of the SMI and the
Seguro Escolar (student health insurance). The Committee concluded that a full unification is not
possible or desirable at this point, but that the process of unification could and should be started. The
initial steps will consist of putting both systems in the same physical environment and transferring the
budget of the Seguro Escolar into the same Unidad Ejecutora dealing with SMI (PAR Salud). The
Committee will continue its analysis of further unification measures including carryinrg out an evaluation
of the implementation issue and impact of the Seguro Escolar.
76.    Education.13 The public expenditure on education amounts to about US$2.0 billion a year. The
internal inefficiencies of the sector have been a subject of discussions between the MOE and the Bank
since last year. Two areas where decisions/actions would focus are: (a) establishment of a payroll and
tracking system for teachers; and (b) ensuring open dissemination and publication of student achievement
performance results.
" Health and education sector issues and reforns are discussed under different cross-sectoral objectives of the
PSRL: Improving access of the poor; Improving transparency in resource allocation; and Rationalizing social
expenditures



22
77.    Payroll and Tracking System. According to current Peruvian legislation, once teachers enter the
system, they are hired for life. There is no teacher evaluation system, and little incentive to perform since
promotion only depends on seniority, and even then, it implies little in terms of salary increase. There is a
"bonus pay" for rural teachers, equivalent to approximately US$13 which in absolute and relative terms
have little value as an inceitive. Further to this, once this "bonus" is included in the teacher's payroll, it
is seldom removed after he or she moves to an urban area.
78.    The payroll system is managed manually by the MOE Regional Offices (DRE), so there is ample
room for personal criteria to be used. As a result, teacher pay criteria will vary from one Regional Office
to the other. In addition, there is no tracking system that link teachers to positions (plazas) so that there is
a risk that teachers may appear in two regions, or that "phantom" teachers may be getting paid regular
salaries. A uniform system is necessary in order to ensure that all teachers are paid under the same
criteria and that they are linked to an existing position. Furthermore, any incentive system requires that
they be managed transparently in order to be effective.
79.    The MOE has made progress in the development of a uniform, standards-based payroll system
which is being currently implemented in the Lima region and should be progressively implemented
nationwide. In addition, teacher files are currently being inputted into database system and are expected
to be managed by the tracking system (sistema de escalafon y plazas), which is under development. To
be operational, the systems need to be implemented in the Regional offices and staff needs to be trained
on their use. Once the two systems are in place they will be integrated in order to link teachers with their
positions. Since the implementation of this system could generate "losers" as well as "winners", its
implementation requires political support from the MOE, MEF and the Ministry of the Presidency
(responsible for teacher payroll and positions outside Lima-Callao). Considering that the teachers salary
in Peru is one of the lowest in Latin America, and with the objective of not pushing this salary even
lower, the GOP strategy is to apply a progressive increase until an "equilibrium" level is reached.For the
first loan, the GOP has implemented the uniform payroll system (planilla) in Lima, Callao, Piura
(includinig Luciano Castillo) and La Libertad. MOE has completed the full updating of teacher files and
installed the tracking system in six Regional offices (including Lima and Callao). As a benchmark for the
second loan, it is expected that the payroll system will have been installed in seven additional Regional
Offices; all teacher files will be in a live electronic database; and the integrated payroll and tracking
systems operating in Lima and Callao.
80.    Open Discussion of Education Policies. There has been widespread discontent on how the MOE
normally carries out its policy decisions without consultations with other stakeholders. Furthermore,
stakeholders have little information on the progress made in education, so that there is a general view that
the sector makes little effort to improve the quality of education in Peru. MOE is now committed to have
an open discussion through a participatory process. This consultation is directed towards developing a
national vision that could lead to a new National Education Law. A Supreme Decree was issued on
January 13, launching the Commission for a National Consensus on Education (Comision para un
Acuerdo Nacional por la Educaci6n), which will be responsible for the leadership of the nationial
dialogue. This Commission includes representatives from civil society, academia, the teachers' union and
industry and is expected to have a product ready for the new government by July, 2001.
81.    In addition, MOE has started disseminating information and is including in the web data on
general statistics, internal efficiency indicators and national census on height. MOE has carried out two
survey student performance evaluations in 1996 and 1998. These information have been published in
part. Further publishing and dissemination of data results would be necessary as analysis of these
information will contribute significantly to a better understanding of current conditions of students in
different areas of Peru. More important, the dissemination will help to raise awareness of where should
MOE target interventionis to ensure an equitable education system. For the first loan, the MOE published



23
the results of the 1998 test data carried out in a sample of urban schools on language, mathematics, social
and natural sciences to grades 4 and 7 in primary schools and grades 4 and 5 in secondary schools througlh
bulletins 4-8. The first set of results on language and mathematics have already bemn published and
disseminated through a seminar which included academicians, the press and representatives from civil
society. The MOE has also published a more in-depth analysis such as correlations of factors associated
with student performance, and  a comparative analysis of the results on student performance test
promoted by OREALC/UNESCO. As a benchmark for the second loan, MOE will publish a comparative
analysis of the 1996 and 1998 tests. The 1998 student performance database is already available in the
MOE web for public usage. Finally, the MOE has committed to carry out the 2001 student performance
test, including a representative sample of rural schools and of Quechua and Aymara childreni nlo later than
November 2001.
82.   Initial actions toward decentralization. Under the reform program, MOE has i nitiated two main
actions to decentralize the decision making process and accountability to the school level. The first was
the publication of a Ministerial Resolution empowering parents in rural areas to keep teacher attendance
and report non-compliance to regional offices for due punitive action. The expected impact of this
Resolution is to increase teacher attendance to schools, which, in rural areas, is the main cause for the
reduced number of hours of learning exposure for children. The second was the publication of a Supreme
Resolution providing school Directors to make decisions at the school level in personnel management and
autonomy in the management of school resources. As a result of this action, it is expected that allocation
of teachers to appropriate grades will be done on pedagogical criteria, based on the school's Inistitutionial
Development Plan, as opposed to the current system  where teachers are assigned based on only
administrative criteria. In addition, and depending on the availability of resources, directors will have the
capacity to hire additional human resources as teachers to alleviate classroom and/or remedial demands.
III. The Proposed Loan
A. Link to Country Assistance Strategy
83.    The last full Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Peru was discussed in the Board in 1977
(Report No. 16796-PE dated June 26, 1997). A full participatory CAS will be developed after the
incoming government takes office in July 2001. In the meantime, a CAS Progress Report is being
presented together with the proposed PSRL to define the framework of Bank strategy for FY2001 and FY
2002. The Bank's assistance strategy continues to put high priority on the over-arching objective of
poverty reduction in Peru. The focus in 2001-2002 would be to assist the country to have a stable
political and economic transition. Assistance would be provided to help shore up confidence on a fragile
economy, and to support the government's effort to hand off a clean slate with minimum pending
problems to solve to the new government. Bank's assistance would help the transition GOP and the
incoming governmenit (during its first year in office) to consolidate some gains from the past and to move
forward quickly toward strengthening institutions in an open, democratic system. Ensuring the
participation and empowerment of the poor in this reconstruction process would be a critical element of
the assistance strategy.
84.    The proposed PSRL would be a key instrument in the Bank's assistance strategy for the next two
years. The PSRL would support a medium-term social reform program that is fully in line with the CAS
objectives and priorities (see Program Objectives below). The PSRL, together with ass istance from other
donors, will also help close the financial gap resulting from Peru's weakened fiscal situation as it
struggles to fully recover from past years' external shocks and recent political upheavals. Apart from the
PSRL, the CAS also envisions a Rural Roads project to be approved in FY01.



24
85.   It is important to note that the social sector reforms under the PSRL have been and will continue
to be supported by continuous dialogue and technical assistance provided under parallel investment
operations financed by the Bank (Basic Health and Nutrition Project; Education Quality Project; LIL for
Indigenous Population; Health Reform Program APL14, and the Rural Education and Human Resources
Development Project which is under preparation). This coinplementation of policy-based adjustment
lending with sector investment operations ensures coherenee in the direction of policy decisions and
investments in the social sectors. This adjustment operation- even during its preparation - has effectively
front-loaded the policy decisions that then are supported by the sector investment loans. Also, on
building social control and empowering the poor, the Bank will assist the GOP to build a public
accountability mechanism and to explore ways of increasing the voice and influence of poor people
during this transition to a more open society in Peru.
86.    Cooperation with IMF and Other Donors. The Social Reform Program has been designed to
take place within a framework for macroeconomic stability as defined and agreed with the IMF. On
March 12, 2001, the IMF approved a 12-month Stand-By Arrangement for an amount equivalent to SDR
128 million. The Stand-By Arrangements seeks to ensure a solid economic situation in the transition to a
new government through a prudent management of fiscal and monetary policies and further progress in
structural reforms.
87.    The transitioni GOP has also requested the IDB and the Japanese Government /JBIC for external
finanicing assistance. Preparation of the PSRL was supported by a PHRD grant from the Japanese GOP
(US$470,000). The PSRL was prepared in coordination with a parallel adjustment lending from IDB
(first loan of US$200 million; total program US$400 million). The first IDB loan includes conditionalities
oriented to increasing fiscal information transparency, protecting critical social programs and monitoring
actual expenditures, creating the basis for the development of a social protection network, and re-
initiating some reforms in the justice sector.
B. Program Objectives, Benchmarks and Triggers
88.       The objective of the PSRL is to support the medium-term social reform program of the
Government of Peru. The social reform program, as described in the previous chapter, would help build
the bases for a transparent and participatory resource allocation mechanism, rationalization of
expenditures, decentralized implementation and systematic performance-tracking of social programs. The
first loan of this program would emphasize the safeguarding of critical social expenditures especially
beneficial to the poor during a difficult fiscal adjustment and political transition period. It will also lay
the groundwork for medium-term reforms, including increasing capacity for targeting and monitoring of
poverty-alleviation programs, launching public access to social expenditure information, and unifying
health and nutrition programs. The second loan of the program would help consolidate the institution-
building started in the first loan, focusing on de-politicization of resource allocation and utilization
mechanism, further elimination of program duplication, improvement of safety net for a variety of social
risks, as well as a strengthening social control by civil society.
89.    Benchmarks and Triggers. In extensive discussions with MEF and other government agencies,
a number of benchmarks have been agreed to measure progress in achieving the objectives of the social
reform program. The detailed set of benchmarks for the first loan and an indicative detailed list of
benchmarks for the second loan are specified in the policy matrix in Annex 2. This policy matrix also
includes a minimum set of monitoring indicators and expected outcomes at the end of the program.
14 The Health Reform Program is cofinanced with IDB.



25
Several of the benchmarks under the first loan credit the GOP for decisions and actions already taken in
line with the objectives of the social reform program.
90.   The indicative benchmarks for the second loan listed in Annex 2 will not necessarily be all
conditions for future lending.  Many of them  will serve as a guideposts to signal progress of
decisions/actions towards achieving the objectives of the reform program. Among these benchmarks,
some key actions will serve as triggers or minimum conditions for the Bank to proceed with the
processing of the second loan, and these are consistent with those of the lending scenarios in the CAS
Progress Report. The monitoring indicators and expected outcomes of these triggers are elaborated in
Annex 2.
a. Continued sound macroeconomic framework as agreed with the IMF Stand-by Agreement
b. Social policy agenda, as set out in the Social Policy Letter (Annex 1), confirmed by the new
government.
c. Quarterly budget transfers for the protected programs were maintained at the agreed level in
2001 (see Annex 2)
d. Continued implementation of the transparency and civil society participatory measures for
poverty programs as agreed in the first credit (see Annex 2).
C. Description of Financial Assistance
91.    The Bank's financial assistance in support of the program would be comprised of two  one-
tranche loans amounting to US$200 million. The amount of this proposed first loan, US$100 million
(including the amount of the front-end fee) will be available upon effectiveness. The second US$100
million would support the future policy decisions/actions indicated in the matrix of Aninex 2, which will
be discussed and negotiated with the incoming government after July 2001. On the request of the
transition government, the Bank would also consider a possible third loan to be prepared with the new
government depending on the progress of implementation of the medium-term reform program.
92.    The Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loan instrument presents advantages for the nature of
this operation. The social reform program involves decisions which will have medium-term development
implications on the social sectors. Having a pending sizable loan to be negotiated uponl its assumption in
office would help focus immediately the attention of incoming authorities to the social agenda supported
by the PSRL.
93.    Actions taken before Board Presentation. The GOP has (i) taken the necessary steps to
maintain a sound macroeconomic framework as agreed with the IMF Stand-by Agreement; (ii) agreed to
implement an overall medium-term social reform program as indicated in the Letter of Development
Policy (See Annex 1: Social Policy Letter); and (iii) met all the benchmarks set for the first loan (see
Annex 2: Policy Matrix).
94.   Monitoring Arrangements. The MEF has been responsible for monitoring the completion of the
PSRL benchmarks for the first PSRL loan. Between April to December 2001, MEF will continue to
coordinate decisions/actions necessary to meet the triggers and the tentative benchmarks indicated for the
second loan. In continuing this work, MEF will also provide the necessary update reports using the
monitoring indicators in Annex 2 to indicate the progress of the decisions/actions taken for the first
PSRL loan. Measuring the impact of the PSRL reforms on improving the well-being of the poor will be
enhanced by the monitoring and evaluation improvements being sought under the first loan.
Impact/outcome indicators for the PSRL reform areas (including transparency/social control, program



26
rationalization, etc.) will be developed in preparation for the second loan. Thus, by the end of the PSRL
reform program, there would be a better sense of the impact of the PSRL reforms on the poor.
D. Procurement and Financial Administration
95.    The GOP has shown a serious commitment to improve procurement procedures and financial
accountability in Peru. The GOP and the Bank have engaged in various dialogues in this respect through
normal Bank operations, CAS preparation and special country reviews. Of the latter, the most recent
ones were the Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) carried out in June 2000 and a Country
Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) jointly carried out with IDB in February 2001.
96.    The CPAR, together with recent actions taken by GOP (i.e., enactment of a revised Law of Public
Procurement and Contracting; issuance of new local procurement guidelines) indicate that a process of
reform for the modernization of procurement regulations and procedures has been initiated. The CPAR's
proposed action plan is under consideration by the GOP. Proposed recommendations include providing
specialized technical assistance to CONSUCODE (Consejo Superior de Contrataciones y Adquisiciones
del Estado), which is responsible for supervision and regulation of the public contracting system; issuance
of standard bidding documents; and setting up an electronic procurement system. The CPAR assessed
Peru's procurement risk to be average. The Bank is dealing with the short-term risk through reviews of
the institutional and procedural procurement aspects of each Bank-financed operation. For the medium-
term, the PSRL includes as a benchmark for the second loan: (i) The CPAR action plan will be agreed
with the government; and (ii) satisfactory progress will be made on the implementation of said action
plans, including agreement on the Regulations (reglamento) to implement the new Procurement Law.
97.   The CFAA concluded, among others things, that the financial management tools at the disposal
of Congress and the Executive Branch comprise of (a) robust financial administration legislation; (b)
highly-trained and dedicated staff in financial management; and (c) a highly effective integrated financial
management system (SIAF). SIAF provides a powerful repository of details on financial transactions
wherever it is applied, and combined with the budget structure, it provides the basis for effective
historical cost accumulation against the goals set in the institutional plans of each entity.  This
information is put to good use by MEF and the spending entities and has resulted in effective control,
optimum  cash management and informed decision-making. The CFAA action plan would include
recommendations related to: (a) more effective oversight by Congress of the budget process and review of
the allocation of available funding; (b) more detailed and frequent reporting on expenditures to Congress;
and (c) unfettered surveillance and reporting by the auditor-general of the acts and reports of the
executive. The PSRL includes as a benchmark for the second loan: (i) the CFAA action plan will be
agreed with the government; and (ii) satisfactory progress will be made on the implementation of said
action plan, including the points mentioned above.
98.    Loan Disbursement and Audit. Disbursement arrangements for the proposed loan will follow
the simplified procedures for adjustment operations approved by the Board on February 1, 1996. The
Government will open an account in the Central Bank of Peru. Once the Bank formally notifies Peru that
the loan is available for withdrawal, the Government will submit a withdrawal application so that the
proceeds of the loan are deposited by the Bank in this account to be used in accordance with the Loan
Agreement. Although a routine audit of the deposit account will not be required, the Bank reserves the
right to conduct one.
E. Environmental Aspects
99.    Being a macroeconiomnic adjustment operation, the PSRL does not trigger OP 4.01 on
Environimental Assessment, and, as a consequence, does not require an environmenital rating. However,



27
some of the programs whose budget allocations are being protected by the PSRL may have an
environmental impact. This may be particularly relevant in the case of infrastruc-ure (roads, energy,
water & sanitation) and agriculture. New investments in these sectors are screened for their environimental
and social impacts by the relevant Peruvian authorities and processed accordi ig to the national
environmental rules and regulations, including the Peruvian Environmental Code and the existing sectoral
guidelines. Furthermore, environmental impact assessments for new investments to Ibe financed by the
Bank (and/or the IDB) in these sectors will also be required under normal Bank guidelines.
100.   Peru has initiated actions to address major environmental concerns in the counitry. Last year, an
Environmental Issues and Strategic Options Study was carried out jointly by FAO and( the World Bank to
identify the major environmental issues and their underlying causal factors; revi w the institutional
framework, policies and instruments in place; and suggest strategic options. To date (iOP has: (i) created
a national coordinating and consultative body (CONAM) under the President of the Council of Ministers;
(ii) established an institutional framework to harmonize environmental legislation and institutional
responsibilities; (iii) developed a body of sectoral-based environmental legislation; (iv) established a
series of prevention and control instruments (e.g. environmental impact assessments, environmental
compliance programs, and territorial environmental assessments for public and private projects); and (v)
established a national protected area system. Progress is also discernible in the private sector as
demonstrated in the number of approved environmental management plans developed by industries to
bring them into compliance with the legislation, particularly in the fishing, mining and energy sectors.
101.   With regard to the indigenous population, previous sections of this document have referred to the
special attention given by some protected programs, as well as the Bank-financed projects (education,
health, Indigenous and Afro-Peruvians Peoples Development LIL) on the needs of the dispersed and
indigenous groups. Also, the GEF-financed Indigenous Management of Protected Areas in the Amazon
Project will help regularize issues related to land-tenure and environment in the Amazon area.
102.   Major challenges remain in developing public awareness and institutional capability to ensure
that environmental issues are adequately addressed in the future. To this end, Bank rnissions reviewing
progress in PSRL implementation will include relevant technical expertise to assess progress in the
screening and environmenital processing of new investments whose budget allocations are protected as a
condition of this operation. Furthermore, these challenges form part of the Bank's continuing dialogue
with the GOP. Venues for this dialogue include the preparation of a full, participatory CAS in the second
half of this year, as well as the preparation of new investment projects (e.g. roads, urban transport,
agriculture) that normally require an environmental analysis and should include compcinents to strengthen
environmental units in sector ministries, as well as environmental data collection and monitoring.
F. Benefits and Risks
103.   Benefits. The PSRL's immediate major benefit is its contribution to Peru's attaining a stable
economic transition from a government that was forced to resign its office in 2000 to a democratically-
elected government in 2001. In the short-term, the social reform program supported by the Loan will help
protect critical social and economic expenditures for the poor, increase the poor's access to basic health
and education services, and help lay the groundwork for medium-term reforms. For the medium-term, the
institutionalization of a transparent and participatory process of resource allocation and performance-
based tracking for social expenditures enhances the poor's possibility to exert influence and voice in the
use of scarce fiscal resources. More so, as the reform program proceeds to strengthen social control
mechanisms, eliminate duplication of programs and increasingly provide incentives for decentralization
of social services. The PSRL supports the GOP's commitment to strengthen anti-corruption efforts and to



28
promote the empowerment of civil society and the private sector while streamlining the public sector's
role in an open Peruvian society.
104.  Risks. The most immediate risk to the social reform program is that the change of government in
July 2001 could imply changes in policy direction and priorities, as well as major actors in the finance
and the social sectors. While the policies and reforms being supported under the Loan have been the
results of numerous civil society consultations and their direction has been maintained in the past two
years, there is nonetheless, no assurance that the new government would commit to these reforms. The
programmatic structural adjustment loan instrument, however, allows flexibility and ensures that
subsequent loan financing only continues if the thrust of the reform program is maintained. Another
important risk is the possibility of failure to maintain fiscal stability because of the limited revenue
improvement options during the first year of the PSRL operation. The coordinated package of external
financing assistance from multilaterals and some bilaterals, including the IMF Stand-by Arrangements
would help mitigate this risk.  Finally, the push for decentralization, including possible increased
engagement of local governments for social services delivery over the reform period would imply a
tremendous amount of cultural change and capacity-building at local levels. This would be a high risk
undertaking that would be complemented by other interventions in the Bank's assistance strategy for Peru
in future years.
Attachments



29
9UCA fts
Annex 1
[Sia Policy LAtter
MINISTERIO DE ECONOMIA Y FINANZAS
OFICIO No. n1i -2001 -EF/10
Lima, 08 de marzo de 2001
Senor
James Wolfensohn
Presidente
Banco Internacional de Reconstrucci6n y Fomento
Presente.-
Referencia: Prestamo Programatico de Reforma Social
Es grato dirigirme a usted con relacion a la operaci6n de endeudamiento de la
referencia, pr6xima a concertarse con el Banco Internacional de Reconstruccion y
Fomento (BIRF) por un monto de US$ 100 millones.
Al respecto, adjunto al presente la Carta de Poiftica Social, que contiene el
programa de reformas que el Gobierno Peruano esta realizando para afrontar y superar la
pobreza y mejorar el nivel de vida de la poblaci6n.
Las medidas seinaladas en la referida carta, han sido diseifadas con el fin de
beneficiar a la poblaci6n en situaci6n de pobreza extrema y, al mismo tiempo, sentar las
bases que le permita participar del crecimiento economico de los pr6ximos anios, en el
marco de un proceso serio de fortalecimiento del sistema democritico en el Peru.
Sin otro particular, es propicia la oportunidad para reiterarle ias seguridades de mi
especial consideraci6n.
Atentamente,
aJa     a    ete
Ministro   Ec    a y Finanzas



30
RESUMEN: CARTA DE POLITICA SOCIAL
La presente Carta de Politica Social ha sido preparada sobre la base de un proceso de dilaogo entre el
sector publico, la empresa privada, las agencias de cooperaci6n y organizaciones de la sociedad civil
distribuidas en todo el territorio nacional. En este documento se presenta, luego de breve diagn6stico, el
marco general del desarrollo, dado por la relaci6n entre la poblaci6n y la producci6n, esto es entre las
necesidades y las posibilidades de satisfacerlas y, seguidamente, se desarrolla los Lineamientos Basicos de
la Politica Social con un horizonte de mediano plazo, tratando de formar consensos cuya aceptacion
trascienda este Gobierno. Los ultimos capitulos contienen en detalle las proridades sociales definidas y los
recursos publicos asignados al area social durante el ano fiscal 2001.
I.     DIAGNOSTICO
A lo largo de los ultimos anos hemos tenido muchos episodios de gran crecimiento alternados con otros de
recesi6n. En el periodo 1980-1990 la economia experiment6 una contracci6n promedio anual de casi 1,0
por ciento, en tanto que en el periodo 1991-2000, la tasa promedio de crecimiento se elev6 a 4,2 por ciento.
El PBI per capita que actualmente esta alrededor de US$2,180, es similar en terminos reales al de 1985 y
menor en 10 por ciento al que registrabamos en 1980.
Entre los afios 1993 y 1997 la actividad econ6mica acumulo un crecimiento cercano al 45 por ciento,
equivalente a una tasa de 7,6 por ciento anual en promedio, la mitad de ella relacionada al impacto de las
reformas estructurales aplicadas durante la primera parte de la decada. Lamentablemente, los efectos
negativos del Fen6meno del Nino, la crisis financiera internacional, el deterioro de los terminos de
intercambio y la crisis politica del ultimo aflo, redujo significativamente las perspectivas de crecimiento de la
economia peruana.
La solidez de las finanzas pOblicas ha disminuido. Toda esta situaci6n agravada significativamente por la
crisis politica de fines del afn 2000, ocasion6 que se deteriorara la confianza de los agentes econ6micos,
generandose una reducci6n en los niveles de inversi6n y estancamiento econ6mico. Ello ha traido consigo,
un mayor deterioro de las condiciones de vida de toda la poblaci6n, especialmente de los mas pobres. El
desafio actual, por lo tanto, es proteger la estabilidad macroecon6mica y fortalecer las bases para iniciar un
proceso de expansi6n sostenida de la economia, que permita mejorar eficazmente el nivel de vida de toda la
poblaci6n, en particular de los menos favorecidos, y al mismo tiempo, consolidar el sistema democratico.
La prioridad de las politicas sociales ha sido cambiante entre 1990 y el aho 2000. El gasto social en este
Oltimo ano es largamente mayor que el de 1990, sin embargo, en los ultimos anos ha decrecido respecto al
alcanzado a mediados de la decada. A pesar del mayor gasto social efectuado y la mejora en los
indicadores sociales, existen debilidades institucionales que no han permitido mejorar, de manera
permanente, el nivel de vida de la poblaci6n pobre.
II.    APROXIMACION A LA ESTRATEGIA GENERAL
Actualmente la tasa de crecimiento poblacional es de 1,7 por ciento por anio, mientras que la PEA, que forma
la demanda de trabajo, crece anualmente a tasas superiores al 3,0 por ciento a consecuencia de los altos
niveles de fecundidad de los anos 80 y a la creciente incorporaci6n de la mujer en la fuerza laboral. Para el
ano 2025, cuando la tasa decrecera para ubicarse alrededor del 2 por ciento anual, la PEA llegara hasta
unos 19 millones representando el 56 por ciento de la poblaci6n nacional. Hoy en dia, de los 11,9 millones
que conforman ia PEA, el 10,2 por ciento esta desempleado y el 65,4 por ciento de los ocupados estan en
condici6n de subempleados. El crecimiento de la PEA significa que anualmente hay una carga adicional
para el mercado laboral de 400 mil nuevos puestos de trabajo.



31
Para poder crear empleos adecuados y eliminar el subempleo y desempleo existentes15, es necesario que la
inversi6n crezca sostenidamente y alcance niveles cercanos al 30 por ciento del PBI, ma(gnitud consistente
con un crecimiento econ6mico cercano al 6 por ciento anual. Actualmente, la proporci6n de la inversi6n con
respecto al PBI esta alrededor del 20 por ciento. Con las condiciones actuales de inversi6n -publica y
privada, nacional y extranjera- y el crecimiento de la PEA, no podra crearse un niu mero suficiente de puestos
de trabajo y seguiran creciendo los sectores sociales imposibilitados de atender sus necesidades basicas.
Estas condiciones adversas para la satisfacci6n de las necesidades de la poblaci6n se han tratado de paliar
mediante la ejecuci6n del Gasto Social, el cual pas6 de un 3,9 por ciento del PBI en 1990 c 7,9 por ciento en
el 2000, mientras que el gasto social per capita creci6 de US$91,3 a 180,2, respectivamente. A pesar de
ello, la poblaci6n pobre ha presentado niveles de vida similares a los de inicio de la decada, debido
fundamentalmente al deterioro de los niveles de la pobreza.
Las perspectivas para el trenio que culmina en el 2003 son favorables. Se estima que el PBI se expandira
levemente este ano, para crecer luego a tasas superiores al 5 por ciento en los anos siguientes. La tasa de
inflaci6n sera del 3 por ciento o inferior durante los anos siguientes y se espera que a partir de este aho las
exportaciones crezcan mas rapidamente que las importaciones. Sin embargo, teniendo en cuenta los
desequilibrios fiscales existentes y el relativamente bajo crecimiento esperado del producto (2,5 por ciento)
en el afno 2001, el presente ejercicio fiscal sera seguramente el que mas restricciones enfrentara.
El Gobierno viene preparando un Prestamo Programatico para la Reforma Social con el Banco Mundial, el
cual contribuira a equilibrar las cuentas financieras externas del presente afno. Ciertamente se podria
acceder a fuentes de financiamiento alternativas, sin embargo, el Gobiemo prefiere sol citar el apoyo del
Banco Mundial a traves de esta operaci6n, pues enmarca sus actividades en una per;pectiva global de
mediano plazo con refommas estructurales de segunda generaci6n en el area social, que permitiran mayor
equidad y eficiencia en el gasto publico, consolidando las bases de un crecimiento sostenido en el futuro.
En el campo social, en un contexto de dialogo y participaci6n con todos los actores de la sociedad (estado,
sector privado, sociedad civil y agencias de cooperaci6n), se ha elaborado los Lineamientos Basicos de la
Politica Social que responden a la visi6n de pais indicado en el Plan Estrategico Nacional: "... Ilegar a ser un
pais en el que toda persona que nazca, tenga acceso a servicios basicos de calidad adecuada en nutrici6n,
salud, educaci6n, justicia y vivienda, que le permita desarrollar plenamente sus capaciclades, realizarse y
disfrutar de una vida sana, creativa, libre y productiva".
Ill.    LINEAMIENTOS BASICOS DE POLiTICA SOCIAL
111.1    Definici6n de la Politica Social
Del marco establecido en el Plan Estrategico Nacional, se desprende que el objetivo mas importante de la
politica social es generar condiciones de equidad en el acceso de toda la poblaci6n a mayores
oportunidades que le permitan alcanzar un nivel de vida aceptable, que incluya el disfrIite de los bienes y
servicios basicos para atender las necesidades esenciales de la poblaci6n, con eficacia, aficiencia y calidad
adecuadas, con el prop6sito final de potenciar las capacidades productivas y activos de las personas y
familias (capital humano, social, institucional, financiero) que permitan promover sostenidamente el
crecimiento econ6mico, en un marco de respeto y promoci6n de los derechos humanos y ciudadanos. La
lucha contra la pobreza esta incluida en esta definici6n, y continuara siendo un aspecto principal de la
politica del Gobierno, sin embargo estas actividades se ubicaran en una perspectiva de cesarrollo de mayor
alcance.
15 Existen algunas diferencias entre las cifras de desempleo y subempleo que aparecen en esta carta con las
que publica el Ministerio de Trabajo y Promoci6n Social, debido a razones metodol6gicas. Asi por ejemplo,
el nivel de desempleo incluye tanto el desempleo abierto como el desempleo oculto y la estimacion del nivel
de subempleo se realiza hogar por hogar, sin utilizar promedios geograficos.



32
El Estado concentrara sus actividades en la promoci6n de la salud y nutrici6n basicas, en la calidad de la
educaci6n, en el acceso a ia justicia, y en la promoci6n del empleo adecuado. Ademas, invertira en capital
humano y capital social dentro de una perspectiva de descentralizacion progresiva de la prestaci6n de
servicios sociales. Se implementara una Red de Protecci6n Social, que permitira un uso mas eficiente de
los recursos destinados al apoyo de las familias en situaciones criticas (como inundaciones, crisis
econ6micas, entre otras contingencias) determinando.proyectos que se inician con estas situaciones y
concluyen cuando estas pasan, asi como mediante la implementaci6n de Programas Protegidos,
garantizando la asignaci6n presupuestal de las actividades y proyectos considerados esenciales para el
Desarrollo Social, como se explica mas adelante.
Se invertira en el desarrollo institucional del pais, en el sentido de mejores organizaciones y normas mas
eficientes. Un pais con instituciones fuertes esta en mejores condiciones de afrontar los ciclos econ6micos
asi como procesos de corrupci6n. Estas instituciones, al operar de manera eficiente y racional, con
autonomia del Gobierno de turno, actuan como "seguros" ante decisiones irracionales y otorgan un mayor
grado de predictibilidad de la acci6n publica y consolidan la gobernabilidad del sistema.
111.2    Lineamientos
Son las directrces y orientaciones que tratan de ordenar y garantizar la eficiencia de la actividad del Estado
en el campo social, en especial en la lucha contra la pobreza y en la generaci6n de condiciones para un
desarrollo adecuado de las personas.
Las intervenciones que se presentan han sido preparadas teniendo en cuenta, entre otros, cuatro
orientaciones fundamentales introducidas por el actual Gobiemo de Transici6n: absoluta neutralidad en la
asignaci6n de los recursos publicos, la institucionalizaci6n de mecanismos para la mejora de la gesti6n de
los recursos publicos, la descentralizaci6n en la provisi6n de los servicios y el control social del gasto publico
por parte de organismos de la sociedad civil. Cabe mencionar que los dos ultimos se introduciran
progresivamente, ya que es necesaro desarrollar capacidades en los organismos subnacionales de
gobierno e instituciones locales de la sociedad civil para su cumplimiento.
A. Definicion y Articulaci6n de una Politica Social
Las politicas sociales no resultan eficientes fuera de una politica de desarrollo integral que vincule
armoniosamente equilibrios de mediano y largo plazo entre la poblaci6n, necesidades, recursos y
capacidades productivas; la familia, el hogar y su medio ambiente; los procesos de consumo y acumulaci6n
de capital humano y fisico; la segundad social y la protecci6n al consumidor; entre otros aspectos. No existe
una politica econ6mica y otra social separada de esta, ambas se entrelazan estrechamente. Temas
sustantivos de la politica de desarrollo como descentralizaci6n, capital humano, ciudadania, empleo
adecuado, calidad de vida, entre otros, contienen completamente estos dos ambitos, a veces separados por
razones de conocimiento, pero que las politicas deben afrontar de manera integral.
Destaca, sobre todo, la necesidad de impulsar un real proceso de descentralizaci6n, donde los futuros
gobiernos regionales tengan la oportunidad de establecer las politicas y proyectos de desarrollo de sus
ambitos geograficos.  El gasto publico regional debe orentarse a utilizar las capacidades locales y
regionales. Ademas, se requiere impulsar el desarrollo de estas capacidades, adaptando las curriculas
educativas a las potencialidades regionales y calificando a la fuerza laboral para la transformaci6n de sus
recursos.
Complementando los ya existentes, se implementaran sistemas de caracter permanente, que garanticen la
coordinaci6n, seguimiento y evaluaci6n de la Politica Social, con el objeto de mejorar el impacto de los
programas sociales, en el marco de un proceso de modernizaci6n del Estado. Representantes de la



33
sociedad civil participaran en estos sistemas. Asimismo, de manera progresiva los presupuestos de las
instituciones que desarrollan programas sociales seran asignados sobre la base de su clesempeno, en el
contexto de la aplicaci6n de estrategias contractuales de gesti6n.
B. Desarrollo Institucional del pais, Focalizaci6n, Equidad y Calidad del Gasto Social.
Para el desarrollo institucional del pais se fortaleceran un conjunto de organizaciores y de normas
existentes. Para lograr una mejor eficiencia y equidad del gasto social, es necesario identilcar y racionalizar
las actividades y proyectos esenciales dentro de los programas considerados criticos 3ara el desarrollo
social, cuyo financiamiento con cargo al Tesoro Publico sera protegido de recortes presupuestales. Se han
definido 12 areas prioritarias: Educaci6n Inicial, Educaci6n Primara, Educaci6n Secundaric, Salud Individual,
Salud Colectiva, Saneamiento, Justicia, Promoci6n de la Producci6n Agraria, Promocion y Asistencia Social
y Comunitaria, Orden Intemo, Energia y Transporte Terrestre.
Simultaneamente, se fortalecera la focalizaci6n en la asignaci6n de recursos para la lucha contra la pobreza;
para ello se buscara mejorar las condiciones tecnicas y metodol6gicas de asignacidn de recursos y
orientaci6n de los programas, velando, de este modo tambien, por la calidad y la equidad del gasto
ejecutado. Se ha elaborado un nuevo mapa actualizado de la pobreza que servira de referencia para la
asignaci6n de los recursos destinados a la asistencia e inversi6n social adicional y la transferencia de capital
a nivel local.
En el campo de la Salud se tienen varias iniciativas orientadas a mejorar la equidad y calidad de estas
intervenciones. Destaca el firme convencimiento de avanzar hacia una mayor interacci6n entre el Ministerio
de Salud y el Seguro Social de Salud, ESSALUD. En el campo de la educaci6n se tiene tambien un
conjunto amplio de iniciativas. Destacan las dirgidas a mejorar la calidad de la ensenanza a los ninos en
zonas especiales, como vernaculo hablantes, lejanos de las capitales de provincia, extrema pobreza,
carencia de servicios basicos, entre otros. Se ha iniciado con un estudio para otorgar incentivos para los
profesores que trabajan en estas zonas especiales.
Varios programas criticos para el desarrollo social -protegidos presupuestalmente y que cuentan con
asistencia tecnica y financiera directa del Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas- como PRONAA,
PRONAMACHCS, FONCODES, Electrificaci6n Rural y Caminos Rurales, ejecutan activ/idades especiales
destinados a la atenci6n de poblaciones dispersas, la mayoria de las cuales estan conformadas por
poblaci6n indigena.
C. Transparencia y Racionalizaci6n de las Politicas Sociales
Conscientes que no es posible incrementar la transparencia y promover un mayor cDntrol social sin la
disposici6n de informaci6n de calidad y oportunamente, se ha iniciado la publicacion mensual de los gastos
de las actividades y proyectos del Gobierno destinados a la Lucha contra la Pobreza, con un gran nivel de
detalle, el cual incluso llega a nivel distrital. Destaca el Portal Transparencia Econ6rnica del MEF que
inauguro el Presidente de la Republica el 26 de febrero del anio en curso y que contiene informaci6n sobre
Proyecciones Macroecon6micas hasta 2003 -de los sectores social, extemo, real, fiscal y monetario-, los
Planes Estrategicos Sectoriales 2001-2005 de los poderes ejecutivo, legislativo, judicial y electoral, asi como
el presupuesto ejecutado durante el aho 2000 por todos los sectores gubernamentales, incluyendo interor y
defensa.
Con la mayor articulaci6n y transparencia de las politicas sociales, se buscara mejorar la eficiencia y eficacia
de los programas sociales e incrementar la productividad en el uso de los recursos publicos. Se
estableceran mecanismos de queja que garanticen la neutralidad politica de los funcionarios publicos y el



34
buen uso de los recursos, con la participaci6n de la Defensoria del Pueblo y la Controlaria General de la
Republica, incluyendo lineas telef6nicas dedicadas.
Un componente fundamental de la estrategia sera la promoci6n de la participaci6n activa de la poblaci6n, no
s6lo para ejercer control sobre el destino del gasto social, sino para involucrarla paulatinamente en el
proceso de gesti6n local (planeamiento, administraci6n, supervisi6n, etc.) de los recursos relacionados al
desarrollo de la politica social y la prestaci6n descentralizada de los servicios sociales basicos.
D. Protecci6n Social durante Contingencias
Actualmente, cuando los ingresos fiscales disminuyen o deben reasignarse los recursos, como resultado de
problemas inesperados, tales como inundaciones por el fen6meno del Nino, el impacto de crisis externas en
la balanza de pagos, entre otros, dada la existencia de un componente rigido importante en el presupuesto
(planillas, pensiones, servicio de la deuda, etc.) los programas sociales de asistencia e inversi6n social
adicional son los que sufren mayormente los recortes presupuestales necesarios para afrontar dichas
contingencias y garantizar el equilibrio en las cuentas fiscales y la estabilidad macroecon6mica del pais.
Esta situacion ha comenzado a revertirse mediante el establecimiento de programas sociales protegidos y la
institucionalizaci6n de una Red Contingente de Protecci6n Social, ante la presencia de crisis economicas y
de otra naturaleza.
Asimismo, se viene impulsando el mejoramiento de las condiciones de vida y empleo para la mujer, el
adolescente y la progresiva reducci6n de la explotaci6n en el empleo infantil, adoptando formalmente las
normas y estandares de la Organizaci6n intemacional del Trabajo (OIT).
IV.    PRIORIDADES SOCIALES
En el contexto de una promoci6n agresiva del desarrollo institucional del pais y sobre la base de las
orientaciones de politica descritas en los capitulos precedentes las prioridades sociales se traducen en:
Nutrici6n: Nutrici6n, promoci6n, prevenci6n y complementaci6n alimentaria para familias en alto riesgo,
sobre todo en ninos menores de 5 anos (con enfasis en aquellos de 0 a 3 anos), madres gestantes y
lactantes. Se introduciran los incentivos necesarios para que las familias pobres utilicen los programas
alimentarios dirgidos a ninos solamente cuando sean necesarios. Se implantaran acciones de educaci6n en
nutrici6n y de seguridad alimentaria y se mejoraran los sistemas de vigilancia nutricional con participaci6n
directa de la comunidad.
Salud: Garantizar el acceso y la atenci6n de calidad a toda la poblaci6n, en servicios basicos de salud con
criterio de equidad, mejorando el entorno ambiental asi como previniendo y controlando los riesgos y dahos
asociados a enfermedades transmisibles. Atenci6n mediante el Plan Garantizado de Servicios. Fomento
del intercambio de servicios entre sub sectores: MINSA, ESSALUD y proveedores privados. Salud basica
(esencialmente preventiva) y atenci6n de baja complejidad que incluye el tratamiento a los enfermos de
tuberculosis y otras patologias transmisibles y el fortalecimiento de procesos de planificaci6n familiar y
patemidad responsable. Se protegera especialmente a la mujer embarazada, otorgandole cuatro controles
pre natales y suplemento alimentario para combatir la anemia. Todos los partos deben ser institucionales.
Se fomentara la vigilancia social del cuidado del embarazo y se profundizaran los mecanismos para la
difusi6n y comunicaci6n sobre el embarazo y el cuidado del nifo. El objetivo es conseguir una maternidad
segura, saludable y feliz.
Educaci6n: Revalorizar la funci6n social del maestro; mejorar la calidad del proceso de aprendizaje en el
nuevo sistema educativo, cerrando los deficit de cobertura y equidad; enfatizar la educaci6n inicial, primaria
y secundaria, asegurando al menos 11 anos de escolaridad y los logros educativos basicos para todos. Se



35
prestara atencion al Nino de la Calle, generando las condiciones para que asista a clases y se incorpore al
sistema educativo. Para ello, es necesario el fortalecimiento de mecanismos de vigilancia social.
Justicia: Fortalecer el Estado de Derecho en la poblaci6n, asegurando el efectivo ejercicio de sus derechos y
deberes fundamentales. Se ampliara el acceso a la Justicia, especialmente en zonas aisladas y se pondra
enfasis en la soluci6n de conflictos al nivel de juzgados de paz, mixtos y especializados, mediante m6dulos
basicos que faciliten la resoluci6n de conflictos para toda la poblaci6n y aseguren el efectivc. ejercicio de sus
derechos fundamentales. Se promovera la operaci6n de Defensorias Comunitarias y de otras formas
alternativas de resoluci6n de conflictos, con activa participaci6n de la comunidad.
Vivienda y Saneamiento: Ampliar el acceso a servicios de agua potable, saneamiento y electrcidad de las
poblaciones de escasos recursos y facilitar la construcci6n de m6dulos basicos de vivienda.
Seauridad ciudadana: Para combatir la delincuencia y la intranquilidad publica, garantizando en estrecha
vinculaci6n con la justicia, el orden y la coexistencia pacifica en condiciones de escasez.
Inversi6n social adicional: Transfiriendo capital en el ambito local, para disminuir el deficit de consumo de las
familias y mejorar la infraestructura socio econ6mica de la zona en apoyo a la producci6n. Estos
mecanismos, al estimular la demanda local, promoveran, adicionalmente, la generaci6n de empleo. Se
apoyara tambi6n la mejora de los registros civiles y administrativos a escala local, en especial los registros
de nacimientos y defunciones, sobre la base de los cuales se construira un sistema global (le informaci6n de
las personas.
V.     ASIGNACIN DE RECURSOS
Finalmente, a fin de asegurar la adecuada asignaci6n de los recursos publicos de acuerdo con estos
lineamientos y prioridades, se ha dispuesto que el mayor ingreso por cualquier fuente de financiamiento que
se obtenga durante el Ano Fiscal 2001 sera destinado a la mejora de la gesti6n, calidad y cobertura en la
provisi6n de bienes y prestaci6n de servicios de los programas funcionales proritarios, que tal como se ha
mencionado, son: salud colectiva e individual, educaci6n inicial, prmaria y secundaria, justicia, saneamiento,
orden interno, promoci6n y asistencia social y comunitaria, promoci6n de la producci6n agraria, transporte
terrestre y energia.
Para estos programas se ha asignado, por toda fuente de financiamiento, SI.1 1,185 millones para el ano
2001, equivalente al 32 por ciento del Presupuesto General de la Republica y dentro de ellos, se ha
identificado las principales actividades y proyectos, cuya asignaci6n presupuestaria, por la fuente de
financiamiento de Recursos Ordinarios, ascendente a S/.3,540 millones (cerca del 13 por ciento del total de
egresos previstos con cargo a los Recursos Ordinarios del Tesoro) sera preservada de cualquier recorte
presupuestal.



36
Unofficial ENGLISH TRANSLATION
Official Letter No. 031 -2001 -EF/1O
Lima, March 8, 2001
Mr. James Wolfensohn
President
Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Washington D. C. USA
Reference: Programmatic Social Reform Loan
I would like to refer to the above Programmatic Social Reform Loan, soon to be approved by
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) for an amount of US$100
million.
In this respect, please find the Social Policy Letter, which includes the reform program that
the Peruvian Government is carrying out to confront and overcome poverty and to improve the
living conditions for the population.
The policies mentioned in the Letter have been designed to benefit those in extreme poverty
and, at the same time, set the foundations for broad participation in economic growth over the
coming years, within the framework of strengthening the democratic system in Peru.
I take this opportunity to convey to you my best regards.
Yours truly
Javier Silva Ruete
Minister of Economy and Finances



37
SUMMARY: SOCIAL POLICY LETTER
This Social Policy Letter has been prepared on the basis of dialogue among the public sector, private sector,
international cooperation agencies and civil society throughout the country. This documeni presents a short
diagnosis and a general development framework, reflecting the relationship between population and
production, that is between the needs and possibilities to satisfy them. Subsequently, it presents the Basic
Social Policy Guidelines developed within a medium term horizon and based on general consensus that
transcends this Government. It also includes in detail the social priorities and the public resources assigned
to the social area for fiscal year 2001.
I.     DIAGNOSIS
During the last years we have had many periods of fast growth followed by other periods ol recession. In the
1980-1990 period the economy experienced an average yearly contraction of almost 1%, while in the period
1991-2000, the average rate of growth rose to 4.2%. Per capita GDP, which currently is around US$2,180 is
similar, in real terms, to that of 1985 and 10% lower than that registered in 1980.
Between 1993 and 1997 economic activity rose approximately 45%, equivalent to a 7.6%/6 average annual
growth rate, half of it related to the impact of the structural reforms applied during the first part of the decade.
Unfortunately, the negative effects of the El Nino Phenomenon, the international financial crisis, the
deterioration of the terms of trade and last years political crisis, significantly reduced growth prospects for the
economy.
The solidity of public finances has diminished. This situation, significantly worsened by tha political crisis of
the end of 2000, caused deterioration of trust in the economy, resulting in a reduction of investment levels
and in economic stagnation. This has triggered a bigger deterioration in living conditions, especially for the
poorest. The current challenge, therefore, is to protect macroeconomic stability and to strengthen the basis
to start a process of sustained economic growth to effectively improve the living conditions of the population,
particularly of the poorest and, at the same time, to consolidate the democratic system.
The priority of social policies changed between 1990 and 2000. Social expenditures in 2000 were much
larger than those of 1990. However, at the end of the nineties, they have fallen with respect to the level
reached by the middle of the decade. In spite of the larger social expenditure and the improvement in the
social indicators, there are institutional weaknesses that have not allowed lasting improvements in the living
standards of the poor.
II.    APPROACH TO THE GENERAL STRATEGY
Currently the population growth rate is 1.7% per year, while the labor force, which determines the demand for
jobs, grows at an annual rate of over 3% as a consequence of the high birth rates of the 80's and the growing
incorporation of women into the labor force. For 2025, when the rate would fall to around 2%, the labor force
would reach about 19 million, representing 56% of the total. Of the 11.9 million labor force, 10.2% are
unemployed and 65.4% of the employed are underemployed. The growth of the labor force means that
annually there is an additional load in the labor market of 400,000 new jobs.



38
In order to create appropriate employment and to eliminate existing'16 underemployment and unemployment,
it is necessary that investment reaches levels close to 30% of GDP, a number consistent with an economic
annual growth rate close to 6%. Currently, the proportion of investment with respect to GDP is around 20%.
Under the current investment conditions -public and private, national and foreign - and the sustained growth
of the labor force, the availability of jobs will not change significantly. The social sectors will be unable to
satisfy the basic needs of the growing population also.
Attempts have been made to meet the basic needs of the poor population through Social Expenditures,
which grew from 3.9% of GDP in 1990 to 7.9% in 2000, while per capita social expenditure grew from US
$91.3 to $180.2 during the same period. In spite of this, the population in poverty has remained the same as
in the beginning of the decade, owing mainly to the recent increase of poverty levels.
Prospects for the triennium that culminates in 2003 are favorable. It is estimated that GDP will expand slightly
this year, but will grow at rates higher than 5% during the following years. The inflation rate is projected to be
3% or less during the following years and it is expected that, starting from this year, exports will grow more
quickly than imports. Taking into account the existing fiscal imbalances and the relatively low GDP growth
prospects (2.5% for 2001), however, this year's fiscal situation is surely the one that will face more
restrictions.
The Government is preparing, with the World Bank, a Programmatic Loan for Social Reform, which will
contribute to balance the external financial accounts of the current year. While the Government could access
alternative financing sources, it prefers to ask for the support of the World Bank through this operation
because its activities are framed in a medium term perspective with second generation structural reforms in
the social area. These reforms will allow greater equity and efficiency in public expenditure, consolidating the
basis for sustained growth in the future.
In the social field, in a context of dialogue and participation with all of society's actors (state, private sector,
civil society and intemational cooperation agencies), the Basic Guidelines of Social Policies have been
prepared, which respond to the country's vision indicated in the National Strategic Plan: "... to evolve into
being a country in which any child who is bom, has access to basic services of adequate quality in nutrition,
health, education, justice and housing that allows him/her to develop his/her capacities fully, to achieve and
to enjoy a healthy, creative, free and productive life".
III.   BASIC GUIDELINES OF SOCIAL POLICY
111.1 Definition of the Social Policy
Within the framework of the National Strategic Plan, the main objective of social policy is to generate
conditions of equity where the population will have access to more opportunities that will allow them to reach
an acceptable standard of living. This implies access to basic goods to satisfy their essential needs, with
effectiveness, efficiency and adequate quality, and with the ultimate purpose of raising their productive
capacities and assets (human, social, institutional, financial capital). This will allow a sustained promotion of
economic growth and fostering of human and citizenship rights. The fight against poverty is fundamental in
this definition, and it will continue to be a main aspect of Government's policy.
16 There are some differences between the unemployment and underemployment figures that appear in this
letter and those published by the Ministry of Labor and Social Promotion owing to methodological reasons.
Thus, for instance, the rate of unemployment includes both open and hidden and estimation of
underemployment is done household by household, without using geographical averages.



39
The State will concentrate its activities on the promotion of health and basic nutrition, improving the quality of
education, access to justice, and advancement of adequate employment. In addition, it will invest in human
and social capital within a perspective of decentralization in the distribution of social services. T he concept of
Social Protection will be implemented to allow a more efficient use of resources directed to the support of
families in crisis situations (such as floods, economic crisis, among other contingenciesi implementing
projects which begin when these crises hit and end when they are over, as well as by implementing
Protected Programs, guaranteeing the budgeted allocation to activities and projects which are considered
essential for Social Development, as explained below.
Investments will also focus on institutional development, aimed at improving organizations anii creating more
efficient norms. A country with strong institutions is better prepared to confront economic cycles as well as
corruption processes. These institutions, when operating in an efficient and rational way, with autonomy from
the Govemment, act as an "insurance" against irrational decisions and consolidate the governance of the
system.
111.2 Guidelines
These guidelines prioritize and guarantee the efficiency of Government's activity in the social field, especially
in the fight against poverty and in the generation of conditions for human development.
The interventions which are presented have been prepared keeping in mind, among others, four fundamental
priorities introduced by the current Transition Government: absolute political neutrality in the assignment of
public resources, institutionalization of mechanisms for improvement of the management of public resources,
decentralization in the provision of services, and social control of public expenditure by organizations of civil
society. It should be mentioned that the latter two will be introduced progressively, since for their execution it
is necessary to develop capacities in government agencies at the local level and in civil socie:y.
A. Definition and Articulation of a Social Policy
Social policies are not efficient in the absence of an integrated development policy which harmoniously links
balances of medium and long term between population, necessities, resources and productive capacities;
family, home and their environment; processes of consumption and accumulation of human and physical
capital; social security and protection to the consumer; among other aspects. An economic policy does not
exist separated from a social one, both are intertwined closely. Substantive themes of development policy
such as decentralization, human capital, citizenship, appropriate employment, quality of life, among others,
fully contain these two areas, sometimes separated for methodological reasons, but policies should confront
them in an integrated manner.
The need to push a real decentralization process, where future regional governments have tie opportunity to
establish development policies and projects in their geographical boundaries is an important part of the social
policy. Regional public expenditure should be oriented to the use of local and regional capacities. Moreover,
it is necessary to strengthen the development of these capacities, adapting the education curricula to
regional priorities and increasing the quality of their respective labor force.
Within the framework of State modernization and, in order to improve the impact of social programs,
permanent systems will be implemented to guarantee coordination, monitoring and evaluation of Social
Policy. Representatives of civil society will participate in these systems. Also, in a progressive manner,
budgets of institutions that manage social programs will be assigned on the basis of their pelormance, within
the context of the application of management contracts.



40
B. The Country's Institutional Development, Targeting, Equity and Quality of Social
Expenditure.
On institutional development, a group of existing agencies and norms will be strengthened. To achieve
greater efficiency and fairness of social expenditures, it is necessary to rationalize essential activities and
projects crtical for social development, whose financing by the Public Treasury will be protected from budget
cuts. Accordingly, 12 High-priority areas have been defined: Initial Education, Primary Education, Secondary
Education, Individual Health, Collective Health, Sanitation, Justice, Promotion of the Agrarian Production,
Promotion and Social Community Assistance, Internal Order, Energy and Road Transport.
Simultaneously, targeting of resources for poverty reduction will be strengthened.  The technical and
methodological bases for resource allocation and choices of programs will be improved, thus, ensuring the
quality and fairness of the execution of expenditure. A new, unified poverty map has been prepared, which
will guide resource allocation for social investments, social assistance and the transfer capital at the local
level.
In the Health sector, there are several initiatives to improve equity and quality of interventions. The
Government will advance towards improving coordination between the Ministry of Health and the Social
Security Institute, ESSALUD. In the education field, there are also an ample set of initiatives, including those
aimed at improving the quality of teaching for children in special circumstances: non-Spanish speaking,
outside of the provincial capitals, in extreme poverty, lacking basic services, among others. A study to grant
incentives for teachers who work in these special areas has begun.
Several programs, critical for social development, such as health, education, rural electrification,
FONCODES, and rural roads whose budgets will be protected will carry out special actions aimed at
dispersed and indigenous populations.
C. Transparency and Rationalization of Social Policies
Being aware that is not possible to increase transparency and to promote a larger social control without the
availability of quality and timely information, expenditures of the Government on activities and projects
dedicated to the fight against poverty, among others, will be published monthly, to the extent possible at the
district level. Along this line, the MEF's Economic Transparency website which was inaugurated by the
president of the Republic on February 26 of this year includes information on macroeconomic projections up
to 2003, the 2001-2003 sectoral strategic plans of the executive, parliament, judicial, and electoral branches
of government, as well as the 2000 executed budget for all govemment sectors, including interior and
defense.
With greater articulabton and transparency of social policies, improvement of the efficiency and effectiveness
of social programs and greater productivity in the use of public resources will be sought. Complaint
mechanisms that guarantee the political neutrality of public officials and the good use of public resources,
with the participation of the Ombudsman's and the Republics General Comptrollers, will be established
including phone lines for this purpose.
A fundamental component of the strategy will be promotion of the population's active participation, not only to
exercise control over the direction of social expenditure, but also to involve them gradually in the process of
local management (planning, management, supervision, etc.) of the resources related to the development of
social policies and the decentralized provision of basic social services.



41
D. Social protection during Crisis
Currently, when fiscal revenues fall or resources have to be reallocated, due to unexpected problems, (e.g.
floods from El Nino phenomenon, impact of external crisis on the balance of payments,) social programs
suffer most of the budget cuts because the existence of rigid budget components (payrolls, pensions, debt
service, etc.). This situation has begun to be reversed through the establishment of protected social
programs and the institutionalization of a Social Protection Contingency Plan to confront economic and other
types of crises.
In addition, the improvement of the employment conditions for women, the adolescent and the progressive
reduction of exploitation in child employment are being encouraged, formally adopting the norms and
standards of the Intemational Labor Organization (ILO).
IV.    SOCIAL PRIORITIES
In the context of an aggressive promotion of the institutional development of the country and, on the basis of
the policy orientations described in the previous sections social priorities are as follows:
Nutrition: To provide nutrition, promotion, prevention and food complementation for families of high risk,
mainly for children younger than 5 years (with emphasis in those of 0 to 3 years), pregnant and nursing
mothers. Incentives will be introduced so that poor families use the food programs directed to children only
when they need them. Education actions in nutrition and in food security will be put in place and systems of
nutritional surveillance with direct participation of the community will be improved.
Health: To guarantee access and quality attention to all the population for basic health services with an
equity criterion, improving the environment as well as preventing and controlling risks and damages
associated with communicable diseases. Attention through the Guaranteed Plan of Health Services.
Promotion of the exchange of services among sub sectors: MINSA, ESSALUD and private suppliers. Basic
health (essentially preventive) and low complexity attention, which includes treatment of persons sick of
tuberculosis and other transmittable diseases and the strengthening of family planning and responsible
patemity programs. Pregnant women will be especially protected, giving them four pre-natal controls and
food supplements to combat anemia. All childbirth should be institutional. Social surveillance of pregnancy
care will be encouraged and the mechanisms for dissemination and communication on pregnancy and child
care will be deepened. The objective is to attain a safe, healthy and happy matemity.
Education: To revalue the teacher's social function; to improve the quality of the leaming proccess in the new
educational system, eliminating the attendance deficit and attaining equity; to emphasize the initial, primary
and secondary education, assuring 11 years of schooling and the basic educational achievements for all.
Attention will be given to street children, generating conditions so that they attend classes and be
incorporated in the educational system. For this, it is necessary to strengthen the mechanisms of social
surveillance.
Justice: To strengthen the civil rights of the population, assuring the effective exercise of their fundamental
rights and duties. Access to Justice will be enhanced, especially in isolated areas and emphasis will be given
to solution of conflicts at the level of peace, mixed and specialized, by means of basic modules which
facilitate conflict resolution for all the population and ensure effective exercise of their fundamental rights. The
operation of Community Ombudsmanship will be promoted and other altemative ways of resolution of
conflicts, with active participation of the community.
Housing and Sanitation: To enhance access to services of drinkable water, sanitation and electricity for
people of scarce resources and to facilitate the construction of basic housing modules.



42
Citizens Securty: To combat delinquency and public uneasiness, guaranteeing close linkage with justice,
order and the peaceful coexistence under peaceful conditions.
Additional social investment: To transfer capital in local areas, to reduce the consumption deficit of families
and to improve the economic infrastructure in local areas to support production. These mechanisms, by
stimulating local demand will promote additional employment generation. Support will also be given to
improvement of civil and administrative registrations in local scale, especially the registration of births and
deaths, on the basis of which a global system of people's information will be built.
V.     ASSIGNMENT OF RESOURCES
Finally, in order to ensure the appropriate assignment of public resources in accordance with these
guidelines and priorities, it has been decided that a larger income from any financing source obtained during
Fiscal Year 2001 will be allocated to the improvement of management, quality and coverage in the provision
of goods and services of the functional priority programs which, as has just been mentioned, are: collective
and individual health, initial, primary and secondary education, justice, sanitation, internal order, promotion
and social and community assistance, promotion of agrarian production, road transport and energy.
For these programs, S/.11,185 millions for 2001, equivalent to 32%.of the General Budget has been
allocated from all financing sources and, within them, a list of main activities and projects have been
identified whose budgetary assignment, will be S/.3,540 millions (or 13% of Ordinary Resources of the
Treasury) will be protected from any budget cut.



43
March 20, 2001
Annex 2: PERU - Programmatic Social Reform Loan (PSRL) -
Policy Matrix
A. SOCIAL POLICY ARTICULATION AND COORDINATION
1. Issue: Peru lacks    1. Letter/Statement of Social            1. Social policy agenda as set out in    *  CIAS (new           *  Improved
clarity in its social  Development Policy which                   the Social Policy Letter confirmed    government)         I    intersectoral
policy agenda;         incorporates strategic decisions           by the new government.                confirmation of the      coordination and
there is inadequate    carried out or to be implemented in                                              Social Policy Letter     coherence in social
coordination of        the social sectors will be sent to the  2. CIAS to have carried out activities                            policy
social policy          Bank. This letter will elaborate on        according to agreed strategy and  *  Regularity of CIAS
implemenitation.       principles and actions to be taken         action plans                          meetings (at least   *  Better aligned social
related to: (a) better articulation of                                          twice a month)           policy and
social priorities and strengthening of                                                                    implementation of
the analytical basis for the policy                                                                       strategy across
decisions of CIAS; (b)enhanced access                                        *  Evidence provided         sectors
of the poor to basic human capital                                               through CIAS
investments and adequate coverage                                                secretariat reports to
for social risks, (c) improved                                                   MEF
efficiency and targeting of public
social expenditures.; (d) decentralized
delivery of social services with
enhanced participation of
communities; and (e) launch of a
participatory monitoring and
u_ ~ ~         ~    ~~~~~~~~~~ _  a'u.  a, r. , I,  .:c'  c;x p c adL rc S. 
17 Benchmarks in bold are minimum triggers for the first loan.
I Benchmarks in bold are miniimum triggers for the second loan.



44
2.  Isu:Bdes for   1.  Supreme Decree No. 108 issued on             I 1.  Evidence that the proposed 2002        U  Ipdated                Improved efficienc 
social sectors are      October 5, 2000 approving the Multi-        budget for the social sectors takes     performance               of budget use for
not linked to           Annual Strategic Plans for each of the      into account the performance            indicators in the         social sectors.
program objectives      social sectors with quantifiable            indicators incorporated in the Multi-   Multi-Annual
and provide no          performance targets for 2001-2005.-         Annual Strategic Plans.                 Strategic Plans
incentive for high    2.  Comnpletion of performance-based      2.  Resolution issued by MEF for
quality and             monitoring software for input and output    implementation of system of
efficient program       indicators.                                 performance -based budgetary
delivery.           3.  Agreement on input and output               allocations.
indicators for the ministries of health,  3.  Approval by CIAS of Multi-Annual
education, presidency, and                  Strategic Plan for 2002-2006
PROMUDEH.
3.  Issue: Inadequate    1.  Application of System of Integrated    1.  SIAF available to municipal          *  SIAF data for all      *  Improved
imonitoring of          Financial Administration (SIAF) to          governments at the provincial level.    ministries                implementation of
social                  Ministries of Interior and Defense      2.  An integrated system to track           maintained and            the major poverty
expenditures, and       (which also execute social programs)        transfers made from the central         updated in MEF            alleviation
lack of appropriate                                                 government to local governments         website                   programs, and better
evaluation of major  2.  Agreement signed by MEF and program        developed.                                                        design of future
programs.               directors on monitoring indicators for  3.  Evidence that the agreed monitoring |    Social programs          interventions.
FONCODES, PRONAA, Caminos                   system has been applied in              carrying monitoring
Rurales, PRONAMACHCS, and                   FONCODES, PRONAA, Caminos               and evaluation        *  Better tracking of
Electrificaci6n Rural.                      Rurales, PRONAMACHCS, and               guidelines as agreed      expenditures from
Electrificaci6n Rural.                  with MEF                 the central to the
3.  Agreement between MEF and program    4.  Evidence that the agreements for ex-                                 local governments
directors on Termns of Reference to carry  post evaluation of investments made
out base-lines and external ex-post         by FONCODES, PRONAA,
impact evaluations for PRONAA,              Caminos Rurales,
Caminos Rurales, PRONAMACHCS,               PRONAMACHCS, and
and Electrificaci6n Rural.                  Electrificacion Rural have been
complied with.
_______________~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ___ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ___ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ____ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ __ _ _ _ _



4 5
4. Iss'ue: In spite of    l . Law of Public Procurement and       1. The CPAR and CFAA action plans   *Draft reglamento of          Improved
major progress,        Contracting issued                        to improve public financial            the new                  procurement and
some                                                             accountability, including              procurement law          financial
improvements are                                                 procurement, will be agreed with       sent to the Bank tor     administration
needed in the                                                    the government; and (ii)               review                   framework
procurement and                                                  satisfactory progress will have been
financial                                                        made on the implementation of said   *  CPAR and CFAA
administration                                                   action plans, including agreement      action plans sent to
system                                                           on the Regulations (reglamento) to     Government for
implement the Procurement Law         review
2.  The action plan for the IGR, once
prepared, will be agreed with the
government
B. SOCIAL PROTECTION DURING CRISIS
1. Issue: Inadequate    I.  Aggregate 2001 budget for specific   1. Evidence that the quarterly         *  Quarterly and actual  *  The poor has
funding for social     protected programs no lower in real       budget transfers for protected         expenditures of          continued access to
programs which         terms than aggregate 2000 budget           social programs were maintained       protected programs       priority programs
are particularly       (See Annex 3 for list of protected         at the agreed aggregate levels in                              even in times of
important for the      programs).                                 2001.                                                          serious fiscal
poor during        2.  CIAS approves list of specific         2.  Evidence that the real aggregate  *  Analytical review of      problems
economic               protected programs and their               budget for protected programs in      proposed 2002
downturns.             quarterly allocations for 2001.            2002 is maintained at least at the    budget for protected
2001 level.                           programs
2.  Issue: Lack of a   1. Agreement between the Bank and the      I . Completed design of social        *  Triggers of           *  Enhanced protection
clear social           GOP on a social protection contingency     protection strategy to protect the    contingency action       of the poor and
protection strategy;   plan for the short term, including a scale  poor during economic downturns,      plan monitored           vulnerable groups
no clcar               of tri-rs wiherebhv c1Pqrlv-snecified     including a review of experience of    quarterly                against social risks
| mechanism to         interventions are initiated or terminated.  the activation mechanismns
transfer additional                                               identified in the first tranche.   *  Draft social
public resources to |                                             Strategy to include risk map,         protection strategy
low-income                                                        priority target groups, costing of    sent to the Bank for
households during                                                 basic service package, trigger points  revievA.
economic crises.                                                 for intervention. functional
responsibilities, implementation and
monitoring mechanisms.



46
3.  Issue: Woimen and   ].  The Peruvian Congress approved itl    I   Law increasinig legal child labor agec   Progress of debate  | B Fetter workin-
youth workers are      January 2001 the following revisions to    from 12 to 15 years is under|    regarding increasing          conditions for
not adequately         existing laws to protect the vulnerable    consideratiotn by Congress.           child labor age         xwoomeni and youth.
protected              groups of mothers and children in Peru:
*   Law No. 27403 allows working mothers                                         *  Status of working
one hour paid breast feeding time per                                           conditions of
day for up to six months after the child is                                     women and youth
born.                                                                           workers in Peru (to
*  Law No. 27402, amending the third                                                be developed as part
article of Law No. 26644.. The                                                  o f social protection
amendment clarifies that if a child is                                          strategy design)
born after an expected delivery date,
delayed days will be considered medical
rest for temporary disability and paid as
such.
*   Women adopting children of less than
12 years will be allowed paid leave of 30
days under Law No. 27409.
*  Law No. 27404, modifying the Youth
Labor Promotion Law (Lye Del Program
de Formation y Promotion Labial
Juvenile) to reduce from three years to
one year the temporary employment
contract of young workers. Also youth
employment cannot be more than 10
percent of the total personnel of any
employer. This is to minimnize abuses of
some employcrs who try to avoid paying-
the labor benefits of employed younigt
adults.
(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--- ------



47
Issue: Many          1. Completion of anew district-level      1. Resolution issued for adoption of   | *  Application of   |*  Reduced
important poverty      poverty map based on imputed per-         new poverty map by programs     l    targeting strategy as i  undercoverage and
alleviation            capita expenditure.                       which use geographic targeting.       agreed between          leakage of targeted
programs are                                                                                           MEF and the 5           social programs.
poorly targeted.                                                                                       programns
2.  Agreement signed by MEF and          2.  Budget for a new population census
program directors on a targeting         included in the 2002 budget.
strategy which could include the use
of the new poverty map as well as
other targeting indicators by
FONCODES, PRONAA, Caimans
Rurally, PRONAMACHCS, and
_____________ ._       Rural Electrification
2. Issue: Despite an    1. The GOP has created formally the      1. Evidence that the SMI has been     *  Rate of expansion,    *  Improved access of
increase in the        Seguro Materno Infantil (SMT)             expanded to 22 health departments     and satisfactory   |    the poor, especiallyl
supply of health    |   through Ministerial Resolution 448-       (DlSAs).                              implementation of        nimothers and  
l services, many         99-SA/DM.and has expanded its        l                                          SMI program         |    children to basic  l
among the poor do       implementation to 13 health           2.  Evidence that the proportion of                           I    health. 300,000
not utilize health     departments.                              public primary clinics run by     *  Rate of expansion   |    families covered by
services because of l2.  Evidence that the proportion of public  communities (CLAS) has increased      and satisfactorv        June 2001
j cost- and cultural-     primary clinics run by communities       from 200/ to 25o by June 2001.       implementation of    *  Increased community
l barriers               (CLAS) has increased from 15%/ to                                               CLAS                     participation in   |
l.     'Vsiti           _  20% by December 2000.                l      icCtaa;:hs,~I                       sho)ietfe                manlagement of
]   . .                                                                                       |    publi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rt~acsc halhfaites
improvements in                                                   committed to implemlent the pilot    . .j.........networks (100  j rural children to
[  educatin  at  lou\ foran ncel1tivesystem fr rural . i ............... schoos) identiiedgooddquality 
budgets, the access                     lteachers.                                     ........ for the teacher                educationl
iof rural and                                              l........ incentive pilotj
indigenous childrenil
to basic education|il
is a big challenge.                         
I*    __02__W.1,



48
D. TRAN SPARENCY AND IEMPOWERMENT OF BENEFICIARIES                     _ 
Issue              I  C reation of Mesa de Concertaci6n de       E I  Evidenice that the Mesa de                             *  C(ivil society with
Lxpenditures made      Lucha contra la Pobreza by Suprellme      (oncertacion de l.ucha contra la                             Imore access to
by social programs     Decree No. 00I-2001-PROMUJDEH-.           Pobreza has defined strategies and                              in formation and
are not transparent;  2.  Publication on:                        action plans .                                                  better capacity to
there is no            M MEF website of the transfers made to   2. Announcement in major                                         exercise social
functioning            every province and district               newspapers of the availability in    *  Availability of         control over social
mechanismrl for        municipality for the Vaso de Leche in     the web of all information             appropriate budget       expenditures.
complaints and         2000 and 2001, as well as the total       mentioned in first credit.             informationi in MEF
recourse by            budgets of FONCODES, PRONAA,    3.  Evidence of publication of actual            and selected social
intended               Caminos Rurales, PRONAMACHCS,             district-level (or program area)       program website as
benieficiaries.        and Electrificaci6n Rural for 2000.       expenditures made in the first six     agreed with the
|  Program-specific websites, using a         months of 2001 by FONCODES,           Lank. Newspaper
consistent format supplied by MEF, of     PRONAA, Caminos Rurales,               publication of'
the district-by-distriet (or program      PRONAMACHCS, and                      a-reed budget
area) expenditures made by                Electrificaci6n Rural.                information
FONCODES, PRONAA, Caminos             4.  Evidence that the agreements
Rurales, PRONAMACHCS, and                 reached to ensure transparency in
Flectrificaci6n Rural in 2000.            investments made by FONCODES,
I  PRONAA website of the transfers            PRONAA, Caminios Rurales.
made to Comedores Populares on a          PRONAMACHCS, and
comedor-by-comedor basis for 2000.        Electrificaci6n Rural have been
3. Agreement signed by MEF and                reached.
program directors on a strategy to
ensure the transparency of            5.  Publication of a report by the
expenditures made by FONCODES,  i    Defensor del Pueblo which details
PRONAA, Caminos Rurales,                 the nature of the complaints        +  Repoll of Puiblic
PRONAMACtHCS, and                         received and how they were      Oj mbudsman Otfice
Flectrificaci6n Rural.                    resolved.                             Ol complaints
4.  Cr-eation by the Office of the Plublic                                          rcccivcd reglardinc_
Onmbudsiman of an informationi        6.  FBidence that a social control        political use of
caampaign andI complaint mechanism       nmechanismi) has been designed for     social progranis
to avoid the political use of social     the monitoring of social
programs.                                 expenditures. Such mechanism to  j    Regular mectings,
-l______________ l                                              l I    include a national surveillance      progress reports of



49
5. Resolutions adopted to guarantee the         program for social programs led        the Task Force on                              I
political neutrality of PROMUDEH      |     by the civil society              |     Social Control      !I
(Resoluci6n Ministerial 054-2001-                                                   mechanism.
PROMUDEH), the Defensoria del                                                       Proposed
Pueblo (Resoluci6n Defensorial 67-                                                  mechanisms sent to
2000-DCP) and the executive (Decreto                                                the Bank for review.
Supremo 04-2001-PCM).
6.  Task Force charged with the design
and implementation of a social
control mechanism intended to
increase citizen oversight over social
programs was created in February
__________________   _   1  2001.
2.  Issue:              1.  Publication of the math, language,       1.  Publication of all the results for the    *   Seven monthly   1  Increased social
| Transparency andrl    social and natural sciences results of the   1998 student assessment data and of     bulletins with            awareness of the
social participation    1998 student achievement test data and      the comparative analysis of the         student assessment         quality of education
in the education    I    of the OREALC/UNESCO 1997                   1996 and 1998 data.                    results                   in Peru.
sector need             regional test data.
significant                                                     2.  Publication of the Final Report of
improvement         2.  Supreme Resolution, published on            the Commission for National          .  MOE report of
January 15, 2001, creating the              Consensus on Education.                 complaints received
Commission for National Consensus on                                                from parents and
Education (Comisi6n para un Acuerdo                                                 percentage of these
Nacional por la Educaci6n)              3.  Evidence of implementation of the       resolved.
|3.   Ministerial Resolution, publishedMinisterial Resolution on parent
|  l 3.  Ministerial Resolution, published  I    participation in controlling teacher
Novem ber23, 2000n empniwering              attendance.
parents in rural areas to keep teacher
attendance and report non-compliance to
regional offices.
4|  Supreme Decree 007-2001-ED
published Feb. 13, 2001 authorizini
local school directors to make decisions
on personnel management and
L____________________        management_of school resources.        |                                        ___



50
!   s   K   m   N  R  !e  Bet  l  l  !  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!~71 I~ 1~~   .
E. RATIONALIZATION OF SOCIAL EXPENDITIJRES                                                                                                      -
1.  Issue: Widesprepd    I  Supreme Decree 002-2001-SA  (dated  7I Interministerial Aeement                 *          Interministerial  T  Improved
duplication of          Feb. 1  2001) created the Cromisiidn        between the MINSA and MOE               agreement betwveen        adiniriistrative
nutrition and food      Multisectorial  de   Alirentaci6n   y       regarding the impicmentationotthe oMtNSA and MOV                  efficienc\  redtuced
supplemiientationi      Nutrici6nl headed by the Ministry of'       schiool feedinig program. in the        signed                    duplication, and
programls.              l lealth   This will promote a technical    conitext of formationi of an neiw iniproved targetin-
or-ientation for intersectoral coordination  integrated prevenlive health and                                 of school feedinig
on all programs related to tood( and        niutritioni program for school                                    programns
nutrition,                                  children that includes. where
necessary. the use of food                                    *   Improved
|2   Supreme Decree 032-2000-PCM  (dated        assistance.                                                       coordination or ai |
D)ec.   1.  2000)   transierred   the                                                                          o poblic aind poia
FONCODES School Breakfast Program  1 2.  Issuance of report on the                                            sector entities that
to the Ministry of IHealth under the        performrance of the food                                         impiement food and
I    adminiistratiotn of the INS.                supplementation programs for the    *  Report on the              nutrition programs.
first semester of 2001, reflecting: (a)  perfonnance of the
3.  Multi-sectoral Task Force (including        targeting - who actually received       f food              i *   Improved targeting
MEF and the Comisi6n Multisectorial        the program benefits, (b)                supplementation           of nutritionally-
de Alimentaci6n y Nutrici6n,                expenditures compared to                programs completed        oriented food
municipal government                        programmed amounts. and (c)                                       assistance programs
representatives, among others)              system used to purchase and                                      to pregnant and
formed to propose concrete                  distribute food supplements.      [                               lactating women and
recommendations for the reform of                                                                             children under the
the Vaso de Leche Program in the        3   Impleimenitation of'                                              age of three.
context of a decentralization strategy.     recommendationis of the task lorce
on Vaso de Leche. including among                           |    Improved focus on
4.  Molti-sectoral Task Force (incliuling       otilers, rationalization of                                       preventiv  health &
PROMIJDEH, VIEF, the Comisi6n         I    expenditUres, transparency iii                                     nutrition programs
Multisectorial de Alimentaci6n v            benehciarv selection. possihlc      *  (ompleted report of'      for school-ace
Nutrici6n, women's organizationts,          transition to another- type of an       the Task I orce andci     childr-ein and
among othiers) formed to propose           ilncomIC tranisfer programi              (i()P adoption of         adolescents.
concrete recommendations:                                                                                      z tiend  alili z Katmonalization of
4.  Prorecto de F ey (draft law)                                      social expenditures
F For the refor-mil of the Comedores            presented in Congress for the                                     arid improved
Populares Program; and                      reform of the Vaso de Leche                                       sustainability of



51
S                        0M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"
>  To adjust PRONAA programs to the          program, including a new allocation                            sociai development
nutritional objectives established by    mechanism to be based on the new                          I    interventions.
MINSA, including the transfer of the     poverty map, and the introduction of
Programa de Alimentaci6n Escolar         revised guidelines for beneficiary
(PAE) to INS.                            selection and financial management.
5. Implementation of                  *  Completed report of
recommendations of the task force    the Task Force and
on Comedores Populares, including     GOP adoption of
the rationalization of expenditures,  recommendations
clarity of nutritional objectives,
plans for nutritional education and
impact evaluation.
2. Issue: Widespread   1. Ministerial Resolution No. 163-2001 -   I. Unification of the administration of   *  Unified operational   *  Increased efficiency
duplication of         SA/DM issued for the unification of all   Mother and Child Health programs,     plan for Mother and     of health
health programs        MINSA Mother and Child Health            including operation plan and budget    child health            expenditures and
Care programs with one operation         implemented                            programs and            development of
plan and budget.                                                               transfer to SMI of       options for deeper
no less than 509/o of   intersectoral
the budget currently    collaborationl
2. Supreme Resolution No. 155-2001-EF    2. Issuance of joint investment plans     assigned to Mother
published on March 9, 2001 creating a    elaborated by MINSA and                and Child Health
Commission MINSA- ESSALUD to             ESSALUD, as well as, presentation     programs (not
jointly program health investments and    of an action plan including time-    Includ   no
recommend the appropriate mechanisms     bound actions to: (i) separate        InmUntin
for an efficient exchange of services    Essalud's financing and provision      inmunizations)
I between .\0.!NSA and E;SSAI ' lilJ        IUnctionIs;i. decentraflIiZote  Vesne
management of its services; (iii)     p Joint aivdtime-t
3.  Evidence that initial steps for unifying  implement systems of purchase and    plansand tilme-a    l 
the administration of the SMI and the     sale of services from'to MINSA and    bound action plan
Seguro Escolar (student health           the private sector.                    prepared and agrced
inhsurance) have been undertaken.                                               between GOP and
Bank               l_________-______



52
3.  Issue: Iack of       I l   Supreme Decree  l -2001-E D              1.  The payroll system has been          *   Additional seveni      +  Increased equity in
systenm to identiflyv    published on February 26 2001                 installed in seven other Regional    |    regions with payroll       teacher pay for
ghost teachers and       instructiig the Presidents of the             Offices of the Minist-y of Education      system operational         approximately 50%
unclear role of'         Regional Governments (CTAR) that the         aand teaclher Files are being          *   Teacher files              of the teacher
MOE to set payroll       processing of the education payroll will      maintained in a live electronic           nationwide                 population
standards                be regulated by the Ministry of               database.                           |     maintained in a live
Education. This will clarify the existing   2.  Implementation of the integrated       database,              *   Increased efficiency
confusion at the regional level on who        tracking system in Lima and Callao.                                 in personnel
sets the standards for payroll processing.  3.  Publication of all the resuilts for the    *   Integrated teacher  management,
2.  Supreme Decree 124-2001-ED                    1 998 student assessment data and of      tracking system in         leading to a
published on February 27, 2001                the comparative analysis of the           Lima operational.         reduction in time
instructing the Education Regions of          1996 and 1998 data.                                                 spent by teachers
Lima, Callao, Piura, Luciano Castillo    4.  Initiated the application of the 2001                                and administrators
and La Libertad that the payroll is to        student performance tests.                                           in processing
be processed exclusively under the                                                                                paperwork.
new "Sistema Unico de Planillas"
developed by the Ministry of
Education, thus ensuring that the old
manual system is not used for this
______  |____________         purpose.                   _                         ___.__            __     _



53
Annex 3: List of Protected Social Programs
Education                Developineint of EdUicationl for clhildreii aged 0-3                                             53
( 30.1 %)                                         Developinenit of pre-schiool edilcatioil                                                        96.8
Project for the improvemenit of the quality of eduicationi                                     30.0
Primary                 Total                                                                                           467.0
Education                Trainiing                                                                                       23.0
Development of bilingutal edtication                                                             4 0
Developmenit of primary eduLcationi for adilts                                                  14 4
Developnenit of prinary eduicationi for childreni                                             359.0
Others                                                                                         66.0
Secondary               Total                                                                                           467.4
Education                Cotlstruction, extensioti of iuiits of teachiig, research aiid assistalice                       31 5
Developmetnt of labor anid techlnical eduicationi                                              26.4
Developmenit of seconidary educatioti for adilts                                               23.9
Developinefnt of secondary edticatioit for childreni                                          334.6
Developmenit of the baclillerato                                                                37 3
Distance Edncatioti anid extra-ciurrictilar activities                                           1 8
Project for improviiig the quality of educatiol                                                 11.9
Transport                                        Total                                                                                           6B5.6
(Land)                                            Highway coniservationi                                                                         204.6
Coiistruction atid imuprovement of rtiral roads                                                  3 7
[ 9.4 % )                                        Conistrtictioll and improvemelit of ileiglhborliood roads                                        I I
ConstrUction and iniprovemenit of higlhways                                                    166 9
Rehabilitation of highiways                                                                   148.3
Rehabilitatioit anid maintenianice or rLtral roads                                              89.5
El Nm'io recoisstrntctioni                                                                      71.5
Health                  Collective               Total                                                                                           196.0
Health                    Feeding atid jititritioii programs                                                             96.1
( 18 8.8o)                                       Coiistructioit aitd rehabilitatioit of rutal sanitatioin                                         2 3
Sanitary cotitrol                                                                                3.1
Preventive healthl                                                                             90.9
Epidemniological control                                                                         3.7
Individual              Total                                                                                           470.8
Health                    Feedinig assistanice for highi risk groLIps                                                     31 6
Medical assistanice for stsideitts aiid coininiuiity                                             0 4
Health services based oni anaiiagemnenlt agreemenlits                                           66.4
Basic Health Care                                                                              148.6
I lealth Services Operatioiis                                                                   49 4
Prograit for improvilig the capacity of basic healthi atteistioni (PICRABS)                      4.1
Border healt1i coiitrol                                                                          1 9
Selsool Health iisUirance                                                                       86.1
Matenial-Child healthi iissirance                                                               39.0
Program to Assist the refonn of the healtls sector (PAR Salild)                                  0.5
Assistance to diagiiostic aiid treatmnent services                                              42.8
Justice and                                      Total                                                                                           559.3
Peace                                             Protectioti of Civil Rights                                                                    283A4
Judicial Processes                                                                              75 6
(1 5.8%3i)                                        Social Reiiitegrationi                                                                          46 6
Others                                                                                         153.7
Promotion of                                     Total                                                                                           315.0
social and                                        Literacy program                                                                                44.3
community                                         Assistance to cgildream   aiid adolesceits ts                                                      2
assistance                                        Social Assistance aisd emergency works                                                            2.1
Edticatioiial anid Nutritioial assistanice                                                      86.2
Strenlgthienisig of the care of childreni niiider age 3                                         12.3
(8. 9%)                                           Promotioni of womeni/Project Maniageinejit                                                      50 0
Social iitvestinent                                                                             18.6
Developinent of the Puimo-Ciisco coiTidor                                                        4.3
Social Developineit iii the Sierra aiid Junigle areas                                           20.0
_          _       _       _       _       _     I   _       _       _       _       _       _       _       _       _



54
;Sanitation             j                         [rotai                                                                                                  88.6
Supply of potable water to the Noillterii Froiitier Regiona                                           1.8
Basic saniitationi irifrastrictnire                                                                 19,0
linproveireitt anid expaaisioni of potable water auid draiauage systemls                            22.0
Water for all prograin                                                                              14.9
Natioiiaa Progratn for potable water aimd drainage                                                  3 .1)
t Agriculture            l Promilotion       To tal                                                                                                      84.8
ProdLiCtio |l  Epidenic cotntrol/ Defenise anid vigilanice ot plyto-,aiationl                                                   1 9
(230 .)                                              brrmigatio01  infirastrIctIre                                                                        7 4
Prograiim for developmenit of livestock lieatlim                                                    16 9
Smibsectoral Irrigation project                                                                     19 9
Greets Sierra Project                                                                               28 7
Energy                                             Total                                                                                                 74.4
Rniral electrification                                                                               6
I" (  _ i o)                  Iltfrastrrictire for time distribaitinai of eniergy                                                                        53
Ittfrastrinctire for the generation of electric emmergy                                              6.0
Inifrastructure for tlte tratmsasissiotm of electric etiergy                                         14
'Iotal Protected lPrograms                                                                                                                               3541 0
Fotal expenditures of ordinar' resources                                                                                                             2,559
o ot  ordinarv' resources allocated to protected programs                                                                                     -          2.8%
Total tor national budet (200134,484
%  of national budget allocated to protected programs
GDP 2001                                                                                                                                           2010,247 0
Pcercent of GDP allocated to P'rotected Programs                                                                                                         .8%



55
Annex 4: Contingency Social Protection Plan
(Developed for Peru FSAL II - June 1999)19
1. A contingency plan for providing social protection in the advent of a crisis has beeni developed. The
plan would provide assistance to the affected population through an expansion of existing programs
to provide employment. The implementation of the contingency plan would be triggered with
quantifiable changes in the following indicators: terms of trade, tax collections, and poverty levels.
The level of changes in these indicators, based on economic performance data over time, are an 1 8
percent decline in terms of trade from the same three month period in the previous year, a 12 percent
drop in three consecutive months in collected current revenues from the same period In the previous
year, or an increase of 3 percentage points in the poverty rate from the same period during the
previous year.
2. If economic performance deteriorates and results in a significant change in any of three indicators
exceeding the levels above, this would necessitate the implementation of the contingency plan. The
plan includes provisions for the expansion of three existing programs which would provide temporary
employment for those who have been identified as vulnerable in both urban and rural areas,
depending on the nature of the crisis. Program expansion levels would be based on need, with a
minimum spending level of SI 30 million creating between 40,000 and 250,000 person months of
employment, depending on the program. The programs include the construction of rural roads
(Caminos Rurales), the financing of community based social and economic infrastructure and
productive activities through FONCODES, and a food-for-work program which currently provides
assistance for small rural community works (PRONAA). Participation in the programs under the
contingency plan would be limited to one member per family for a period of up to six months,
depending on the program, with benefits equivalent to a value lower than the Iccal market wage.
Expansion of the programs would be targeted to selected geographic areas based on need. Further
targeting would be carried out through self-selection given the low wage levels and labor intensive
nature of the work.
3. The rural roads program (Caminos Rurales) finances the construction, rehabilitation and maintenance
of rural roads and key links connecting to the primary road system in selected poor areas of the
country. The program is operated by the Ministry of Transport, Communications, Housing and
Construction and is financed by the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank.
Currently, the program operates mainly in the Sierra, and in some areas of the Ceja de Selva. These
investments help alleviate rural poverty and raise living standards of rural commnunities through
increased access to basic social and economic and income-generating activities, and through the
direct generation of employment. While employment generation is not a long term objective, the type
of work carried out is labor intensive, drawing on the local labor force. Expansion of this program
under the contingency plan would be targeted to those areas most affected by a crisis, with temporary
employment limited to two and a half months per beneficiary, at a wage rate of S/360 per month.
4. FONCODES, the Government's social investment fund, finances community-based subprojects in
social and economic infrastructure, productive activities, as well a series of special projects that
'9 President's Report for a Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan, June 5, 1999 (Report No. E-7293-PE), pp. 25-
26
20 The terms of trade and tax data are collected monthly; the poverty data collected quarterly. The poverty rate is
based on the percentage of population unable to consume a basket of basic goods and non-food ilems.



56
include the production and distribution of school uniforms, shoes, school breakfasts and school
furniture through urban microenterprises. FONCODES operates out of the Ministry of the Presidency
with financing (on the first component only) from the World Bank and Inter-American Development
Bank. Subprojects are identified and executed by community groups, in cooperation with NGOs,
local governments and line ministries. Under the contingency plan, the Government would identify,
within the menu of FONCODES projects, those which would be most appropriate for generatiig
urban employment in a cost-effective manner. Employment would be limited for a period of
maximum four months per beneficiary, with wages set below local market rates.
5. The food for work program under PRONAA currently operates in poor rural areas. PRONAA
provides food rations as payment for labor in the construction of small-scale community works.
Projects are demand driven, with the community or local NGOs providing the materials, and
community members providing the labor. The food rations provided by PRONAA are 2 kilos of food
per beneficiary, per day of work which is equivalent to 50-70 percent of the daily recommended
family caloric allowance. The value of this transfer is approximately SI. 107 per month. Under the
contingency plan, expansion of this program would be in both rural and urban areas, with the same
food ration as exists, and employment generation limited to six months per beneficiary.



57
Annex 5: Civil Society Consultation Process Related to the Adjustment Loan
1. In the last years a process of consultation and dialogue has taken place in Peru although mechanisms
for participation have been largely ad-hoc. A bottom-up dialogue process, nonetheless, has long
been recognized as a legitimate process in the country. During the CAS consultations (1996 and
1999) civil society organizations and private sector associations including the Cat:nolic Church have
participated actively.
2. It is both comforting and perplexing, that in a country with serious social problems, Peru hosts a
vibrant civil society. Civil society organizations, as in many countries, have sprung up as a response
both to community needs and frequent crisis, as well as to aid flows. These organizations have
increasingly assumed a service delivery role, providing the public goods that were traditionally
provided by the state.
3. As a follow-up activity to the 1998 Poverty Assessment, the World Bank decided to broaden its
country dialogue by convening a plural national dialogue on the challenges of poverty reduction in
Peru. Since that year, three National Poverty Fora have been held, involving a broad array of
individuals and organizations representing the government, private sector, civil society and the donor
community. In those Fora, the dialogues fostered a new spirit of collaboratioln and cooperation
among diverse development actors committed to poverty reduction and produced some insights into
sectoral priorities for poverty reduction projects.
4. For the Programmatic Social Reform Loan, the Second Forum worked on a social agenda. The main
topic was on the access of the poor to basic services in education, health, nutrition, justice, water and
sanitation. Consultations were held around the country and in Lima. Four regional Fora (Piura, San
Martin, Cusco and Central region of Lima) and one National Technical workshop were carried out for
about six months. All in all more than 250 representatives were consulted and have the opportunity
to give their ideas and recommendations toward a social agenda in Peru. (see Chart A for a summary
of the organizations and topics of discussions). The recommendations of the regional Fora can be
summarized as follows:
*  Education - Orient resources to rural education; adapt basic education icl include a multi-
cultural dimension connected to the language and daily life of poor rural people; improve
teacher performance and training; involve stakeholders, specifically parernts and students, in
educational policy making; and decentralize.
*   Health - Include cultural dimension within health services to reach the poor based on their
traditional values and morals; organize networking mechanisms; develop a culture that
encourages pro-health behavior; and invest more in the delivery of services to the poor.
*  Nutrition - Orient food supplementation programs to incentives for income generation.
Eliminate the duplication of food and nutrition programs. Prioritize improved nutrition for
vulnerable groups, particularly pregnant women; disseminate information and practical
lessons for the preparation of meals with local products from the region; and increase
coordination with the private sector.
*  Access to Justice - Foster local mechanisms of customary law oriented toward conciliation
practices; develop dissemination, communication and information activities for learning
rights; attend innocents accused of terrorism, youth subordinated by military service and
harassment at local police stations; eliminate lack of documentation on imprisoned in joint
effort with Health, Justice and Internal Affairs Ministries; and decentralize justice,
information and legal public education.



58
* Water and Sanitation-Work more closely with other institutions to promote education on
water usage and sanitation practices; support local organizations' institutional capacity
building; and facilitate coordination between the public and private sector on water
management.
5. Besides the Poverty Forum other civil society organizations promoted discussion and debate in social
issues and topics. These included: (i) Foro Educativo an umbrella organization that included 78
experts and implements a annual national consultation on education, bringing teachers, head of
schools, and NGOs with educational expertise (ii) MacroRegion Sur in Arequipa, initiative from the
private sector and municipalities for the discussion on social matters in the region (Arequipa,
Apurimac, Puno, Moquegua Tacna, Huancavelica, Cusco and llo) led by the Chambers of commerce
of Arequipa; (iii) CONADES - the national social conference on1 development, led by the Catholic
Church and the ANC - the nationial organization of NGOs, that organized the biggest event in its
history, promoting participation of more than 1500 participants in the country, grassroots groups,
church and faith organizationis, unions, students federations, neighborhood groups, women and youth
associations, peasants "campesinos", among other organizations, for a wide discussion of Peru's
future in the aspects of new ethics, values, social, political and economic; (iv) local assembly for local
development led by the Municipalities in coordination with the Regional Office of the Ministry of the
Presidency under the program of PROFINES; (v) indigenous peoples and AfroPeruvian consultation,
where recommendations and work plans were developed to improve their lives and status.
Social control as an emerging need.
6. As Peru crosses another democratic challenge with its recent and forthcoming elections, spaces for
plural dialogue, joint reflection and collaboration become increasingly important. Reflecting on these
type of national policy dialogues is generally helpful as it helps us to understand the benefits and
challeniges behind a partnership approach to policy formulation. At this critical time in Peruvian
history, the role of civil society organization in promoting constructive open debate and exercising
social control over the use of scarce public resources becomes even more relevant. New voices and
groups are beginning to emerge during this transition period in the country, such as groups led by
young professionals, youth organizations, and local committees. Civil society is now playing a new
role in politics and influencing public opinion and the media.
A social control mechanism for the SAL implementation
7. There is a public awareness, shared among several organizations, of a popular saying "el ojo del amo
engorda al caballo", there is no way of having a good horse if the owner does not watch and take care
of it. For the ongoing process of transition in the country a social mechanism that controls public
investmenit, implementation, and social impact of the program will contribute to combat poverty with
transparency.  his mechanism  could have three elements: (a) capacity building of civil society
organizations particularly those in the villages to be able to take advantage of public information on
social expenditures; (b) systematic information dissemination on issues covered by the SAL, e.g.
access to education, nutrition, health, justice and water and sanitation; and (c) assistance to generate
experience in project financial management, electronic and web site information technology, working
in net connection with Lima and provinces.



59
Chart A: Poverty Forum II - Organizations and Topics Discussed
Forum Macro South Region,       Led by the Arequipa Chamber of   Shared vision for development, that includes
including institutions in       Commerce, including the business   Macro South Region, Apurimac, Cusco,
Apurimac, Huancavelica, llo,    sector, NGOs and Mayors of      Arequipa, Puno, llo
Tacna, Moquegua, Puno, Cusco    Apurimac, Cusco, Huancavelica,
and Arequipa provinces.        llo, Tacna, Moquegua. Puno, and
Arequipa provinces.
Indigenous Consultations        Led by organizations from the   A view for the development of the country,
Meetings with Andean and        communities and SETAI -         with an indigenous communities perspective
Amazonian indigenous people     Secretaria Thcnica de Asuntos   and with cultural dimension. The main topics
representatives, and           Indigenas- of the Ministry for the   were: the improvement of quality of life,
representatives of the afro-    Promotion of Women & Human    development and institu:ion strengthening. (i)
Peruvian communities.           Development (PROMUDEH).         knowledge of the indigenous health problems
Consultations included four levels  (ii) intercultural bilingual education, basic and
of participants, according to their   university education (iiil eradication of
experience.                     alcoholism, (iv) improvement of nutrition
quality, (v) gender equity, (vi) human rights
and legislation.
CONADES -National               Led by the consortium of        Country development vision; local initiatives
Conferences for Social         institutions grouped by the Civil   to fight against poverty; social topics;
Development-, start its         Society initiative, the Catholic  democratic institutionality; economic,
consultation process in the     Church and community based      cultural-social and politec rights. The
provinces and regions; and ends    organizations, such as local  proposals are: (i) admin.stration of the basic
with a final encounter in Lima.  NGOs, religious associations,  social services by the Municipalities,
Conades take place every year,  Universities, unions, citizen   decentralization of services; (ii)
administrated by ANC -          associations.                   improvements in the life conditions and
Asociacion Nacional de Centros                                  human development -child malnutrition,
de investigaci6n y promoci6n.                                   mortality, analphabetism, basic sanitation and
potable water, children abuse, family
violence, adolescent pregnancy.
Poverty Forum-                                                  a) Instances to coordinate fight against
Organization Committee formed    poverty.
Macro Regions: Piura, San       by: * Civil Society (Conades/   b) Be informed about the access of the poor
Martin, Cusco and central Lima;   ANC - * Copeme, unions CGTP,   people to the basic social services, as health,
farmers CCP);                   education, nutrition, justice, water and
Private Sector - (CONFIEP y     sanitation;
COPEI); Government (MEF, M.    c) Inform and evaluate ihe regional
Macro Regions: Trujillo;        of the Presidency and M. of     experiences on the fighl against poverty to
Huancayo; Arequipa; Iquitos.    Labor) and the International    ease the access, efficiency and equity in the
Cooperation (World Bank, IADB,   provision of basic services.
USAID, European Union -DFID)   d) The opportunities for the creation of
employment, with the selection of relevant
cases for the debate. The participants on each
Macro Region represent the four sectors
involved in the Organization Committee of
the Forum.
e) Main topics on sociE.l services are: (i)
concertation between tLe country sectors, (ii)
mechanisms for the participation of the Civil
Society; (iii) decentralize the design and
management of basic services; (iv)
development of Inforimation, Education and
Communication campaigns IEC; (v) increase
the human resources professional level; (vi)
gender perspective.
f) Main topics on employment are: the
macroeconomic, finance, legal and
institutional conditions.



60
Annex 6
Peru at a Glance
Peru at a glance                                                                 9/9/00
Latin   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            America   middle-
Peru   & Carib.  income        Dewlopment diamond'
1999
Population, mid-year (mil/ions)                        25.2       509      2,094                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (At/as method, US$)                    2,350      3,840     1,200
GNP (At/as method, US$billons)                         59.3      1,955     2,513
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (95)                                         1.7        1.6       1.1
Labor force (%)                                         2.6        2.5       1.2      GNP                              Gross
per                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                                 capita                       enrollment
Poverty (S6 of population be/ow national poverty ine)    41
Urban population (% of total population)                 72        75         43
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         69        70         69                                                    N
Infant mortality (per 1,000/ive births)                  40        31         33
Child malnutrilion (% ofchildren under5)                  8          8        15                Access to safe water
Access to improved waler source (% ofpopulation)         80         75        86
Illiteracy (% of popu/ation age 15+)                     10         12        16
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age popula/ion)   123        113       114              Peru
Male                                                                       114              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                                     116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998      1999
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                            15.5     28.6       627       57.2
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 21.7     20.7       24.3      217      1               Trade
Exports ot goods and services/GDP             27.7     12.4       12 0      13.6
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    303      20.8       195       199
Gross national savings/GDP                                        18.3      18.2
Current account balance/GDP                    4 7      -0.8      -6.0      -3.6      Domestic                    Investment
Interest payments/GDP                          3.7      0.5        1 8       2 4           sInvestment
Total debtUGDP                                59.6     64.9       51.6      56 8      Savings              1
Total debt service/exports                    33.8      8.9       274       26.2
Present value of debt/GDP                                         53.5
Present value of debtlexports                                    374 8                             Indebtedness
Indebtedness                   0  s ,iiji
1979-89  1989-99     1998       1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)                                                                   -                                        im 
GDP                                  0.5       4.3     -0.5        14        53
GNP per capita                      -2.3       3 3      -2.4      -0.8       3 5               Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       -1.8       7 3      3.3        7.4       7 0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999      Growth of investment and GDPl%l
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                   11 7      8.0        7 1       7 2     130 i
Industry                                      428      36.2       368       37.3      15
Manufacturng                                23 5      25 3      231       23.7
Services                                      45.5     55.8       56.1      555 S
Private consumption                           61 0     68 7       71.6      71 1     -1i
General govemment consumption                  8.6     10.5        8 9       9 0    i               GD1    ---O:GDP
Imports of goods and services                 191      12 3       16 7      155     I _____________i_____
1979-89  1989-99      1998       1999    IGrowth of erports and imports I%)
(average annual growth)                                                             }y:W  ;1>i;if
Agriculture                                    2 8      4.5        0 4      12 9     30
Industry                                       0.3      5.5       -03        0.0    20
Manufacturing                                0.3       3.7      -3.6        0.3
Services                                       0.2      3.6       -07        0 9      0
Private consumption                            2.5      2.4       -04        08 v6 1  9    95   93   97               
General govemment consumption                  1 2      2.3        1.8       3 2    i       
Gross domestic investment                     -2.5      8.9       -1.3      -119 9   -2
Imports of goods and services                 -2 9      9 7        0.1     -17.3                                   .prExpxs   -Ipxns
Gross national product                        -01       5.1       -0 7       1 0    I                                                i__________,__
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



61
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989        1998       1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices 
(% change)                                                                                 60
Consumer prices                                   647   3,398.7         6.0        3.5     .46
Implicit GDP deflator                            73.5   2,926 6         6.4        3 8
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                         o
Current revenue                                                        14 0       12.8              94    95    Re    97   95    99
Current budget balance                                                  1.7          0                    GOP def alor '     CPI
Overall surpiusldefict                                                  -0 7      -2 7
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                   1979      1989       1998       1999       Export and import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                       3,533       5,735     6,114      10.000
Copper                                                    764         779       776
Fishmeal                                                  405         392       533         500                              3
Manufactures                                              989       1,968      1,874
Total imports (cif)                                  .    2,287       8,200     6,581        506
Food                                                      366   1,146    932   2,5D                   jilO
Fuel and energy                                           219         579       629
Capital goods                                             801       2,592      2,140 
93   94   95   96   97   98   55
Export price index (1995=100)                                90          83        72
Import prce index (1995=100)                                 82          96        95                   tExports       *Imports
Termsoftrade (1995=100)                                     110          86        76
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                   1979      1989       1998       1999       Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                   4,085     4,369       7,487     7.793       0 ~
Imports of goods and services                   2,511     3,429      10,492     8,857
Resource balance                                1,573       940      -3,005    -1,064      -
Net income                                       -966    -1,355      -1,484     -1,635
Net current transfers                             123       175         697       669      -
Current account balance                           730      -240      -3,792    -2,030
Financing items (net)                             418       780       2,786     1,255
Changes in net resenves                         -1,148     -540       1,006       775      -n
Memo:
Reserves including gold  (US5 millions)              .                9,982     9,002
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)              2.25E-7   4.02E-3         2 9        3 4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989        1998       1999
(US$ millions)                                                                              Composition of 1999 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            9,269    18,582      32,397    32 445
IBRO                                            235     1,085      2,128      2,417                             A 2,417
IDA                                               0         0           0         0              G6.187                   
Total debt service                               1,402      407       2,454      2,387     ,                                   284
IBRD                                             31         0        184        249                                          2 8
IDA                                               0         0           0         0
Composition of net resource flows                                                                      '       5
Official grants                                  47       121        239
Offidal creditors                               195       117          61       709
Private creditors                               248        76        620        310      |   F 8,258
Foreign direct investment                        71        59       1,930     2,068                                      E.11,972
Portfolio equity                                  0         0         174      -352
World Bank program
Commitments                                     171         0          38       390       A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                    61         0        271        381       B - IDA    D- Other multilateral F - Private
Principal repayments                             12         0          64        89       C - IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                        49         0        207        291
Interest payments                                19         0        120        166
Net transfers                                    31         0          88       125
Development Economics                                                                                                             9/9/00



62
Annex 7
Key Economics & Program Indicators
As of Date 03/05/2001
Forecast in Last CAS            Actual         Current CAS Forecast
Economy (CY)                         1997"  1998"   1999   2000  1998' 1999"  2000"  2001" 2002"  2003"
Growth rates (%)
GDP                          4.0     5.0    5.5    5.5   -0.4    1.4    3.6    2.5    5.0       5.5
Exports                     13.3     9.9    8.7    9.0  -15.7    6.2   15.4    8.6    8.5       7.9
Imports                      7.5     8.0    6.1    6.1   11.0    3.0   10.3    7.8    8.6    11.8
Inflation (0/0)                         9.5      6.8    6.5    5.9    7.3    3.5    3.7    3.0    2.0       2.0
National accounts (% GDP)
Current account balance     -5.3   -5.1   -5.0   -4.7   -6.4   -3.5   -3.0   -2.4   -2.4    -2.5
Gross investment            22.8    23.0   23.0   23.0  24.2   22.0   20.6  20.0   20.1    20.7
Public finance (% GDP)
Fiscal balance              -0.8    -1.1   -0.7   -0.6   -0.8   -3.0   -2.9   -1.5   -1.0    -0.1
Foreign financinig           2.2     0.4    0.5    0.0    0.4   -0.1    1.1    1.2    0.4       0.0
International reserves
(as months of imports GNFS))                                         13.1   10.8    9.9    9.3    9.4      9.1
Program (Bank's FY)                  FY97"  FY9     FY99" FY00" FY98' FY99' FY00"1 FY01' FY02^ FY03"
Lending ($ million)                     569     230    250    160    150    338      95    160    260      340
Gross disbursements                     384     358    349    152   330    368    186   301    176          199
($ million)
a. Estimated year
b. Projected year
c. Actual outcome



63
Annex 8
Bank Group Program Summary - Peru
As of Date 03/05/2001
Country             Republic of Peru
Fiscal year
Proj ID
Proposed IBRD/IDA Base-Case Lending Program"
Strategic  Implementatio
Fiscal year          Proj ID                                                 US$(M)        Rewards b    n b Risks
(H/M/L)      (H/M/L)
2001                         PE-Programmatic Social Reform Loan                           100.0       H             M
RURAL ROADS II                                                60.0       H             L
Result                                                       160.0
2002                         NATIONAL RURAL WATER SUPPLY HEALTH SANIT                      50.0       H             M
PE- Rural Education and Rural Resources Project               30.0       H            M
PE-Programmatic Social Reform Loan (2nd)                     100.0       H            M
TRANSPORT REHAB II                                            80.C       M             L
Result                                                       260.C
2003                         Participatory Rural Investment                                80.C       H             M
PE-Programmatic Social Reform Loan (3rd)                     100.Ci      H            M
Cities Development/Urban Poverty                              80.0       H            M
PE Justice Services Modernization and Institutional Reforrl   80.0       H             H
Result                                                       340.0
2004                         Indigenous People                                             25.0       H             M
Water Resource Management                                     20.0       M             L
RURAL ELECTRIFICATIO                                          50.()      H            M
Result                                                        95.0
Overall result               Result                                                       855./)
a. This table presents the proposed program for the current and next three fiscal years.
b. For each project, indicate whether the strategic rewards and implementation risks are expected to be high (H), moderate (M),
or low (L).



64
Annex 9
IFC for Peru
Peru
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 11/30/00
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                           Disbursed
FY Approval  Company ILoan    Equity   Quasi   Partic  Loan    Equity  IQuasi   Partic
20Agrokasa                                          -6_        _
1999 Alicorp         20               20       20      20        0      20       20
1979/83/90/93  Buenaventura           0.38                              0.38
1997 Interbank-P     20                                20
2000 Laredo          15                                  9
1998 Latino Leas     10      2.5                       10      2.5
1999 Milkito        3.5               3.5              3.5              3.5
1984 Minera Reg    1.29                               1.29
1994 PPF Cayman
1998 Paramonga       22                     21.76    14.18                    13.59
1994 Peru Prvtzn Fund      13.89                             13.89
1993/96/00    Quellaveco               0.6                              0.56
1999 RANSA           10                                10
2001 UPC              7                                  6
1982/92/95    Wiese Leasi   4.55                               4.55
1993/94/99    Yanacocha       20                        80
1998/01       agroguayab       2                               0.74
Total Portfolio:     141.34    17.37     23.5  121.76   105.26   17.33     23.5   33.59
Approvals P'ending Commitment
Loan    Equity   Quasi   Partic
1998 Wong         25000        0    5000   60001
2000 CAMSA         2000        0        0       0
2001 Peru OEH    10000         0        0       0
otal Pending Commitment:  37000        0    5000   60000



IBRD 26572RE
ECUADOR
.     TUMBES                                                                                             CZ )
Toloic   .0 00 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ L    RE    
A   URAi . Ol                                                                                        i      j
ZQI)       ifIIITS    
o n c o b 7t i73                & nc/ o.                                      S
0 > /  \    ' > Y~~CorrL0vso0oEdo '-,..@  
Olm           C   opoyos                                                                                         6
LBYUE'_  -7 Cojwu 
<t 76 i <    <ri  9    D  t                         8.               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PAVED ROADS
_SN_'_   OTHER ALL-WEATHER ROADS
FinW4ei'%2;m;J   <  M Aov9  '-  4          {                  |    ~~~~~~~~~RAILROADS
pg_ a, J>x                                            ...... > (RAILFERRY
Chb>\   Oluzzo_-.teOjobo  42X1  9,  < y     *>                  +    AIRPORTS
~~L\ 4LA    E AD  ~   T.=4                                               PORTS
TRUIIU                                                                      t 08  -Pucollpo \  RIVERS
'7 ,J   \-\   >\  z  t   q3  >   -DEPARTMENTBOUNDARIES
.0-I                           ---Corqz  '*>  {  )   ~ INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
tsANCS H             n           i 
.  .          &   ,HUiN~~~~~~~UACd   0           L   J~\  1 C A YA Li          ,r
l    (. -- 10                                                                                                                 100
P  A   C  I F  I                                        K * GoQr C PASODJ                                B R A  Z I L
lt ~ ~~~~~~~~~                                                      HuSCOn  -i-r >     
- L I M A                                                          -        -  G oq-A
O C E            A  N  _Eo aons  tero           yo n                                           IN      Toreto       -'
1?  0              4;                   ;        L  g     A       X   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M A D R E D E D I O S \
"lOP rio not impIyo mon, tAo p@rt 01 The Woddl puillboib  p
sadwmeo- ),ANC.YACU                                   u Jpicchu   PilltAo Jo ,4yn
h8 occ.ptonZ. ofC Ogto m bo  .-ch? joirndTA~                                     18m
t*    -IA                                                     {               AlIA 1                                          142
<    2         7       4,.\ts, ~~~~~ ~ ~~~Yeu    W P U N O   0 
P  E  R  U-                                                                              J.Ii ..< Bcoga
tOO ~  ~          ~         ~        ~w 1.0 200EGU                                   az
on 1i mop wa pnot mims, "aV Dwo pert o rho Th  v# , q4..       -a.   g                            TAC r ,
I s e ~~~of weh Awltyo Wn ---w  wo 1
st   tm   -  t                  $       :      -  -'-        $ @-70oC~~~~~~~~~~HILE;
MAY 1999



