Report No. PID10052
Project Name                     Peru-Programmatic Social Reform Loan (PSRL)
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Sector                           Human Development
Project                          PEPE71243
Borrower (s)                     GOVERNMENT OF PERU
Implementing Agency              MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Address Ministerio de EconomUa y Finanzas
Jr. JunUn No. 319, Lima, Peru
Contact Person: Sr. Oscar Blanco
Phone:51-1 427-6181 Fax: 428-1623
e-mail : oblanco@mef.gob.pe
Environment Category             Not rated
Date PID Prepared                March 5, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         January 29 - February 6, 2001
Projected Board Date             April, 2001
I.      Country and Sector Background
1. A corruption scandal involving former President Fujimori's key
advisor and intelligence chief, Vladimiro Montesinos, was the spark that
set a huge fire in Peruvian politics and brought down his regime after
more than 10 years in power. The spark, a video showing Montesinos
paying a bribe to an opposition congressman to switch loyalties, was
broadcast on TV on September 14, 2000. On September 16, President
Fujimori surprised the country by announcing that fresh general
elections would be held as soon as possible, in which he will not be a
candidate. Finally, it resulted in his resignation from abroad on
November 20 and the uncovering of a influence network led by Montesinos
that had at its core corruption problems.
2. ValentUn Paniagua, the interim Peruvian president, was sworn in late
November leading a technical cabinet with the main mandate of preparing
and conducting clean, fair and orderly presidential and congressional
elections. Although a smooth transition to the new administration that
will take office on July 28, 2001 is the major concern of the
transitional government, keeping economic and social stability is
crucial. Since taking office, the transition government has taken
important steps to strengthen democracy as well. Congress has passed
the multiple electoral district law, a key initiative to improve
incentives and accountability of congress to the local population.
Opinion polls have so far rated highly the actions of the current
administration.
3. One of the most important initiatives being led by the transition
government is an anticorruption program. An assessment of the type and
areas of corruption will be carried out with the support of the World
Bank, through surveys of the population, entrepreneurs and public
officials themselves. This assessment would be followed by dissemination



and strategic workshops aimed at raising awareness and working out a
plan of how to eliminate corruption. The anticorruption initiative is
being complemented by an Institutional and Governance review which will
make a more in depth analysis of the incentive structure that have led
to the current institutional and governance system that Peru has.
II.     Objectives
4. The proposed loan is a Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loan
(PSAL). Its primary objective is to support the medium-term social
reform program of the Government of Peru. The social reform program,
would help build the bases for a transparent and participatory resource
allocation mechanism, rationalization of expenditures, decentralized
implementation and systematic performance-tracking of social programs.
The first loan of this program would emphasize the safeguarding of
critical social expenditures especially beneficial to the poor during a
difficult fiscal adjustment and political transition period. It will
also lay the groundwork for the medium-term social reforms.
5. A matrix of policy decisions / actions that would be implemented
before the first Loan goes to the Board has been agreed with the
Government. The second loan of the program would help consolidate the
capacity and institution-building started in the first loan for a de-
politicized resource allocation and utilization mechanism, further
elimination of program duplication, improved safety net for a variety of
social risks, as well as a strengthened social control by civil society.
III.    Financing and Implementation
6. The Bank's financial assistance in support of the program would be
comprised of two loans with a possible total amount of US$200 million.
This proposed first loan, of US$100 million will be available upon
effectiveness. The second US$100 million would support the future
policy actions indicated in the matrix of actions which would have to be
discussed and negotiated with the incoming government after July 2001.
7. The PSAL Loan instrument presents advantages for the nature of this
operation. The social reform program involves decisions which will have
medium-term development implications on the social sectors. Having a
pending sizable loan to be negotiated upon its assumption in office
would help focus immediately the attention of incoming authorities to
the social agenda supported by the PSRL. Likewise, having a follow-up
second loan allows supervision of the actual use of public resources
allocated to programs meant to reach the poor
8. Cooperation with IMF and Other Donors. The Social Reform Program has
been designed to take place within a framework for macroeconomic
stability as defined and agreed with the IMF. The IMF is expected to
approve a 12-month Stand-By Arrangement for an amount equivalent to SDR
128 million. The Stand-By Arrangements seeks to ensure a solid economic
situation in the transition to a new government through a prudent
management of fiscal and monetary policies and further progress in
structural reforms. The transition GOP has also requested the IDB and
the Japanese Government /JBIC for external financing assistance.
Preparation of the PSRL is being supported by a PHRD grant from the
- 2 -



Japanese GOP (US$470,000). The PSRL will also be carried out in close
coordination with a parallel adjustment lending from IDB (first loan of
US$200 million).
IV.     Benefits and Risks
9. Benefits. The PSRL's immediate major benefit is its contribution to
Peru's attaining a stable economic transition from a government that was
forced to resign its office in 2000 to a democratically-elected
government in 2001. In the short-term, the social reform program
supported by the Loan will help protect critical social and economic
expenditures for the poor, increase the poor's access to basic health
and education services, and help lay the groundwork for medium-term
reforms. For the medium-term, the institutionalization of a transparent
and participatory process of resource allocation and performance-based
tracking for social expenditures enhances the poor's possibility to
exert influence and voice in the use of scarce fiscal resources. More
so, as the reform program proceeds to strengthen social control
mechanisms, eliminate duplication of programs and increasingly provide
incentives for decentralization of social services. The PSRL supports
the GOP's zeal to strengthen anti-corruption efforts and to promote the
empowerment of civil society and the private sector while streamlining
the public sector's role in an open Peruvian society.
10. Risks. The most immediate risk to the social reform is the change
of government in July 2001. Changes in administration could imply
changes in policy direction and priorities, as well as major actors in
the finance and the social sectors. While the policies and reforms
being supported under the PSRL have been the results of numerous civil
society consultations and stability of their direction has been
maintained in the past two years, there is nonetheless, no full
assurance that the new government would commit fully to these reforms.
The PSAL instrument, however, allows flexibility and ensures that
subsequent loan financing only continues if the thrust of the reform
program is satisfactorily kept. Another important risk would come from
failure to maintain fiscal stability because of the very tight revenue
improvement possibilities during the first year of the PSRL operation.
The coordinated package of external financing assistance from
multilaterals and some bilaterals, as well as the IMF Stand-by
Arrangements would help mitigate this risk. Finally, the push for
decentralization, including increased engagement of municipal
governments for social services delivery over the reform period would
imply a tremendous amount of cultural change and capacity-building at
local levels. This would be a high risk undertaking that would be
complemented by other interventions in the Bank's assistance strategy
for Peru in future years.
V.      Environment Aspects
11. The Loan would have no direct impact on the environment, being an
adjustment operation, it has no environmental rating.
VI.     Contact Point
Task Manager:    Evangeline Javier
-3-



The World Bank
Country Management Unit
Bolivia, Ecuador and Peru
Av. Alvarez Calderon 185, Piso 7
San Isidro, Lima 27, PERU
Phone: 51-1- 221-7950
Fax: 51-1- 421-7241
For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433 - USA
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March 9, 2001.
- 4 -



