Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4615-PE
Loan Agreement
(Programmatic Social Reform Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF PERU
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 26, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 4615-PE
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 26, 2001 between REPUBLIC OF PERU (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter, dated March 8, 
2001, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to reform the 
Borrower’s essential programs for social development (the Program), declaring the 
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from 
the Bank in support of the Program during the execution thereof; and 
(B)
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions described 
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Bank and has maintained a 
macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Bank;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999), with the modifications thereto set forth below (the General 
Page  2
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 18, is modified to read:
"‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.";
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, withdrawals 
from the Loan Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit account 
specified in Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement.";
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement 
and of these General Conditions";
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the performance by 
the 
Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."; and
(f)
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"CIAS" means the Borrower’s inter-ministerial social policy commission 
(Comisión Interministerial de Asuntos Sociales);
(b)
"CLAS" means any of the Borrower’s primary health care facilities managed 
by local communities (Comunidades Locales de Administración de Salud);
(c)
"Comedores Populares" means the Borrower’s food and nutrition program 
established pursuant to Supreme Decree No. 113-88-PCM of September 22, 1988;
(d)
"Consolidated Law of Public Procurement and Contracting" means the 
Borrower’s Supreme Decree No. 012-2001-PCM of February 12, 2001;
(e)
"CTAR" means any of the Borrower’s interim regional administration 
councils (Consejos Transitorios de Administración Regional);
(f)
"Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(g)
"DISA" means any of the Borrower’s regional health departments 
(Direcciones de Salud);
(h)
"Education Empowerment Measures" means the measures designed to empower 
parents and school directors set forth in: (i) the Borrower’s Ministry of Education 
Resolution No. 708-2000-ED of November 23, 2000; and (ii) the Borrower’s Supreme 
Decree No. 007-2001-ED of February 13, 2001;
(i)
"Education Payroll Processing Standards and Systems" means the standards 
Page  3
and systems for the processing of the Borrower’s education payroll set forth in the: 
(i) Borrower’s Supreme Decree No. 011-2001-ED of February 26, 2001; and (ii) 
Borrower’s Ministry of Education Resolution No. 124-2001-ED of February 27, 2001;
(j)
"ESSALUD" means the Borrower’s health insurance service (El Seguro Social 
de Salud);
(k)
"ESSALUD-MINSA Investment Commission" means the commission for the 
coordination of the investment activities of ESSALUD and MINSA (as hereinafter 
defined) established pursuant to the Borrower’s Supreme Resolution No. 166-2001-EF, of 
March 9, 2001;
(l)
"Fiscal Year" means the Borrower’s fiscal year that commences on January 
1st and ends on December 31st of each calendar year;
(m)
"FONCODES" means the Borrower’s compensation and social development fund 
(Fondo de Compensación y Desarrollo Social);
(n)
"FONCODES School Breakfast Program" means the FONCODES school breakfast 
program administered by FONCODES pursuant to FONCODES Board Resolution No. 1793 of 
March 22, 1993; 
(o)
"Food and Nutrition Programs" means Comedores Populares, Vaso de Leche 
and the School Breakfast Programs (as hereinafter defined);
(p)
"Improved Social Programs" means collectively FONCODES, PRONAA, 
PRONAMACHCS, the Rural Electrification Program and the Rural Roads Program (as 
hereinafter defined);
(q)
"Improved Social Programs Budgets and Expenditures" means the 
district-by-district budgets and expenditures of the Improved Social Programs for 
Fiscal Year 2000;
(r)
"Improved Social Programs Monitoring and Evaluation Guidelines" means the 
monitoring and evaluation guidelines set forth in the agreements entered into between 
MEF (as hereinafter defined) and the Improved Social Programs on February 27, 2001 for 
monitoring and evaluating such Programs;
(s)
"Improved Social Programs Targeting Strategy" means the Borrower’s 
strategy set forth in the agreements entered into between MEF (as hereinafter defined) 
and the Improved Social Programs on February 27, 2001 for targeting such Programs;
(t)
"Improved Social Programs Transparency Strategy" means the Borrower’s 
strategy set forth in the agreements entered into between MEF (as hereinafter defined) 
and the Improved Social Programs on February 27, 2001 to ensure the transparency of 
the expenditures made under such Programs;
(u)
"INS" means the Borrower’s national health institute (Instituto Nacional 
de Salud) within MINSA (as hereinafter defined);
(v)
"MEF" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy and Finance (Ministerio de 
Economía y Finanzas);
(w)
"MINSA" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health (Ministerio de Salud);
(x)
"Mothers and Children Health Care Programs" means collectively the 
Borrower’s mothers and children health care programs set forth in the letter from the 
Borrower to the Association dated March 23, 2001;
(y)
"Multi-Annual Social Sectors Strategic Plans" means the multi-annual 
social sectors strategic plans for Fiscal Years 2001-2005 approved by the Borrower’s 
Supreme Decree No. 108-2000-EF of October 3, 2000 for the Social Ministries (as 
hereinafter defined);
(z)
"Multi-Sectoral Commission on Food and Nutrition" means the commission 
established pursuant to the Borrower’s Supreme Decree 002-2001-SA of January 18, 2001 
to promote inter-sectoral coordination among Food and Nutrition Programs;
(aa)
"National Consensus on Education Commission" means the Borrower’s 
commission established pursuant to Supreme Resolution No. 030-2001-SA of January 13, 
2001 to build consensus on education policies;
Page  4
(bb)
"Ombudsman’s Office Protected Social Programs Information Mechanism" 
means the mechanism set forth in the agreement entered into between MEF and the 
Borrower’s Ombudsman’s Office dated February 19, 2001 for processing information 
related to the Protected Social Programs (as hereinafter defined) during the first 
semester of Fiscal Year 2001;
(cc)
"Poverty Map" means the Borrower’s district-level poverty map based on 
imputed per-capita expenditures set forth in the letter from the Borrower to the Bank 
dated March 13, 2001;
(dd)
"Primary Health Care Facilities" means collectively all the Borrower’s 
primary health care facilities, including CLASs;
(ee)
"PROMUDEH" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Women Promotion and Human 
Development (Ministerio de Promoción de la Mujer y Desarrollo Humano);
(ff)
"PRONAA" means the Borrower’s national program of food support (Programa 
Nacional de Asistencia Alimentaria);
(gg)
"PRONAMACHCS" means the Borrower’s national program for watershed 
management and soil conservation (Programa Nacional de Manejo de Cuencas Hidrográficas 
y Conservación de Suelos);
(hh)
"Protected Social Programs" means collectively the Borrower’s social 
programs set forth in the letter of even date herewith from the Borrower to the Bank 
(Supplemental Letter);
(ii)
"Protected Social Programs Budgets" means the aggregate budgets of the 
Protected Social Programs in terms of 1994 Soles (as hereinafter defined);
(jj)
"Protected Social Programs Control Mechanism" means the Borrower’s 
mechanism to increase citizen oversight of the Protected Social Programs set forth in 
the agreement entered into between MEF and the Borrower’s Ombudsman’s Office dated 
February 19, 2001 for processing information related to the Protected Social Programs 
(as hereinafter defined);
(kk)
 "Round-Table for Attacking Poverty" means the Borrower’s anti-poverty 
dialogue table established pursuant to Supreme Decree No. 001-2001-PROMUDEH of January 
18, 2001;
(ll)
"Rural Electrification Program" means the Borrower’s social program for 
rural electrification within the Borrower’s Ministry of Energy and Mines;
(mm)
"Rural Roads Program" means the Borrower’s social program for rural roads 
within the Borrower’s Ministry of Transportation, Communications, Housing and 
Construction;
(nn)
"SEG" means the Borrower’s student health insurance program (Seguro 
Escolar Gratuito);
(oo)
"SIAF" means the Borrower’s integrated financial administration system 
(Sistema Integrado de Administración Financiera);
(pp)
"SMI" means the Borrower’s mother-child insurance program (Seguro Materno 
Infantil);
(qq)
"Social Ministries" means MINSA, PROMUDEH, the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Education and the Borrower’s Ministry of the Presidency;
(rr)
"Social Protection Contingency Plan" means the Borrower’s short-term plan 
for social protection set forth in the letter from the Borrower to the Bank dated 
March 13, 2001;
(ss)
"Social Protection Strategy" means the Borrower’s strategy to protect the 
poor during economic downturns set forth in the letter from the Borrower to the Bank 
dated March 13, 2001;
(tt)
"Social Sectors Monitoring System" means the Borrower’s system to monitor 
the input and output indicators of the Multi-Annual Social Sectors Strategic Plans set 
forth in the letter from the Borrower to the Bank dated March 13, 2001;
(uu)
"Sol" and "Soles" means the currency of the Borrower;
Page  5
(vv)
"Student Achievement Tests Data" means the results of:  (i) the 
Borrower’s mathematics, language, social and natural sciences student achievement 
tests for year 1998;  and (ii) the UNESCO (as hereinafter defined) regional tests for 
year 1997;
(ww)
"UNESCO" means the United Nations Education and Science Organization;  
(xx)
"Vaso de Leche" means the Borrower’s food and nutrition program 
established pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 24059 of December 21, 1984; and
(yy)
"Women and Youth Workers Protective Legislation" means collectively the 
following laws of the Borrower: (i) Law No. 27403, of January 10, 2001 on working 
mothers’ breast-feeding rights; (ii) Law No. 27402 of January 10, 2001 on flexibility 
of paid maternity leave; (iii) Law No. 27409 of January 24, 2001 on paid maternity 
leave for adopting mothers; and (iv) Law No. 27404 of January 10, 2001 on training 
programs for youth workers.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred million Dollars ($100,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan (other 
than the amount of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement) from the 
Loan Account in support of the Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first 
request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit 
Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, 
refund such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall 
be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Page  6
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a 
basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided 
in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of 
the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program including any 
action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
Page  7
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four (4) months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy 
of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account 
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date September 24, 2001 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Jirón Junín 319
Lima 1
Perú
Facsimile:
(511) 4268500 or 
(511) 4262613
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Washington, D.C., United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
Page  8
written.
REPUBLIC OF PERU
By /s/ Javier Silva Ruete
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ David de Ferranti
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1.
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                  -
Alcoholic beverages
121                  -
Tobacco, un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse
122                  -
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes)
525                  -
Radioactive and 
associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones, un-worked
or worked
718               718.7
Nuclear reactors, and 
parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing
machinery
Page  9
897               897.3
Jewelry of gold, 
silver or platinum
group metals (except
watches and watch
cases) and
goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’
wares (including 
set gems)
971                  -
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party);
6.
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or 
of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, 
without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Bank to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15 
beginning February 15, 2007
through February 15, 2018
$4,165,000
On August 15, 2018
$4,205,000
Page  10
________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement
A.
Social Policy Articulation and Coordination
1.
The Borrower has approved the Multi-Annual Sectors Strategic Plans.
2.
The Borrower has adopted the Social Sectors Monitoring System.
3.
The Borrower has expanded the application of SIAF to all the Borrower’s 
Ministries.
4.
The Borrower has furnished to the Bank the Improved Social Programs Monitoring 
and Evaluation Guidelines.
5.
The Consolidated Law of Public Procurement and Contracting has been enacted.
B.
Social Protection
1.
The Protected Social Programs Budgets during Fiscal Year 2001 are no less than 
the Protected Social Programs Budgets during Fiscal Year 2000.
2.
CIAS has approved the Borrower’s quarterly budget allocations for Protected 
Social Programs.
3.
The Borrower has furnished to the Bank the Social Protection Contingency Plan.
4.
The Borrower has furnished to the Bank the terms of reference for the design of 
the Social Protection Strategy.
5.
The Borrower has enacted the Women and Youth Workers Protective Legislation.
C.
Access of the Poor to Protected Social Programs
1.
The Borrower has furnished to the Bank the Poverty Map.
2.
The Borrower has furnished to the Bank the Improved Social Programs Targeting 
Strategy.
3.
The Borrower has expanded SMI to thirteen (13) DISAs.
4.
The Borrower has increased to 20% the ratio of CLASs to Primary Health Care 
Facilities.
D.
Transparency and Empowerment
1.
The Borrower has established and made operational the Round-Table for Attacking 
Poverty.
2.
The Borrower has published the Improved Social Programs Budgets and 
Expenditures.
3.
The Borrower has published the district-by-district budget transfers made under 
Page  11
Comedores Populares and Vaso de Leche.
4.
The Borrower has furnished to the Bank the Improved Social Programs Transparency 
Strategy.
5.
The Borrower has furnished to the Bank the Ombudsman’s Office Social Programs 
Information Mechanism.
6.
The Borrower has established the task force responsible for the design and 
implementation of the Protected Social Programs Control Mechanism.
7.
The Borrower has published the Student Achievement Tests Data.
8.
The Borrower has established and made operational the National Consensus on 
Education Commission.
9.
The Borrower has taken the Education Empowerment Measures.
E.
Rationalization of Social Expenditures 
1.
The Borrower has transferred the FONCODES School Breakfast Program to the 
administration of INS, pursuant to Supreme Decree No. 032-2000-PCM of December 1, 
2000.
2.
The Borrower has: (a) established and made operational the Multi-Sectoral 
Commission on Food and Nutrition; and (b) established task forces to prepare reform 
proposals for PRONAA, Comedores Populares and Vaso de Leche in coordination with the 
Multi-Sectoral Commission on Food and Nutrition.
3.
The Borrower has: (a) unified the administration (including operation plans and 
budgets) of the Mothers and Children Health Care Programs pursuant to MINSA Resolution 
No. 163-2001-SA/DM of  March 14, 2001; and (b) established a technical committee to 
evaluate the unification of SEG and SMI pursuant MINSA Resolution No. 016-2001-SA/DM 
of January 10, 2001.
4.
The Borrower has established the ESSALUD-MINSA Investment Commission.
5.
The Borrower has: (a) instructed the CTARs to follow the Education Payroll 
Processing Standards and Systems; and (b) applied the Education Payroll Processing 
Standards and Systems to four (4) education regions.
