                                                                                                                62827

                                                                                                   OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                                                                                           SD2011-0025
                                                                                                                   June 22, 2011




                                                                            Closing Date: Thursday, June 23, 2011

FROM: Vice President and Corporate Secretary


                      EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS' MEETING - JUNE 21, 2011

                                                   Republic of Tunisia

                      Governance and Opportunity Development Policy Loan

                                                Summary of Discussion




1.     Attached is the Summary of Discussion on the Governance and Opportunity
Development Policy Loan for the Republic of Tunisia considered at the meeting held on June
21, 2011.

2.     Comments on the Summary of Discussion may be directed to the Vice President and
Corporate Secretary by the close of business, June 23, 2011, after which the Summary of
Discussion will be made publicly available in accordance with the Bank's Policy on Access to
Information.



Distribution:
 Executive Directors and Alternates
 President
 Bank Group Senior Management
 Vice Presidents, Bank, IFC and MIGA




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank Group authorization.
                     Tunisia – Governance and Opportunity Development Policy Loan

                                                 SUMMARY OF DISCUSSION

                                               Meeting of the Executive Directors

                                                               June 21, 2011


      The Executive Directors approved a loan in the amount of US$250 million and EUR
168.3 million for the Governance and Opportunity Development Policy Loan (DPL) to the
Republic of Tunisia on the payment terms and conditions set out in the President’s Memorandum
(R2011-0129).

        Executive Directors expressed strong support for the DPL and endorsed its objectives,
noting that the governance, economic and social sector reforms supported by this loan constitute
a concrete step by the interim authorities to respond to the aspirations of the Tunisian people.
Directors emphasized the need to monitor implementation closely and work to secure early,
tangible results from these reforms. The need for ongoing improvements in governance
transparency and accountability, regional development, and social sector was noted. Finally,
Directors highlighted the importance of improving the business and financial environment for the
private sector to facilitate investment and sustainable job creation. In this light, they encouraged
IFC and MIGA’s close engagement going forward.




                                                            

  This summary is not an approved record.
