                                                Document of
                                               The World Bank


                                      FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                                         Report No. 61627-TN




           INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT


                                          PROGRAM DOCUMENT


                                         FOR A PROPOSED LOAN


                 IN THE AMOUNT OF US$250 MILLION AND EUR 168.3 MILLION


                                                    TO THE


                                          REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA


                                                     FOR A


              GOVERNANCE AND OPPORTUNITY DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN




                                                 May 26, 2011




Social and Economic Development Department (MNSED)
Maghreb Country Management Unit
Middle East and North Africa Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
                     TUNISIA - GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
                          January, 1 – December, 31

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                  (Exchange Rate Effective as of April 30, 2011)

                        US$ 1.00           TND 1.344
                        US$ 1.00           Euro 0.67297015
                        Euro 1.00          TND 1.4859

                            Weights and Measures
                                 Metric System

                     ABBREVIATION AND ACRONYMS

AFD        French Agency for Development
AfDB       African Development Bank
ALMPs      Active Labor Market Programs
ANETI      Agence National pour l’Emploi et le Travail Independent
ARABOSAI   Arab Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions
ATFP       Agence Tunisienne de la Formation Professionnelle / Tunisia Agency for
           Vocational Traning
ATI        Agence Tunisienne d'Internet / Tunisia Internet Authority
AWI        Arab World Initiative
BCT        Banque Central de Tunisie / Central Bank of Tunisia
BTS        Banque Tunisienne de Solidarité / Tunisian Solidarity Bank
CAS/CPS    Country Assistance Strategy / Country Partnership Strategy
CBT        Central Bank of Tunisia
CFAA       Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CMF        Conseil du Marché Financier / Financial Market Authority
CNAM       Caisse Nationale d’Assurance Maladie / National Medical Insurance Fund
CNS        Conseil National des Services / National Services Authority
COSEM      Comité de Suivi et d’Enquête des Marchés / Public Procurement Monitoring
           Committee
CPAR       Country Procurement Assessment Review
CPI        Consumer Price Index
CSM        Commission Supérieure des Marchés / High Committee for Public Procurement
CSOs       Civil Society Organisations
DGRA       Department General for Administrative Reforms
DGDP       Directorate General of Financial Control
DPL        Development Policy Lending
DPR        Development Policy Review
EIA        Environmental Impact Assessment
EU         European Union
FDI        Foreign Direct Investment
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICL        Integration and Competitiveness Loan
IDA        International Development Association
IFC        International Finance Corporation
IFRS       International Financial Reporting Standards
IMF        International Monetary Fund
INTOSAI    International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions
ISPs       Information Service Providers
JICA       Japanese Development Agency
JSDF       Japan Social Development Fund
LDP        Letter of Development Policy
LFS        Labor Force Survey
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MDGs       Millennium Development Goals
MENA       Middle East and North Africa
MICS       Multiple Indicators Cluster Survey
MMR        Maternal Mortality Ratio
MOF        Ministry of Finance
MoH        Ministry of Health
MPIC       Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
MSME       Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise
MTBF       Medium-Term Budget Framework
MTEF       Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
MTFF       Medium-Term Financial Framework
NDP        National Development Plan
NGOs       Non-Governmental Organization
NPLs       Non-Pool Loans
OECD/DAC   Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development/ Development
           Assistance Committee
PAFN       Programme d’Appui aux Familles Nécessiteuse / Support Program for Poor
           Families
PEFA       Public Expenditure and Financial Assessment
PEPE       Program for Schools with Education Priority
PER        Public Expenditure Review
PFM        Public Financial Management
PM         Prime Minister
PSD        Private Sector Development
RAMPs      Reserves and Assets Management Programs
ROSC       Report on the Observance of Standards and Codes
SAI        Supreme Audit Institution
SDR        Special Drawing Rights
SICAR      Societé d’Investissement à Capital Risque / Venture Capital Investment
           Company
SIVP       Stage d’Initiation à la Vie Professionnelle / Internship for the Introduction to
           Professional Life
SME        Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise
TND        Tunisian Dinar
UNDP       United Nations Development Program
UNICEF     United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund


                        Vice President:   Shamshad Akhtar
                     Country Director:    Simon Gray
                       Sector Director:   Manuela V. Ferro
                      Sector Manager:     Bernard Funck
                   Task Team Leaders:     Antonio Nucifora and Daniela Marotta




                                           ii
                                                         REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
                                             GOVERNANCE AND OPPORTUNITY DPL

                                                           TABLE OF CONTENTS

LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY ......................................................................................................... 1 
I.    INTRODUCTION ............................................................................................................................ 4 
II.   COUNTRY CONTEXT ................................................................................................................... 6 
            RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS ....................................................................... 9 
            MACROECONOMIC OUTLOOK ..................................................................................... 10 
III.  THE GOVERNMENT’S PROGRAM ........................................................................................... 16 
            GOVERNANCE .................................................................................................................. 19 
            EMPLOYMENT AND ADDRESSING REGIONAL DISPARITIES ................................ 22 
            FINANCIAL SECTOR ........................................................................................................ 24 
            SOCIAL SERVICES POLICIES ......................................................................................... 25 
IV.   BANK SUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT’S PROGRAM ..................................................... 27 
            LINK TO THE COUNTRY PARTNERSHIP STRATEGY ............................................... 27 
            COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF AND OTHER DONORS ...................................... 28 
            LESSONS LEARNED ......................................................................................................... 29 
            ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS................................................................................... 29 
V.    THE PROPOSED GOVERNANCE AND OPPORTUNITY DPL OPERATION ..................... 32 
            POLICY AREAS ................................................................................................................. 34 
VI.   OPERATION IMPLEMENTATION ............................................................................................. 47 
            POVERTY AND SOCIAL IMPACTS ................................................................................ 47 
            ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS ......................................................................................... 48 
            IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING AND EVALUATION .......................................... 49 
            FIDUCIARY ASPECTS ...................................................................................................... 49 
            DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING ................................................................................. 50 
            RISKS AND RISK MITIGATION...................................................................................... 51 


                                                                       ANNEXES
ANNEX 1: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY .................................................................................... 55 
ANNEX 2: POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL REFORMS MATRIX ........................................................... 73 
ANNEX 3: GOVERNMENT POLICY REFORMS MATRIX (JOINTLY SUPPORTED BY WORLD BANK,
AfDB, EU and AFD) ........................................................................................................................................ 77 
ANNEX 4: FUND RELATIONS NOTE ......................................................................................................... 79 
ANNEX 5: KEY FACTS ON THE STRUCTURE OF UNEMPLOYMENT IN TUNISIA ........................... 84 
ANNEX 6: RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ................................................................................... 86 
ANNEX 8: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE (includes country map)................................................................... 90 
The Governance and Opportunity DPL has been jointly prepared by the World Bank, the African
Development Bank, and the European Union, and the French Development Agency (and in
collaboration with JICA and UNDP). The World Bank team consists of Antonio Nucifora and
Daniela Marotta (MNSPR, Team Leaders), Heba Elgazzar (MNSHH), Fabian Seiderer (MNSPS),
Laurent Gonnet (MNSFP), Diego angel-Urdinola (MNSSP), Guenter Heidenhof (MNSED),
Roberta V. Gatti (MNSSP), Rene Antonio Leon Solano (MNSSP), Najy Benhassine (MNSFP),
Yolanda Tayler (MNAPR), Walid Dhouibi (MNAPR), Laurence Folliot Lalliot (LEGAL), Laurent
Olivier Corthay (CICRS), Donia Jemail (MNAEX), Carlo Maria Rossotto (TWICT), Alexandra
Ortiz (MNSUR), Carine Clert (LACHD), Ahmedou Hamed (MNAPR), David Robalino (HDSPN),
Olivier Dupriex (DECDG) and Ingrid Ivins (DECDG). Legal counsel was provided by Jean-
Charles de Daruvar and Ghada Youness (LEGEM) and disbursement guidance was provided by
Hedda Hassine (CTRFC). Financial management advice was provided by Soukeyna Kane
(MNAFM) and Anas Abou El Mikias (MNAFM). The operation was prepared under the overall
guidance of Bernard Funck (Sector Manager, MNSED), Manuela Ferro (Sector Director,
MNSED), Eileen Murray (Country Manager, Tunisia) and Simon Gray (Country Director,
MNC01). The operation benefited from comments from peer reviewers Theodore Ahlers
(ECAVP), Linda Van Gelder (PRMPS), Philip E. Keefer (DECMG), and Jesko Hentschel
(ECSH4), and inputs from Ndiame Diop (MNSED), Marouane El Abassi (MNSFP), Mariem
Malouche (PRMTR), Olivier Cattaneo (DEC), Catherine Laurent (MNSPS), Eavan O’Halloran
(MNC01), Joel Toujas-Bernate (IMF) and Giorgia Albertin (IMF). Administrative support was
provided by Narjes Jerbi (MNCTN), Besma Saadi Refai (MNCTN), Mohsen Sayari (MNCTN),
Muna Abeid Salim (MNSED), Loubna Ennadir (MNSED) and Muna Abeid Salim (MNSED). The
team also benefitted from interactions with colleagues from the African Development Bank (Jacob
Kolster, Natsuko Obayashi, Agnes Soucat, Gehane El Sokkary, Justin Murara, Vincent Castel,
Muteta Nzau, and Fabrice Sergent), the European Union (Francoise Millecam, Regis Meritan,
Francis Lemoine, Nabil Ben Nacef, Gilles Nancy) and the French Development Agency (Roger
Goudiard, Cyrille Bellier, Olivier Ray, Yamina Mathlouthi) and is thankful to many Government
of Tunisia officials who contributed their time and knowledge. Special thanks are due to H.E. Mr.
Abdelhamid Triki, Minister of Planning and International Cooperation for guiding this work, and
his collaborators for their productive cooperation.




                                               2
                          LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY

                                          TUNISIA

                         GOVERNANCE AND OPPORTUNITY DPL


Borrower                  Republic of Tunisia
Implementing Agency       Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
Financing Data            IBRD Loan; Amount: US$250 million and Euro 168.3 million.
                          Variable Spread Loan (VSL), repayment schedule linked to
                          commitment with a thirty year maturity and 5 years of grace period,
                          with tailored repayment of principal.
Operation Type            Single-Tranche Development Policy Loan (DPL). The single-
                          tranche is to be disbursed upon effectiveness.
Main Policy Areas         The DPL supports a set of core measures envisaged by the interim
                          government in the areas of governance, financial sector,
                          employment, and social policies. The measures focus on: (i)
                          improving transparency and accountability in a visible way to
                          respond to the aspirations of the population, and to signal to
                          investors that Tunisia is creating a level playing field for private
                          sector-led growth; and (ii) taking immediate actions to relieve the
                          plight of the unemployed and the poorest and vulnerable families.
Key Results Indicators    Governance: Average time needed to award a public contract;
                          Quantitative estimate of cost of compliance of selected
                          administrative procedures, and the extent to which regulation is
                          prone to discretion and arbitrariness; Number of .tn domain names
                          (internet websites).
                          Employment: Provision of basic training package, internships and
                          additional employment services to AMAL program beneficiaries.
                          Financial sector: Number of independent board members in private
                          and state owned banks.
                          Social sectors: Number of participatory monitoring assessments of
                          public and social services; Number of regions with community
                          health and social teams trained and operating.
Program Development       The DPL is a core component of the World Bank's strategy to
Objective(s) and          support the interim government in its task to consolidate social and
Contribution to CPS       economic change, and prepare the ground to complete the transition.
                          The operation focuses on the four priority policy areas suggested by
                          the interim government and supports a program of immediate
                          measures that are emblematic of improved governance and
                          opportunity and are within the mandate of the interim government.
                          The Bank's CPS for Tunisia, which was discussed at Board in
                          December 2009, was designed with the pre-revolution Government.
                          While the core of this CPS remains valid to address the structural
                          problems facing Tunisia, the Bank recognizes that many of the
                          elements of the CPS are no longer relevant in the post-revolution
                          context. A new CPS will likely be prepared only after a new elected
                          government under a new constitution is in place.

                                               1
Risks and Risk Mitigation   (i) Risks related to renewed political instability from unmet or
                            conflicting political aspirations: The political climate may become
                            unstable again in the run-up to the elections. This would impede the
                            government’s capacity to push through the reforms. In addition, it is
                            possible that the upcoming elections could bring a more fractious
                            political leadership, less able or willing to carry through reform
                            agenda or sound macro policies. To mitigate this risk, the
                            government is building consensus through consultation (including
                            though the broadening of membership of the ‘High Authority’ for
                            political reforms). A benevolent international framework, including
                            financial and political support from the international community will
                            also help mitigate these political risks.
                            (ii) Risks related to the uncertainty of the economic outlook:
                            Uncertainty about the economic outlook, related to the impact of the
                            Libyan crisis, as well as in the regional economic outlook, and slow
                            recovery for major trading partners, poses significant risk to political
                            developments in Tunisia. Lower economic growth and additional
                            pressure in the labor market could lead to renewed social tensions
                            and reinforce a sense of lack of economic opportunities. A
                            recurrence of instability might lead to a renewed loss of foreign
                            investors’ confidence, which will in turn affect industrial production
                            and exports, further depressing domestic consumption and slowing
                            the economic recovery, and sending Tunisia into a negative spiral.
                            To mitigate these risks the authorities have adopted a strong plan to
                            scale up social interventions, support enterprises during this
                            transition, and accelerate public investments. The resources from
                            this operation are intended to help finance this plan and mitigate
                            these risks. The measures supported by this operation also aim to
                            both facilitate public and private investments (though simplification
                            of procurement procedures, and removal of red-tape), and improve
                            the provision of social services, and to help reestablish social
                            stability by addressing the key demands for voice and accountability
                            made by the population.
                            (ii) Risks to the stability of the financial sector: In order to address
                            weaknesses in the financial system, over the past few years the
                            authorities have been pushing banks to (i) steadily increase the
                            provisioning rates, (ii) to decrease the NPLs, and (iii) implement
                            strong internal control regulation, while keeping active supervision
                            of the banking sector. The negative shock on the tourism sector
                            (both from the revolution and the Libyan crisis) and the sensitivity
                            of the exporting sectors to growth variations in Europe both translate
                            into higher credit risk in the banking sector. Notably, the banking
                            system is exposed to the tourism sector (at 12.7 percent of total
                            loans in 2009). These risk will be added to the already relatively
                            weak asset quality of the banking sector in spite of limited market
                            risks overall (relatively high NPLs at around 12 percent in 2010).
                            The Bank fielded a mission in April 2011 to work with the
                            authorities in assessing the stability of the financial sector, including
                            full-fledged stress test by bank and a discussion of the crisis
                            preparedness arrangement.
                            (iv) Risks related to the design and implementation of the program:
                            Firstly, key stakeholders may deem it inappropriate to address


                                                   2
               politically sensitive issues before a new government is elected.
               Secondly, some parts of the administration are still tied to the old
               regime and likely to cause resistance. Finally, risks also exist that
               the new post-elections government could reverse the reform agenda,
               in particular against pro-business policies. All the above risks can be
               mitigated by consensus building both within and outside of the
               current government. The Bank’s technical assistance and informal
               discussions with civil society and key stakeholders during the
               preparation of the DPL should mitigate these risks, even if the
               operation’s time frame remains a major constraint. For this reason,
               the program is focused on reforms that are not politically colored,
               but rather focus on the efficiency and transparency in the operation
               of the administration. Further, the program focuses on limited
               amendments based on consensus and which explicitly respond to
               aspirations for accountability and opportunity.
Operation ID   P126094




                                     3
                     IBRD PROGRAM DOCUMENT FOR A
             PROPOSED GOVERNANCE AND OPPORTUNITY DPL LOAN
                       TO THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA


                                     I.      INTRODUCTION

1.       This draft Program Document proposes a Governance and Opportunity Development
Policy Loan to Tunisia in the amount of US$500 million equivalent (consisting of an amount of
US$250 million and an amount of Euro 168.3 million). In January 2011 Tunisia experienced an
unprecedented and spontaneous wave of protests, fueled by persistent lack of social and political
inclusion, anger over governance and corruption problems, and mounting frustration over
unemployment and food inflation. These countrywide protests led to the toppling of the regime and
the ousting of Tunisia’s second President, Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, on January 14, 2011, after 23
years in power. In line with the Constitution, the President of Parliament, Foued Mebazaa, has been
appointed Interim President of the Republic. Following the dissolution of Parliament, the Interim
President has been given powers to legislate by decree-law. The Interim Government, now headed by
Prime Minister Mr. Béji Caid Essebs has been tasked with reestablishing the conditions to hold free
and fair elections for a Constituent Assembly on July 24, 2011. This proposed DPL supports the
interim government in its task to bring about the social and economic changes needed to firm up the
transition. This operation is a key component of the World Bank’s support to the interim government
and the transition period in Tunisia (as outlined in Section IV of this Program Document). The
operation has been prepared jointly with the African Development Bank (AfDB), the European Union
(EU), and the French Development Agency (AFD), and in collaboration with the Japanese
Development Agency (JICA) and UNDP.
2.       Over the past decade Tunisia has shown robust economic growth. Tunisia grew at 5
percent average annual growth in GDP over 1997-2007, placing the country among the leading
performers in the MENA region (average 4.3 percent). This performance reflects the positive effects of
macroeconomic stability coupled with a gradual but steady opening to trade and foreign investment.
The dynamism in growth was driven by increased exports and FDI inflows, but also large public
investments and private consumption. Tunisia’s macro-economic management has been consistently
sound, the fiscal deficit contained, inflation moderate, and decreasing public debt, despite the difficult
international context in recent years. Economic growth exhibited resilience to exogenous shocks
owing to prudent but also pro-active macroeconomic management.
3.       Yet economic growth has been inadequate to generate sufficient jobs to absorb new
entrants to the labor market. The already large pool of unemployment continued to increase in
recent years. Further, what development took place was heavily concentrated geographically.
Unemployment was estimated by government at 13 percent in 2010, or approximately 500,000 people,
and is characterized by a large and growing mass of low-skilled long-term unemployed concentrated
in the interior provinces of the country (Annex 5). Unemployment rates are particularly high among
young university graduates (15-29) reaching 44 percent and have been increasing rapidly in recent
years (from 34 percent in 2005).
4.       Governance problems have been a key factor preventing higher growth and
employment. While macroeconomic policies were sound and a substantial package of incentives
successfully attracted FDI, the economic environment under the ex-President Ben Ali was
characterized by lack of transparency, cronyism and related anti-competitive practices which
discouraged entrepreneurship and private sector investment, particularly in the ‘onshore’ domestic
economy (as different from the more open, export oriented ‘offshore’ sector). As a result, domestic
private investment remained low and increasingly focused on real estate, considered safer. A broader


                                                    4
lack of transparency, social accountability and citizen participation in government’s affairs further
exacerbated a sense of denied opportunities.
5.     The January 2011 revolution has highlighted not only the lack of jobs and economic
opportunities, but also deep rooted frustration of young Tunisians at their lack of voice in the
management of public affairs.
6.      In the immediate term, the country faces therefore two interrelated challenges: (i)
improving transparency and accountability in a quick and visible way to respond to the aspirations of
the population and to signal that Tunisia is creating a level playing field for private sector-led
employment growth; while (ii) taking immediate measures to relieve the plight of the unemployed and
the poorest and vulnerable families, and accelerate the development of lagging regions.
7.       Addressing these challenges would relieve some of the key constraints that had held back
inclusive, private-sector led growth and job creation. In order to reduce unemployment Tunisia
needs to improve both the speed and the quality of its economic growth: it needs to carry out a
structural transformation of the economy from a low-wage, low value-added economy to a knowledge-
based and skill-intensive economy. For a small economy, meeting these challenges requires deeper
global integration, i.e., finding niches in global market for Tunisian products, tapping on global
knowledge, technologies and investment, and further reducing protection at home to enhance resource
allocation and efficiency. Accelerating growth will also require reforms to increase efficiency and
attract private investment, which can be fostered by bold economic governance reforms to improve the
business environment and open up economic opportunities. Adopting reforms to improve the business
environment by removing red tape, increasing transparency and market contestability, and reducing
discretion and privileges, would send a strong signal to private investors that the rules of the game
have changed and Tunisia is now open for business.
8.       The reforms supported by this proposed loan focus therefore on assisting Tunisia tackle
the two short-term challenges mentioned above, and thereby pave the way for the deeper
necessary medium-term reforms. The interim government has indicated they would not have the
mandate to commit to a medium-term package of reforms, but that they would like support to adopt a
program of immediate measures in four key areas: governance, employment and addressing regional
disparities, financial sector, and social services policies. They have emphasized that they want to give
priority to measures which can signal “a clear break with the past”, notably to increase equity,
transparency, voice and accountability.
9.       The overall cross-sectoral theme of the proposed operation focuses on improving
transparency, accountability, and public participation in policy making and service provision,
and is at the core of private sector development. Indeed governance issues were arguably the single
most binding constraint to greater private domestic investment in Tunisia. The thrust of the program
supported by the DPL is to underscore that greater voice, transparency, participation, inclusion, all
lead to increased investment and competition, and thereby ensure sustained economic growth.
10.      The transitory nature of the current government and the “stroke of the pen” character
of the measures raise possible risks in terms of the future ownership and sustainability of the
program supported by the proposed operation. More broadly, risks exist that the new post-
elections government could depart from pro-growth, prudent policies. These risks are mitigated by two
main factors: first, the measures directly respond to the aspirations of Tunisians as expressed by the
revolution and therefore have strong popular support which makes very difficult for subsequent
governments to reverse them. Second, the program entails reforms that are not politically colored, but
rather focus on the efficiency and transparency in the operation of the administration. For instance the
business environment measure is not focused on deregulation, but rather on the anti-discretion, anti-
arbitrariness and transparency agenda, which encompasses simplification. It will be hard for a new
government to undo an initiative that aims at preventing the most visible ills of the old regime. The
communication campaign accompanying the reforms program should be focused on this message,
which is a unanimous expectation in post-revolution Tunisia.

                                                   5
                                         II.      COUNTRY CONTEXT

11.     On the face of it, Tunisia had made relatively sound progress at a national level on social
and poverty indicators, though spatial disparities have persisted. The steady increase in per capita
income over the past 20 years has been the main engine for poverty reduction and social progress (Box
1). Using a low US$1.25/day poverty line, poverty in Tunisia was estimated to have declined to 7
percent of the population as of 2005, amongst the lowest in the region.1
12.      Nevertheless economic growth has been insufficient to generate enough jobs to absorb
new entrants to the labor market, such that the already large unemployment continued to
increase in recent years. Unemployment has been increasing from 12.1 percent in 2007 to 13.3 in
2009. In fact, since 2005, annual job creation (between 70,000 and 80,000) has fallen short of covering
the additional labor supply (approx 100,000 annually), much less made inroads into the stock of

    Box 1. Tunisia’s Key Social Indicators
    Tunisia is on track to reach the MDGs. Over 98 percent of both male and female 6 to 11 year old children
    were enrolled in school in 2009/10 and based on recent trends it is expected that all students should complete
    primary school by 2015. Secondary net enrolment rate are similarly high, with 74 percent of boys and 81
    percent of girls aged 12 to 18 in school. However, student learning outcomes remain low, with 61 percent of
    Tunisian students passing at least the ‘low international benchmark’ for mathematics grade 8, compared to an
    international mean of 75 percent. Similarly, only 31 percent of Tunisian students in science grade 8 pass the
    low international benchmark, compared to an international mean of 49 percent. Health outcomes are
    relatively better than those found in other middle-income MENA countries. Progress has been made on
    infant and maternal mortality rates, malnutrition has dropped markedly, and HIV/AIDS prevalence is very
    low. However, mortality and health conditions in underserved regions lag considerably behind those in urban
    areas. Tunisians enjoy a relatively long life expectancy of 74 years. Although only 6 percent of children are
    stunted, they are over twice as likely to be stunted in rural areas as in urban areas (10 versus 4 percent,
    respectively). Between 2004 and 2008, Tunisia’s Maternal Mortality Ratio (MMR) was estimated to be
    nearly 69 per 100,000 live births according to United Nations data (as compared to national estimates of 40
    per 100,000 live births), or between two to four times that of most other middle income countries. Tunisia’s
    infant mortality rate (IMR) of approximately 19 per 1,000 live births is near the global average and on the
    decline. It is estimated that approximately 80 percent of the population is enrolled in national health insurance
    and an additional 9 percent receive health cards covering free basic health services, but approximately 11
    percent remain uninsured. Access to basic socio-economic services (water, sanitation, electricity) is near
    universal in urban areas, but access to water and sanitation lags behind in underserved regions. Tunisia has
    promoted gender issues and women’s role in society to a notable extent overall. With 64 percent of the
    population living in cities or towns, Tunisia is relatively urban with respect to other Middle East and North
    Africa (MENA) countries.
    Sources: TIMSS 2007 (http://timss.bc.edu/timss2007/index.html); Ministry of Education (2010), Annuaire Statistique
    2009/10: http://www.education.gov.tn/article_education/statistiques/stat_education2010_fr.pdf; World Bank (2009), Who
    Pays: Out of Pocket Health Spending and Equity Implications in the MENA, Discussion Paper N. 58014, The World
    Bank, Washington D.C.; Ministry of Public Health/UNICEF (2006), Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey (MICS3),
    Tunisia.; UNICEF (2009), State of the World’s Children Report, UNICEF, New York.




1
  Official poverty numbers show a decline in poverty between 2000 and 2005 from 4.2 percent to 3.8 percent. However the
official government poverty line of US$0.65/day is clearly inadequate. The World Bank extrapolated that using the a
poverty line of 1.25 US$/day, which is still quite low given Tunisia’s level of income per capita, would result in a poverty
rate of approximately 7 percent (estimated at 2005 Purchasing Power Parity using POVCAL software). A poverty line of
around 2.50 US$/day would be more relevant for Tunisia in light of its level of per capita income. Unfortunately the survey
data on which poverty estimates are based remains outside of public access and has not been subject to verification. As part
of the reforms supported by this operation the microdata from surveys will shortly become available to the public.

                                                             6
unemployed (approx 500,000 people in 2009).2 The majority of the pool of unemployed in Tunisia is
composed of young, low-skilled, male, urban workers. However, as efforts to expand tertiary
education have not been matched by job opportunities, in recent years the increase in unemployment
has mostly fallen on young and educated individuals, reflecting a growing structural imbalance
between the demand for labor, tilted towards the unskilled, and an increasing supply of skilled labor
(Annex 5). Demographic trends suggest that unless the pace of economic growth accelerates
substantially, unemployment will continue to worsen significantly over the next decade. Already
without accounting for the impact of the economic shocks unemployment was expected to reach 17
percent by 2014 (Annex 5)—the impact current economic shocks has exacerbated these trends, and the
level of unemployment could reach 17 percent already in 2011.
13.     Extensive restrictions to economic activity in the domestic market have prevented
greater investment and stifled job creation. Only a dynamic and growing private sector can create
high quality jobs at a rate that keeps pace with this growing and increasingly young population.
Unfortunately, the environment for private sector in Tunisia has not allowed the sort of dynamism
found in high-growth economies. 3 As mentioned above, the economy has been characterized by lack
of competition, unfriendly business environment (notably in the ‘onshore’ sector) and restrictive labor
regulations which increase the costs of firing labor and reduce the competitiveness of the private sector
by increasing labor costs. Furthermore, the Tunisian labor force does not have the skills the private
sector needs, and labor market institutions are ineffective in matching labor demand to supply.
14.     In fact the economic environment in Tunisia had evolved on dual tracks: an ‘offshore’
export-oriented sector operates under a liberal regime (10 years tax holiday, duty-free imports, fast
trade procedures, free repatriation of profits, etc.; which has attracted substantial FDI), coexists with
an insulated and highly restrictive ‘onshore’ domestic economy which does not benefit from any tax
incentives and instead continues to be characterized by pervasive barriers to competition, heavy State
intervention and red tape.4
15.     Hence, while Tunisia improved its ranking in Doing Business from 139th place (out of 175
countries) in 2006 to 55th (out of 183 countries) in 2010, feedback from the private sector
highlight that there is a substantial gap between the reasonably good processes de jure and the
very difficult de facto business environment, especially for domestic investors in the ‘onshore’
sector.5 The explanation behind this is that typical governance indicators and other measurements
often did not adequately capture Tunisia’s governance problem that seems to revolve around issues
such as discretion in the application of laws and regulations, inefficient procurement processes, rigged


2
  World Bank (2010). Development Policy Review: Towards Innovation Driven Growth. Report No. 50847-TN. The World
Bank, Washington D.C.
3
  The public sector has remained so far the main source of new formal employment creation (about 38 thousand jobs with
contract created between years 2005 and 2009), followed by the manufacturing and transport and communications sectors
(about 20 thousand jobs with contract created between years 2005 and 2009). Public sector jobs offer generous benefits,
hence encouraging educated individuals to queue for them, creating distortions in the market and contributing to long
unemployment spells.
4
  The pervasiveness and complexity of government’s controls on transactions in the domestic market seems to be the main
constraint to integrating these two sectors. Interestingly, current legislation allows offshore firms to sell up to 30 percent of
their production in the domestic market (and be subjected to domestic regulation on that proportion). However, the take up of
this option is quasi-inexistent. Firms operating in the offshore sector value the limited intervention of the government that
they enjoy and are reluctant to face pervasive and complex controls from the administration and intrusive prescriptions of the
modalities of business conduct. Firms operating under the offshore regime are used to operating in a liberal environment,
with no tax and minimal interferences with the administration and therefore are reluctant to sell in the domestic market even
when prices are higher there (as in the case of many textile and mechanical component products).
5
  Tunisia also ranks 32nd in the 2011 Global Competitiveness Index, and 38th in the 2010 World Economic Forum Global
Trade ranking, and 38th in the 2010 Global Competitiveness report (from 32nd in 2009). It ranks 61st on the World Bank’s
Logistics Performance Index (LPI) and ranks above or at par with the overall Middle East and North Africa average. Since
the mid-1990s, the country has accelerated its openness to trade and today trade in goods is duty-free with the EU, the
Greater Arab Free Trade Area partners and a large number of bilateral partners. However, all these rankings focus mainly on
doing business in the export-oriented ‘offshore’ sector.

                                                               7
privatization, declassification of public land asset and improper use of public banks.6 Notably, the
heavy and pervasive intervention by the State in the economy and slow progress on strengthening the
business environment in the ‘onshore’ sector has plagued much of the private sector in Tunisia to date,
limiting competition and the extent of private domestic investment (around 15 percent on average) and
thereby preventing greater jobs creation.7
16.      Tunisia has been characterized by weak
levels of transparency and accountability,                          Figure 1. Global Integrity Indicators for
performing poorly across most dimensions of                         Tunisia
governance and anti-corruption; however,
some of the key governance failures were not
adequately captured in the rankings. Global
Integrity’s 2008 rating labels Tunisia’s
performance as ‘very weak’ on executive
accountability,    mainly     because      of     the
concentration of power that was subject to only
few checks and balances (see Figure 1). Freedom
House’s 2010 report rates the country as “Not
Free”—the lowest rank possible. Legally, citizens
do have the right to vote and are eligible to run for
office. However, in reality, elections were tightly
managed affairs and no agency has independent
authority to monitor their integrity. On Global
Integrity’s ratings for election integrity, Tunisia
has been labeled “Very Weak.” In terms of the
budget processes, Tunisia also fared “Very Weak”,
as the legislature provided limited input into the
national budget. There was a separate legislative
committee which provides oversight of public
funds, though its independence and impartiality
was questionable. Freedom House’s Freedom of
the Press ratings label Tunisia as “Not Free” and
Global Integrity ratings indicate that Tunisia was
one of the most repressive regimes in the world in
regards to media freedom. Among the stronger
governance ratings for Tunisia are those pertaining
to business licensing and regulation as well as
taxes and customs (though the enforcement of tax
laws have often been criticized as being
discriminatory). In addition, while the Anti-
Corruption Law was seen as of very good quality,
the implementation of this law was considered
very weak. Indeed while Tunisia scored well on
some governance ranking, there were important
shortcomings and failures not captured by these
rankings, most notably related to poor progress
made on voice and accountability, the highly

6
  World Bank (2009), MENA: Private Sector from Privileges to Competition, The World Bank, Washington D.C. This report
highlights issues of governance as one of the main constraints to private-sector growth, including in Tunisia.
7
  Looking at factors holding back more rapid growth, one theme that has been raised by the private sector is that rather than
facilitating and regulating economic activities, some of the administration has a “control and punish mentality”. This is often
linked to the private interest of civil servants who can extract rents. It is critical to change the mentality from “control and
punish” towards “facilitate and regulate”.

                                                               8
centralized decision making process which undermined the system of checks and balances (which
largely existed on paper only), and more generally the substantial discretion in the application of the
laws.
17.     This lack of adequate participation, transparency and accountability was a key trigger of
the revolution. One of the words most frequently heard from young people demonstrating in Tunisia
was the word “dignity”. Social and economic exclusion goes beyond the narrower conception of
material poverty, whether conceived in terms of income or the fulfillment of basic needs. It is first and
foremost about exclusion from the political process. Achieving greater accountability of authorities to
citizens and greater citizen participation and feedback in policy making will require greater
transparency in government operations and higher standards for public officials.
18.      The ongoing political transition can unlock the economic and institutional reforms
necessary to put Tunisia on a faster development path. Participation and accountability are
necessary preconditions. The political consensus and public engagement emerging today in Tunisia
offer the first realistic opportunity for the people to voice their desires and aspirations, formulate the
strategies to achieve them and carry out the kind of reforms needed to overhaul the development
paradigm in their countries and unlock their full creative potential. Addressing the growth and
employment challenge will require a comprehensive approach to enable a transformation of the
structure of the economy to facilitate private investment into labor intensive and high value-added
sectors.8 To accelerate growth and reduce unemployment the government needs to create an enabling
environment for greater investment and productivity. Greater technology adoption and productivity,
investment (national and foreign), and deeper economic integration will continue to be essential
ingredients.
19.      To begin with a few building blocks need to be laid to reestablish social peace and set the
country on such a faster development trajectory. Firstly there is a need to establish some basic
governance standards which had been missing, notably related to greater participation (a more open
and inclusive government), transparency (a different way of managing and conducting government
business), and accountability (particularly external accountability and the results-focus of government
activities). Second, the social frustration expressed by the January 2011 revolution calls for immediate
actions to address the lack of job opportunities, by taking immediate measures to support job
creation in the medium and long-term; it also requires a new commitment to the issues of transparency
and fairness in the reform process for growth and sustained job creation. Third, improving access to
finance in Tunisia requires addressing the widespread governance failures in the financial sector,
which have severely undermined banks’ performance and the banking system’s ability to play its
catalyst role and contribute to growth and job creation. Finally, the revolution has highlighted the
urgent need to address social disparities, notably by adopting a different approach to public services
provision to increase transparency and inclusive policy making and to ensure an equitable and
transparent application of policies, and access to services, particularly in underserved regions.

RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
20.      Tunisia entered the transition period with a good macroeconomic stance and solid
economic fundamentals (see Annex 6). Reaping the benefits of the sound macroeconomic policies
implemented in recent years, the country had started to recover from the global economic crisis.9 GDP
growth had picked up to 3.7 percent in 2010 while inflation remained subdued, at 4.5 percent (Table
1). As a result of the incipient recovery, the fiscal position also improved markedly in 2010 (with a
fiscal deficit down to 1.3 percent of GDP, from 3 percent of GDP in 2009) while the external current
account widened (to 4.8 percent of GDP in 2010 from 2.8 in 2009). Gross official reserves decreased


8
  World Bank (2010). Development Policy Review: Towards Innovation Driven Growth. Report No. 50847-TN. The World
Bank, Washington D.C.
9
  Diop N. (2010) Tunisia and the Global Economic Crisis: A Policy Note. Mimeo. The World Bank. Washington D.C.

                                                        9
therefore from US$ 11.1 billion at end-2009 to US$ 9.6 billion as of end-December 2010, still a
comfortable level of approximately 5 months of imports.
Table 1. Tunisia: Selected Macroeconomic Indicators, 2008-2013
                                                                          2008        2009         2010      2011     2012     2013
                                                                          Act.        Act.          Est.     Proj.    Proj.    Proj.
National income and prices
 Real GDP growth rate (%)                                                  4.5          3.1          3.7       1.5      3.5      4.5
  Nominal GDP ( TND million )                                           55297        58768        63685     67226    72014    78264
  Nominal GDP per capita (in U.S. dollars)                               4346         4172         4226      4374     4522     4749
  GDP inflation (%, period average)                                        5.0          3.1          4.5       4.0      3.5      4.0
Central government (percent of GDP)
  Total revenues and grants                                                24.1        23.1        23.1       23.4    23.5     24.4
  Total expenditure and net lending                                        24.8        25.8        24.4       28.2    27.4     27.0
    Current expenditure                                                    19.0        18.1        18.1       20.6    20.5     20.4
    Capital expenditure                                                     6.1         7.7         6.4        7.6     6.9      6.5
  Overall balance before grants                                            -1.0        -3.0        -1.3       -4.8    -4.1     -2.7
Money and credit
 Broad M oney (M 2)/GDP                                                    58.4        61.8        61.8      61.8    61.8     61.8
  Broad M oney (M 2, 12 months % change)                                   14.5        13.0        10.8        5.0
  Credit to the economy (percent change)                                   13.4         9.9        17.8        4.6
  Interest rate (money market rate, in percent, e.o.p)                      5.2         4.3         4.2
Investment and savings
  Gross domestic savings(excluding grants)/GDP                             22.1        21.5        20.2       15.7    19.4     20.7
  Gross domestic investment/GDP                                            25.9        24.2        25.6       26.1    25.6     25.7
External sector
  Current account balance/GDP (excluding grants)                            -3.8       -2.8         -4.8      -6.2     -4.0     -2.7
  Gross international reserves (USD billion)                                 9.0      11.1           9.6       7.7      7.7      8.4
    In months of imports                                                     4.0        6.3          5.0       3.5      3.5      3.7
  Exchange rate (TND per USD, period average)                             1.232      1.350        1.430     1.445    1.482    1.519
Debt stock
  Public debt (as percent of GDP)                                          43.3        43.4        40.4      43.6    43.8     43.5
    Domestic Debt                                                          16.9        17.6        15.9      18.1    20.0     21.2
    External Debt                                                          26.3        25.8        24.5      25.5    23.8     22.3
Sources: Tunisian Authorities, World Bank staff estimates; (Projections for 2012 and 2013 by World Bank staff).


MACROECONOMIC OUTLOOK
Challenges to the Economic Outlook in the Short and Medium Term
21.     While the outlook for 2011 has deteriorated sharply, Tunisia's growth prospect may be
buoyed by a succesful transition. The economic outlook for 2011 has been revised downwards as a
result of the recent events and the ongoing war in Lybia.10 GDP growth for 2011 was originally
expected at around 5 percent, but projections have now been revised downwards to 0-2 percent,
depending in part on the effectiveness of the ongoing fiscal stimulation.11 As discussed above,
macroeconomic fundamentals remained strong in 2010, and the good macroeconomic management of
the past few years gives the authorities some room for an accommodative fiscal and monetary policy
in response to deteriorating growth prospects for 2011.


10
   The crisis in Libya is expected to have a substantial impact on the Tunisian economy. Over 6 percent of Tunisian exports
of goods and services go to Libya; Libya accounts for more than 10 percent of total FDI to Tunisia; a very large number of
Tunisian work in Libya (and send remittances) and are having to return home to unemployment – it has been estimated that
as of end-April already approximately 40 000 Tunisian workers have crossed the border from Libya back to Tunisia.
11
   This outlook is based on reasonable assumptions about the impact of the crisis: a 40 percent drop in tourism revenues; a 20
drop in FDI; a 10 percent drop in remittances; and the implementation of 70 percent of the authorities’ stimulus package (of
2.9 percent of GDP—see below)

                                                                     10
22.      Substantial downward risks to the short-term economic outlook exist. At present it is
difficult to make projections for the performance of the economy in 2011, notably due to uncertainty
with regards to the impact in the tourism sector and the FDI. Additional information will become
available in early June when the data on tourism bookings for the summer season are firmed up.
Hence, it is possible that the scenario presented in this document could turn out to be optmistic. In
addition, the war in Libya, the complexities of the political process, the uncertain regional economic
outlook, and the slow recovery for major trading partners, all pose significant risks to economic
developments in Tunisia. Further, there is a risk that the financing required to support the authorities’
fiscal stimulus package may not be entirely secured, or that there may be difficulties in the
implementation of the plan. Should such risks materialize, lower economic growth and additional
pressure in the labor market could lead to renewed social tensions and reinforce a sense of lack of
economic opportunities. A recurrence of instability might lead to a renewed loss of foreign investors’
confidence, which in turn could affect industrial production and exports, further depressing domestic
consumption and slowing the economic recovery, and sending Tunisia into a negative spiral. Also,
banks’ solvency is likely to be further challenged in the coming months as a result of the economic
slowdown. While financial sector indicators improved during the past few years, the banking sector
remains relatively weak and subject to vulnerabilities.12 In order to mitigate these risks the authorities
have assessed the stability of the banking sector, including full-fledged stress test by bank as well as
their crisis preparedness arrangements.13
23.     Nevertheless, while it is important to consider the potential downside risks to the short-
term economic outlook, the baseline scenario presented in this document is prudent, and the
medium-term outlook remains good. Further, while the macroeconomic situation is presently stable
and the authorities have not requested IMF financing, should the macroeconomic situation degenerate
substantially, the authorities stand ready to request additional support through an IMF program.14
Economic Outlook
24.     The January revolution, followed by the Libyan crisis, has taken a toll on tourism and
FDI and depressed the short-term economic outlook. GDP growth was previously expected to
reach approximately 5 percent in 2011, but it is now projected to slow down to 0-2 percent. The
baseline rate of 1.5 percent is based on assumptions of a 40 percent drop in tourism revenues and 20
percent reduction in FDI, a 10 percent drop in remittances, and accounts for the implementation of 70
percent of the stimulus package of 2.9 percent of GDP adopted by the interim government. The
economic slowdown would further increase unemployment to approximately 15 to 17 percent and put
additional strain on the financial sector.
25.     The medium-term economic outlook remains however positive. The pace of growth is
expected to increase to approximately 3.5 percent in 2012 and 4.5 percent in 2013 as a result of the
combined effect of the recovery in exports, tourism and FDI, the continuation of major public
investments, and the package of reforms adopted by the interim government which is expected to lead
to growing investment. Notably, domestic private investment is expected to expand in 2012 and
beyond, as a result of the structural reforms supported by this DPL program, including improved
transparency and accountability in the public administration, reduced business transaction costs, and


12
   With 21 banks and net total assets of 82 percent of GDP, the banking system remains small and fragmented. Three of the
largest banks are public and represent 37 percent of deposits. Banks’ spread between deposit and credit rates is narrow (2.4
percent), reflecting a competition for the largest projects and the low performance of bank assets, including the lack of full
credit risk pricing. In 2010, credit growth was strong (20 percent), the loans-to-deposits ratio rose to 115 percent, and
liquidity became very tight, with CBT’s funding reaching 48 percent of bank capital in March 2011. The CBT reported better
indicators for the system in 2010 (capital adequacy stable at 12 percent, and NPLs down to 12 percent). However, NPLs’
provisioning remains low at 59 percent, banks have little free capital available (net fixed assets and participations of the
larger banks are 84 percent of net equity), and asset quality issues raise questions about the reported indicators.
13
   The Bank fielded a mission in April 2011 to work with the Central Bank of Tunisia on financial sector stability, in
collaboration with the IMF.
14
   An IMF technical mission already visited Tunisia in March, and is supportive of the authorities’ policy stance.

                                                             11
better access to finance. The growth target for 2012 is based on the assumption of a normal year for
agriculture (+2 percent annual growth); an average increase in manufacturing output (+3 percent
growth); a partial recovery in exports; a partial recovery in tourism (+25 percent, still below pre-2011
levels); and an increase in energy production (+10 percent; following the completion of structural
works which forced a temporary closure of the main refinery during 2010); and a return of investors’
confidence is expected to result in a gradual increase in FDI back to 2010 levels (at 3 percent of GDP,
which was low due to the global financial crisis). For 2013 we assume a return to normal business
activity, which combined with an increase in external demand is expected to contribute to a further
recovery in exports and tourism to pre-revolution levels, and a further slight increase in FDI.
Fiscal Policy
26.      The fiscal deficit in 2011 is now expected to reach 4.8 percent of GDP from 2.5 percent
originally planned in the 2011 budget. The 2011 budget was designed to maintain a mildly
expansionary fiscal stance to ensure that the economic recovery would be supported by a continued
public investment stimulus in line with the levels of 2009 and 2010. Following the revolution, the
interim government has prepared a supplementary budget (to be approved in May 2011)15 to account
for the expected fiscal impact of the revolution and the need for additional measures to alleviate social
unrest and boost economic growth. Notably, the revised fiscal deficit is now expected at 4.8 percent in
2011 from 2.5 percent originally planned in the original 2011 budget due to a combination of
substantially higher expenditures (by 4.8 percent of GDP above initial projections) and lower tax
revenues (which are now projected to be 0.7 percent of GDP below initial forecasts), and additional
non-tax revenues (amounting to 2.1 percent of GDP, including payment of dividends from the Central
Bank) (Table 2). In addition, the original 2011 budget built-in additional flexibility to allow for fiscal
policy adjustments should the economic recovery require a further boost by including an unallocated
expenditure cushion of 1.2 percent of GDP that could be used if needed, and this allocation will now
help contain the increase in the deficit (to 4.8 percent of GDP).
27.      The structural component of the increase in fiscal expenditures is limited to
approximately 0.7 percent. The increase in expenditures is approximately 4.8 percent of GDP (which
includes the 1.2 percent which was already included in the approved budget as a contingency). A
large share of increase is due to the recent increase in international food and fuel prices which will
raise the cost of subsidies by approximately 1.9 percent of GDP. The balance of 2.9 percent of GDP
relates to the social and economic stimulus package of measures introduced by the interim
government, notably including an increase of 0.7 percent in current expenditures (of 0.4 percent in the
wage bill, 0.3 percent in social assistance programs and other social/economic programs), and 2.1
percent in higher public investment expenditures.
28.     The authorities anticipate the widening of the fiscal deficit in 2011 to be temporary. The
fiscal deficit is expected to decrease in 2012 (to 4.1 percent) and 2013 (to 2.7 percent) from
expenditures control and increased tax revenues (Table 1, and Table A1 in Annex 6). Fiscal space will
however remain limited given the rigidity of salaries and wages that represent more than 11 percent of
GDP.16
Monetary Policy and Inflation
29.     The BCT reacted promptly to the events in January 2011 to ensure the stability of the
banking sector and to support the economic recovery. The increase in precautionary cash holdings
due to the revolution at the beginning of the current year required a significant intervention from the
Central Bank which injected TND1.8 billion (US$1.3 billion) on the monetary market during the first

15
   Every budget, regular and supplemental is published in the official journal upon approval, and it is also made available on
the Ministry of Finance web portal (for instance the 2011 budget is available at the following link:
http://www.portail.finances.gov.tn/jort/Loi%20de%20finances%202011.pdf and in fact all budgets since 2003 are on line).
The transition administration has committed to publication of its upcoming supplementary budget upon approval.
16
   Public wages remain a major source of fiscal pressure as the wage bill represents approximately 50 percent of current
expenditures.

                                                             12
two months of 2011. Against this background and to provide the financing necessary for helping
businesses resume their activities the BCT decided to decrease the reserve requirement ratio by 7.5
percentage points in two steps in early 2011 (to 5 percent as of April 1, 2011). The authorities are
expected to loosen temporarily the monetary policy in 2011 to support the economic recovery, and
also stand ready to provide liquidity if required. In line with the recent easing in monetary policy, the
average money market interest rate decreased to 4.6 percent in March 2011, from 4.9 percent in
December 2010.
30.     Average inflation (CPI) is expected to slow down to 4 percent in 2011 and 3.5 percent in
2012, which is somewhat less rapid than previously anticipated, due to the increase in international
food and fuel prices, the wage pressures triggered by the revolution, and a relatively looser monetary
policy.
Table 2. Expected Fiscal Impact of the January 2011 Events
and Authorities’ Fiscal Stimulus Plan
                                                               USD          % of
                                                              M illion     GDP
     Budgeted Fiscal Deficit for 2011                           1,189      2.5%
     Revisions with respect to Budget Law
       Additional planned expenditures                           2,230     4.8%
         Current expenses                                        1,230     2.6%
              Financing for subsidies                              880     1.9%
              Wages increases                                      200     0.4%
              Unallocated expenses from budget law                 150     0.3%
         Capital expenses                                        1,000     2.1%
              Direct investment and transfers                      600     1.3%
              Unallocated expenses from budget law                 400     0.9%
       Reduction in fiscal revenues                                350     0.7%
       Additional fiscal resources                               1,500     3.2%
              Unallocated resources from budget law                550     1.2%
              Revenues phospates (non fiscal revenues)             450     1.0%
              Central Bank dividends                               500     1.1%
     Revised Fiscal Deficit for 2011                             2,269     4.8%

Source: Tunisian authorities and World Bank staff estimates.

Balance of Payments
31.      Tunisia’s external position is also expected to worsen temporarily in 2011. The current
account deficit is now expected to widen to 6.2 percent of GDP in 2011 (from 4.1 projected before the
revolution), as the current account balance deteriorates compared to 2010 due to the 40 percent drop in
tourism receipts, and deterioration in the trade balance (exports of goods are expected to increase by 9
percent against 11 percent for imports), and a 10 percent reduction in remittances (mostly due to the
conflict in Libya). The capital and financial account is expected to deteriorate in 2011, as a result of
projected drop in FDI by 20 percent in 2011. The deterioration in the current and capital accounts will
only in part be financed by official external inflows (including this DPL), and foreign reserves are
expected to decrease by approximately US$1.9 billion (to reach US$7.7 billion, or approximately 3.5
months of imports, as of end-2011).17
32.    Still, while the balance of payments will put some strain on the economy in 2011, Tunisia
should remain in a fairly solid external position, with a comfortable level of reserves. The current


17
  Gross official reserves decreased slightly during the upheaval from US$9.6 billion as of end-December 2010 to a still
comfortable 8.6 billion as of end-March 2011. A further drop in reserves occurred in April 2011, when a Euro-bond
repayment of €450 million was carried out as scheduled.

                                                            13
account and capital accounts are expected to recover starting in 2012 (see assumptions on exports,
tourism and FDI in paragraph 25 above). Notably the return to normal business activity combined with
an increase in external demand in 2012 is expected to contribute to a recovery in exports, particularly
tourism. In parallel, a return of investors’ confidence is expected to result in increased investment
leading to a decrease of the current account deficit to 4.0 percent in 2012 and 2.7 percent of GDP in
2013, and to be accompanied by a recovery in international reserves starting in 2013 (Table 4).
External Financing Needs
33.      External financing needs will increase substantially in 2011 but are expected to decrease
over the next few years. Reliance on official finance is also expected to decline, as Tunisia
returns to capital markets. External financing needs for 2011 were already fairly large due to the
scheduled repayment of two large debt maturities,18 and have increased further to approximately
US$5.5 billion (compared to a pre-revolution projection of US$4.2 billion), due mainly to a wider
current account deficit (as a result of the revolution and the war in Libya). Since the cost to access
capital markets has substantially increased in 2011 the authorities have decided to rely mainly on
external official financing and to draw down their international reserves (by approximately US$1.9
billion).19

Table 3. External Financing Needs in 2011 (in US$ millions)

                                                                    Pre-revolution        Updated 2011
                                                                   2011 projections        projections
   Current account deficit                                                    1,693                2,982
   External medium and long term debt amortization                            2,477                2,527
   Total requirements                                                        4,170                5,509
   Grants                                                                           97               101
                                  1
   FDI and portfolio investments                                                 1,726               834
   Public borrowing (MLT disbursement)                                           1,985             2,805
     Official creditors                                                          1,338             2,196
       Of which program support:
            IBRD                                                                  350               500
            ADB                                                                   250               500
            EU                                                                      30                65
            AFD                                                                   135               275
     Private creditors                                                             608               108
   Other capital inflows including short term lending                             (260)              370
   Total resources                                                              3,548             3,609
   Change in forex reserves                                              (622)                    (1,900)
   Total financing                                                     4,170                      5,509
   Note: 1. Includes net ouflows from disinvestment inTunisiana shares
   Sources: Tunisian Authorities, World Bank staff estimates

34.     Over the medium term the authorities expect to return to financial markets for an
increasing share of their financing needs. Until the arrival of the global financial crisis Tunisia was
borrowing significantly from international capital market for its financing needs, and the IFIs were
only providing a small level of support (as is usually the case in MICs). Tunisia is now turning to IFIs
to weather the economic shocks. In this context, IBRD financing will serve to leverage substantial

18
   A large government-issued Euro-bond of €450 million which has been effected in April 2011 and a ¥15 billion Samurai-
bond which is due in September 2011, jointly amounting to a total of approximately US$775 million.
19
   The authorities working to leverage additional external resources to finance the external needs in 2011, in which case the
drop in reserves could be smaller.

                                                             14
           additional official resources—official program financing in 2011 is expected to increase from US$850
           million prior to the revolution to US$1350 million after the revolution under the new Governance and
           Opportunity DPL, with most of the increase from AfDB (+$250m), IBRD (+$150m), and AFD
           (+$140m) (Table 3).20 External financing requirements are expected to decrease to US$4.4 billion in
           2012 and 3.5 billion in 2013, and the authorities expect to return to capital markets for part of their
           financing needs already in 2012 and 2013. Forex reserves are expected to remain stable in 2012 and
           increase by approximately US$ 0.7 billion in 2013 (Table 1 and Table 4).

           Table 4. External Financing Needs 2005-2013 (in US$ millions)
                                                           2005      2006      2007        2008      2009     2010     2011       2012    2013
Current Account deficit                                      299       619        917       1712      1234     2118     2982       2069    1521
                                                   1
External medium and long term debt amortization             1128      1580      1491        1053      1346     2383     2527       2302    2021
Total requirements                                         1427      2200      2408        2765      2580     4501     5509       4371    3543
Grants                                                       135       185        169        118       165       110     101        111     113
                                2
FDI and portfolio investments                                725      3305      1545        2562      1525     1417      834       1370    1545
Public borrowing                                            1256      1453      1615        1079      1543     1777     2805       2538    2185
   Of which:
       Official creditors                                    841       963      1103         831      1311     1667     2196       1789    1410
       Private (incl bonds)                                  414       320        324         78        52       109     108        749     776
Other capital flows n.i.e. (includes short term lending)     152        97        156        646      1021      -260     370        378     369
Total resources                                            2267      5039      3486        4406      4253     3043     3609       4396    4212
Change in forex reserves                                    -936     -2082       -689      -1667     -1673     1457     1900        -25    -670
Total financing                                            1331      2957      2797        2739      2580     4501     5509       4371    3543
Sources: Tunisian Authorities, World Bank staff estimates; (Projections for 2012 and 2013 by World Bank staff).
Notes: 1. The privatization of Tunisia Telecom in 2006 led to an exceptional capital inflow of approx USD2.3 billion.
2. A foreign disinvestment in the Tunisiana cellphone operator in 2011 led to an exceptional capital outflow of USD600 million.


           Debt Sustainability
           35.      Tunisia’s public debt had been declining in the past few years, as a result of a policy of
           fiscal consolidation. Public debt has been declining steadily from over 60 percent of GDP in 2000 to
           40 percent in 2010, of which almost 25 percent is foreign debt and the balance of 15 percent is
           domestic debt. The recent reduction in public debt has also brought down total external debt, which
           has decreased from above 60 percent of GDP in 2004 to 47 percent of GDP in 2010 (of which
           Medium and Long term debt was 37 percent of GDP in 2010). Despite remaining high compared to
           other emerging countries, the Debt Sustainability Analysis carried out in 2010 shows that Tunisia’s
           public debt remains sustainable under reasonable assumptions regarding future growth and real
           interest rates.21 While a more recent Debt Sustainability Analysis is not yet available the current
           increase in public debt appears to be a short term deviation from a medium term declining path and
           fiscal consolidation is expect to resume rapidly. This is reinforced by the expectation that growth and
           exports will resume and perhaps accelerate from 2012 onwards thanks to the structural reforms and
           improved economic governance.
           36.     Tunisia has scope to absorb the additional foreign debt without jeopardizing external
           sustainability; the composition of external debt also suggests fairly limited risks for debt
           sustainability. External debt is now expected to increase to 49 percent in 2011, before restarting its

           20
              Prior to the revolution the government was already expecting US$350 million in three DPLs from the Bank (in the pipeline
           for 2011) which had been included in the authorities’ 2011 macroeconomic framework. The AfDB and AFD expected to
           have their loans discussed at their respective Boards in late May 2011. The EU commission is expected to take a decision on
           the EU grant in July or August 2011.
           21
              IMF (2010) Tunisia Article IV, Annex 4 “External and Public Debt Sustainability Analysis”. This projection assumes a
           primary deficit of 0.9 percent of GDP over the period 2010–15, with the average nominal interest rate on public debt
           declining from 4.9 percent to 3.8 percent over the same period.

                                                                        15
downward trajectory and reach levels below 40 percent of GDP by 2016. Tunisia’s average interest
rate on new external debt is the lowest among ‘resource-poor’ middle income MENA since 2006 (in
2008, the average interest on new external debt was 2.5 percent for Tunisia). In fact 38 percent of
Tunisia’s external debt is owed to multilateral donors and 20 percent of the debt is ‘concessional’22.
The maturity structure is also favorable: 4 percent of the medium and long term external debt has a
maturity between 1 and 5 years, 26 percent between 5 and 10 years, 44 percent between 10 and 15
years and 18 percent between 15 and 20 years. Medium and long term external debt is mostly
contracted with a fixed interest rate (77 percent of external debt). Finally, the government has signed
with the World Bank a framework agreement that allows it to use interest rate swaps, including on
debt contracted from other creditors than the World Bank.
Overall Assessment of Macroeconomic Policy Stance
37.      In conclusion, while not as strong as it was only a few months ago, the macroeconomic
policy stance remains satisfactory and sustainable over the medium term. Over the past decade
Tunisia has shown consistent economic growth, arising from sound economic policies and steady
structural reforms. This good growth performance reflects the positive effects of macroeconomic
stability coupled with a gradual but steady opening to trade and foreign investment. Overall, Tunisia’s
macro-economic management has been consistently sound, the fiscal deficit contained, inflation
moderate and the external debt under control, despite the difficult international context (characterized
by the international economic and financial crisis) which has negatively affected the Tunisian exports.
This allowed the authorities to be able to react promptly to the recent events and to have a sufficient
fiscal space to limit and counteract the impact on the economy through a support package to assure a
fast recovery. While substantial risks remain to the macroeconomic outlook, the Tunisian authorities’
macroeconomic policy stance appears both sound and sustainable. The authorities remain vigilant and
stand ready to take further corrective action should it become necessary.


                               III.      THE GOVERNMENT’S PROGRAM

38.      The key mandate of the interim government is to enable a democratic transition and
create the conditions to hold the election of a Constituent Assembly. In this context, the main task
of the transitional government is the introduction of consensus political reforms to change the laws
governing public life, including the Press Code, the Electoral Code, the Law on the fight against
terrorism and the Parties Act in order to remove all anti-democratic laws and expand the guarantees of
freedom and pluralism.23 The elections are scheduled to take place on July 24, 2011, to elect a 260
member Constituent Assembly.24 The Assembly will have three roles: (i) to appoint a new President
and Prime Minister, who will then appoint a new government (which is expected to be in place by
September or October, since August is Ramadan); (ii) to act as a legislature; and (iii) to draft a new
constitution. The life of this Assembly will depend on how long the new constitution will take to put
in place, which is estimated to be anywhere between 6-18 months. Once a new Constitution has been
approved (possibly to be confirmed by a referendum) there will be a fresh set of presidential and
parliamentary elections.




22
   This refers to historical commitments.
23
   The events of the past few months signal a breakdown of the social contract prevalent in Tunisia, and indeed in the MENA
region. Political and economic power had been concentrated in the hands of a few. Governments offered energy and food
subsidies, government jobs, and some public goods and services. In return, citizens tolerated a system of autocracy that gave
them limited political voice and representation, and refrained from demanding real accountability and transparency. Events
are showing that citizens no longer tolerate the prevailing social contract, and are demanding greater political voice, social
and economic freedom and opportunities, and government accountability.
24
   There are some technical issues to resolve and it seems possible that the election date may have to be delayed.

                                                             16
 Box 2. Brief notes on the political process and reforms in Tunisia

 Following the revolution three commissions were created as a check and balance mechanism for the interim
 Government. The first is the commission on human rights. The second is the commission on governance.
 The third and most important is the High Authority to Safeguard the Revolution’s Results, Political Reforms,
 and Democratic Transition (henceforth referred to as the ‘High Authority’), which is tasked with the main
 political reforms and related laws, notably to prepare the elections. It was contested until recently due to its
 lack of representation from the regions, and from key groups such as youth. In order to broaden the
 consensus and legitimacy on these sensitive reforms, this initially technical commission has been transformed
 into a 165 member council, with regional representation and also representing all major political forces,
 unions and associations in the Country. In April the High Authority reached agreement on the decree-law for
 the creation of an independent electoral commission to supervise the elections, and also on the electoral code
 for the elections of the Constituent Assembly, and these laws have since been approved by the Council of
 Ministers. The electoral code provides for a party-list, near proportional representation system, with
 overrepresentation from underserved provinces. The system also provides for men and women to be equally
 represented on party-list, hence more-or-less in the final outcome.

39.      In addition to the political measures that the authorities are implementing (see Box 2),
the interim government has announced a Program of Social and Economic Measures to alleviate
social pressures and introduce a stimulus to the economy. The second priority for the interim
government is to boost economic growth and mitigate the negative impact of the revolution and the
Libyan crisis on unemployment, in order to ensure a smooth transition. In order to mitigate the
projected drop in economic growth (and related increase in unemployment), the government has
announced in early April a program of measures to give an immediate tangible response to the
economic and social situation “while not squandering the country’s future”. In signaling a break with
past practices, the authorities have emphasized that the implementation of all the measures will be
characterized by a strong effort in ensuring transparency and citizen participation. In addition to
guaranteeing security which seen as prerequisite for the development of all activities of individual and
firms, the program entails a total of 17 separate lines of intervention developed along four main axis:
     Unemployment: (i) In light of the high social tensions and the unemployment crisis in 2011,
         the interim government feels the need to accelerate the recruitment of 20,000 new civil
         servants.25 The government has stated clearly that they see private sector job creation as the
         only sustainable medium-term solution to address the high unemployment. However, given
         the exceptional circumstances which Tunisia is experiencing, the authorities feel there is a
         need to contribute to immediately mitigate the current unemployment crisis including by some
         additional public sector positions. The expansion in the civil service includes approx 14,000
         already planned hires that were approved in 2010 (but not yet hired), and 6,000 new positions
         (in total the civil service had 482,000 staff in 2010).26 This effort will be accompanied by a
         similar initiative by private sector to also create an additional 20,000 jobs. (ii) Program to
         support the unemployed covering a total of 200,000 youth, This includes a new program for
         graduate unemployed—the AMAL program—which provide a small monthly stipend of 200
         dinars and medical insurance, and train/coach 50,000 graduates unemployed (beneficiaries
         will be selected on the basis of the length of unemployment, the social conditions of their
         family, and the level of economic development in their region) and also a program for low-
         skilled unemployed (with secondary education or less) which will provide a token monthly

25
   These additional positions represent a fiscal cost to the budget estimated at 0.3 percent of GDP.
26
   The government has indicated that most of the new hires are for the health and education ministries and will enable greater
service provision in underserved regions, therefore contributing to address the spatial inequities in public services provision
highlighted by the January events. Also, it is expected that this will largely allow regularization of existing large numbers of
staff on short-term precarious contracts and therefore will not truly reflect an expansion in the already bulky civil services.
The authorities have also stressed that full transparency in the hiring process will be a key distinguishing feature of this
recruitment process (compared to the past). The government is working on a decree spelling out fast-track procedures and
selection criteria for the hiring process—they envisage a competitive selection based on technical criteria whereby each
Ministry will select a number of people who will then be trained and offered jobs—they plan to launch the process
(invitation to apply) in May and complete the selection process by July.

                                                              17
          allowance of 100 dinars and also targeted coaching training to improve their employability.
          (the details of the training/coaching component remain to be defined); (iii) Doubling of the
          amounts provided for public works programs in the regions.
         Stimulus to economic activity: (i) Support to businesses that suffered loss of activity and/or
          damage during the revolution;27 (ii) Restructuring of the microcredit and SME financing
          mechanisms; (iii) Fiscal and financial incentives to firms and investors to boost economic
          growth especially in disadvantaged regions; (iv) Accelerating public infrastructure investment
          projects needed to boost private investment; (v) Support pilot projects in the
          telecommunications sector.
         Regional Development: Provide an additional allocation to the provinces, with a focus on
          disadvantaged regions, to address the urgent needs which have been identified; dissolution of
          local councils and replacing them by special representations involving civil society and local
          competencies.
         Social protection programs: (i) The ongoing direct cash transfers program to poor families,
          (PAFN; with a stipend of TND190 quarterly granted to needy families, the disabled and
          elderly people unable to work) has been expanded to an extra 50,000 households (from
          135,000 households to 185,000 households; and now benefits 6 percent of families); (ii)
          Expansion of free medical insurance cards to poor people with limited income to non-
          affiliated social security system has been expanded to cover an additional 25,000 (to arrive at
          approximately 200,000 people; in addition, 557,600 people receive care at reduced rates; thus
          overall health care benefits reach approximately 25 percent of families); (iii) Provide
          microcredit or gifts to support home-improvements for 20,000 households; (iv) One-off lump
          sum transfer of TND 400 per person and TND 600 per family to the Tunisians coming back
          from Libya.
40.      In light of the high social pressure and expectations following the January revolution, the
measures envisaged by the government appear reasonable. While the expansion in the number of
civil servants will bring a structural increase in the wage bill, this decision is understandable given the
very difficult political and social situation the country is experiencing, and also mitigated by the fact
that the new positions are focused mainly on boosting public services in remote regions, which will
need to be addressed in any case. Other measures adopted by the government also appear to be
sensible and addressing longer term needs. Notably expanding health coverage in remote areas is a
priority; similarly providing unemployment support is necessary and the government is focusing on
strengthening coaching and retraining programs, which have proved effective elsewhere (and is
working with intensive technical assistance by the Bank in the design of the programs). The
government is also working to reorient and improve efficiency of public expenditures: for instance in
the health sector, instead of buying 15 new MRI scanners, they have redirected the money to expand
services in remote regions. Also, as part of this DPL program the government is reforming the
National Employment Fund (which represents 0.4 percent GDP) to use the money for the new
unemployment programs, and introducing a new M&E system.
41.     These measures will be pursued in the context of a sustainable macroeconomic
framework. As discussed in previous sections, the transition period will result in an increase in
budget deficit in 2011 (to 4.8 percent of GDP) and a reduction in forex reserves. However, these short

27
  This includes: (a) the payment of 50 percent employer compulsory social security contributions for wages paid to
employees affected by a reduction in working hours (of more than 8 hours reduction per week) due to reduced business of
the company; (b) 100 percent of legal contributions to the compulsory social security contributions for workers in ‘technical
unemployment’ (i.e. with hours of work reduced to zero), to encourage firms to retain them on the payroll; (c) delayed
payment of taxes for 2010 to September 25, 2011 (without penalties), with possible extension for companies which have
ceased activity to March 25, 2012; (d) amortization by the State of two percentage points on the rate of interest charged by
commercial banks for rescheduled credits and for credits related to investments to repair damages suffered during the crisis;
(e) extension to December 31, 2011, of the deadlines for the deduction of profits and revenues under the Investment
Incentives Code (regional development).

                                                             18
term adjustments do not jeopardize medium-term macroeconomic sustainability. The increase in
public expenditures in 2011 is required to mitigate social tensions and boost economic growth in order
to prevent a recurrence of social unrest in the run up to the elections (which could also jeopardize
future macroeconomic stability). The interim government has been clear it does not intend to adopt
measures which would leave the next government an unstable macroeconomic situation or to deviate
from a sustainable long term management of macroeconomic affairs.
42.      In addition, the interim government has also adopted a program of immediate economic
governance and social reforms which address the aspirations of the population as expressed in
the revolution. The interim government has indicated they won’t embark on a medium-term package
of reforms, but that they want to address the expectations of the population by implementing a
program of emblematic reforms (to be implemented before the elections). The authorities have decided
to prioritize a few emblematic measures which can signal “a clear break with the past”, with a view to
increase equity, transparency, voice and accountability. In addition they also want to adopt measures
to address the demand for greater socio-economic inclusion, notably in disadvantaged provinces, and
to improve access to economic opportunities. The program focuses on four key areas which lay the
building blocks to reestablish social peace and set the country on a faster development trajectory:
       Establish basic governance standards: notably related to greater participation, transparency,
        and accountability, notably to boost civil society participation, strengthen the operation of the
        rural councils, improve public access to information and statistics, simplify and increase
        transparency in public procurement, and start purging the administrative and regulatory
        environment faced by citizens and firms from cronyism and arbitrariness.
       Employment and addressing regional disparities: address the lack of job opportunities, by
        prioritizing a few complementary measures that can be introduced in the short-term to
        stimulate private labor demand while supporting the unemployed, particularly in outreach in
        underserved regions, emphasizing transparency and fairness in access to support programs.
       Strengthen the financial sector: address the widespread governance failures which have
        severely undermined banks’ performance and undermined the financial system ability to play
        its catalyst role and contribute to growth and job creation, including microfinance and other
        institutions to develop and support the creation of small and\or innovative firms.
       Address social disparities: by adopting a different approach to public services provision to
        increase transparency and inclusive policy making, notably by adopting social accountability
        mechanisms, and to ensure an equitable and transparent application of policies, and access to
        services, particularly though greater outreach in underserved regions.
43.     The reform program of the interim government is focused on ensuring a peaceful
transition and maintaining macroeconomic stability, to enable the next government to
successfully address the full aspirations of the Tunisian population. The program prepared by the
interim government reflects a balance between the demand for greater voice and improved
transparency and accountability of the government, and also measures to directly deal with the social
aspects of the transition, notably the high level of long term unemployment and better access to
services in remote regions. This will provide a strong platform for the transition to restart the Tunisian
economy. As this DPL supports this program of emblematic reforms, a detailed description is
provided below for each of the four pillars.


GOVERNANCE
44.    The transition government wants to give a comprehensive signal about a credible
governance reform agenda (as opposed to a few selected governance reform activities) prioritized
around three themes: (i) Participation measures that are geared towards a more open and inclusive
government which is probably the biggest challenge for the current administration; (ii) Transparency

                                                   19
measures which send a clear signal about a different way of managing and conducting government
business; (iii) Accountability measures which are geared towards improving particularly external
accountability and the results-focus of government activities. Below are the main measures which the
government is implementing:
      Reinforcing freedom of association: Facilitate the development of a strong and free civil
       society and enable citizens’ participation in and independent analysis of government’s
       activities. Freedom of association was severely hampered by a restrictive legal framework
       and discretionary and arbitrary decisions under the previous administration. The result has
       been that civil society has not developed and plays only a minor role in the economic and
       social development process in Tunisia. Hence the interim government intends to prepare an
       amendment to the law on associations to rapidly remove all the major legal obstacles. In
       addition to the governance rationale for this measure, opening up to civil society and
       independent analysis of public policy is highly conducive to creating a vibrant and innovative
       economy.
      Granting the public access to information and statistics: Open up access to information
       and statistics to the public to improve the accountability of government, as well as to
       improve the formulation and implementation of economic and social policies and of
       private investment decisions. Access to information, including economic and social
       statistics, was particularly constrained and controlled under the previous regime as the regime
       built its image and ‘legitimacy’ on the country’s image of good economic and social
       performance. This approach was backed up by a fairly comprehensive legal framework which
       supported secrecy in most areas of public activity. The limited accountability and resulting
       information asymmetry weighed negatively on the formulation and implementation of
       economic and social policies as well as on private investment. In order to address this failure,
       the interim government plans to adopt a law-decree concerning a pro-active public disclosure
       policy by the government, together with the publication of economic data, statistics and
       reports. The law-decree will commit the government to the main principles behind the right to
       information and will put in place practical rules for opening up government on a short-term
       basis, until such time as a democratically elected government might wish to adopt a fully-
       fledged law in this area.
      Broaden Internet access and strengthen the ICT sector in Tunisia. Access to the internet
       was severely restricted in Tunisia prior to the January 2011 revolution. According to the
       government, all content restrictions and controls have now been removed. This was an
       important step, to increase freedom of information in Tunisia. The removal of all internet
       restrictions will also strengthen the local ICT industry, and allow for better use of ICT to
       increase social accountability of government programs. In addition to this step, the
       government is also in the process of taking important steps to further liberalize and strengthen
       the telecommunication infrastructure. Moreover, the government has decided to liberalize the
       Internet domain name ".tn", previously administered by ATI according to strict regulations
       that were constraining the private sector in their choice of the ".tn" domain name. The
       government plans to introduce a new “Domain Name Charter”, under which all a priori
       controls on the registering of websites are eliminated. Previously, the registration of a domain
       name was a cumbersome procedure, and included the a priori control on the basis of two lists
       of domain names (the “Forbidden Names” list and the “Reserved Names” list). Now the a
       priori control is eliminated and substituted with a posteriori control. In addition, the range of
       subjects that can be a registrar of domain names has been extended. Presently, only domestic
       ISPs can commercialize the ".tn" domain name, but this opportunity will now be offered to all
       hosting companies complying with a certain number of technical criteria. There are also plans
       to commercialize the ".tn" at the international level, consistent with common international
       practice. The government also plans to subsidize hosting by NGOs for one year. As a result of
       this initiative, the government expects an increase in the number of internet hosts from 8,000

                                                 20
    to 80,000 by end-2011. In addition, the government has plans to use ICT to increase the
    social accountability of government service delivery. The government intends to initiate a
    national program to change all government websites to make them technically compatible with
    Web 2.0 (social network) tools. This will enable citizen feedback loops using social media. In
    addition, the government intends to create technical teams in each ministry in order to handle
    complaints and citizen feedback provided by social media. This important reform will also be
    undertaken by outsourcing web management functions to competent local SMEs in the ICT
    sector, generating noteworthy business opportunities for the private sector. These reforms are
    placed within a broader policy framework, formulated by the interim government, which is
    centered on the following priorities: (a) Accelerate the deployment of Ultra-Fast Broadband
    (UFB), expand third generation (3G) wireless networks and develop technology parks; (b)
    Strengthen the competences of ICT sector firms, through dedicated training and capacity
    building activities; (c) Strengthen the access to and use of ICT, through the development of
    access centers, and the stimulation of ICT services demand from the central government; (d)
    Support to the creation and development of local digital content, in order to increase the
    number of ICT-enabled jobs among youth; (e) Strengthen innovation and facilitate
    technology transfer in ICT and (f) Strengthen the regulatory institutions and increase
    competition in the telecommunications sector.
   Reinforcing, simplifying and increasing transparency in public procurement: The
    Tunisian procurement system is considered as too bureaucratic and unnecessarily procedural,
    lacking transparency and accountability, and is characterized by an excessive prior review.
    There seems to be a consensus within the government that the procurement framework is
    compromising the effectiveness and efficiency of public expenditures. In addition, the
    procurement system has failed to prevent political interference and high level corruption.
    Hence the interim government intends to revise the existing decree on public procurement
    procedures to reduce the procurement processing time while ensuring transparency and
    regularity of the procedures. In parallel, the government intends to launch a review of the
    procurement system using the OECD/DAC methodology, to inform a future more
    comprehensive reform of the system which will modernize the institutional structure and the
    proceedings related to public procurement.
   Removing red-tape and reducing room for discretion in the application of rules for firms
    and citizens: For over a decade, Tunisia has implemented a significant number of reforms to
    simplify administrative burdens. Yet, the impact and credibility of these reforms suffered from
    the unequal and discretionary application of rules, leading to cronyism and privileges both in
    the economic and administrative spheres. As a consequence, many economic activities remain
    over-regulated or subject to unnecessary technical specifications that are prone to abuse and
    discretion. The government therefore wants to try a new approach to administrative reform
    and initiate a systemic, participatory, measurable and visible process of revision of regulations
    and administrative procedures for businesses and citizens in order to simplify procedures and
    limit the discretion in applying the rules. Initially, a first round of reform may focus on a
    limited number of priority sectors, possibly including: customs and the tax authority at the
    Ministry of Finance, as well as the Ministry of Trade and Tourism.
   Strengthening external accountability and controls, starting with reinforcing the
    external audit function: While the competence and the quality of the Court of Accounts
    (Court des Comptes), which is Tunisia’s Supreme Audit Institution (SAI), is widely
    recognized, its independence is undermined by a weak legal framework which allows
    interference from the High Committee for financial and administrative controls reporting
    directly to the president, does not provide for the automatic publication of the SAI’s annual
    reports, and does not envisage a formal review process by Parliament. These weaknesses
    exposed it to political interference by the former regime and affected its credibility. The
    interim government is aware of these shortcomings and agrees to the urgent need to address

                                              21
         these issues in line with international standards, in order to improve the overall accountability
         in the government. To start the process of reform the authorities intend to authorize the online
         publication of all annual reports of the Court of Accounts.28


EMPLOYMENT AND ADDRESSING REGIONAL DISPARITIES
45.      Tackling the unemployment challenge requires a mix of short-term and long-term
interventions to mitigate the immediate effects of high unemployment while setting the basis for
sustained growth and job creation.29 The January revolution calls for a concerted, visible, and
credible effort by the interim government to take immediate actions to start addressing the social
frustration with the lack of job opportunities, particularly outside of the main industrialized areas. It
also requires a new commitment to the issues of transparency and fairness in the reform process for
growth and sustained job creation. A broad-based and inclusive consultative process—including with
youth stakeholders—must underpin reforms.
46.      Measures to tackle fundamental bottlenecks in the economy may take longer to
design/implement and to achieve the desired outcomes. Notably challenging reforms are needed to:
(i) remove obstacles to private sector led investment and growth that creates jobs; (ii) reduce
distortions from excessively restrictive labor laws and high labor taxes; (iii) reform the education
sector to give the labor force skills that match the market. The interim government, however, does not
have the required political mandate to tackle these far reaching and deeply political reforms. Within
the scope of its mandate it intends to launch a pilot to explore whether an alternative incentive package
can help generate private sector employment, to inform future reforms by an elected government.
47.     Short term measures should aim to increase confidence and investment, and send strong
signals to investors that the rules of the game are changing. In this context, the government has
already confirmed its commitment to sustainable fiscal policies and macroeconomic stability. It is also
launching an effort to improve transparency and reduce room for discretion in the regulations
governing the private sector (and improving transparency and efficiency in license approvals, e-
                                            30
monitoring/disclosure of processing times). These commitments should help to restore private sector
confidence, minimize job losses, and increase investment over the medium-term. In addition, there is
an urgent need for short-term employment creation programs. Building on international experience the
government actions are focused on publicly-financed short-term job creation programs, notably labor-
intensive public works which can support large numbers in the short-term, and public private
partnerships to sustain inclusiveness, which could service programs for skilled youth. Government is
also trying to expand and protect job opportunities in the private sector through support to self-
employment and micro-entrepreneurship through training, mentoring, micro franchising, and
microfinance.
        Reform the National Employment Fund. The National Fund for Employment (Fund 21/21)
         is one of the main instruments that the previous government put in place to address
         unemployment and regional development. Placed at the discretion of the President, its
         resources are significant (in the order of 0.42 percent of GDP in 2010) and could have a strong
         impact if used efficiently. However, the fund operates in a very centralized manner and was
         widely used as a source of presidential patronage under the previous regime. Hence, the

28
   In the medium term, the Court of Accounts of Tunisia, in consultation with counterparts of INTOSAI / ARABOSAI, will
engage a deeper reform of the external control system, in particular to (i) redefine the terms of autonomy and independence
of the Court and its members; (ii) revise the procedures for appointing members with greater transparency and increased
competition; and (iii) improve the coverage, the annual program of audits and review of annual financial reports of the State
and its various divisions.
29
   The government has been clear to avoid fuelling expectations in the population that short-term measures will have a
significant, quick effect on employment outcomes.
30
   World Bank (2009) “MENA: Private Sector from Privileges to Competition”. This highlights issues of governance as one
of the main constraints to private-sector growth.

                                                            22
          interim government is keen to transform the National Fund for Employment, into an effective
          instrument to assist the unemployed based on international best practice. To begin to reform
          the fund, the interim government wants to: (i) transfer the Fund 21/21 to the Ministry of
          Employment and Vocational Training, with a view to improve its management; (ii) launch a
          financial, institutional and performance audit of the Fund, which would inform its future
          restructuring; and, (iii) set up a monitoring and evaluation system for the programs financed
          by the fund.
         Establish a new program to support the graduate unemployed: Among its first measures
          after taking office, Tunisia's interim government launched in February 2011 a new program to
          support the unemployed, especially graduate long-term unemployed, and facilitate their
          transition into permanent employment. The AMAL program (which means ‘hope’ in Arabic)
          aims to provide a comprehensive package of employment services, including the introduction
          of a coaching module (which has been virtually absent from existing programs), a stronger
          emphasis on vocational training, and promotion of entrepreneurship. The program seeks to
          revamp the apprenticeship program (Stage d’Initiation a la Vie Professionnelle, SIVP), by
          introducing additional design features such as a basic training package for all beneficiaries,
          promotion of entrepreneurship, training and retraining (hard and soft skills), and a coaching
          module that will provide program participants with personalized employment assistance
          according to their profile and the existing demands and opportunities in the labor market.
         Strengthen programs to support the low-skilled unemployed: The government plans to
          enhance its support for low-skilled unemployed from disadvantaged areas by expanding
          public works programs and combining them with certification, training and job search
          counseling. To improve the employability long-term low-skilled unemployed and their
          prospects for re-integration into the labor market the participation in public works will be
          complemented with additional employment services such as certification and entrepreneurship
          coaching and will encourage non-governmental participation in the selection and
          implementation of projects.
         Reaching out to provinces and local authorities: Establish procedures for emergency
          transfers to the governorates using a set of criteria to rectify the regional socio-economic
          disparity, accompanied by an institutional mechanism of public participation in the
          management and monitoring of local activities. The revolution was initially sparked by
          social discontent in the interior regions of the country who have suffered from the regional
          disparity in relation to the coastal region. While local authorities should normally play an
          important role in the implementation of such short-term mitigation measures, at present they
          are not operational due to the lack of political legitimacy of local councils (201 councils out of
          264 are not operational) and also because of the lack of resources. Hence the government is
          establishing procedures for emergency transfers to the governorates, notably by adopting a
          special appropriation to fund their operating budgets and addressing the most urgent needs at
          the decentralized level.31 The government is also moving to clarify, in consultation with civil
          society, the procedures and criteria for the eligibility and appointment of special delegates
          who will replace municipal councils and rural councils. The criteria should allow for strong
          representation of women and youth. In addition to these short term emergency fixes, there is a
          need to put in place a framework for decentralization. This is a long-term endeavor which the
          interim government expects to set in motion during its mandate, also with technical assistance
          by the World Bank, but which will need to be pursued and finalized by the next elected
          government.


31
   A formula for provincial allocations is under consideration jointly between the Ministry of Regional Development, the
Ministry of Interior, and the Ministry of Finance, which aims to rectify the regional disparity in socio-economic indicators. It
will also be important to establish a participatory and transparent, monitoring and evaluation system of expenditures and
measures taken by local authorities (municipalities and governorates).

                                                              23
         Reform of the National Solidarity Fund (26/26). The Fund 26/26 was introduced in 1982
          with the purpose to support the remote and underserved areas of Tunisia. However, the fund
          has been politicized and has not been managed in a transparent manner. The criteria for
          allocating resources have not been clearly defined and no impact assessment has ever been
          conducted. Following the revolution in January 2011, the fund's operation has been
          suspended, and the interim government intends to launch a financial and technical audit of the
          fund 26/26 to assess its operation, evaluate its impact, and inform a future decision on how to
          restructure it, if appropriate with eligibility criteria and transparent and effective operating
          rules, or whether to abolish it altogether.


FINANCIAL SECTOR
48.      The capacity of Tunisia’s financial sector to contribute to growth and job creation has
been undermined by weak governance and constraints to the development of adequate
instruments and institutions. Poor banking sector intermediation capacity and performance has been
closely linked to widespread governance failures in the banking sector.32 Bad corporate governance
practices have undermined banks’ performance, and facilitated substantial lending to the first family
and connected interest. As a result, burdened with structural low profitability and high NPLs ratios, the
banking system is unlikely to play its catalyst role. Further, in the coming months the banking
system’s liquidity could reach a critical point because of increasing arrears in loan service due to the
economic downturn. Given banks’ present undercapitalization, there is a need to start reevaluating the
various operational and financial responses to risk accumulation. Micro-finance has a very large job
creation potential33 and could potentially expand rapidly but the sector urgently needs a legal and
regulatory framework aiming at setting up a competitive environment and ensuring sound and
sustainable development. The stock markets and alternative sources of external funding (namely
venture capital, leasing and factoring) remain shallow. Various institutional and demand constraints
limit Tunisian firms access to primary and alternative stock markets. In the short and medium term,
the Central Bank of Tunisia and the government intend to focus their efforts on: (i) ensuring financial
sector stability during the transition; (ii) improving banks’ governance; and (iii) improving access to
finance. To contribute to these high level objectives, the Tunisian authorities have set out an ambitious
work program over the next few months.
         The authorities are taking action to ensure and enhance financial stability during the
          transition. When the events started to unfold in January, the biggest challenge for the Central
          Bank was to ensure that the payment system kept working and that the banking system stays
          functioning, and they successfully avoided a run on banks. As the economic situation has
          been unfolding, the focus has shifted to ensuring that the health of the banking sector is
          adequate to withstand what is likely to be a difficult economic year, notably for the tourism
          sector. In order to monitor the health of the different banks, the authorities have started to
          conduct comprehensive assessment of banks’ portfolios and stress tests, with technical
          assistance from the Bank and the Fund. This assessment would help assess (i) the capacity of


32
   In February 2011, the new governor of the Central Bank started the reform process by changing the Board of Directors of
the Central Bank to ensure greater independence and competencies.
33
   There are two distribution networks of micro-finance loans in Tunisia: Banque Tunisienne de Solidarité (BTS, a state
owned bank), and ENDA (a non-governmental organization). Although both networks have expanded their activity very
rapidly over the last three years and together cater roughly 400,000 active clients, the market is far from being saturated: a
recent study carried out by the EU estimates that the number of potential micro-credit clients in Tunisia is approximately 1.5
million (over three times the number of current customers of BTS and ENDA). According to ENDA, 1 stable job is
generated for every 8 micro-enterprises, over and above the micro-entrepreneur and occasional work for family members.
Out of its 160,000 active borrowers, ENDA’s loans are generating 20,000 stable jobs. Based on the study’s projections,
micro-credit may generate 187,000 new jobs within the next five years. This figure deserves to be further refined since we
are assuming that the potential market is fully served by MFIs and that the ratio of 1 job created for 8 active clients is the
same at BTS.

                                                             24
        the Tunisian banks to absorb the current shock, (ii) the potential immediate needs for a fresh
        injection of capital and, in fine, (iii) maintain public’s confidence. In addition, the authorities
        are working to strengthen the capacity of systemic risk analysis of the Financial Stability
        Department of the Central Bank of Tunisia; this reinforcement would result in broadening the
        skills of human resources available as well as the use of statistics to produce on a regular basis
        a greater variety of stress tests and stress scenario.
       Strengthening the corporate governance of banks, private and public. On paper, the
        Tunisian banking sector has made significant progress in updating its legal and regulatory
        framework but implementation has been uneven and superficial and has only led to partial
        change in bank behavior. In particular, deficiencies are found at three levels: (i) the
        composition of boards of directors; (ii) the control structures; and, (iii) information to the
        public. It follows that the overall level of transparency of the banking sector is weak, which
        affects the confidence of stakeholders. In this context, the Governor of the Central Bank is
        planning to adopt a circular on good corporate governance for banks based on international
        best practice, and also to introduce criteria for the selection of key executives, directors and
        controlling shareholders in banks.
       Revise the legal framework for microfinance. The government intends to establish a sound
        regulatory and institutional environment to ensure the successful and sustainable development
        of the industry. The government believes that micro-finance has the potential to contribute to
        the success of the transition and to become an engine of job creation in Tunisia. At present,
        however, there are only two micro-finance providers in Tunisia: ENDA, a non-governmental
        organization, and the Banque Tunisienne de Solidarité (BTS), a State owned bank which has
        been saddled with the same problems of patronage as other State owned banks.
       The interim government intends to adopt new legislation to boost the venture capital
        industry. In collaboration with the profession (ATIC and management companies and
        SICAR), the interim government intends to adopt new legislation to boost the venture capital
        industry in Tunisia in all its segments (early stage, development, transfer, reversal), in order to
        broaden its scope of activity, reduce taxation, and extend the time horizon for the investments.
        The combination of these three key steps should help establish a true venture capital industry
        and attract the long-term savings needed for it to take off.


SOCIAL SERVICES POLICIES
49.      The January revolution has highlighted the urgent need to address social disparities.
Just as important to broaden social and economic inclusion, there is a need to adopt a different
approach to public services provision to increase transparency and inclusive policy making—citizen
participation, including from women, youth, minorities—and to ensure an equitable and transparent
application of policies, and access to services. Hence there is a consensus on the importance of
promoting the quality of public services particularly in underserved regions to the west and to develop
local civil society and government planning, management and evaluation capacities. In the short-term
the interim government intends to take action to expand social accountability and citizen participation
and outreach in service delivery, which would be followed-up by longer-term strategic policy
packages addressing structural policies in terms of financing and organization of social services.
       Adopt mechanisms for greater participation by citizens in evaluating performance of
        public services. Civil society participation in public service planning, delivery and evaluation
        is low in Tunisia due to a relatively inhibiting environment. There has also generally been a
        weak consultation process and very little involvement of local communities and CSOs in
        policy and program formulation and implementation. The interim government recognizes the
        importance of strengthening citizen and CSO involvement in the democratic transition and
        enabling them to speak out in the community interest. Hence, the government wants to

                                                   25
         establish a mechanism for monitoring by independent committees representative of the
         citizens for evaluating performance of public services (health, education, welfare,
         administration).
        Enhancing social services delivery in underserved regions. The high maternal mortality
         ratio (MMR) in the underserved, western regions of Tunisia has been associated with the
         dearth of obstetricians and a poor use of prenatal health services. The interim government has
         increased the total budget for 13 underserved governorates by 14 percent above original 2011
         budget allocations to cover infrastructure needs. Outreach services have proven effective at
         increasing access, where well-managed.34 With this aim, the interim government plans to
         create a national outreach services policy to expand free access to care in underserved regions
         for health services provided outside of traditional fixed facilities, whether mobile health
         teams, educational services, or rotating practices for health care workers between fixed health
         facilities and outposts such as schools, community and municipal centers and homes.
        Improving the medicines supply chain to increase the coverage of subsidized
         medications. Drug expenditures in Tunisia account for a third of operating expenses of
         institutions excluding-staff, or 15 percent of total expenditure, which is average by
         international standards. Yet medications for outpatient visits tend to be available on average
         only 60 percent of the time in public hospitals (as of 2008). The low availability is associated
         with both a relatively low level of public expenditure and a high degree of corruption. While
         hospital staff accounts for 5 percent of health facility users, they are estimated to account for
         25 percent of medications usage, suggesting a misappropriation of health care resources by
         personnel. As a result, households tend to purchase medications in the private sector, which
         accounts for half of household expenditure on health care. The lack of public medicines
         represents a tangible reflection of the poor quality of public services, particularly in western,
         poorer regions. To enhance the availability of essential drugs in public health facilities,
         building on the positive results of a recent pilot, the interim government intends to institute a
         medications audit policy within performance-based budget contracts to monitor medications
         use for greater transparency and accountability.35 In the medium-long term, it will be
         necessary to strengthen governance and expand health insurance coverage to strategic
         purchasing policy, integrating public and private providers.
        Adopt clearer and transparent eligibility criteria for welfare programs. In April 2011 the
         government decided to expand the coverage of welfare programs (free health coverage to poor
         people by an additional 25,000 households; and the direct cash transfer programs for needy
         families (PAFN) by an extra 50,000 household— see paragraph 39). While the Ministry of
         Health and the Ministry of Social Affairs already use categorical targeting to select
         beneficiaries for these programs, the government departments in charge of promotion and
         welfare believe that the eligibility criteria and targeting can be improved. In this context, the
         government plans to adopt a circular spelling out the criteria and ensuring its wide
         dissemination to the public to increase transparency in access to these programs and improve

34
   In recent years, the Ministry of Health put in place financial incentives and mandatory practice schemes for providers in
underserved regions. However, providers have so far remained reluctant to move to underserved regions. A meta-analysis of
73 studies from 10 countries, including countries where regional disparities have been observed such as the United Kingdom,
the United States, Canada, Australia, Ecuador, Kenya and South Africa, showed that the effect of specialist outreach in
collaboration with primary care, education or other services has been associated with improved health outcomes, more
efficient service delivery, and less use of inpatient services (Gruen et al, 2004).
35
   The Ministry of Health recently introduced a pilot audit policy for prescription drugs at Habib Thamer Hospital, which
was associated with an improvement in medications availability. This approach is consistent with experiences from other
countries which show that the appropriate use of medications is best achieved through both soft (guidelines and monitoring)
and hard measures (financial incentives or sanctioning the misuse of medications) (Seiter, 2010). Corruption in the
pharmaceutical sector has been addressed through measures to introduce transparency through better monitoring of
prescribing practices in countries such as Mozambique and Cape Verde (Ferrinho et al, 2004), Costa Rica (2002), the United
Kingdom, China and the United States (Seiter, 2010).

                                                            26
         their coverage. Similarly, the government intends to introduce a new monitoring-evaluation
         mechanism to measure their impact and ensure greater efficiency.


             IV.      BANK SUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT’S PROGRAM

LINK TO THE COUNTRY PARTNERSHIP STRATEGY
50.      The Bank’s program in Tunisia set out in the Country Partnership Strategy FY10-13
will be formally revised following the election of a new government.36 The CPS envisages three
strategic pillars: (i) employment, growth and competitiveness; (ii) sustainable development and
climate change; and (iii) improving the quality of service delivery. While the core of the CPS remains
valid to address the structural problems facing Tunisia, the Bank recognizes that many of the elements
of the 2009 CPS, which was prepared with the pre-revolution government, are no longer relevant. At
present, however, the situation is still too fluid for the Bank to lay out a new strategy, particularly
given the short-term horizon of this interim government. A new CPS will likely be prepared only after
a new elected government under a new constitution is in place.
51.      In the short term the Bank is adopting a flexible approach suited to the social and
economic challenges of Tunisia. The interim government has asked the Bank for support in four
areas. The first was governance to show that the interim government was already doing things
differently. The second was employment and addressing regional disparities, to address one of the
root causes of widespread social discontent. The third was on the financial sector to ensure its stability
and accessibility for economic actors. The fourth was for the social sectors, including health and an
overall improvement of social services also with a regional focus. These four areas constitute the core
and rationale of the Bank’s interim engagement approach.
52.    During this transition period there are important needs and opportunities which the
Bank plans to address through a five-fold set of interventions:
        The first is the development of this proposed multi-sector DPL for an amount of US$ 250
         million and Euro 168.3 million that supports the adoption of emblematic measures that
         address some of the demands expressed by the population in the revolution and show that the
         government has made fundamental changes compared to the previous orientations and
         approach. In addition, the measures in the DPL aim to lay the foundations to consolidate such
         changes during the interim period with a view to make them ‘irreversible’ for the future.
        A second area is an investment loan under the Arab World Initiative (AWI) Micro and Small
         and Medium Enterprises (MSME) Lending Facility targeting MSME finance, which is under
         preparation in partnership with the African Development Bank. The targeted amount of this
         loan would be around US$50 million.
        The third area of Bank response will be the fast tracking implementation of two recently
         approved community development projects (approximately US$125 million) to ensure that job
         creation activities and related programs are put in place in the country’s poorer regions.
        The fourth area of Bank response will be the piloting of innovative programs in the areas of
         youth, employment, local development and employment and support to the Tunisian workers
         returning from Libya. A proposal was recently prepared for JSDF financing for employment
         generation activities through a community based local development program totaling US$3
         million. In addition, a US$3.8 million grant proposal was submitted for review to the State
         and Peacebuilding Fund (SPF) to supports community building and the reintegration of


36
  The CPS was approved by the Board of Executive Directors in December 2009. IBRD (2009). Country Partnership
Strategy for the Republic of Tunisia for the Period FY10-13. Report No. 50223 –TUN.

                                                        27
            displaced persons from Libya in underserved regions.37 A JSDF program to put in place
            innovative youth programs is currently being implemented.
           Finally, the Bank is providing substantial technical assistance mainly focusing on the
            measures being implemented under this proposed DPL operation, and a few other strategic
            tasks to prepare the ground for reforms by the next government (such as: preparing a
            decentralization strategy; design and implement a pilot of incentives package for employment
            generation; modeling the poverty and social impacts of shocks; assistance with setting up of a
            fund to manage the assets already recovered from the family of the ex-president; Reserves and
            Assets Management capacity development for the Central Bank (RAMP program); improving
            the legal and operational framework for the sound development of micro-finance and SME
            finance).
53.      The Bank supports the strategy of the interim government to jump-start the economy
using external official financing to ensure that it does not fall into recession, and its aim /
objective to return to the capital markets for future financing needs as the situation improves. In
parallel the interim government wants to mark a clear break with the past in terms of voice,
transparency, accountability and inclusion. Bank support focuses on laying the ground for
strengthening governance and promoting employment, particularly in regions previously neglected.
The single-tranche US$ 250,000,000 and EUR 168,300,000 DPL will leverage about US$850 million
in other donor resources, to help signal confidence in Tunisia and to get the country back on its feet.
The government is clear that up-front support will impact IBRD exposure going forward.
Nevertheless given timing constraints linked to the formation of the next government (to be nominated
by the Constituent Assembly), and the urgent large funding requirements for the fiscal stimulus and
debt servicing in their fiscal year (CY11), they have requested a single tranche DPL. Looking ahead
to FY12 the Bank will continue support to Tunisia in restoring confidence and implementing medium-
term measures for economic reform. The goal is to help government return to market for future
financing needs, which are expected to decline substantially in 2012 and 2013 (see Table 4), along
with selective investment lending opportunities. Further reforms are likely to include measures to
bolster competitiveness, promotion of exports, strengthen further the transparent and effective delivery
of public services and support the decentralization process and employment-creation agenda.
Instruments could include an operation to support the government in its return to market, along with
investment lending focusing on export development, vocational training and employment programs.
In FY 13, the Bank will continue the path of supporting government develop a competitive and open
economy, accenting emphasis on inclusive growth (lagging regions and vulnerable). Particular support
will be paid to further integration with EU and MENA. By this time Bank support is expected to be
entirely in investment lending focused on delivering knowledge in the strategic areas outlined above.
COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF AND OTHER DONORS
54.      The Bank has excellent collaboration with the European Union (EU), the African
Development Bank (AfDB), and the French Development Agency (AFD), all of which have a
strong local presence in Tunisia. Relations with the IMF are also very close. The IMF has no
local office in Tunis and Tunisia has no formal program with the Fund, though relations are good. The
Fund undertakes one Article IV mission a year and has technically assisted the Central Bank on
monetary policy issues. The government has not requested a Fund program at this stage. However the
authorities invited the IMF for a technical mission to Tunisia in March 2011 to examine possible
macroeconomic scenarios following the January revolution, and also to begin to assess the stability of
the financial sector. In this context, the IMF supports the government choice of accommodative fiscal
and monetary policies in 2011 which are needed to mitigate the social tensions in the run up to the
elections and boost economic growth and employment. The Fund team also underlines the uncertainty
regarding the short-term economic outlook, mainly related to the outcome of the tourism summer
season and developments with the war in Libya. In particular, it was considered that: (i) the fiscal

37
     About 40,000 Tunisians are estimated to have returned from Libya as a result of the current crisis.

                                                                28
stance in 2011 strikes the right balance between supporting growth without undermining the longer
term fiscal sustainability (and without squandering the significant gains achieved in bringing public
debt down in recent years); and (ii) accommodating monetary and exchange rate policies are
appropriate to support the economic recovery and ensure that adequate liquidity continues to be
present in the banking system. The Bank has discussed with the IMF the content of the Governance
and Opportunity DPL program since its inception.
55.     The proposed DPL has been jointly prepared by the World Bank, the African
Development Bank, the European Union, and the French Development Agency (AFD). The
missions were conducted in coordination with JICA and UNDP, who are considering additional
financial and/or technical assistance. The DPL builds on the successful experience of the Integration
and Competitiveness (ICL) DPL, which was prepared jointly by the World Bank, the AfDB and the
EU in 2009, and its formulation allowed these institutions to deepen the policy dialogue with the
government on key economic issues.
LESSONS LEARNED
56.     Lessons learned from implementing development policy loans in Tunisia and elsewhere
show that country ownership of the proposed policies and actions is essential for success. This
program therefore supports closely the program of the interim government, and is closely aligned to
the expectations of the population, as expressed by the January 2011 revolution.
57.    Other lessons learned from implementing development policy loans in Tunisia and
elsewhere also show:
       The vital role of voice and social accountability mechanisms. In Tunisia, a yawning gap had
        emerged between de jure changes to policies and programs (some of them supported by
        previous DPLs) and de facto reality of their implementation. In the absence of feedback from
        society, it is in that gap that cronyism and corruption flourished (this is also a main theme of
        the 2009 World Bank report “From Privilege to Competition: Unlocking Private-Led Growth
        in the Middle East and North Africa”). More than on formal changes per se, this proposed
        DPL focuses therefore on establishing the social accountability framework that will allow for
        better development policies on the ground in the future.
       The limits of gradualism. Previous reform efforts have often focused on bringing gradual
        change where opportunities arose (e.g., in creating, then expanding the off-shore sector), on
        the assumption (untested in the absence of feedback mechanisms, see above) that society was
        only prepared for incremental moves. As it turned out, the January 2011 revolution
        demonstrated that the said society was actually hungering for quantum change.
       The importance of safeguarding banking stability in the transition. Experience from many
        other countries undergoing transition (e.g., Philippines, Indonesia, former Soviet Union,
        Eastern Europe) suggests that much of the legacy of the past may end up coalescing around
        bank portfolios. Preventing the related threats from becoming systemic is essential to securing
        the transition.
58.     The previous DPLs in Tunisia also highlighted the substantial benefits of preparing a
joint budget support program with the other development partners, which resulted in greater
commitment by the government to identify a strong program, more synergies between the budget
support program and the technical assistance and analytical activities carried out by the various donor
agencies, as well as reduced transaction costs for the government and better overall donor
coordination.
ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS
59.    The proposed reforms program build on existing analytical studies and rapid assessment
missions recently completed as well as on projects that were under preparation in Tunisia. A


                                                  29
summary of relevant analytical studies and Technical Assistance reports is presented in Table 5. The
main lessons from this work which are relevant for this operation are summarized below:
      Governance: The sensitive topic of governance has been addressed by past analytical reports
       from a technical angle, in the context of improving the business environment, implementing
       trade reforms or strengthening public finance management. This seemed the most suitable
       approach given that the government refused to engage on more sensitive issues. For instance,
       the 2005 Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) which presents a candid
       assessment of the weaknesses of the procurement system was neither acknowledged nor
       published. Most of the analysis contained in the CPAR is still valid in the context of this
       operation. The technical analytical work which informed the recently implemented reforms
       improving economic and trade integration, as well as the business environment, also presented
       the case on the positive impact of improved economic governance. However, these efforts and
       results remained largely constrained by several factors beyond pure economic reasoning.
       These constraints have been analyzed in other studies and reports, which constitute a solid
       analytical background for this operation. For instance, the World Bank 2009 report “From
       Privilege to Competition: Unlocking Private-Led Growth in the Middle East and North
       Africa” analyses the factors leading to the lackluster response of the private sector to
       institutional reforms undertaken by governments in the region, including Tunisia. The main
       challenge identified lies in the capacity of governments to implement policies that give clear
       signals to investors and strengthens their credibility as they work to level the playing field for
       all investors. Strengthening and sustaining growth will depend on the capacity to reduce the
       unequal and discretionary ways of implementing policies. More recently, the 2010
       Development Policy Review (DPR) for Tunisia provides a detailed discussion of the relevance
       of improving the quality of services to firms and citizens, introducing a framework for
       Monitoring and Evaluation in order to improve accountability and boost competitiveness. It
       also contains an in depth analysis of the role of the state which has not been acknowledged by
       the government but is a solid analytical background to this operation. The messages of past
       analysis are all consistent with the recommendations of a recent governance mission
       (Governance Assessment Mission Report, February 2011), which stressed the importance of
       strengthening government accountability and transparency as the paramount objective in the
       short and medium term. The main findings and recommendations of this mission, which
       have been presented in an internal Policy Note, have informed the design of the measures
       proposed in this DPL. Finally, the 2010 Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability
       (PEFA) identified transparency and accountability shortcomings, notably in the field of
       financial information and reporting, public procurement, the tax authority, internal and
       external financial controls. The authorities translated it into Arabic but have not yet published
       it. They now indicated they would and committed to implement its main recommendations.
      Employment: There is ample analytical work carried out on employment in Tunisia. The
       analytical underpinning for the Tunisia Employment DPL I in 2010 (which include two policy
       notes- the 2007 “Skills Development, Social Insurance and the Labor Market” and the 2009
       Labor Demand, Skills Supply and Employment” and follow-up technical work) and the
       Tunisia Employment DPL II (whose preparation has been suspended) has contributed
       significantly to inform the program, notably in identifying the medium term policy objectives
       of the reform program. A discussion on the medium term needed reforms of the labor market
       was also included as part of the Development Policy Review 2010 and constitutes a solid
       background for the medium term policy objectives of this operation. More recently, an
       internal Policy Note on Labor Markets in Tunisia (Mimeo, February 2011) provides an update
       of the recent trends and challenges and presents options for a package of short terms measures
       that could be implemented to mitigate high unemployment over the next few years, with
       particular focus on the low-skilled and long term unemployed. This note has directly informed
       the current operation. To fill the knowledge gap in specific topics, the World Bank is also
       currently providing (in collaboration with other donors) technical assistance (TA) to the

                                                  30
       government to support the design and implementation of the short term reforms. This includes
       sharing international experience and present international best practices that could inform the
       specification of the basic package of services for the unemployed.
      Financial Sector: In the past, there has been a limited dialogue on the state and functioning of
       the financial sector in Tunisia. Some studies have addressed individual topics in the most
       recent years and provided suggestions and recommendations based on analytical work. For
       instance, in 2009 the World Bank Policy Note “SME Access to Finance in Tunisia” analyzed
       the narrow role of the banking and non banking sector in providing finance to private firms.
       The report recommended the introduction of specific measures for other financing
       instruments, including measures aimed at strengthening the venture-capital investment
       companies (Société d’Investissement à Capital Risque, SICAR). Complementary to this study,
       an internal policy note on the financial sector in Tunisia highlights how the limited role of the
       banks is mostly due to problems related to the governance of the commercial banks, and the
       State governance of public banks. Two missions were fielded in March 2011 to examine these
       issues in more details and the findings of these missions have informed the proposed financial
       sector component of this operation.
      Social Sectors: The social sectors program was informed by the preparation of the Health
       Services Strengthening DPL (preparation suspended) and its solid analytical background,
       which includes a 2006 Health Sector Study, a 2007/09 Hospital Performance Evaluation and a
       2009/10 Health Equity Study. The 2006 Health Sector Study focused on an evaluation of
       health resources and financing, which demonstrated that wide variations in user satisfaction,
       perception of quality of care, and operating costs in different areas of the country. The study
       also revealed a lack of standardized, comprehensive quality of care standards for important
       conditions such as maternal health. These findings have informed the design of one of the
       social sector measures of the current operation. The Health Equity Study demonstrated that
       there remain substantive gaps in health care utilization, which could be addressed through
       improved availability of personnel and better practices in the public sector, or by
       strengthening accountability for service delivery. A recent Policy Note on Social Sectors in
       Tunisia (mimeo, February 2011) examines policy implications for addressing the quality and
       inclusion of community social services in Tunisia, focusing on access and quality of health
       care services, as well as key aspects of rural community development. The key short-term
       policy recommendation of the note, to improve access to quality healthcare for the citizens by
       strengthening accountability, rebuilding trust between the state and the citizens, and
       promoting citizens’ voice and participation, has been directly reflected in the current
       operation.

Table 5. Studies and Reports, TA activities, and Investment Projects, related to the proposed
DPL operation

 DPL Pillar /                                                                              Leading
                      Studies and Reports, TA activities, and Investment Projects
 reform area                                                                               Institution

 Macroeconomic        Tunisia Development Policy Review (2010)                             World Bank
 Framework            Policy Note on Tunisia and the Global Economic Crisis (2010)         World Bank
                      Tunisia Global Integration Study (2008).                             World Bank
                      IMF 2010 Article IV Consultations with Tunisia                       IMF
 Governance           Country Procurement Assessment Report (2005)                         World Bank
                      Tunisia Development Policy Review (2010)                             World Bank
                      Doing Business 2010                                                  World Bank
                      Tunisia PEFA 2010                                                    World Bank
                      Governance Assessment Mission Report (Mimeo, February 2011)          World Bank
                      Tunisia ICT Sector Development Project 2004-2010                     World Bank


                                                 31
                        PSD Flagship Report on Competitiveness (2009)                         World Bank
 Financial Sector       Policy Note on SMEs Access to Finance in Tunisia (2009)               World Bank
                        Policy Note on Financial Sector (Mimeo, February 2011)                World Bank
                        Mission report on governance of commercial banks (Feb. 2011)          World Bank
                        Mission report on State governance of State owned banks (Feb. 2011)   World Bank
 Employment and         Tunisia Development Policy Review (2010)                              World Bank
 Regional Disparities   PSD Flagship Report on Competitiveness (2009)                         World Bank
                        Tunisia Employment DPL I                                              World Bank
                        Tunisia Employment DPL II (preparation suspended)                     World Bank
                        MILES I: Skills Development, Social Insurance and the Labor Market    World Bank
                        (Policy Note, FY07)
                        MILES II: Labor Demand, Skills Supply and Employment (Policy          World Bank
                        Note, FY09/10)
                        Policy Note on Labor Markets in Tunisia (Mimeo, February 2011)        World Bank
                        Policy Note on Regional Development and Municipalities in Tunisia     World Bank
                        (Mimeo, February 2011)
 Social Sectors         Tunisia Global Integration Study (2008).                              World Bank
                        Tunisia Health Services Strengthening DPL (preparation suspended)     World Bank
                        Policy Note on Social Sectors in Tunisia (Mimeo, February 2011)       World Bank
                        Tunisia Health Equity Study (2010)                                    World Bank
                        Tunisia Health Care Productivity Study (2011)                         World Bank
                        Tunisia Hospital Performance Evaluation (2008)                        World Bank



 V.      THE PROPOSED GOVERNANCE AND OPPORTUNITY DPL OPERATION

60.      The proposed Governance and Opportunity DPL is a single-tranche operation
supporting the transition in Tunisia. In February 2011, the interim government requested the Bank
to prepare a multi-sector Development Policy Loan, jointly with a multi-donor team (with the EU and
AfDB, and others who may want to provide policy-based support). The government indicated they
wanted to undertake a program of immediate measures which would demonstrate the change in
direction called for by the revolution, and set Tunisia on a new medium-term trajectory of reforms. In
that sense, many of the measures supported by this DPL open up the way to a much longer and
complex reform path which had hitherto not been touched by the previous government. The interim
authorities have emphasized that they want to give priority to measures which can signal “a clear
break with the past”, notably to increase equity, transparency, voice and accountability.
61.     The objective of this operation is to help the interim authorities secure the transition. In
this context the operation supports a program of immediate measures that are emblematic of improved
governance and opportunity and are within the mandate of the interim government to undertake. As
discussed earlier, the program of measures is focused on four key areas: governance, employment and
regional development, financial sector, and social policies.
62.     As mentioned above, the Governance and Opportunity program has been prepared by
the government with joint support by the World Bank, the African Development Bank (AfDB)
the European Union (EU), and the French Development Agency (AFD), with the participation
JICA and UNDP. The program is summarized in the Government Policy Reforms Matrix (see
Annex 3). All preparatory missions have been jointly conducted even if some flexibility was needed
to respond to different internal processes. The Bank played the leading role across the institutions’ in
coordinating the work, communicating with the government, and in evaluating a macroeconomic
framework for this program.



                                                   32
63.     The government has discussed the reform program with relevant stakeholders. As
mentioned in Section III, the interim government created three new commissions. Notably, in order to
broaden the consensus and legitimacy on sensitive political reforms, the ‘High Authority’ has been
transformed into a ‘checks and balance’ instrument and now consists of a 165 member council, with
regional representation and also representing all major political forces, unions and associations in the
country. The interim government has also consulted broadly on the proposed reforms program
discussed in Section II, which is supported by this DPL. As part of the preparation of this operation,
the authorities and the development partners held several meetings with civil society, private sector
and academics, mainly to listen and brainstorm about country priorities.38 Subsequently, in May 2011
the government organized a large consultations workshop, with participation of more than 120
participants (from civil society, political parties, the High Authority, academics, private sector
organizations, etc) to present and receive feedback on the reforms program. The event received ample
media coverage. Several ministers attended the workshop and participated in the discussion. Most
participants were supportive of the reforms program, although several emphasized that this
''emergency program'' does not decisively tackle the structural economic challenges, notably job
creation and the development of disadvantaged regions. They also advocated the need to promote civil
society associations not just by improving the law of associations, but also by granting them financial
and technical support. Also there were calls to give civil society associations a greater role in the
management of small infrastructure projects and regional development projects at the local level.
Participants also emphasized the importance to change the legislation to improve access to statistics.
64.     The total amount of financing to the government under the Governance and
Opportunity DPL program is expected to be approximately US$1.35 billion, of which loans for an
amount of US$ 250 million and Euro 168.3 million from the World Bank and a further US$850
million from other development partners (amounts discussed include US$500 million from the AfDB,
Euro 45 million from the EU39, and Euro 185 million from AFD). The funding will be provided
through separate financing agreements for each institution on the basis of the same Joint Policy
Reforms Matrix.




38
   The team was careful not to overstep its role in consulting directly on the government’s program, and to let the
government lead its own consultations process. In its discussions with the authorities, the team made it clear that the
government needs to carry out its process of consultations.
39
   An additional Euro 45 million are to be disbursed in 2012.

                                                              33
 Box 3. Good Practice Principles for Development Policy Lending

 Ownership: The government program supported by this operation has been announced publically by the
 interim government on May 14, 2011, and is focused on demonstrating the change in direction in line with the
 demands of the revolution that set Tunisia on a new medium-term trajectory for reforms. They have
 emphasized that they want to give priority to measures which can signal “a clear break with the past”, notably
 to increase equity, transparency, voice and accountability. The policy actions supported by this operation are
 basically measures identified with the government to reach specific outcomes objectives of the interim
 government. They focus on key measures that the government believes are necessary and politically possible.
 Harmonization: Agree upfront with the government and other financial partners on a coordinated and
 accountability framework. The program is jointly supported by the World Bank, the African Development
 Bank, the European Commission and the French Development Agency (and in collaboration with JICA and
 UNDP) and there has been very effective collaboration between these development partners throughout its
 preparation. The content of the program and its underpinnings have thus been naturally coordinated with
 Tunisian institutions. The policy matrix was carefully discussed and coordinated.
 Customization: Customize the accountability framework and modalities of Bank support to country
 circumstances. The policy matrix reflects the government’s priorities and lessons learnt by the development
 partners in supporting similar programs of the government in the past. The Bank has been flexible in both the
 loan amount and government’s preferences in terms of the preparation schedule.
 Criticality: Choose only actions that are critical for achieving results as conditions for disbursement. The
 government has asked the Bank to maintain the focus of this program on four areas: governance, employment
 and regional development, financial sector, and social policies, i.e., all crucial parts of the interim
 government’s response to attend to the demands of the revolution. Within that context the operation is
 focused on measures which demonstrate the change in direction in line with the demands of the revolution,
 notably to increase equity, transparency, voice and accountability, and set Tunisia on a new medium-term
 trajectory of reforms.
 Transparency and Predictability: Conduct transparent progress reviews conducive to predictable and
 performance-based financial support. The selected prior actions can be effectively monitored, providing
 predictable and performance based financial support.




POLICY AREAS
65.     The Governance and Opportunity DPL policy matrix and results framework present the
specific areas supported by the DPL operation. The Policy Matrix is presented in Annex 2. The
proposed DPL operation is focused on a subset of the measures included in the Joint Policy Reform
Matrix supported by the donor partners (presented in Annex 3).
66.      The prior actions have been selected based on their criticality for achieving the
objectives set forth by the interim government. The measures supported by the DPL are based on
four main guiding criteria: (i) being implementable in the short-run (i.e. during the administration of
the interim government, which is expected to cease shortly after the elections scheduled for July 24,
2011); (ii) enhancing voice, accountability, citizen rights, and service delivery particularly in
underserved regions and for underserved populations; (iii) preferably having a medium term/long-
lasting impact, and /or setting the stage for needed reforms in the medium run; (iv) the assessment of
the trigger can be done easily, e.g. verifying whether a law or some regulation has been approved. A
balance has been struck between the critical importance of ownership, the required ambition of the
reform program as well as realism and effectiveness of implementation within the timeframe of the
program and the exceptional circumstances which Tunisia is experiencing.
67.    The Governance and Opportunity DPL policy matrix describes the logic of the program,
by showing for each of the four components of the program the main axes through which the main
                                                     34
objective is expected to be attained, the key actions and the specific measures to be implemented
during the course of the program. As summarized in Box 4, the proposed DPL policy matrix includes
nine prior actions that government has fulfilled prior to presentation to the Board of this operation.
These prior actions are indicative of the richer reforms program which is being undertaken by the
government (as reflected in the broader Joint Policy Reforms Matrix). As discussed above, the reform
program underpinned by the matrix is directly linked to the implementation of the reform program of
the interim government, notably with regards to governance, employment and addressing regional
disparities, financial sector, and social sectors policies. The discussion of the detailed prior actions
supported by this operation and the expected results is provided below.


 Box 4. Prior Actions for the Governance and Opportunity DPL
 Governance
  • Revise the legal framework to allow public access to information and give the public the right to access
    information held by public bodies (and among others remove constraints to public access to economic and
    social statistics, including micro data).
   • Modify the “Domain Names Charter” for the hosting of Internet websites, in order to simplify the
     procedures for the registration and hosting of Internet websites and eliminate the condition that the
     registrar is a Tunisian Internet Service Provider (ISP).
   • Revise the legal framework for public procurement to improve the efficiency and transparency of
     procurement procedures and to shorten the decision process without compromising quality.
   • Launch a systemic, participatory, measurable and visible reform to simplify administrative procedures
     and red-tape and reduce discretion and arbitrariness, notably relating to the key aspects of the business
     environment.
 Employment and Regional Development:
   • Establish a new regulatory framework for the National Employment Fund (approx 0.4% of GDP), starting
     with moving its management to the Ministry of Employment.
   • Design and implement a comprehensive unemployment support program to (i) enhance the employability
     of high-skilled youth and promotes their insertion into permanent employment, and (ii) to assist low
     skilled unemployed through cash-for-training and/or enhanced public works.
 Financial sector:
   • Revise the regulatory framework on banks’ corporate governance practices, including the introduction of
     criteria for selection of senior management and members of the board.
 Social sectors:
   • Establish a mechanism of regular monitoring and evaluation by third parties of selected social programs
     and public services that would allow citizens to rate performance (e.g., using scorecards).
   • Institute a national outreach services policy to expand free access to care in underserved governorates for
     health services provided outside of traditional fixed facilities.




PILLAR 1: GOVERNANCE
68.      For a long time, Tunisia suffered from weak levels of government external transparency and
accountability, performing poorly across all dimensions of governance and anti-corruption. The
governance reform agenda in Tunisia therefore is very large. The DPL prioritizes a few pivotal
measures which can be achieved during the mandate of the interim government and can set a new
trajectory to continue to improve participation, transparency and accountability in the future.



                                                      35
69.      One of the key ongoing areas of work is to remove legal impediments to the creation of
associations. The possibility to create associations was severely curtailed under the previous regime.40
This constrained the production of independent analysis and stifled an open debate on economic
policies and priorities for the country. The revision of the legal framework for associations to open up
to civil society and independent analysis of and feedback on public policy is a crucial element of a
sustainable transition to an open society and is highly conducive to creating a vibrant and innovative
economy. While the current transition process offers civil society a more favorable environment to
thrive in, an amendment of the regulatory framework is necessary to consolidate this progress and
establish safeguards for their autonomous existence. Hence, the transition government is strongly
committed to remove the key restrictive and discretionary provisions of the current law of association
(in tandem with the “High Authority”, which has the mandate to initiate the reform this law)
governing the procedures for establishment and registration of associations and removing excessive
government discretion in the matter (notably removing the de facto prior authorization from the
Ministry of Interior; the prescribed classification, which was source of discretion and a means to
limit certain types of associations; limits to membership fees; and burdensome administrative
requirements).41
70.     Once it is in force, the new law will allow the development of a vibrant civil society
(including parent-teacher associations or consumer protection associations, think-tanks, chambers of
commerce, professional associations, trade unions, etc.), which combined with greater access to
information (see below) should help foster social accountability and fair competition, and gradually
generate a lively debate on public policy and healthy scrutiny on policy issues and on the use of public
funds. In the long term this is also expected to result into greater efficiency and effectiveness in the
operation of government and a more favorable environment for private sector investment and
economic growth. In parallel the government will also launch expert analysis and a broad consultative
process to prepare the ground for further amendments of the law of association and a review of the
broader regulatory framework of associative activities in line with international good practice (for
instance including the Penal Code, the Law on anti-terrorism, and the Law on public gatherings, that
have been used in the past to curb the activities of civil society). Such a more comprehensive review
of the legal framework will need to be carried out on the basis of a wide consultation process
extending after the elections.
71.      While the legal framework for associations is being strengthened, the government has already
taken the following measures to improve access to information by the public, simplify the procedures
for the registration and hosting of Internet websites, simplify procedures and increase transparency in
public procurement, and reducing red-tape and discretion by public officials in the enforcement of
business environment regulations:


Prior Action #1: The Interim President of the Republic has signed the Decree-Law on the access
to administrative documents of public bodies which defines the principles and rules governing
the right to information by the public and the right to access information held by public bodies



40
   Except in sports and cultural activities (which constitute 76 percent of the all associations), organizations were permitted
selectively under procedures that granted much discretion to the Ministry of Interior. Their activities and membership were
strictly controlled and relations with foreign counterparts discouraged.
41
   At the behest of the High Authority, a draft decree-law amending the law on associations by removing the main
discretionary clauses of the law and the restrictions to the creation and operation of association (through, inter alia, the
replacement of the current authorization system with a declarative system, the removal of the existing association
classifications, and the abolition of restrictions on association membership) has already been prepared by the sub-committee
of the ‘High Authority’ in charge of such matters.
As soon as the High Authority has discussed and approved it, the decree-law will be transmitted to the Council of Ministers
for its approval. The Government is committed to take up the matter and promulgate the decree-law without any delay. They
anticipate that this process will be concluded before the upcoming elections of the Constituent Assembly.

                                                             36
by the public, and which among others removes key constraints to access to economic and social
statistics by the public.
         Rationale: Public access to information is an essential element of the accountability of
          government. Yet access to information and statistics in Tunisia has been characterized by high
          levels of secrecy and discretion.42 The limited external accountability and resulting
          information asymmetry weighed negatively on the formulation and implementation of
          economic and social policies as well as on private investment.
         Policy: The key measure needed to create greater government openness is the adoption of
          comprehensive legislation on the right to information (or freedom of information), giving
          individuals the right to access information held by public authorities.43 A full right to
          information law may fall outside of the limited mandate and timeframe of the interim
          government and requires creating a new institutional structure which would be challenging in
          this transition period.
          In the meantime, the interim government is eager to respond to the people’s expectations and
          to signal a change from past practices, by facilitating access to key economic and social
          statistics and reducing the administration’s discretion. Hence the interim government will duly
          publish a decree-law on the access to administrative documents of public bodies which
          establishes the main principles behind the right to information (presumption of openness,
          narrowly drawn exceptions, strong procedures for requests and obligations to disseminate key
          information on a proactive basis), and puts in place practical rules for opening up government
          on a short-term basis, until such time as a democratically elected government might wish to
          adopt a fully-fledged law in this area. The decree-law mandates the disclosure of enhanced
          information on public finances and public and social services.44 It also removes the most
          restrictive barriers to openness in the Statistics Decrees and ensures improved disclosure of
          economic and social statistics (including free access to anynomized survey data).
         Expected results: In the short term, in order to translate this openness into tangible results,
          reduce information asymmetry and support public debate and analysis, the interim government
          has committed to anonymize and publish on the INS website the following surveys/ data: the
          two latest household surveys (1995 and 2005, the 2010 one is still underway); the two latest
          labor force surveys (2007 and 2009); the last census (2004); the detailed national accounts
          (400 products). Over the medium term, the revised decree will enable the dissemination of

42
   For instance, the decree on statistics was interpreted to allow the dissemination of statistical information only in highly
aggregated forms, which could then not be used for social planning and advocacy purposes. Access to micro-data was
subjected to a very cumbersome and discriminatory authorization procedure, which was limited to public bodies or students,
went up to the Minister of Planning and Cooperation and required the visa from the National Statistics Council. Even access
to the National Statistical Institute’s data center, for the consultation of anonymized data, required such a prior-authorization.
There was also limited dissemination of information in the field of public finances, notably with the absence of information
on the medium term expenditure framework, on resources (budget and tax exemptions) allocated to policies and regions, on
local government finances, on infra-annual budget execution reports and the Court of Account’s reports.
43
   Such legislation establishes a presumption that all information held by public authorities, broadly defined, would be
accessible. It also establishes minimum standards for the proactive publication of information in the public interest, including
by providing a list of the categories of information that must be published. To give effect to the right of individuals to request
and receive information, this type of legislation sets out clear procedures for the making and processing of such requests. It is
recognized that some information held by public bodies should not be made public, such as personal information or sensitive
security information. Access to information legislation describes in clear and narrow terms the information which must be
protected (exceptions). Finally, better practice legislation also establishes an oversight body to which appeals from refusals
by public bodies to provide information may be directed.
44
    Every budget, regular and supplemental is published in the official journal upon approval; the approved budgets are also
available on the Ministry of Finance web portal (For instance the 2011 budget is available at the following link:
http://www.portail.finances.gov.tn/jort/Loi%20de%20finances%202011.pdf ). However, execution reports are delayed or not
always published (online), and improvements are needed in terms of expenditure disaggregation (by level of state;
geographical). Greater budget openness and transparency is part of the proposed decree law on public access to information:
it is explicitly mentioned under the part on pro-active disclosure and Ministry of Finance has agreed in principle.

                                                               37
       disaggregated socio-economic statistics and survey micro data which would contribute to the
       reduction of information asymmetry and support public debate and analysis, and foster
       independent analysis of socio-economic developments in Tunisia and over the long-term lead
       to improvements in public policy. For instance the access to detailed national accounts should
       facilitate the assessment of the government’s economic policies and forecasts. The public
       availability of detailed data on private consumption and on unemployment, with its regional
       disparities, should facilitate better investment decisions and reduce the opportunities for
       discretion and corruption from the administration holding this data.


Prior Action #2: The President of the National Telecommunications Council (Instance Nationale
des Telecommunications) has issued a resolution approved by the council modifying the “Domain
Names Charter” for the hosting of Internet websites, to simplify the procedures for the
registration and hosting of Internet websites.
      Rationale: For many years, Tunisia has restricted Internet content, and limited the access to
       certain websites for the population. This was in stark contrast with other measures that Tunisia
       was taking to foster the ICT sector, such as to extend technical training, liberalize the
       telecommunications sector, and incentivize small companies and ICT start-ups. This
       incoherent content policy constrained the development of the local ICT industry, and limited
       the impact of private sector development policies in the ICT sector, also stifling job creation.
       Moreover, there were heavy restrictions on the creation of and access to digital content and the
       rules for people to create and register websites were also preventing the development of
       websites in the country. Specifically the regulations subject the registration of a website to a
       strict a priori control, based on the compliance with two lists of names (“Forbidden Names”
       list and “Reserved Names” list). In addition, only domestic ISPs were able to be registrars of
       Domain Names. The previous restrictive policy had an adverse impact on the development of
       websites in Tunisia. At present, only 8,000 websites are registered using the “.tn” domain
       name. This translates into 750 websites per 1 million inhabitants. Two years ago, Morocco
       already had 8,000 websites per 1 million inhabitants, and Turkey had 75,000 (100 times more
       than Tunisia). Morocco and Turkey have liberal regimes, consistent with good international
       practice. Hence the potential business development and job creation in the web management
       and ICT sector if these restrictions were lifted appears enormous. Also removing barriers to
       the registration of websites will foster a more dynamic and client-responsive business
       environment and thereby also positively affect overall levels of investment.
      Policy: The interim government wants to remove these constraints and facilitate the
       development of the sector. First of all, shortly after the January 2011 revolution all Internet
       access controls have been removed. Secondly, the government has approved a new “Domain
       names Charter”, which establishes a more liberal environment, through elimination of the a
       priori control, and elimination of the requirement that only domestic ISPs can be registrars. In
       addition, an electronic registry will also facilitate the practical registration of a website. Article
       22 of Arrête 2/12/2009 gives the National Telecommunications Council (Instance Nationale
       des Télécommunications, INT) the authority to revise the “Domain names Charter”, on the
       basis of the approval of the INT board and a Decision of the INT signed by its President. The
       policy reform has been enacted through a decision of the President of the Instance Nationale
       des Telecommunications, based on an open and consultative process, notably involving the
       private sector and civil society, such that the new Charter reflects the input from stakeholders.
      Expected results: The elimination of the a priori control would encourage firms and civil
       society organizations and digital content creators to create websites and is expected to
       stimulate economic activity in this area. It is expected that the number of websites with the
       “.tn” domain name will increase from 8,000 to 80,000 by end of 2011. The impact on job
       creation, especially among young people having software or digital creation skills, may be

                                                    38
       noteworthy. This involves the employment of skilled ICT professionals, digital content and
       graphic creators, as well as specialists in the management and updating of the websites. This
       will have a strong and sustainable impact on job creation. Based on this projected demand for
       additional websites and related content, it can be estimated that at least 5,000 – 8,000 jobs can
       be generated in the short term and be sustained and increased on a long term basis. In addition,
       more competition can be expected, as different domestic, and in a second phase, international
       competitors will compete with domestic ISPs in the registration of domain names. This
       important reform will also develop demand for web management functions to competent local
       SMEs in the ICT sector, generating noteworthy business opportunities for the private sector.
       In addition, over the medium term increased use of internet websites by the private sector is
       expected to lead to a more dynamic and client-responsive business environment positively
       affecting investment levels and economic growth.


Prior Action #3: The Interim President of the Republic has signed the Decree amending Decree
N° 2002-3158, dated December 17, 2002, regarding the regulations for public procurement, to
reduce the procurement processing time while ensuring transparency and compliance with the
regulations.
      Rationale: The Tunisian procurement system is considered as too bureaucratic and
       unnecessarily procedural, lacking transparency and accountability, and is characterized by an
       excessive prior review. The contract award can take years, particularly within the framework
       of investment activities, and this was evidenced by the slow implementation of the
       government economic stimulus plan in response to the global financial crisis. In addition, the
       procurement system has failed to prevent political interference and high level corruption: in
       fact, decisions regarding contract awards were regularly submitted by the Higher Tender
       Commission (Commission Supérieure des Marchés, CSM) for the Presidency approval.
      Policy: Hence the interim government will duly publish a decree revising the existing public
       procurement legislation with a view to increase efficiency and transparency. Improving
       efficiency in public procurement by for example (i) limiting the use of the two stage bidding
       procedure to complex procurement only while applying the single stage bidding to remaining
       contracts and (ii) simplifying the process of authorization and approval of tenders following
       emergency procedures by (a) including the procurement of works under the stimulus package
       for the economic recovery in the list of eligible emergencies, and (b) increasing the prior
       review thresholds of the CSM in order to empower the departmental and regional
       commissions to authorize a much larger number of contracts award. Improving the
       transparency in public procurement by actions such as (i) making the publication of the
       procurement opportunities and of the contract awards (competitive/limited bidding and direct
       contracting) mandatory in the website of the National Observatory, and (ii) establishing a
       credible and independent complaint mechanism. Such a complaint mechanism would include
       measures such as dedicated time frames and an obligation to transmit the complaint to the
       procuring entity while keeping the central commission (Comité de Suivi et d’Enquete des
       Marchés, COSEM) informed, (iii) introducing a 3 period for complaints between the
       publication of bid evaluation results and the signature of the contract, and (iv) publishing the
       COSEM annual report on the government website.
       Beyond these important initial adjustments, the government wants to carry out, with technical
       assistance by the Bank (and other development partners), a comprehensive assessment of the
       country procurement system using the OECD/DAC methodology, and including through
       performance audits, in order to inform a future more comprehensive reform of the system
       which will modernize the institutional structure and the proceedings related to public
       procurement.


                                                 39
        Expected results: To improve the effectiveness, efficiency and transparency of public
         procurement procedures to shorten the decision process in markets without compromising
         quality: (a) improve efficiency in the full cycle of procurement by reducing delays for non-
         complex contracts to 3-month on average, (b) enhance the transparency of the system by
         publishing COSEM’s reports with statistics on how complaints are handled. Over the medium
         term this would lead to more effective and timely public expenditures and investment and
         thereby better quality of public services.


Prior Action #4: The Prime Minister has issued Circular No. 13 dated May 21, 2011: (i)
institutionalizing a systematic and participatory reform process of services to businesses and
citizens, based on streamlining of procedures, e-government, transparency, and reduction of
arbitrary and discretionary behaviors; and (ii) committing to deliver concrete reforms within six
months, in the priority areas of customs, taxes, and tourism.
        Rationale: For over a decade, Tunisia has implemented a significant number of reforms to
         simplify administrative burdens,45 yet the impact and credibility of these reforms suffered
         from the unequal and discretionary application of rules, leading to cronyism and privileges
         both in the economic and administrative spheres. Frustration with these problems has been one
         of the reasons which spurred protests among the Tunisian people. In addition, the process by
         which such reforms were designed also limited their impact and credibility in the eyes of
         investors and citizens: weak participation by users, lack of a systemic and coordinated
         approach, as well as insufficient communication and transparency in measuring outcomes and
         the quality of service. Moreover, attention was often focused on simplifying procedures
         without systematically questioning the social objective behind existing regulations. As a
         consequence, many economic activities remain over-regulated or subject to abuse and
         discretion. In the wake of the revolution, reducing discretion, cronyism and arbitrariness in
         the administrative and regulatory environment faced by citizens and firms is a priority and
         expectations are very high. Doing so in a credible way and sending a strong signal that change
         in this area is structural and set to last requires a totally new approach to administrative
         reform, both in terms of pace, comprehensiveness and process.
        Policy: The adoption of the Circular launches a systematic time-bound participatory review of
         administrative formalities and regulations against predefined assessment criteria of (i)
         regulatory necessity, (ii) legal coherence, (iii) process efficacy and efficiency, and (iv) extent
         of opportunity for discretion, ambiguity and arbitrariness in the administration of the rules.
         Each concerned agency will have to provide justification for each regulation or procedure it
         administers, within a timeframe monitored by the Prime Minister’s office. Inspired by similar
         experiences in the OECD (Sweden, the Netherlands, or Mexico) and in countries that have
         experienced substantial economic or political transitions (South Korea, Croatia, the Czech
         Republic or Ukraine), the design of the reform will build on existing initiatives in Tunisia
         (particularly at the Administrative Reform Department (DGRA) in the Prime Minister’s
         office) and will be adapted to the local administrative environment and current context.
         Initially, a first round of reform will focus on achieving substantial results within six months
         of the adoption of the circular in the following sectors: customs and the tax authorities under
         the Ministry of Finance; and the Ministry of Trade and Tourism.
        Expected results: In the short-term, the measure will lead to substantial reduction in
         compliance costs with business formalities in the areas of customs, taxation, and tourism. In
         the longer-term, the reform process launched through this decree will enhance transparency
         and limit discretion of administrative decisions and processes, as well as improve efficiency in

45
  This includes the development of e-government initiatives, or the replacement of prior authorizations for business entry
with declarative systems subject to predefined sectoral specifications.

                                                             40
          delivery key regulatory services/transactions. Furthermore, the reform will reduce costs and
          risks of doing business, as well as improve fairness in application of the rules to firms and
          citizens. By leveling the playing field and strengthening competition, this reform process is
          expected to open up new opportunities for investment and job creation.


PILLAR 2: EMPLOYMENT AND REGIONAL DISPARITIES
72.       With an unemployment rate at 13.3 percent (2009) and even higher and increasing rate for
university graduates (currently estimated at 20 percent), Tunisia faces a major challenge. Tunisia’s
unemployment problem is structural, and therefore cannot be solved in the short run.46 Structural
reforms are needed to create more and higher value-added jobs that can absorb the fast growing
number of university graduates. Hence reforms are needed to: (i) remove obstacles to private sector-
led job creation; (ii) reduce distortions from excessively restrictive labor laws and high labor taxes;
(iii) reform the education sector to give the labor force skills that match market demand. In the short
term, however, the current high unemployment and increasing levels of informality are likely to
increase vulnerability and pose risks to social cohesion. Hence, this DPL prioritizes a few
complementary measures that can be introduced in the short-term to stimulate labor demand, support
the unemployed, and improve labor intermediation.


Prior Action #5: The Interim President of the Republic has issued Decree-Law N° 16/2011, dated
March 26, 2011, amending Law N°101/1999 dated December 31, 1999, regarding the budget law
for 2000, to transfer management of the National Employment Fund from the Presidency of the
Republic to the Ministry of Employment and Vocational Training (published in the Official
Gazette, No. 21, dated March 29, 2011).
         Rationale: Until recently, the National Fund for Employment (Fund 21-21)—a presidential
          fund financed directly by the Treasury—worked in a very centralized manner and was
          regarded as highly politicized. Although it has served other purposes, the fund had been
          supposed to finance primarily: (i) regional programs for employment (23 percent of total
          allocations); (ii) entrepreneurship programs (25 percent of total allocations); and, (iii) active
          labor market programs (ALMPs), mainly on-the-job training programs accompanied of a
          monetary stipends (Programmes d’insertion dans l’emploi salarié) (about 52 percent of total
          allocations). The regional employment programs are actually seen as failures as they do not
          take into account the needs of the region and the economic environment. Its resources are
          significant (at 0.42 percent of GDP in 2010) and could have a significant on reducing
          unemployment if used effectively. The 21/21 Fund is the main source of funding for programs
          of the National Agency for Employment (ANETI), but again these programs remain generally
          poorly assessed (and the monitoring system of the programs is based on results and not on
          impacts).47


46
   It’s important to avoid fuelling expectations in the population that short-term measures will have a significant, quick effect
on employment outcomes.
47
   Active labor market programs have long been at the core of Tunisian labor market policy. In order to tackle youth
unemployment Tunisia has been investing heavily Active Labor Market Policies (ALMPs), and spends about US$70 million
annually on ALMPs targeted to university graduates who are new entrants to the labor force, mainly consisting of paid
internship programs. Formal ALMP provision was initiated in 1981 in response to employment challenges faced by
vocational training graduates. Over the period 1981 to 2009 active labor market programs counted over 320,000
beneficiaries. ANETI undertook a reform of the ALMP portfolio in 2009 (supported by the Bank under the Employment
DPL). The reform bundled over 20 ALMPs into six programs, thereby facilitating their management and financial control.
All ALMPs contain a small monthly income-assistance, and have stricter eligibility rules for both job-seekers and employers.
The number of new and ongoing program contracts has increased markedly over recent years, from 85,890 (2008) to 95,400
(2009) to 138,670 (2010). While ALMPs provided by ANETI constitute important mechanisms to provide first time job
seekers with experience and financial support, they have hardly been successful at helping beneficiaries transition into

                                                              41
        Policy: The reform of this Fund 21-21 is meant to provide sufficient resources to finance
         better designed and rigorously monitored programs (including Amal, see below). In this
         context the Bank is supporting the government in transform the National Fund for
         Employment into an effective instrument to assist the unemployed based on international best
         practice. As a first step the government has transferred the management of Fund 21-21 directly
         to the Ministry of Employment and Vocational Training to improve its governance and ensure
         that the programs it funds are indeed focused on tackling unemployment. In parallel, the Bank
         is providing technical assistance to re-design of some of the programs, with an eye to regional
         needs, and to introduce the monitoring and evaluation of programs financed by the fund. The
         Ministry of Employment and Vocational Training is also planning to issues a Ministerial
         Decision (Arrête) to establish the legal basis to institutionalize a monitoring and evaluation
         framework for programs financed by the Fund 21/21.
        Expected results: Tunisia has plenty of programs for training and employment, but they have
         not proved effective. The objective of this reform is to start a process of reform of Fund 21/21
         to open the way to a more effective set of program to support the unemployed, reduce
         frictional unemployment, and improve the operation of labor markets in Tunisia.


Prior Action #6: The Interim President of the Republic has signed the Decree creating (i) a
comprehensive active labor market program for high-skilled unemployed, (ii) a program to
support short-term employment of low-skilled workers and improving the employability of
graduates from vocational training program.
        Rationale: Unemployment is proportionally more severe for young graduates, particularly
         females and in remote regions (see Annex 5). Recent analysis suggests that young graduates
         not only face higher rates of unemployment but also have a higher probability to remain
         unemployed for a long time (between 2 and 5 years). Further trends in unemployment suggest
         an exponential increase in graduate unemployment over the next few years. University
         graduates already make up the largest share of the new unemployment entries. Further,
         whereas the unemployment rates for individuals without education and with primary
         education are lower and falling, those for university graduates are increasing rapidly. The
         unemployment rates for university graduates has increased steadily from 8 percent in 1999, to
         13 percent in 2005, and to 20 percent in 2009, surpassing those for individuals with lower
         levels of education. Furthermore, unemployment rates for this group are expected to worsen in
         the near future.
         At the same time, the economic downturn is expected to have a significant negative impact on
         unemployment, especially for low skilled workers in the seasonal tourism sector, who lack
         access to formal safety nets. The long-term low-skilled unemployed represent about 70
         percent of all unemployed. In addition, approximately 40 percent of low-skilled unemployed
         have been unemployed for at least 12 months. The temporal dimension of unemployment is an
         important feature of the labor market because the long-term unemployment reduces the
         propensity of individuals to find employment.
        Policy: In this context, the interim government will duly publish the said decree to create a
         new program (Amal, which in Arabic means ‘Hope’) which aims to:
              o    Support high-skilled youth to enhance their employability and promote insertion into
                   permanent employment. The program seeks to revamp the apprenticeship program

permanent employment, especially in disadvantaged regions where program’s placements rates are below 15 percent (e.g., in
Sidi Bouzid and Gabes; for comparison OECD benchmark placement rates for on-the-job training programs are above 80
percent). Regional employment programs are also perceived as not successful as the programs do not accommodate to the
region’s needs and economic context. Data collected by ANETI’s monitoring system is not being analyzed rigorously and
the impact of ANETI programs on employment outcomes (beyond insertion rates) remains largely unknown.

                                                           42
                    (Stage d’Initiation a la Vie Professionnelle, SIVP),48 in line with best international
                    practice. The Amal program will provide a comprehensive package of employment
                    services to high-skilled unemployed youth for a maximum of 12 months, and has four
                    main components:49
                             coaching: a career focused mentoring program to help young people develop a
                              concrete career plan towards salaried or self employment;
                             vocational training (hard and soft skills) with proper certification and based
                              on/adapted to regional needs and with an orientation to skills in demand in
                              service/value-added sectors; courses will be provided through the Tunisia
                              Vocational Training Agency (Agence Tunisienne de la Formation
                              Professionnelle, ATFP), private providers, Universities, and National
                              Employment Agency (Agence National pour l’Emploi et le Travail
                              Independent, ANETI);
                             retraining: an opportunity for youths to acquire a new set of skills aligned to
                              the demands/needs of the labor market, thus increasing their chances of
                              employment; and
                             on the job-training to provide beneficiaries with an opportunity to acquire
                              work experience, while enabling employers to assess their performance at the
                              workplace. AMAL will provide beneficiaries with a monthly allowance of
                              TND200 (equivalent to about 80 percent of the minimum salary; SMIG), and
                              is expected to reach a total of 200,000 young men and women in 2011 (more
                              than 150,000 thousand potential beneficiaries have already signed up to
                              benefit from the program since it was announced in March).
               o    Expand and revamp programs to provide a safety net to low skilled unemployed and
                    contribute to the rehabilitation of socio-economic and administrative infrastructure
                    damaged during the revolution. The programs will include additional / new elements
                    such as non-governmental participation in project selection / implementation (which
                    will strengthen community participation at the local level), and provision additional
                    employment services that can enhance participants’ employability, such as
                    certification and entrepreneurship coaching (building on the experience from Latin
                    American countries, e.g. the Trabajar program in Argentina). The program will
                    include a clear and transparent set of rules for eligibility (targeting criteria). .



48
   The “Stage d’Initiation a la Vie Professionnelle (SIVP)” is a program that provides beneficiaries with on-the-job training
through a paid internship (TND 150 monthly for one year) and covers payment of social security contributions during the
time of the internship and training costs for up to 200 hours. In practice, however, the vocational training component of the
program has been virtually absent and the program’s placement rates are rather low at 23 percent in 2010.
49
   Many countries, particularly in OECD and Latin America, have moved from traditional in-classroom and/or on-the-job
training programs towards a more comprehensive employment programs which includes the provision of in-classroom and
workplace training plus supplementary services such as counseling and mentoring, job search and placement assistance, and
training is soft/life skills. Beyond training, additional employment services provide valuable support to young people, not
only in their job search, but also through the sometimes awkward developmental stages that accompany the transition into
adulthood. Coaching, for instance, provide youths with academic guidance, leadership skills, and interpersonal and problem-
solving skills, all of which will contribute to their socio-economic insertion in society. International evidence indicates that
comprehensive youth programs should include at least five core components: (1) Public-Private partnerships, whereby
training programs are directly linked to an internship with a private employer previously identified by the training institution;
(2) vocational training that provides new hard and soft skills; (3) provision of practical experience through internships; (4)
flexibility in schedules to accommodate, for instance, the needs of women who take care of their children during regular
business hours; and (4) careful monitoring and evaluation. Results of impact evaluations in Argentina, Chile, and Dominican
Republic indicate that youth who participate in comprehensive youth programs display a 10% to 21% higher likelihood to
find employment than otherwise similar youth and also report wages that are 10% to 21 % larger than among those who find
employment but did not participate in the program (World Development Report, 2007).

                                                              43
        As different from past efforts, the program will include a rigorous monitoring and evaluation
        component in order to assess program success and cost-effectiveness, among others.
       Expected results: The Amal program aims to:
            o   (i) improve the transition of high-skilled unemployed youth into permanent
                employment after program completion by providing them a comprehensive package
                of employment services, including the introduction of a coaching module (which has
                been virtually absent from existing programs), a stronger emphasis on vocational
                training, and promotion of entrepreneurship. Also, Amal aims to set the stage for a
                reform of existing Active Labor Markets Programs targeted to youth.
            o   (ii) provide a temporary safety net and to improve the employability and prospects for
                integration into working life of low-skilled job seekers. It also contributes to a reform
                in Active Labor Markets Programs in Tunisia, which have traditionally targeted
                exclusively educated unemployed individuals


PILLAR 3: FINANCIAL SECTOR
73.     Tunisia’s banking system is burdened with structurally low profitability and high NPLs ratio,
and, unless reformed, may not be able to play its catalyst role in economic development. It is well
known that the poor performance of the banking system is partially rooted in insufficient corporate
governance practices.


Prior Action #7: The Governor of Central Bank has issued Circular No 2011/06 dated May 20,
2011, setting forth good corporate governance rules for credit institutions based on international
best practices and introducing criteria for the selection of senior management and members of
the board, whose implementation will be verified inter alia through an annual regulatory survey
on the internal control systems and corporate governance of the credit institutions, conducted by
the Central Bank.
       Rationale: For years, the banking sector has been suffering from weak corporate governance
        practices that undermined its performance. Shortly after the fall of the ex-President regime,
        Tunisian media started reporting various frauds and abuses organized by and to the benefit of
        ex-President family members and cronies (firms and individuals). Although the Central Bank
        of Tunisia (CBT) has taken critical steps to improve corporate governance practices, some
        grey areas continue to pose problems. Since 2006, banks are required to establish audit
        committees as well to set up credit executive committees in charge, notably, of examining the
        activity to be financed. Also, it is worth noting that the CBT has issued a circular on internal
        control and requires banks to be audited annually by two external auditors. The regulation is
        more lenient concerning the connected lending activity. Indeed, the regulation authorizes the
        banks to extend credits to directors, board members, and shareholders who hold more that 10
        percent of the bank’s share capital subject to the limit of three times the bank’s equity and is
        silent on the specific conditions that must pertain to the underwriting and monitoring process
        of these loans. Also, the definition of related parties is insufficient. The CBT has also played
        an incestuous role in providing most state-owned banks with CBT’s staff to become CEOs
        without cooling off periods. As part of the efforts to increase transparency and risk
        management, Tunisian banks were also required to introduce internal client ratings but without
        any detailed guidance from the CBT.
       Policy: The government has launched a process to improve the regulatory framework for
        corporate governance of Tunisian banks and its implementation in terms of: (i) the
        composition of boards of directors, in the sense that these boards have no independent
        directors and lack of diversity in terms of skills and knowledge, and indeed, many boards of
                                                  44
          directors of banks do not fully play their role as strategic and supervisory oversight; (ii) the
          control structures, particularly risk management, internal audit and compliance, as most of
          these functions seems to lack the resources and independence vis-à-vis the management,
          which tends to weaken the quality of their controls; and, (iii) the information to the public,
          since few banks are reporting using IFRS norms and disseminate relevant non-financial data.
          It follows that the overall level of transparency of the banking sector is weak, which affects
          the confidence of stakeholders. To monitor the implementation of this new regulation, the
          Central Bank will reinforce the prudential questionnaire on internal control which is sent
          annually to banks to cover both the application of the circular on internal control and also the
          new circular on corporate governance.
         Expected results: The improvement in current practices in the area of bank corporate
          governance, notably in areas such as board functioning, internal control, compliance, risk
          management, connected lending, fit and proper requirements, and information disclosure to
          the market. These improvements will lead to better performance of the banking sector, and in
          the medium term have a positive impact on banking sector stability as well as its contribution
          to economic growth and development.


PILLAR 4: SOCIAL SERVICES POLICIES
74.      To address social disparities in the short-term, there is a consensus on the importance of
promoting the quality of public services particularly in underserved regions to the west and to develop
local civil society and government planning, management and evaluation capacities. In the short term,
this DPL supports actions that can be taken by the interim government to expand citizen participation
and outreach, which could be followed-up by longer-term strategic policy packages addressing
structural policies in terms of financing and organization.


Prior Action #8: The Prime Minister has issued Circular No. 12 dated May 21, 2011,
establishing a participatory process for the systematic monitoring of the performance of public
services by civil society, citizens and service providers, notably for the social sectors, aimed at
improving the performance of services.
         Rationale: Civil society participation in public service planning, delivery and evaluation is
          low in Tunisia due to a relatively inhibiting environment and there has been little consultation
          and involvement of citizens, local communities and CSOs in policy and program formulation
          and implementation.
         Policy: The government is now seeking to strengthen citizen and civil society participation
          through transversal and sectoral policy responses.50 This circular aims to institute a
          cooperative and systematic interaction between citizens, civil society and government, with
          the aim of improving the responsiveness of public service delivery, as is standard practice in

50
   Within the education sector, the government is focused on generalizing the experience of School Councils, which call for
parents and teachers participation in the overall management of the school. Already positive experiences using this approach
have been seen with the PEPE (Priority Areas) schools program. PEPE schools targeting poor populations were successful in
raising learning outcomes of students attending these schools. In 2007 a study financed by UNICEF compared learning
outcomes between PEPE and normal schools showed that 16% of the least performing PEPE schools in 2000 were
performing among the top performing schools in the country; and 47% were obtaining results compared to the national
average. Conversely, in key indicators associated with a lack of accountability the health sector, include: (i) long waiting
times and distance traveled by citizens to access well-functioning and well-equipped public services, in part attributed to the
perceived absenteeism of medical doctors, nearly 50 percent of whom practice in the private sector full or part time, notably
obstetricians; (ii) lengthy, centralized procurement approval procedures and a lack of transparency in medications
management in the public sector; and (iii) a relatively low availability of medications and medical supplies/equipment at
health facilities.

                                                              45
         many countries. The circular has been signed by the Prime Minister and affects directly the
         Ministry of Health, Ministry of Education, Ministry of Social Affairs, and Ministry of
         Transport and Equipment, with the aim of improving the delivery of social and associated
         public administration services. The circular mandates the creation of an inter-ministerial and
         civil society working group and a civil society working group to develop implementation
         guidelines of the participatory monitoring process at the local level, such as through the
         creation of local community committees and ensuring access to information on social sector
         indicators on resources and outcomes (for example, regional-level social expenditures and
         outcome indicators on educational test scores; primary health care such as access to prenatal
         care and maternal mortality; and social assistance beneficiary registry) necessary for ensuring
         transparency and effective monitoring by civil society. In the medium-long term, the
         development of an independent civil society that is well-resourced and trained will support
         strengthening participatory monitoring for informing public policy
        Expected results: The overall aim of the community participatory monitoring policy would
         be to strengthen citizen voice and accountability in the evaluation and planning of public
         service delivery (such as reduced waiting time, absenteeism and other performance measures).
         The aim is to institute a cooperative and systematic interaction between government, citizens
         and civil society, as is standard practice in many countries. In the medium term, the measure
         is expected to result in: (i) a number of regions that have publicly disseminated participatory
         monitoring of service delivery guidelines; (ii) the publication of service delivery information
         (expenditure and outcomes indicators) by region: health (primary health care and outcomes,
         including prenatal care and maternal mortality), education (PISA and TIMSS data) and social
         assistance data (beneficiary demographics); (iii) an increase in the number of regions that have
         published participatory monitoring reports synthesizing results of community surveys
         (users/providers) and proposing jointly-agreed policy actions. As such, this policy aims at
         reinforcing the use of participatory monitoring in setting performance standards, informing
         performance contracts, and reinforcing mechanisms such as community health and school
         councils in developing service improvement plans. Over the long term this measure is
         expected to lead to quality improvement of service delivery and associated health and social
         outcomes.


Prior Action #9: The Prime Minister has issued Circular No. 14 dated May 23, 2011, creating
outreach services in underserved regions based on a participatory approach, comprising the
provision of a basic package of health, education and social protection services.
        Rationale: In spite of steady progress in expanding health insurance enrolment, nearly 11
         percent of the population still lacks coverage (nearly 1 million persons), notably in the so-
         called “underserved” regions.51 Disparities in access to basic health and social services are
         found between urban coastal regions and interior regions, notably in terms of primary and
         secondary health care, early childhood development and social assistance. For example, the
         maternal mortality ratio (MMR) estimated in the underserved region of Kasserine (70/100,000
         live births) are three times that of urban Sousse (20/100,000 live births), and nearly twice that
         of the national average (40/100,000 live births); this disparity has been associated with a
         dearth of obstetricians and a low use of prenatal services. The low use of services has been
         attributed to the “high cost” and “lack of availability” of services (Multiple Indicator Cluster
         Survey/MICS3, MoH/UNICEF, 2006).52 Currently, many of the 2,000 primary care facilities
51
   As of 2008, nearly 55 percent of the population is enrolled in the Caisse Nationale d’Assurance Maladie; and an estimated
172,000 households are covered by health cards for free care, or 8 percent of the population. In February 2011 the interim
government decided to increases coverage to reach nearly 200,000 families, or nearly 9 percent of the population. Further,
another 25 percent of the population benefits from health care for partially subsidized care (or 550,400 households).
52
   As of 2005, approximately 10 percent of household consumption expenditures went to health, largely covering health care
visits, medications, and hygiene (INS Enquete de la consommation des ménages, 2005).

                                                            46
        (centres de soins de base; each serving a catchment area of 2,700 persons per clinic) are
        considered to be poorly-equipped and medically staffed less than 3 hours per day. It is
        estimated that only 55 percent of women in underserved regions receive at least 4 prenatal
        visits, partially due to a low density of medical personnel in these areas.
       Policy: With this new measure, the government aims to create a national outreach services
        policy to expand free access to care in underserved governorates through services provided
        outside of traditional fixed facilities and in local community areas. The benefits package is
        designed to facilitate and promote access to primary health services, such as, prenatal care and
        institutional births through mobile and social workers rotating between fixed health facilities
        and outposts, such as schools, community/municipal centers and homes. The policy for
        outreach health services will include social workers in association with the Ministry of Social
        Affairs for improved monitoring of beneficiary social needs. In the medium-term, outreach
        services would be extended to operate with the private sector and covered by the national
        health insurance under a performance-based contract with specific incentives for preventative
        care such as prenatal services and facilitating institutional births (Caisse nationale
        d’assurance maladie/CNAM). In the long term, improving equity will depend on financing
        and organization reforms in the health sector (public and private) through improved resource
        allocation policies, decentralization, and instituting service delivery standards. The role of the
        national health insurance agency and the Ministry of Health will each also need to be oriented
        with a view towards greater coordination and strategic policy setting and performance-based
        financial management.
       Expected results: In the short term, the outcomes envisaged are: (i) an increase in access to
        health services as indicated by the number of regions with community health and social teams
        trained and operating; and (ii) an increase in the number of regions that have published
        performance standards for community-based health workers. Over the long term the measure
        is intended to improve the quantity and quality of basic health service delivery, and thereby
        also improve health outcome indicators such as MMR in remote areas.




                          VI.     OPERATION IMPLEMENTATION

POVERTY AND SOCIAL IMPACTS
75.      The poverty and social impacts of the policies supported by the Governance and
Opportunity DPL are expected to be positive. Many groups of stakeholders are likely to benefit
from the policy measures supported by this program through several channels: in particular
unemployed and poor or vulnerable families will benefit from both targeted unemployment programs
and better access to services, particularly in the lagging regions. The prior action granting the public
access to information is expected to have positive social impacts and no negative poverty impacts.
Over the medium term these reforms are expected to foster a better informed public debate on the
efficiency and effectiveness of public services, and thereby contributing to improve the quality of
service delivery and accelerate poverty reduction. The measures on simplifying and increasing
transparency in public procurement and strengthening banks corporate governance are not
expected to have any negative poverty impact. Over the medium term they are expected to help
Tunisia recover from the current economic crisis and therefore have an indirect positive economic
impact on households. This is also the anticipated impact of the regulatory simplification which is
expected to improve the business environment and increasing growth and employment in the medium


                                                   47
term. Faster growth would lead to increased job creation, thereby supporting household incomes, with
a positive impact on reducing poverty. It should be emphasized that the review exercise will focus on
removing unnecessary regulations and reducing discretion in the application of existing rules, but will
not remove the necessary health and environmental safeguards, as well as labor protection/standards.
The highly participatory process will ensure this outcome. The new program to support the
unemployed is expected to benefit low skilled unemployed through short-term programs which also
aim to improve employability in the medium term and also to support high-skilled unemployed which
will benefit from the opportunity to acquire new skills aligned with the demand/needs of the labor
market, increasing their chances of employment. The reform of the National Employment Fund will
have no immediate social and poverty impacts, but as the reform starts improving the effectiveness of
the programs financed by the fund, this measure is also expected to have positive social and poverty
impacts on the unemployed, and especially in remote regions (under the regional programs financed
by the fund). The impact of the measures on social accountability in social services delivery and
expanding outreach in social services are highly positive as they will provide access to social
services where most needed, i.e. in the remote regions, and will also lead to improved quality of
services. The beneficiaries will be mostly vulnerable groups (such as women in poor families which
will benefit from access to primary health services, notably better prenatal care) and particularly in the
so-called ’underserved’ regions which are also the regions with the highest poverty incidence and
severity. In sum, the specific policies supported by this DPL are not expected to have negative
distributional and social impacts; positive impacts are likely expected as a result of increased citizen
voice in the management of public life and the delivery of public services, and improved access to
employment and social services. Similarly, the poverty reduction impact of the policies supported by
the DPL is expected to be positive, most notably the assistance to the unemployed and expanding
frontline service delivery, both in the short and in the medium term.
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
76.      The institutional and policy framework is generally strong and well defined in Tunisia.
The Ministry of Environment and Sustainable Development is the key player in defining and
implementing environmental policies and strategies. An annual report on the state of the environment
is published yearly and action plans to address various environmental issues (incl. water, solid waste,
biodiversity, natural resources, urban planning, etc.) are being implemented. The current five years
development plan (2007-2011) allocates considerable investment for the protection of the
environment. A policy note on the cost of waster degradation was prepared in 2007 and disseminated
to all concerned sectors with clear recommendations for the optimization of the water resources,
especially in the agriculture sector. Regarding water quality management, Tunisia continues its efforts
for the establishment of a water quality monitoring network covering both surface and ground water.
In parallel, the government initiated a new program to improve the environmental performance of
wastewater treatment facilities. The national program on the reuse of treated wastewater, which is also
among the priority of the new five year development plan, has been launched and several development
and financial institutions are expected to join efforts with the government for the implementation of
the project. The Bank is working to help the government to develop and implement appropriate
policies in the areas of natural resources, environment and adaptation to climate change.
77.      Tunisia has a well established environmental impact assessments (EIA) system. In 2007
it has been selected to pilot the use of country system (UCS) in the solid waste sector. As a result of
the successful implementation of this pilot, it has been decided to extend the scope of the use of the
country system at the national level. All activities that may result in a significant impact on the
environment are subject to an Environmental Impact Assessment, which has to precede the issuing of
licenses and investment activity.
78.      The reforms supported in this DPL operation are not expected to have any positive or
negative effects on the environment, forest and other natural resources. The DPL supports policy
actions that create the enabling environment to support poverty reduction, and which by themselves do
not have an environmental impact. The prior actions granting the public access to information and
                                                   48
strengthening banks corporate governance will have no environmental impacts. Similarly, the
program to support the unemployed, the reform of the National Employment Fund, and the
measures introducing social accountability in social services delivery and expanding outreach in
social services are also not expected to have any positive or negative effects on the environment,
forest and other natural resources. The reform to simplify public procurement aims to accelerate
public works, but will not dilute the environmental standards for public works, and therefore is
expected to have no impacts. Similarly, the regulatory simplification will focus on removing
unnecessary regulations and reducing discretion in the application of existing rules, but will not
remove the necessary environmental safeguards and is therefore not expected to have negative
environmental impacts. It is expected, however, that the regular private and public investment
activities which may result from these last two policy actions, could have impacts on the environment.
Nevertheless it is not expected that there will be need to introduce special measures since all activities
to be carried out are subject to the Tunisian legal framework for the protection of the environment.
Thus, neither specific environmental studies nor environmental impact management measures are
anticipated.
IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING, AND EVALUATION
79.    Implementation and coordination responsibilities: The responsibility for implementing the
program in government rests with the Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation which will
coordinate all relevant activities with other Ministries. The government will take the lead in
monitoring progress in implementation of this operation.
80.     Supervision by the Bank: Regular supervision will allow the World Bank to continue
providing policy advice and technical assistance to the institutions involved in the implementation of
the program of reform. The Bank will continue to maintain continuous dialogue with the relevant
government ministries and will conduct regular reviews in close collaboration with other partners.
This will take the form of joint missions with the AfDB, AFD and the EU and shared analytical
underpinnings.
81.     Monitoring and Evaluation: The monitoring and evaluation of the program and its expected
results will be based on the government regular M&E activities. The World Bank and other
development partners will continue to provide support to the government to strengthen M&E, improve
data quality and management and enhance capacity for using development outcomes to inform policy
making.
FIDUCIARY ASPECTS
82.      The Public Finance Management system, together with the government’s commitment
and plans to reform, are adequate to support this operation. Public Finance Management in
Tunisia is generally regarded as sound, transparent and well organized. The Tunisian system is based
on the principle of segregation of responsibilities and separation of the roles between the payment
authorizer (ordonnateur) and public accountant, and on the principles governing ex ante expenditure
control and internal and external audits. The main weakness of the public financial management
system was the lack of transparency and consultation in the process, notably in the preparation of the
budget. This DPL is taking steps towards strengthening transparency and accountability in PFM
through to measures that will facilitate the creation of associations and allow public access to data and
information—and which will allow greater scrutiny and debate of government policies and the
budget—as well through measures to strengthening transparency and accountability in the public
procurement process. The 2010 PEFA concluded that the legal and administrative framework for
public financial management (PFM) is sound and offers a solid level of assurance regarding the
reliability of information and a strong control environment; however the report also identified
transparency and accountability failures. The 2010 Public Expenditure and Financial
Accountability assessment (PEFA; undertaken jointly by the European Commission, AfDB and the
Bank) assessed the period of 2006-2008. The PEFA report confirmed that the PFM system supports

                                                   49
the achievement of aggregate fiscal discipline, strategic allocation of resources and efficient service
delivery. The report highlights that the main strengths of the Tunisian PFM system are: (i) credible
and transparent budget;53 (ii) strong and effective financial control procedures; (iii) effective internal
audit function; (iii) reliable fiscal reporting; (iv) strong cash and debt management due notably to a
technical assistance from the Bank. On the other hand, the report also highlighted several
shortcomings, notably in the field of financial information and reporting, public procurement, the tax
authority, internal and external financial controls. The main challenges of the PFM system are: (i)
delays in the production of the year-end government financial statements; (ii) the need to shift for
internal controls and internal auditing from compliance to a system rating the performance; (iii) the
insufficient scope of the external audit which cover an average of 13 percent of expenditures; (iv) the
need to accelerate the implementation of performance budgeting. In recent years the administration
has continued to strengthen the PFM systems and introduced measures to: (i) move to a performance
based budgeting framework; (ii) develop an MTEF to assist in fiscal sustainability; (iii) modernize its
accounting framework; and, (iv) improve revenue management.
83.      The budget is generally executed in a straightforward way without any significant
deviations, and fiscal reporting is deemed to be reliable. Reconciliations of banking and fiscal
records are done satisfactorily on a monthly basis, facilitated by efficient computerization. Financial
control is ensured by effective and reliable control systems—both internal and external, as well as ex-
ante and ex-post. Financial controllers, who are part of the Directorate-General of Financial Control
(DGDP), carry out the ex ante control of expenditure commitments and report to the Prime Minister’s
Office. The Court of Accounts carries out good quality external audit and the international standards
on autonomy, scope and quality are met. The proposed budget and financial management reform
program currently focuses on the implementation of sector MTEFs (which will be, in principle, framed
by an aggregate MTFF and an MTBF that will frame the inter-sectoral resource allocation) and
performance monitoring. It covers a range of PFM issues and includes a proposed training program,
the implementation of a new budget classification, the finalization of the chart of accounts and the
preparation of a new organic budget law.
84.     No safeguard assessment of the Central Bank has been conducted by the IMF (as there is
no formal program with Tunisia); however, the Central Bank is audited on a yearly basis with
the audit report being disclosed publicly. These audits and the auditor opinions did not reflect any
weaknesses in the control environment and the auditor’s opinions were issued with no qualifications.
The Management Letter of the CBT revealed some internal control issues, however the CBT has
agreed to take appropriate remedial actions to address these.
DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING
85.     The proposed loan will follow the Bank’s disbursement procedures for development
policy support and will be disbursed in a single-tranche. After the loan has been approved by the
World Bank’s Board of Executive Directors and becomes effective, the proceeds of the loan will be
disbursed in compliance with the stipulated release conditions as defined in the Development Loan
Agreement and in a single installment. Specifically, the proceeds of the loan will be deposited by
IBRD in an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the World Bank at the Central Bank
of Tunisia at the request of the Borrower, upon submission of a signed withdrawal application. The
Borrower should ensure that upon the deposit of the loan proceeds into said account, an equivalent
amount in local currency is credited in the Treasury current account at the Central Bank.



53
  According to the CFAA (2004) the documents that make up the budget law and its annexes are well prepared, easy to
understand, and contain the relevant information. Most of the information requirements for budget documentation in the
PEFA methodology have been met. The overview that introduces the budget law and the report on budget data provide good
information. The economic and financial overview prepared by Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation (termed
the economic budget) is well written and illustrated with numerous macroeconomic tables in support of the assumptions on
which the budget is based. A move to performance or results-based budgeting is underway.

                                                          50
86.      The Borrower will report to the Bank on the amounts deposited in the foreign currency
account and credited to the budget management system. If the proceeds of the loan are used for
ineligible purposes as defined in the DPL Loan Agreement, IBRD will require the Borrower to
promptly upon notice refund an amount equal to the amount of said payment to IBRD. Amounts
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled. The loan proceeds will be administered by
the Ministry of Finance. The flow of funds (including foreign currency exchange) is subject to
standard public financial processes. The government budget is comprehensive, unified and subject to
centralized treasury account.
87.     Although an audit of the use of the funds may not be required, IBRD reserves the right
to ask for a transaction audit. This audit, when asked for, will cover the accuracy of the transactions
of the dedicated account, including accuracy of exchange rate conversions; confirming that the
dedicated account was used only for the purposes of the operation where no other amounts have been
deposited into the account. Also the auditor will have to obtain confirmation from corresponding
bank(s) involved in the funds flow regarding the transaction. The time period for submission of the
audit report to the Bank is 6 months from the date a request for such audit is issued.
RISKS AND RISK MITIGATION
88.      The risks to this operation relate to: (i) renewed political instability from unmet or conflicting
political aspirations; (ii) renewed political instability that could result from unmet social and economic
factors, or spillover from the Libyan crisis; (iii) risks to the stability of the financial sector; and (iv)
risks related to the design and implementation of the program of reform measures. Details for each of
these areas are provided below:
(i) Risks related to renewed political instability from unmet or conflicting political aspirations
89.      While the political situation appears to have stabilized, and the interim government
appears to hold legitimacy in the eyes of the population, nevertheless there is a risk that the
political climate may become unstable again when real political issues become at stake, notably in
the run-up to the elections. This would impede the government’s capacity to push through any kind of
policy action. In addition, it is possible that the upcoming elections could bring a more fractious
political leadership, less able or willing to carry through reform agenda or sound macro policies. In
order to mitigate this risk, the government is aiming to build consensus through consultation
(including though by broadening of membership of the High Committee for political reforms). In
addition, a benevolent international framework, including financial and political support from the
international community (a new EU partnership) will help mitigate these political risks.
(ii) Risks related to the uncertainty of the economic outlook
90.     Uncertainty about the economic outlook, related to the impact of the Libyan crisis, as
well as in the regional economic outlook, and slow recovery for major EU trading partners to
Tunisia, all pose significant risk to political developments in Tunisia. Given the important
economic ties Libya has with Tunisia, the protraction of the Libyan crisis could have an additional and
sizeable impact on Tunisia in terms of reduced exports (Libya represents more than 6 percent of
Tunisia’s total exports in goods), FDI and remittances (both 10 percent of Tunisia’s total inflows), as
well as an additional negative impact on tourism. Also, the number of Tunisians returning home
because escaping from Libya will cause additional strain to the budget resources as they will be in
need of housing and social assistance.
91.     Downwards risks in the global economic outlook, especially among major trading partners to
Tunisia, also pose uncertainty about Tunisia’s own economic outlook. Econometric analysis shows
that a resumption of the Tunisian economy by the year 2012 remains dependent on a substantial
improvement in the economic performance of the EU and climatic conditions favorable to agriculture
as well as on the effects of counter-cyclical public policy on growth.



                                                    51
92.     An additional risk is linked to the effectiveness of the fiscal stimulus on the economy. The
economic projections presented here assume a strong impact of the fiscal stimulus on the economy,
and its rapid and almost complete implementation (at least 70 percent) during the year 2011. This
might not be possible if there is not enough financing to support the package, if the procedures are too
lengthy, or if there are difficulties in the implementation of the plan itself. In these scenarios, the
support package might not have the full effect on the economic recovery that has been envisaged by
the government and could lead to economic growth lower than 1.5 percent, possibly closer to zero.
Lower economic growth and additional pressure in the labor market could lead to renewed social
tensions and a reinforced sense of lack of economic opportunities. Even the economic outturn was as
planned, it may not yield outcomes that are commensurate with aspirations or rapid enough to meet
them.
93.      A recurrence of instability might lead to a renewed loss of foreign investors’ confidence and a
worsening of Tunisia’s country risk, as it appears in Tunisia’s credit spreads on international markets.
The resulting decrease in capital inflows and investment will in turn affect industrial production and
exports, further depressing domestic consumption and slowing the economic recovery, and sending
Tunisia into a negative spiral. In order to mitigate these risks the authorities have adopted a strong plan
to scale up social interventions, support enterprises during this transition, and accelerate public
investments to boost economic growth, and will continue to pursue flexible budgetary and monetary
policies to support economic recovery in an international environment which remains uncertain and
volatile. The resources from this operation are intended to help finance this plan and mitigate these
risks. The measures supported by this operation also aim to both facilitate the execution of public
investments (though simplification of procurement procedures), and improve the provision of social
services, as well as to reestablish social stability by addressing the key demands for better voice and
accountability made by the population.
(iii) Risks to the stability of the financial sector
94.      Credit risks in the banking sector: In order to address weaknesses in the financial system,
over the past few years the authorities have been pushing banks to (i) steadily increase the
provisioning rates, (ii) to decrease the NPLs and mandating special audits of NPL and portfolios and
exposure to the former presidential family; and (iii) implement strong internal control regulation,
while keeping active supervision of the banking sector. The negative shock on the tourism sector (both
from the revolution and the Libyan crisis) and the sensitivity of exporting sectors to growth variations
in Europe both translate into higher credit risk. Indeed, the banking system is substantially exposed to
the tourism sector (at 12.7 percent of total loans in 2009). These risk will be added to the already
relatively weak asset quality of the banking sector in spite of limited market risks overall. The level of
Non-Performing Loans of the banking system has decreased in 2010 to around 12 percent thanks to
some write-offs and the active cleanup, especially from banks that were privatized, but remains high
overall. Also, it remains to be seen if the credit underwriting skills of Tunisian banks have improved
significantly. In order to mitigate these risk and to strengthen intervention mechanisms, as part of the
preparation for this DPL the Bank fielded a mission in April 2011 to work with the authorities in
assessing the stability of the financial sector (including full-fledged stress test by bank),
assess/strengthen crisis preparedness arrangement, and design solutions in terms of debt
relief/restructuring in the unlikely event that these should be required.
(iv) Risks related to the design and implementation of the program
95.      Several risks exist with respect to the adoption and implementation of the program.
Firstly, key stakeholders may deem it inappropriate to address politically sensitive issues (e.g. such as
the amendment of the law of associations) before a new government is elected. To mitigate this risk,
the Bank has been recommending to the transition government to (i) focus on limited amendments
based on consensus as a first step, notably those explicitly addressing the many abuses of the past
regime (especially relating to all the governance and financial sector governance matters); (ii) clearly
communicate that the reviews of more sensitive areas will be conducted in two steps, such that the

                                                       52
more complicated and controversial amendments will be made by the future government once further
analysis has been conducted and broad-based consultation process has taken place. Secondly,
commitment to change may vary across segments of the bureaucracy, some parts of which may cause
resistance (for instance related to procurement reforms, and/or the simplification of regulatory
administrative procedures for the business environment). This risk can be mitigated by consensus
building both within and outside of the current government. For instance the reform on regulatory
simplification and transparency will be designed by the Administrative Reform Unit in the PM office,
in close consultation with a core group of active and engaged ministries on this agenda (Finance,
MDCI, Trade and Tourism, Social Affairs), and pro-active engagement will need to be sustained right
after adoption of the relevant legislation; in addition the design of the initiative should ensure strong
and sustained commitment: participative process, public engagement, multi-stakeholder systemic
initiative which should emulate institutional competition to reach quantifiable and visible results. The
mitigation measures, however, are limited by the lack of well established representatives of private
sector organizations and civil society. Given the history of limited voice and freedom of expression in
Tunisia, the established civil society and private sector organizations were closely controlled by the
regime. Consultation will need to include representatives from the new competing business
organizations and NGOs that have recently emerged. Third, the timeframe to revise and adopt the
legal changes is very short, taking into account the necessary consultation. The Bank’s technical
assistance and prior consultation should somewhat reduce this risk, even if the operations time frame
remains a major constraint.
96.      Risks exist that the new post-elections government could reverse the reform agenda, in
particular against pro-business policies. Hence, the program entails reforms that are not politically
colored, but rather focus on the efficiency and transparency in the operation of the administration. For
instance the business environment measure is not focused on deregulation, but rather on the anti-
discretion, anti-arbitrariness and transparency agenda, which encompasses simplification. It will be
hard for a new government to undo an initiative that aims at preventing the most visible ills of the old
regime. The communication campaign accompanying the reforms program should be focused on this
message, which is a unanimous expectation in post-revolution Tunisia.
97.     The limited access to data entails risks for the design of some of the policies envisaged
under the program. For instance in order to design an effective package of incentives to promote
investment/employment among new/existing firms in the service sector, it is necessary to analyze
recent employment creation patterns in the service sector (by governorate and by activity) as well their
revenues and costs composition. Ideally, subsidies should target regions and sectors that have
displayed positive growth and should reduce (in a significant way) the main operation costs of these
firms. Identifying suitable regions, activities, and relevant operation costs will require an in depth
analysis of existing data on employment registration collected by the CNSS (Caisse Nationale de la
Sécurité Sociale) and on net employment creation (levels and trends) collected by the Labor Force
Survey produced by the INS (National Institute of Statistics). Access to such data has traditionally
been limited in Tunisia due to existing institutional constraints to data use/sharing. In order to design
the package through an evidence-based process, a technical team composed by the program designers
as well as of data experts from the INS and the CNSS needs to be created rapidly in order to speed up
necessary data collection and analysis. Lack of access to data may contribute to weak design of the
proposed package of incentives.
98.      The volatile socio-political situation entail public relations risks for the government and
the donors supporting the program, since it is easy for government and donor actions to be
politicized. For instance soon after the interim government announced the Amal program (to support
high-skilled unemployed), the Tunisian youth perceived it as a continuation of the many unsuccessful
programs that the government has implemented during the past years. At the same time, many young
individuals who have shown interest in the program will not be able to enroll given the limited
funds/spaces available. In order to address these concerns and risks, it is important for the government
to carry out a communications/public-awareness campaign, to inform the public at large about the

                                                   53
reasons for the measures and the merits of the design of the various initiatives, and also to manage
expectations. For instance it will be important to manage expectations and clarify that short-term
policies and the new program cannot fix the unemployment problem. The Bank will be assisting the
government in the communications aspects of various reforms and the overall program.
99.      The measures which entail community participation may be challenging to implement in
as much as they are new to Tunisian population and they go against decades of repressive
practices by the former regime. For instance, a moderate-high risk exists regarding the lack of trust
among citizens and civil society actors vis-à-vis future results of a scorecard monitoring systems if
there is inadequate citizen participation and little link to the performance of practitioners and goal-
setting. However, if the government publishes required public service macro statistics (social
assistance beneficiaries, test scores, health care budgets, MMR and performance indicators),
scorecards for front-line practitioners and goal-setting would stand a higher chance of being used to
improve the responsiveness of public service delivery to performance. Similarly, a moderate risk
exists in terms of stakeholder support for extending health services to vulnerable populations.
However, it will be important to stress the institutional, community participation and multi-
disciplinary nature of the community outreach policy to ensure a differentiation from previous
voluntary activities by the previous ruling party.




                                                  54
ANNEX 1: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY




                 55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
        REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
       MINISTRY OF PLANNING
 AND INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION
                 The Minister

                                                                                            May 24, 2011

Mr. Robert B. Zoellick
President of the World Bank group
Washington D.C.



                                  Letter of development policy


Mr. President,

         On January 14, 2011, Tunisia entered a crucial phase of its history marked by the Peaceful
Revolution of its people, with an immeasurable impact on the region. A people reconciled with its
history and aspiring to a democratic State, respecting human rights and fundamental freedoms.

         With this major change, Tunisia is determined to break with an old development model
characterized by disjunction between, on the one hand, the political order, traditionally characterized
by considerable centralization and lack of democracy and, on the other hand, the socio-economic
order, in which the country is displaying definite skills and making appreciable progress despite
persistent shortcomings in the distribution of national wealth, particularly at the regional level.

        New vistas are now opening up for building a new design for society aiming at inclusiveness
and balance and based on freedom, good governance, transparency, justice and creation of a
participatory citizenship. These are the only attributes that are capable of releasing energies,
mobilizing potentials and creating synergies for the achievement of sound and sustainable growth,
decent work and high income equitably apportioned between all economic agents and between the
different regions, in accordance with the expectations and aspirations of the Tunisian people.

        To this end, the Interim Government is determined to create an environment conducive to
peaceful political transition and satisfaction of the social demands which erupted following the
popular uprising, together with revitalization of economic activity, intensification of job creation and
improvement of living conditions in disadvantaged regions of the country.

        In the political sphere, wide-ranging measures have already been taken to restore confidence
among all stakeholders, successfully organize free and credible elections and implant democratic
values in Tunisian institutions.

         In this context, three independent neutral commissions have been established to draft political
reforms, consider excesses and cases of corruption and establish the facts regarding abuses and
breaches of the law. These commissions are composed of experts, jurists and representatives of
political parties and of civil society and reflect a new political ethic in the country, henceforth marked
by transparency, good governance and the rule of law.




                                                    65
        In addition, a general amnesty law has been enacted in order to recognize all the political
movements formerly banned, to release all political prisoners and to consecrate the right and freedom
of expression, association and movement.

         The determination to democratize political life was also strengthened by generally opening up
media and politics and establishing complete freedom of the press and freedom to form political
parties and associations.

       In the economic and social sphere, during this transitional period priority is being given to
resumption of economic activity, restoration of a climate of confidence to boost national and foreign
investment and creation of social safety nets to ensure a smooth transition.

         The instability that recently reigned in Tunisia created a real economic slump, as witness the
marked decline in the level of production in several sectors of activity, the drop in tourist activity and
foreign investment and the extent of the losses suffered by several businesses and the damage to public
services following the rioting and the strikes and protests which occurred. This situation was
aggravated by the rise in international prices of food and fuel and by the war in Libya, which resulted
in a decline in trade with that country, a drop in remittances of funds and investments from Libya and
the massive return of Tunisian workers from Libya.

        This difficult situation considerably modified the course initially set in the 2011 budget. Now
the expected outcomes for 2011 as a whole are:

     A slowdown of growth, which in the absence of stimulus measures would amount to 1
      percent, instead of 5.4 percent as initially forecast in the 2011 budget;
     Shrinkage of almost TND 2,034 million in the volume of global investments, including TND
      1,000 million in foreign direct investments;
     A larger current account deficit, which will probably reach 6.2 percent of GDP, as a result of
      the decline in revenue from tourism and transport and the slowdown in goods exports;
     In this sphere, it should be noted that foreign exchange reserves declined by TND 2 billion
      compared with their level on December 31, 2010 and that other reimbursements of debt
      principal are due this year, including in particular a bond of 15 billion yen purchased on the
      Japanese market;
     An increase of about TND 4,200 million in additional external financing needs, not counting
      the cost of damage caused during the recent events amounting to TND 3 billion;
     Increased pressure on the State budget because of the decline in own revenue of about TND
      570 million and the increase in public spending of TND 1,970 million (including TND 1,200
      million for additional compensation expenses), which would result in a deficit of 3.2 percent
      of GDP in addition to the initially expected deficit of 2.5 percent of GDP;
     A decline in job creation of over 61,500 posts due to the downturn in growth and investment,
      whereas the initial forecasts in the 2011 budget anticipate the creation of 81,000 jobs.

        In view of these circumstances, the Government is implementing a program of support for
economic activity that should step up job creation, encourage private investment and support for
businesses that have suffered losses, promote regional development and enhance social activities to
improve living conditions in the interior regions of the country.

        The main measures to be taken under this program focus on:

     Adoption of social programs for interior regions of the country and needy families (housing,
      drinking water, basic health care, etc.);



                                                   66
     Enhancement of employment and training programs to deal with critical situations and
      improve the employability of young job seekers, accompanied by a strategic evaluation of
      employment programs through improved monitoring and evaluation arrangements;
     Intensification of civil service recruitments, in view of the exceptional circumstances and
      particularly the social tensions and very high unemployment currently experienced by Tunisia.
      However, the Government considers that job creation by the private sector is the only solution
      sustainable in the medium term to absorb the high unemployment;
     Execution of public investment projects in interior regions (industrial zones, road
      infrastructure, public amenities, etc.);
     Compensation of businesses that have suffered losses and adoption of specific short-term
      measures to preserve existing jobs, in particular through assumption by the State of payroll
      taxes and of some financial expenses, postponement of corporate tax payments and creation
      of a specific mechanism of loan rescheduling guarantees and guarantees of loans to finance
      investments.

        Numerous actions have already been authorized and implemented, including:

     Launch of the active employment program “Amal” for the insertion of higher education
      graduates in professional life, giving them a special monthly allowance of TND 200 in return
      for a commitment to work in an association or to work on a part-time basis while looking for a
      permanent job. By the end of April, 142,000 applications had been approved;
     Allocation of TND 10.6 million to help 141,000 needy families;
     Assistance to Tunisians repatriated from Libya by disbursement of almost TND 10 million on
      May 10, 2011 to 22,000 beneficiaries;
     Budget allocations amounting to TND 251 million to various regions, giving priority to the
      Sidi-Bouzid, Gafsa and Kasserine regions;
     Enactment of decree-laws in most sectors and creation of special commissions to study the
      granting of compensation and benefits to businesses that have suffered losses.

        The commencement of collective bargaining for salary increases over one year is another
milestone on the road to social normalization in Tunisia and opens a new page for social
reconciliation, improvement of living standards, reduction of existing imbalances and strengthening of
the middle class, which is an engine of economic development.

        This program should breathe new life into economic activity by increasing GDP growth by
between 1 and 1.5 percentage points and promoting the creation of 40,000 new jobs this year,
including for higher education graduates.

       However, this additional commitment will require additional external financing of about TND
4,200 million.

        Thus this program’s contribution to reducing the constraints and challenges facing Tunisia is
dependent on mobilization of all available resources, on the combined efforts of persons of all
tendencies and on the solidarity of the various partners, both national and in the international
community; these conditions are all within the reach of Tunisia.

         Firstly, the State has quite a comfortable margin for maneuver in pursuing an expansionist
policy, in view of the country’s solid economic and financial foundations and the resilience which it
displayed in the face of exogenous shocks and vagaries, such as the deterioration of climate
conditions, the steep increase in oil and commodity prices and the eruption of financial crises on a
global scale.



                                                  67
         Secondly, the new social covenant embodied in the recently created “National Council for the
attainment of the goals of the Revolution, political reform and democratic transition” will inevitably
foster a climate of mutual trust, active consultation, constructive dialogue and effective participation of
influential members of society in the decision-making process and strengthen the Government’s
unshakeable determination to have a successful transitional period and prepare the next stage so as to
allow Tunisia to join the ranks of democratic and emergent countries and win the confidence of the
international community.

        Thirdly, Tunisia always counts on it partners to support the Tunisian people in their efforts to
achieve democratic transition and their aspirations for a better economic and social future.

         The consistently fruitful cooperation with Tunisia’s partners should continue in the current
situation, characterized by numerous financial constraints for which the Government hopes to achieve
rapid and substantial support in the form of a rapid disbursement operation for an amount equivalent to
USD 500 million.

        This pressing need for external resources is due, in these exceptional circumstances
confronting Tunisia, to the crucial need, firstly, to create conditions conducive to democratic transition
and particularly to the smooth conduct of elections to the Constituent Assembly and, secondly, to
support the recovery program initiated by the Government, which has already started and which
should pick up speed soon following enactment of the supplementary budget law.

         In addition to short-term supportive actions, a number of areas for study and of proposals for
reform have been identified for possible incorporation in the medium term in the goal of strengthening
the structural reform process already launched and solidifying the foundations of a political and
economic structure that is sound, free and sufficiently open to best practices and new requirements at
the global level. This is especially true of efforts to consolidate good governance, which require cross-
cutting analyses and reforms in the medium term in essential areas such as justice reform, anti-
corruption measures, decentralization and regionalization, government finance reform, and
transparency and accountability at all levels of the administration and of public service providers.
These essential reforms, which will be the responsibility of the next elected constituent assembly, will
cement the transition process and the reforms introduced under this program.

         The program, designed in collaboration with the World Bank, the African Development Bank,
the European Union and the Agence française de développement, will give more support to the
institutional framework at the political, economic and social levels, by strengthening good governance
and the regulatory framework governing the business climate, additional job creation and regional
development as well as strengthening of social areas.

       On this basis, the program has four main pillars: governance, employment and regional
development, the financial sector and the social sectors.

I.      Governance

         The aim of good governance is to make government actions more effective and responsive to
society and the general welfare by improving transparency, ensuring healthy competition, and limiting
discretionary practices and arbitrary and selective decisions. This approach supports the private sector
by ensuring respect for property rights, protecting investors, fostering a better business environment,
boosting economic growth, and consolidating the progress already made.

        The agreed reforms in this area focus on:



                                                    68
1.       Promulgation of a Decree-Law amending the Associations Act in order to consolidate
the transition by removing the main discretionary clauses of the law and the restrictions to the
creation and operation of associations by, in particular, the replacement of the system of the
current de facto authorization system by the Ministry of Interior with a declarative system, the
removal of the existing classification of associations, and deletion of the provisions restricting
the freedom to accept or reject members. A draft decree-law has been prepared by the “High
Commission for the Fulfillment of the Revolutionary Goals, Political Reform, and Democratic
Transition” which is in charge of these matters. As soon as the High Instance has approved it,
the Government commits to promulgate said decree-law without any delay. We anticipate that
this process will be concluded before the upcoming elections of the Constituent Assembly.

In the medium term, a more exhaustive review of the legal and regulatory framework of
associations and related laws, such as the Penal Code and the security laws, will be carried out
on the basis of a process of consultation with all the key players in society.

2.       Promulgation of a Decree-Law institutionalizing citizens' access to the administrative
documents of government agencies, in accordance with best international practices and norms
in this area.

The new regulatory framework will spell out the principles governing access to this type of
information, the main categories of information to be issued by the Interim Government
(including on the Internet), the objective criteria for exclusion (personal data, security, etc.),
and a clear procedure for gaining access to information.

The reform will focus, first, on the dissemination of key information in the economic and
statistical fields, public finances, administrative bodies, and social services and programs. The
information issued will gradually include detailed, qualitative data on the budget and public
finance, sectoral statistics, and the economic, social, and monetary policies of the State.

A comprehensive law on freedom of information will be drafted in the medium term. It will
include important matters such as the implementation of an adequate institutional structure.

3.       Authorization to publish the complete annual reports of the Court of Audit for the
past five years.

4.      Introduction of a guidebook describing the technical and methodological
specifications for encouraging citizen participation in government decisions through
mechanisms designed to take advantage of information and communications technologies.

5.      Promulgation of a Decree amending the regulations governing public procurement,
with a view to enhancing the effectiveness and transparency of bidding procedures so as to
shorten the decision-making process without compromising quality. The main modifications
will improve the efficiency of the entire procurement cycle by reducing delays and revising
the terms of reference of the High Commission on Procurement, while ensuring the
transparency, accountability, and regularity of procedures. Meanwhile, a thorough review will
be conducted jointly by the donors and the Interim Government with a view to the
forthcoming structural reform of the procurement system.

6.      Issue of a Circular from the Prime Minister institutionalizing and initiating a systemic,
participatory, measurable and visible revision of procedures and administrative authorizations
in key sectors and services for enterprises and citizens in order to simplify these procedures
and limit discretionary and arbitrary enforcement of rules.


                                            69
        This reform process will continue to foster the streamlining of administrative formalities and
        procedures, with input from users, and on the basis of strategic objectives and clear criteria
        (legal coherence, need, cost-efficiency, and discretion), according to a predetermined
        timetable. The reform will concentrate on essential sectors, such as tourism and finance –
        including customs regulations and taxes -- in order to build confidence and boost investment
        and employment.

        It is important to remember at this point that Tunisia has been engaged for more than a decade
        in a program geared to modernizing government administration, an effort that has made some
        inroads in terms of eliminating many administrative authorization requirements and replacing
        them with specifications, computerized management, and simplified procedures. This new
        initiative will help consolidate and spread the results already obtained.

        7.      Modification of the Charter for Internet Domain Names, following open consultations
        with the private sector and civil society.

II.     Financial sector

        The objectives of reform in the financial sector are to reinforce good governance, reestablish
confidence in the banking sector and make it more stable, and develop microcredit and venture capital
mechanisms, which will promote the consolidation of a modern, liberal, and efficient financial system
and stimulate the recovery of investment, thereby ensuring strong, sustainable economic growth.

        The reform measures are centered on:

        1.      The preparation, in collaboration with financial professionals, of a regulatory
        framework to govern the organization and supervision of micro-finance. This framework will
        have a general component covering, among other things, the definition of service providers,
        consumer protection, and participation in a credit bureau, and a security component that will
        provide quantitative and qualitative rules.

        2.      Promulgation, in cooperation with professionals, of a Circular setting out the rules of
        good governance for credit establishments based on best international practices, together with
        a refined legal and regulatory framework, so as to introduce criteria for selecting managers
        and administrators.

        3.       Strengthening the capacities of the Central Bank of Tunisia to manage and analyze
        credit risks (bank stress tests) in order to ensure the stability of the banking sector.

        4.      Preparation, in collaboration with professionals, of an amendment to the Act on
        Private Equity in Tunisia, with a view to expanding and streamlining the catalog of
        investments, easing the tax burden, and extending the length of investments.

III.    Employment and regional development

         The anticipated reforms in this area are intended to strengthen the mechanisms for creating
paid employment or self-employment, enhance employability, and develop prospects for those
entering the job market, in particular young graduates of higher education in the more disadvantaged
interior regions of the country. Likewise, the Interim Government plans to take steps to improve the
equitable distribution of wealth between the various regions of the country in accordance with the
objectives of the Revolution.

        These steps will include:

                                                  70
        1.       Adoption of a Decree-Law to transfer the management of the National Employment
        Fund (Fund 21/21) to the Ministry of Vocational Training and Employment; a financial audit;
        and development of a monitoring and evaluation system for employment programs financed
        by this Fund.

        2.     Promulgation of a Decree for the design and creation of a comprehensive job-seeking
        program for young graduates and support for temporary jobs for unskilled workers, together
        with improving the employability of graduates of vocational training courses (AMAL
        program).

        3.      Adoption, by Decree, of temporary job protection measures for at-risk jobs; these
        measures would help enterprises by providing, for example, targeted subsidies to cover short-
        term debt servicing, or tax incentives based on the number of jobs to be protected and the
        sustainability of the beneficiary enterprises.

        4.       Emergency transfer mechanisms for local governments to compensate for regional
        imbalances and help offset the loss of revenue and damages to public property suffered during
        the Revolution, so that suspended investment projects can be resumed and new ones launched.
        The Tunisian People’s Revolution, which was triggered by a social movement in the interior
        of the country, brought to light the regional disparities that exist. Like any revolution, it
        resulted in material damage which has affected, among other things, local governments. Their
        resources have been significantly reduced, and this in turn has limited their ability to carry out
        their functions.

        For the time being, one of the highest priorities must be to allocate funds for the operational
        budgets of local governments on the basis of objective socioeconomic criteria and to set up
        special priority delegations to replace municipal councils.

IV.     Social sectors

        The purpose of the program is to strengthen the institutional framework for providing basic
public services, social transfer mechanisms, and assistance programs for households in need and for
the disadvantaged regions of Tunisia, using a participatory, targeted, and efficient approach.

        The primary measures to be taken in this area are:

        1.      Issue a Circular establishing a mechanism to enable citizens’ committees to monitor
        and evaluate the performance of public services, giving priority to the health, education, social
        protection, and administration sectors.

        2.       Issue a Circular establishing a program to provide a package of social services in the
        health, education, and social protection sectors, including a system of periodic evaluation in
        order to overcome geographical obstacles to access to public services in the disadvantaged
        regions (maternal and child care, preventive care, and regular follow-up visits by social
        workers to vulnerable families).

        3.       Issue a Circular for the establishment of a transparent, rational mechanism for the
        management of drugs in order to monitor their availability, in particular in the disadvantaged
        regions.

        4.      Issue a Circular establishing eligibility criteria and weighting methods for social
        assistance programs targeting needy families (such as the National Program of Aid to Needy

                                                   71
        Families (PAFN)), and new assistance programs for persons who have been repatriated from
        Libya, combining exit strategies with mechanisms to ensure transparency.

        5.      Launch a financial and technical audit of the National Solidarity Fund (Fund 26-26)
        and assessment of its impact.

        In conclusion, the Tunisian Interim Government attaches particular importance to this support
program during the current transitional phase, which will require additional efforts in terms of
technical assistance, together with increased cooperation from Tunisia's partners, in order to sustain
the process of democratization, maintain social stability, and promote economic development. It will
be much easier to meet these objectives if the request for a rapid disbursement operation is accepted by
the World Bank.



                                                                  The Minister of Planning
                                                                  and International Cooperation

                                                                  Signed: Abdelhamid TRIKI




                                                  72
                                                     ANNEX 2: POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL REFORMS MATRIX

Development               Policy and Institutional Reforms                                                        Expected Results                                                Medium Term Agenda
Objective
                                                                       Indicator                              Baseline (2010)                    Target

                                                                                     FIRST PILLAR: GOVERNANCE
Support policy debate     Prior Action 1. The Interim President of     Number of statistical surveys that     Number of statistical data and     1. Anonymize and publish at      Adoption of a Freedom of
by allowing greater       the Republic has signed the Decree-Law       are anynomized, published and          surveys that are opened to         least the following surveys:     Information law, which will
public access to          on the access to administrative              open to public access                  public access:                                                      enable the dissemination of
government                documents of public bodies, which                                                                                      (i)Labor Force Surveys= 2        disaggregated socio-
information               defines the principles and rules                                                    LFS=0                              (years 2007 and 2009)            economic statistics and
(including statistical    governing the right to information by the    Number of detailed national            Households Surveys=0               (ii) Household Surveys: 2        survey micro data.
data).                    public and the right to access information   account statistics published                                              (years 1999 and 2005)
                          held by public bodies by the public, and
                          which among others removes key                                                                                         2. Publish the following data:
                          constraints to access to economic and
                                                                                                                                                 (i) the detailed national
                          social statistics by the public.
                                                                                                                                                 accounts (400 products);

Establish a more          Prior Action 2. The President of the         Number of “.tn” Domain Names           8,000                              Ten-fold increase in the         Continue the liberalization
liberal environment       National Telecommunications Council                                                                                    number of “.tn” domain names,    of the Information and
for the registration of   (Instance Nationale des                                                                                                to 80,000                        Communications
Internet Domain           Telecommunications) has issued a                                                                                                                        Technologies Sector as an
Names, by reducing        resolution approved by the Council                                                                                                                      enabler of good governance
the administrative        modifying the “domain names charter”                                                                                                                    and socio-economic
procedures and            for the hosting of Internet websites, to                                                                                                                development.
increasing the            simplify the procedures for the
competition among         registration and hosting of Internet
registrars of Domain      websites.
Names

Improve the               Prior Action 3. The Interim President of     (i) Average time needed to award       (i) The average of the duration    (i) Decrease by 50 % the         Achieve more effective and
efficiency and            the Republic has signed the Decree           a contract                             of contract award process =312     average of the duration of       timely public expenditures
transparency of           amending Decree N° 2002-3158, dated                                                 days                               contract award process (from     and investment and thereby
procurement               December 17, 2002, regarding the             (ii) Number of contracts subject to                                       transmission of the draft        better quality of public
procedures and            regulations for public procurement, to       more than one stage process            (ii) The percentage of contracts   bidding document to the          services.
shorten the decision      reduce the procurement processing time                                              subject to more than one stage     concerned committee to
                                                                       (iii) share of contract awards         process = 100 %
process.                  while ensuring transparency and              UNISIA published on the website                                           signing date of contract)
                          compliance with the regulations.             of the Observatoire National des       (iii) share of contract awards     (ii) Reduce by 75 % the
                                                                       Marchés Publics                        (competitive/limited bidding       percentage of contracts not
                                                                                                              and direct contracting)            subject to one stage bidding
                                                                                                              published on the web site of       process (one stage:
                                                                                                              the Observatoire National des      simultaneous submission of
                                                                                                              Marchés Publics= 0%                technical and financial



                                                                                                             73
                                                                                                                                                  bids).(iii) share of contract
                                                                                                                                                  awards (competitive/limited
                                                                                                                                                  bidding and direct contracting)
                                                                                                                                                  published on the web site of
                                                                                                                                                  the Observatoire National des
                                                                                                                                                  Marchés Publics= 100%

Improve                Prior Action 4. The Prime Minister has        (i) For each of the administrative       Baseline will be determined upon    (i) For each of the                   Improved administrative
administrative         issued a Circular (i) institutionalizing a    procedures identified in the areas       launching the review for each       administrative procedures             services to citizens and firms,
services to citizens   systematic and participatory reform           of customs, trade, tourism, taxes,       selected procedure in customs,      identified:                           less discretion, increased
and strengthen         process of services to businesses and         social affairs and the employment        taxes, trade and tourism and        - Reduction by 20% of                 transparency and
private sector         citizens, based on streamlining of            administrations (at least one each):     social affairs.                     compliance time with selected         accountability, and simplified
development by         procedures, e-government, transparency,       - Quantitative estimate of                                                   procedures in customs, taxes,         procedures.
improving its          and reduction of arbitrary and                compliance time: number of steps                                             tourism, trade and social affairs
regulatory             discretionary behaviors; and (ii)             and number of days for each step                                             - Reduction by 20% of
environment.           committing to deliver concrete reforms        of interaction with the                                                      compliance costs with selected
                       within six months, in the priority areas of   administration.                                                              procedures in customs, taxes,
                       customs, taxes, and tourism.                  - Quantitative proxy for the cost of                                         tourism, trade and social
                                                                     compliance: direct costs (fees and                                           affairs.
                                                                     payments) and opportunity costs
                                                                     (related to time it takes to complete                                        (ii) Procedures, decision criteria,
                                                                     the procedure)                                                               decision processes are publicly
                                                                                                                                                  available. Perception survey
                                                                     (ii) Proxy of the extent to which                                            shows substantial reduction
                                                                     regulation is prone to discretion                                            with discretion and arbitrariness
                                                                     and arbitrariness.                                                           in customs, taxes, trade, tourism
                                                                                                                                                  and social affairs administration

                                                               SECOND PILLAR: EMPLOYMENT AND REGIONAL DISPARITIES
Improve                Prior Action 5. The Interim President of      (i) Number of programs financed          ONEQ (i) Number of programs         (i) Number of programs                Increased use of evidence-
accountability and     the Republic has issued Decree-Law N°         by the Fund assessed through an          financed by the Fund assessed       financed by the Fund that have        based policymaking in
governance of          16/2011, dated March 26, 2011,                impact evaluation                        through an impact evaluation =      rolled-out an impact evaluation       matters related to
employment             amending Law N°101/1999 dated                                                          0                                   = 2 ( AMAL and AMAL 2);               employment programs.
programs financed by   December 31, 1999, regarding the budget
the National           law for 2000, to transfer management of       (ii) number of employment                ANETI / ONEQ: (ii)                  (ii) Employment programs
Employment Funds.      the National Employment Fund from the         programs financed by the Fund            Employment programs                 financed by the Fund have
                       Presidency of the Republic to the             that have a baseline indicators for      financed by the Fund that have      initiated data collection for
                       Ministry of Employment and Vocational         insertion rate and cost of insertion     baseline indicators for insertion   production of baseline
                       Training.                                                                              rate and cost of insertion = 0      indicators for insertion rates
                                                                                                                                                  and cost of insertion.

Enhance                Prior Action 6. The Interim President of      Indicators related to AMAL 1: (i)        ANETI: (i) Number of AMAL           (i) 10,000 beneficiaries;             Reform/design ALMPs
employability and      the Republic has signed the Decree            provision of basic training              1 beneficiaries who receive the                                           based on evidence from
promote insertion      creating (i) a comprehensive active labor     package; (ii) beneficiaries of paid      introductory two-day basic                                                careful impact evaluations
into permanent         market program for high-skilled               internships.                             training package (phase 1) =0                                             and pilots.
employment for high-   unemployed, and (ii) a program to
skilled youth.         support short-term employment of low-                                                  ANETI: (ii) Number of               (ii) 50,000




                                                                                                             74
(AMAL 1)                 skilled workers and improving the                                                  AMAL1 beneficiaries who
                         employability of graduates from                                                    have been enrolled into a paid
                         vocational training program.                                                       internship.

Provide a safety net                                                                                        MFPE: (iii) Number of            (iii) 1,000 beneficiaries        Reform/design ALMPs to
program (public                                                        Indicators related to AMAL 2: (i)    AMAL2 public works                                                promote non-governmental
works plus) targeted                                                   provision of additional              beneficiaries who received                                        participation and to address
to low-skilled long-                                                   employment services to               training = 0                                                      the needs of the most
term unemployed that                                                   beneficiaries; (ii) non-                                                                               vulnerable segments of the
(i) promotes local                                                     governmental participation,          MFPE: (iv) Number of             (iv) 100 projects                population.
participation of                                                                                            AMAL2 projects that have
NGOs and (ii)                                                                                               been implemented through
provides some basic                                                                                         partnerships with NGOs = 0
employment services
aiming to enhance
the employability of
participants. (AMAL
2)

                                                                                 THIRD PILLAR: FINANCIAL SECTOR
Improve banks            Prior Action 7. The Governor of Central        (i) Increased number of             (i) 2 banks have an              (i) All banks have at least 2    This measure is expected to
corporate governance     Bank has issued a Circular setting forth      independent board members in         independent board member.        independent board members.       lead to i) a rebalance of the
practices and            good corporate governance rules for           private and state owned banks                                                                          entrepreneurial mindset of
introduce criteria for   credit institutions based on international                                         (ii) Head of internal audit is   (ii) 100% banks’ head of audit   the boards toward risk/return
selecting officers,      best practices and introducing criteria for   (ii) Improved independence of the    hired, fired, promoted and       are hired, fired, promoted and   considerations in order to
directors and            the selection of senior management and        internal audit function in banks     remunerated by the CEO (50%)     remunerated by the Audit         ensure that the banks are
shareholders of          members of the board, whose                                                        or senior management (33%)       Committees                       managed in a safe and sound
banks.                   implementation will be verified inter alia    (iii) Improved risk management                                                                         manner, ii) more
                         through an annual regulatory survey on        function access to boards            (iii) Less than 20% of the       (iii)All banks implement         transparency.
                         the internal control systems and the                                               banks have independent           independent reporting lines
                         corporate governance of the credit                                                 reporting lines from the risk    from the risk function to the    This measure will contribute
                         institutions, conducted by the Central                                             function to the board.           board.                           to improved performance of
                         Bank.                                                                                                                                                the banking sector, and
                                                                                                                                                                              increased impact of the
                                                                                                                                                                              sector contribution to
                                                                                                                                                                              economic growth and
                                                                                                                                                                              development.



                                                                                 FOURTH PILLAR: SOCIAL SECTORS
Allow citizens to rate   Prior Action 8. The Prime Minister has        Participatory Monitoring User and    (i) Number of regions where at   (i) Number of regions where at   Improve performance
performance by           issued a Circular establishing a              Provider assessments                 least one local-level public     least one local-level public     monitoring and
establishing a           participatory process for the systematic                                           facility has conducted a         facility has conducted a         accountability for
mechanism of regular     monitoring of the performance of public                                            participatory monitoring         participatory monitoring         strengthening the delivery of
monitoring and           services by civil society, citizens and                                            user/provider assessment and     user/provider assessment and




                                                                                                           75
evaluation by third     service providers, notably for the social                                      publicly disseminated the         publicly disseminated the         public services.
parties of selected     sectors, aimed at improving the                                                findings and improvement          findings and improvement
social programs and     performance of such services.                                                  strategies = 0;                   strategies increases by 25%.
public services                                                                                                                          (6 regions of 24 regions)
                                                                                                       (ii) Number of regions for
                                                                                                       which the government has          (ii) Number of regions for
                                                                                                       published social sector           which the government has
                                                                                                       expenditure and outcomes          published social sector
                                                                                                       indicators: health (primary       expenditure and outcomes
                                                                                                       health care and outcomes,         indicators: health (primary
                                                                                                       including prenatal care and       health care and outcomes,
                                                                                                       maternal mortality), education    including prenatal care and
                                                                                                       (PISA and TIMSS data) and         maternal mortality), education
                                                                                                       social assistance data            (PISA and TIMSS data) and
                                                                                                       (beneficiary demographics) = 0    social assistance data
                                                                                                                                         (beneficiary demographics) (24
                                                                                                       (iii) number of regions that      of 24 regions);
                                                                                                       have publicly disseminated
                                                                                                       participatory monitoring           (iii) Number of regions that
                                                                                                       operational guidelines = 0        have publicly disseminated
                                                                                                                                         participatory monitoring of
                                                                                                                                         service delivery
                                                                                                                                         guidelines=100%
                                                                                                                                         (24 of 24 regions)
Introduce a national    Prior Action 9. The Prime Minister has      (i) Number of regions that have    (i) Number of regions that have   (i) Number of regions that have   Improve the quantity and
outreach services       issued a Circular creating outreach         published performance standards    published performance             published performance             quality of basic health
policy to expand free   services in underserved regions based on    for community-based health and     standards for community-based     standards for community-based     service delivery, and thereby
access to care in       a participatory approach, comprising the    social workers.                    health workers =0                 health workers increases by       also improve health outcome
underserved             provision of a basic package of health,                                                                          100% (24 of 24)                   indicators (notably MMR) in
governorates for        education and social protection services.   (ii) Number of regions with        (ii) Number of regions with                                         remote areas.
health services                                                     community health and social        community health and social       ii) Number of regions with
provided outside of                                                 teams trained and operating        teams trained and operating =0    community health and social
traditional fixed                                                                                                                        teams trained and operating
facilities                                                                                                                               increases by 25% (6 out of 24)




                                                                                                      76
                 ANNEX 3: GOVERNMENT POLICY REFORMS MATRIX
              (JOINTLY SUPPORTED BY WORLD BANK, AfDB, EU and AFD)


GOVERNANCE:
1. Revise the Law on Associations to address the major discretionary clauses and remove restrictions to
the establishment and operation of associations.
2. Adopt a decree on public access to information (including survey data) held by government.
3. Revise the Public Procurement Code to improve efficiency and transparency without compromising
quality.
4. Launch a systematic, participatory, measurable and transparent review of procedures and administrative
permits in key areas /services for businesses and citizens.
5. Authorize the publication of annual reports of the Court of Auditors.
6. Modify the naming policy for hosting websites and eliminate the requirement that the host is an Internet
Service Provider (ISP) to grant the opportunity to set up internet sites to any individuals meeting basic
criteria.
7. Adopt an Orientation Guide to provide technical and methodological guidance to Ministries in setting
up citizen participation mechanisms through ICT (facebook, online surveys etc.).

FINANCIAL SECTOR:
8. Adopt a new law to regulate and supervise the micro-finance industry.
9. Adopt a circular of good corporate governance for banks to improve the legal and regulatory
framework, including the introduction of criteria for the selection senior management and board members.
10. Strengthen the capacity for monitoring financial sector stability, including by carrying out detailed
stress tests of banks.
11. Adopt legislation to boost the venture capital industry in Tunisia in all its segments.

EMPLOYMENT AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT:
12. Adopt a decree to transfer the management of the National Fund for Employment (Fund 21/21) to the
Ministry of Employment Vocational Training and launch a financial and performance audit of Fund 21/21.
13. Adopt a decree to design and implement (i) a comprehensive program of active job search for high-
skilled unemployed (Amal 1), and (ii) improve employability and prospects for integration into working
life of low-skilled job-seekers (Amal 2).
14. Adopt a set of economic measures to protect jobs at risk by supporting companies, including by
providing targeted support through grants to cover costs of short-term debt of businesses and tax breaks
based the volume of jobs.
15. Establish procedures for emergency transfers to the governorates in order to rectify the disparity from
regional socio-economic criteria and clarify the mode of appointment and criteria for eligibility of special
delegates to replace municipal councils.

SOCIAL SECTORS:
16. Establish a citizens monitoring mechanism for evaluating performance of selected public services on a
systematic basis (in health, education, and social protection).
17. Establish a program to provide a minimum package of public services (e.g. for prenatal care, childbirth
assistance, and regular monitoring visits by social workers to vulnerable families) in underserved areas.
18. Establish a mechanism to monitor the supply chain and improve the availability of medicines to
underserved areas.
19. Establishing eligibility and targeting criteria for social protection programs also integrating the
                                                     77
modalities of monitoring participation and monitoring by citizens.
20. Launch a financial and technical audit of the National Solidarity Fund (Fund 26/26).




                                                    78
                                  ANNEX 4: FUND RELATIONS NOTE

     Tunisia—Assessment Letter for the World Bank and the African Development Bank
                      Macroeconomic Performance and Policies54
                                                   April 27, 2011

Tunisia entered the recent political and social turmoil from a relatively solid
macroeconomic position, although unemployment remained high.
The Tunisian economy experienced a gradual growth recovery and inflation remained
moderate during 2010. Real GDP grew at 3.7 percent in 2010, supported by a rebound in
domestic and external demand. Owing to imports recovering at a faster pace than exports,
Tunisia’s external position deteriorated, with the current account deficit widening to
4.8 percent of GDP. Reflecting the authorities’ fiscal consolidation efforts, the fiscal deficit
was reduced to 1.3 percent of GDP in 2010 and public debt continued to decline to about
40 percent of GDP. Financial sector indicators improved during the past few years but the
banking sector remained weak. Tunisia registered a relatively strong macroeconomic
performance in the past few years and the strongest growth in real GDP per capita in the
region. However, unemployment remained high (at 13 percent), especially among young
graduates. In addition, economic gains were not widely and fairly shared, which prevented
Tunisia to achieve its full potential and further improve the welfare of its entire population.
While the short-term outlook will be challenging, the medium-term prospects for economic
growth in Tunisia are potentially very favorable.

Economic activity was significantly disrupted during the political and social turmoil.
Industrial production declined by 12 percent in January-February, and tourism receipts by
43 percent in January-March. External reserves declined from $9.5 billion at end-
December 2010 to about $8.5 billion (4.1 months of imports) in April 2011, and the stock
exchange stabilized at about 15 percent below its end-2010 level. Inflation continued to
decelerate to 2.9 percent in March (y-o-y), reflecting weaker domestic demand and measures
taken to reduce the prices of certain staple commodities. While the internal economic and
social situation is stabilizing, the conflict in Libya has put bilateral trade and tourism on hold
(Libya is the main trading partner outside the EU, representing 5 percent of Tunisian exports
and 10 percent of tourism receipts) and about 35,000 Tunisians working in Libya have
reportedly returned to Tunisia (about 1 percent of Tunisia’s labor force). The main rating
agencies have downgraded Tunisia’s credit rating, which, however, remains in the
investment-grade category.

The recent turmoil and remaining uncertainties, coupled with exogenous shocks, are
expected to have significant negative repercussions on the Tunisian economy in 2011.
Owing to the uncertainties related to the political transition until the upcoming elections,
compounded by the direct and indirect impact of the ongoing conflict in Libya, tourism and
FDI—and to a lesser extent exports and remittances—are expected to decline significantly.
With banks facing liquidity constraints, domestic investment could also decrease. Under a

54
   This assessment reflects the conclusions of a technical IMF mission which visited Tunis during March 16-25, 2011. The
last Article IV consultation was concluded in August 2010.

                                                           79
baseline scenario in which tourism receipts would decline by 40 percent and FDI inflows by
20 percent, real GDP growth would significantly slow down to less than ½ percent in 2011,
reflecting the negative spillovers of the contraction in tourism activity on other sectors of the
economy. The fiscal stimulus envisaged by the authorities, amounting to about 3.4 percent of
GDP, would help to partially mitigate the impact of the exogenous shocks and could bring
real growth up to about 1½ percent this year. Nevertheless, with lower growth and the return
of Tunisian workers from Libya, unemployment could increase substantially this year. With
lower domestic demand and subsidies for basic food and energy products, inflation would
remain moderate at 4 percent. Owing to the drop in external receipts, coupled with high
international food and fuel prices, the current account deficit would deteriorate significantly
to just under 8 percent. Depending on the external financing that the authorities will receive,
official reserves could decline further during the remainder of the year.

The short-term economic outlook for Tunisia is subject to uncertainties and downside
risks. Key downside risks to the outlook include uncertainties surrounding the political
transition and the duration of the crisis in Libya, which could weigh on tourism and FDI even
more than anticipated, possibly resulting in negative growth. Furthermore, the Tunisian
government could face capacity and financing constraints for implementing the envisaged
fiscal stimulus package thus weakening the short-term growth outlook. On the upside, tourism
could recover more quickly than anticipated, other sectors, such as agriculture and energy
could contribute to higher growth, and higher external financing would bolster reserves and
provide more fiscal space.

Against this challenging backdrop, IMF staff supports the planned fiscal expansion in
the short-term, tailored to address social demands, enhance job creation and provide
support to economic growth, while preserving medium-term fiscal sustainability. The
interim-government has provided some relief measures for households and corporations
directly affected by the turmoil during the revolution. Furthermore, social measures targeting
poor families and unemployed graduates were introduced. The coverage of social transfers to
poor families was broadened and an unemployment program for young graduates was put in
place. Subsidies for basic food and energy products to all households are expected to almost
double to offset the increases in international market commodity prices. Moreover, a large
economic and social support plan (about 2 percent of GDP) targeting in particular
underdeveloped areas and unemployed youth is envisaged. As a result, the fiscal deficit would
widen to 4.8 percent of GDP, despite the mobilization of sizable nontax revenues.
Nevertheless, following the significant reduction achieved in the past years, public debt
would remain at a sustainable level of 43 percent. While trying to address pressing needs, it
will be important to avoid measures that could result in a sizable increase in the structural
budget deficit and weaken fiscal sustainability over the medium term. Furthermore,
mechanisms should be put in place to ensure that new social measures are well-targeted.

Mobilizing additional external financing, beyond resources currently identified, will be
key to cover budgetary financing needs and support the balance of payments. Under the
baseline scenario, Tunisia’s budgetary financing needs, reflecting the size of the budget
deficit and debt repayment commitments, are expected to reach $3.7 billion in 2011, about
8 percent of GDP. Given the deterioration in the current account and the decline in FDI the
external financing gap is expected to be $4.4 billion, about 9.5 percent of GDP Based on
current indications, the government could receive about $2 billion of external financing.

                                               80
Additional external resources will be critical for implementing the envisaged fiscal stimulus
without crowding out banking sector’s financing to the economy This would also help
maintain a level of official foreign exchange reserves (equivalent to about 3.7 months of
imports), appropriate to provide a buffer against further exogenous shocks and help preserve
credit growth.

IMF staff supports the authorities’ accommodative monetary policy to support adequate
credit to the economy, while retaining the flexibility to respond quickly to higher
inflation or pressure on the foreign exchange markets. In the aftermath of the crisis, the
Central Bank of Tunisia (BCT) has promptly intervened to support the banking sector by
providing increasing liquidity to the system, with the BCT’s funding reaching 48 percent of
banks’ capital in March 2011, and lowering the reserve requirement ratio from 12.5 to 5
percent in two steps. Given the growth and balance of payments outlook, IMF staff would
support a foreign exchange intervention policy that would be more guided by an objective for
external reserves and allow greater exchange rate flexibility.

While financial sector indicators improved during the past few years, the banking sector
remained weak and subject to vulnerabilities even before the expected economic
downturn. With 21 banks and net total assets of 82 percent of GDP, the banking system is
small and fragmented. The three largest and weakest banks are public and represent
37 percent of deposits. In 2010, credit growth was strong (20 percent), the loans-to-deposits
ratio rose to 115 percent, and liquidity became tight. At end-2010, the banking system
reported a capital adequacy ratio of 12 percent, and a ratio of nonperforming loans (NPLs)
above 12 percent, with a relatively low provisioning of 50-60 percent. Preliminary estimates
point to a need for recapitalization of banks at end-2010 of about 2 percent GDP to bring the
provisioning of NPLs to an adequate level.

The Tunisian banking sector is exposed to the risk of rising NPLs and liquidity
constraints due to possible losses from the economic downturn. The banks’ portfolio is
likely to deteriorate in 2011 in the context of the economic downturn, especially for banks
most exposed to sectors being affected such as tourism and businesses with strong links with
Libya. IMF staff recommends that the Tunisian authorities strengthen their contingency plan
for the financial sector focusing on two areas: (a) introducing a higher frequency monitoring
of banks’ liquidity position; and (b) carrying out an in-depth diagnostic of the situation of the
banking system (including audits, stress tests, and stepping up onsite supervision to track
closely banks’ solvency). Moreover, the issue of how to preserve the stability of the financial
sector in the context of the economic downturn will need to be further considered. At a later
stage, a plan should be developed to restructure and recapitalize some banks in needs. Fiscal
financing needs and public sector debt could be significantly larger than under the baseline
scenario if the authorities decided to recapitalize some of the banks or assume the costs of the
recently introduced debtor relief program.

While the BCT introduced a debt rescheduling program in mid-April, the program
should be better ring-fenced. The BCT authorized banks to reschedule all loan servicing
falling due in 2011 for companies affected by the turmoil and the economic downturn. It also
lifted the obligation that banks classify these rescheduled loans so as to be able to extend its
refinancing against such loans that could have been classified otherwise. IMF staff
recommends to mitigate some risks attached to this measure by: (a) stipulating stringent

                                               81
eligibility criteria to avoid that borrowers who are currently servicing their debt decide to stop
repaying their loans and benefit from the rescheduling program, as no penalty would be
attached in case of payment arrears; (b) rigorously keeping track of the quality of loans and of
actual repayments during this period; and (c) protecting the BCT balance sheet by keeping
high standards for eligibility for refinancing operations.

While the short-term outlook will be challenging, the medium-term prospects for
economic growth in Tunisia are potentially very favorable if it can capitalize on its
strengths and remove obstacles to private sector investment. Assuming continued
appropriate macroeconomic policies, improved governance and transparency in the economy
could lead to a more efficient allocation of resources and to larger private investment.
Together with a well-educated workforce, this would contribute to enhancing potential
growth over the medium term and foster job-creation. Higher and more inclusive growth will
be critical to addressing over time the challenge of high unemployment, especially among
young graduates. The transition government, including with the reform measures supported
by the Development Policy Loans to be extended by the World Bank and the African
Development Bank, is aiming at laying the ground for Tunisia to achieve this greater potential
in a socially equitable way. The support of the international community would contribute to
the success of this strategy.




                                               82
                                   Tunisia: Selected Economic Indicators, 2007–12
                                                     (Quota: SDR 286.5 million)
                                                   (Population: 10.5 million; 2010)
                                                   (Per capita GDP: $4,200; 2010)
                                                  (Poverty rate: 3.8 percent; 2005)
                         (Main export: textiles, electronic and mechanical goods, energy, tourism; 2009)

                                                                   2007       2008       2009       2010      2011    2012

Output and Prices
  Real GDP (market price)                                            6.3        4.5        3.1        3.7       1.3     5.6
  Consumer prices (end of period)                                    5.1        4.0        4.0        4.1       4.0     3.3
  Consumer prices (period average)                                   3.4        4.9        3.5        4.4       4.0     3.3

Investment and Saving
   Gross capital formation                                          23.8       25.9       24.8       26.4     27.3     26.8
    Of which: Nongovernment 1/                                      18.4       20.1       18.2       19.8     19.3     19.3
  Gross national savings                                            21.5       22.1       21.9       21.6     19.5     21.0
   Of which: Nongovernment 1/                                       18.8       17.1       17.9       16.2     15.8     16.7
Public Finances 2/
  Revenue (excluding grants and privatization)                      21.8       23.8       22.8       22.8     24.3     22.7
  Expenditure and net lending                                       24.5       24.8       25.8       24.2     29.1     26.2
  Budget balance (excluding grants and privatization)               -2.7       -1.0       -3.0       -1.3     -4.8     -3.5
  Budget balance (including grants)                                 -2.6       -0.7       -2.7       -1.2     -4.5     -3.3
  Primary balance (including grants)                                -0.2        1.4       -0.7        0.6     -2.8     -1.9
  Total government debt                                             45.9       43.3       42.9       40.4     42.8     42.8
Monetary Sector
 Credit to the economy                                               9.7       14.0       10.3       19.0       3.6     9.3
  Base money                                                        15.3       26.6       12.9        4.9       2.1     4.2
  Broad money                                                       12.5       14.4       13.0       11.1       6.8     8.0
  Velocity of broad money                                            1.7        1.6        1.5        1.5       1.5     1.5
  One-year treasury bill rate (period average,
    in percent)                                                      5.5        5.4        4.8        4.4       …       …
External Sector
  Exports of goods (in US$, percentage change)                      29.6       26.6      -24.8       14.0       9.2     8.3
  Imports of goods (in US$, percentage change)                      26.9       28.7      -22.5       16.8      11.4     9.4
  Merchandise trade balance                                         -7.4       -8.9       -8.2      -10.3     -11.7   -12.5
  Current account excluding official transfers                      -2.4       -3.8       -2.8       -4.8      -7.8    -5.8
  Current account including official transfers                      -1.9       -3.6       -2.5       -4.6      -7.6    -5.6
  Foreign direct investment                                          3.7        4.8        3.5        3.1       1.1     2.5
  Total external debt                                               49.3       48.8       48.1       48.7      49.9    48.3
  Gross reserves (in billions of U.S. dollars)                       7.9        9.0       10.6        9.5       7.7     7.0
     In months of next year imports of goods and services            5.0        4.4        6.7        5.1       3.7     3.1
     In percent of short-term external debt (on
        remaining maturity basis)                                  139.4     158.1       162.3     138.9     107.1     95.2
Memorandum Items:
  Nominal GDP (in US$ billions)                                     38.9       44.9       43.5       44.3     46.6     49.0
  Unemployment rate (in percent) 3/                                 12.4       12.6       13.3       13.0     14.7     14.4
  Net imports of petroleum products (in millions
    of U.S. dollars)                                             -106.8      676.8       112.6     337.7     332.0    170.6
  Local currency per U.S. dollar (period average)                   1.3        1.2         1.4       1.4        …        …
  Real effective exchange rate (annual average,
    percentage change)                                             -2.1        -1.0       -1.1      -1.1         …
  Stock market index 4/                                         2,614.1     2,892.4    4,291.7   5,112.5    4,394.8     …

  Sources: Tunisian authorities; and Fund staff estimates.
  1/   Includes public enterprises.
  2/   The fiscal year is the calendar year.
  3/   Based on the ILO definition of the labor force.
  4/   TUNINDEX (1000=12/31/1997). Latest data: 4/1/2011.




                                                              83
ANNEX 5: KEY FACTS ON THE STRUCTURE OF UNEMPLOYMENT IN TUNISIA

The majority of the unemployed in Tunisia is composed by young, low-skilled, male, urban
workers. According to data from the 2009 Labor Force Survey (LFS), the majority of all unemployed
individuals reside in urban areas (65 percent), are male (62 percent), between ages 15 and 34 (85
percent), and have at most completed secondary education (71 percent). These characteristics reflect
the demographics of the participation in the labor force.
Long-term unemployment is wide-spread. As much as 37 percent of the unemployed are out of
work for over 12 consecutive months, and 15 percent for over 24 months. Reflecting the structure of
unemployment, long-term unemployed are mainly young, low skilled, urban workers. The majority
long-term unemployment resides in urban areas (64 to 66 percent), is between the ages 15 and 34 (75
to 82 percent), and has attained at most secondary education (65 to 69 percent). Long-term
unemployment has been increasing rapidly in rural areas and among adults.
Unemployment rates are proportionally most severe for young graduates. Unemployment rates
vary substantially by level of age, level of schooling, gender, and by provinces. The unemployment is
highest for younger age groups, reaching close to 35 percent for the 15-19 age group, 29 percent for
individuals aged between 20-24, and 25 percent for the 25-29 age group. Unemployment rates are
particularly high among youth (15-29) who have attained tertiary education at approximately 44
percent and have been increasing drastically in recent years (from 34 percent in 2005). Unemployment
in 2009 was much higher for women (at 19 percent) than for men (at 12 percent). There is also a large
gender gap in labor force participation (92 percent for men and 48 percent for women). Interestingly
the gender gap reflects solely the very low participation of women non-graduates (i.e. there is almost
no gender gap amongst graduates). As a result of the large participation of female university
graduates, unemployment rate for graduates (at 20 percent) is much higher than for non-graduates (at
13 percent). There is also large variance in unemployment by province, ranging from around 10
percent in more developed provinces (Zaghouan, Tunis, Sfax, Monastir) to over 20 percent in interior
rural provinces at the border with Algeria (Jendouba, Gafsa, and Tataouine).
Whereas the unemployment rate for individuals without education or with primary education
only have been falling lately, that of university graduates has been increasing fast. The
unemployment rates for university graduates has increased steadily from 8 percent in 1999, to 13
percent in 2005, and to 20 percent in 2009, surpassing those for individuals with lower levels of
education. Furthermore, unemployment rates for this group are expected to worsen in the near future.
Assuming that the main economic and demographic trends observed between years 2005 and 2010
remain stable (i.e., a moderate rate of economic growth oscillating around 5 percent per year, an
increase in labor supply of graduates of approx 12 percent per year, and an increase in labor demand
for graduates of approx 8 percent per year), unemployment rates will continue to deteriorate rapidly in
the years to come and could reach 17 percent by 2014, and as much as 34 percent among university
graduates. This corresponds to a deficit of jobs for university graduates of approximately 27,000 jobs
per year during 2010 and 2014 (out of a total deficit of jobs of approx 34,000 per year). In addition to
graduates, unemployment rates have also been increasing rapidly among women, up from 15 percent
in 2005 to 19 percent in 2009. Among men, unemployment rates have actually decreased slightly over
the same period. In terms of geographical distribution, between 2005 and 2009 unemployment has
remained stable in urban areas at 13 percent, and has increased in rural areas from 13 to 15 percent.
The increase has affected predominantly rural regions with already high levels of unemployment in
2005 (mostly regions bordering with Algeria).
Young graduates not only face higher rates of unemployment but also have a higher probability
to remain unemployed for a long time (between 2 and 5 years). The average duration of
unemployment is much longer for university graduates than other job seekers: 28 months for
university graduates against 19 for non-graduates (LFS 2005). The share of all university graduates
who have being seeking employment for more than 12 and 24 consecutive months is high at 39

                                                  84
percent and 17 percent in 2009 respectively (but has been decreasing slightly since 2005). This is
compounded by the fact that non-graduates (especially men) tend to be more entrepreneurial that
graduates: 19 percent of non-graduates are self-employed versus only 5 percent for graduates, meaning
that most graduates prefer queuing for a salaried employment instead of creating a business. While a
proportion of university graduates now apply for lower skilled job positions (downgrading), those that
can afford it seem to disdain manual work and prefer queuing for a secure, well-paid job vacancy.




                                                 85
                        ANNEX 6: RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

Growth and Investment
Tunisia had started in 2010 to recover from the global crisis. GDP growth was 3.7 percent in
2010, up from 3.1 in 2009, which is still well below the 4.5 percent in 2008 and the average of the
previous decade. Reaping the benefits of the sound macroeconomic policies implemented in recent
years, the Tunisian authorities were able to loosen fiscal and monetary policies respond to the crisis
and mitigate the impact of the worsening international environment (which has been particularly acute
among Tunisia’s main trading partners in the European Union). Growth in 2010 was primarily driven
by the upturn in demand for manufacturing sector exports, especially mechanical and electrical goods,
phosphate and chemicals, and to lesser extent in textiles, but was mitigated by the weak performance
of the agricultural sector. Overall, exports of goods and services grew by 13 percent in 2010 (in real
terms), recovering from a drop of 8 percent in 2009. In addition to the resumption of international
trade, the growth recovery also benefited from the increase in domestic private investment, and the
growth in private and public consumption (by 4.3 and 4.4 percent, respectively).
Private investment was contributing to the rebound. Private investment suffered as a result of the
global economic slowdown, but this was partly compensated by an increase in public investment
programs. Private investment decreased in 2009 by almost 2 percent of GDP (18.2 percent from 20.1
percent of GDP in 2008). The reduction was entirely due to a drop in FDI which decreased from 5.7
percent of GDP in 2008 to 3.5 percent in 2009. This was only partly compensated by a proactive
public investment policy which saw public investment increase from 5.8 percent of GDP in 2008 to
6.6 percent in 2009, resulting in a reduction of just over 1 percent in total investment between 2008
and 2009. Private investment increased back to 19.8 percent in 2010 bringing total investment back to
pre-crisis levels. However, this has been driven by domestic private investment which increased from
14.8 of GDP in 2009 to 16.6 percent in 2010, while FDI remained at 3.2 in 2010 which is substantially
below pre-crisis levels.
Fiscal Policy
The authorities maintained a flexible fiscal stance to accompany the economic recovery. The
fiscal position improved markedly in 2010 as a result the incipient recovery. The initial 2010 budget
maintained a mildly expansionary fiscal stance to ensure that the ongoing economic recovery would
not be undermined by a withdrawal of the fiscal stimulus measures introduced in 2009.55 Nevertheless,
the budget deficit narrowed to 1.3 percent of GDP in 2010 (two percentage points smaller than
anticipated in the 2010 budget law), from 3 percent of GDP in 2009. The good fiscal performance was
due the better than anticipated revenue performance and lower than budgeted current and capital
expenditures.56 The food and fuel prices were relatively stable resulting into an unchanged envelope
for the cost of subsidy measures at approximately 2.2 percent of GDP in 2010.57 Development
expenditures stayed relatively high as a result of the fiscal stimulus plan adopted by the government to
mitigate the impact of the global crisis (mainly accelerating public investment projects and providing
direct support to businesses affected by the crisis). The 2010 budget deficit was fully funded on the

55
   Expenditures in 2009 were increased by a supplementary budget introduced at end-June 2009 to provide a further
economic stimulus in response to the global economic slowdown by earmarking approximately 1.4 percent of GDP (or
US$480 million).
56
   On the revenue side, tax revenues were conservatively estimated to remain constant in the budget, but budget execution
data for 2010 indicates they were approximately 1.2 percent of GDP above projections (a marginal increase in tax revenues
from 19.9 percent of GDP in 2009 to 20.0 percent in 2010), mainly due to good performance in direct taxes and VAT. On the
expenditure side, current and capital expenditures were below budgeted levels (by on 0.6 percentage points, which
corresponds to a reduction in expenditures by 1.4 percentage points compared to 2009).
57
   Public wages remain a major source of fiscal pressure in a context in which the wage bill represents 50 percent of current
expenditures. On the other hand, the authorities intended to control expenditures on food subsidies by setting a ceiling of
TND1500 million (approximately 0.8 percent of GDP) annually for the next 5 years, and to better target these expenditures
to the poorest and most vulnerable households.

                                                            86
internal market and from external official borrowing, as the authorities preferred to refrain from
accessing international capital markets in the context of the financial crisis and the uncertainties about
sovereign debt.58

Table A1. Fiscal Framework 2008-2013
                                                          2008         2009         2010      2011       2012        2013
                                                          Act.         Act.          Est.     Proj.      Proj.       Proj.
                                                                              (Percent of GDP)
Total Revenues and grants                                24.1        23.1        23.1    23.4         23.5            24.4
  Revenue                                                23.8        22.8        23.1    23.2         23.3            24.2
    Of which: Tax revenues                               20.5        19.9        20.1    19.3         20.3            21.4
Total expenditure and net lending                        24.8        25.8        24.4    28.2         27.4            27.0
  Current expenditure                                    19.0        18.1        18.1    20.6         20.5            20.4
    Total Transfers and Subsides                          5.0          3.7        3.6      4.4         4.2             4.2
    Wages and salaries                                   10.4        10.7        10.7    11.2         10.8            10.8
    Interest payments                                     2.1          2.0        1.7      1.5         1.6             1.6
  Capital expenditure                                     6.1          7.7        6.4      7.6         6.9             6.5
Domestic primary balance                                  1.1         -1.0        0.3     -3.2        -2.5            -1.1
Overall balance (excluding grants)                       -1.0         -3.0       -1.3     -4.8        -4.1            -2.7
Total financing                                           1.0          3.0        1.3      4.8         4.1             2.7
  External (net)                                          0.2          0.2       -0.3      0.2         0.5             0.6
  Domestic (net)                                          0.8          2.8        1.6      4.6         3.5             2.1
Memorandum items:
  Total external debt                                    49.2        49.9        47.4    45.7         44.9            43.2
  Public debt (as percent of GDP)                        43.3        43.4        40.4    43.6         43.8            43.5
              Domestic Debt                              16.9        17.6        15.9    18.1         20.0            21.2
              External Debt                              26.3        25.8        24.5    25.5         23.8            22.3
Sources: Tunisian Authorities, World Bank estimates; (Projections for 2012 and 2013 by World Bank staff).

Monetary Policy, Inflation and Exchange Rate
Inflation remained subdued at 4.5 percent in 2010. Consumer and producer price inflation slowed
down during 2009 and averaged 3.7 percent and 2.2 percent respectively, mainly as a result of a
decline in food prices and lower world prices for raw materials and semi-finished products. The
recovery in food prices, which started in the first half of 2010, together with the previously planned
annual increases in public-sector pay and the minimum wage (which led to an increase also in non-
agricultural private-sector wages by more than 4 percent), contributed to the acceleration of year-on-
year CPI to 5 percent in May 2010 leading to an average inflation of 4.5 percent in 2010. The increase
in inflation was however contained by an appropriate monetary policy and moderate price increases in
other sectors such as housing, transport, and services (nonfood CPI hovered around 3 percent).59
The Central Bank of Tunisia (BCT) had kept a flexible and prudent monetary stance during the
international financial crisis, initially easing liquidity and lowering interest rates, and
subsequently intervening to absorb excess liquidity and control inflationary pressures. The BCT
reduced the reserve requirements for all banks from January 2009, to ease credit flow and increase
liquidity in the banking system and also reduced its key policy rate by 75 basis points in February
2009 to 4.5 percent. It also increased the capital base of the Bank for Small and Medium Firms
(Banque de Financement des Petites et Moyennes Enterprises). Subsequently, the authorities
successfully tried to strike a balance between not undermining domestic demand and absorbing the
abundant liquidity. The BCT maintained a relatively tight monetary stance, intervening sporadically to

58
   In order to address financing needs without crowding out the private sector and without recourse to the international
capital markets, the government decided to significantly increase external official borrowing in 2009 and 2010.
59
   Tunisia has a good track record in prudent monetary policy and keeping inflation under control. The average CPI has been
hovering below 3.5 percent since the year 2000, except for a few short spells such as in mid-2008 where inflation reached 5.5
percent in July 2008 as a result of the food and fuel price spike.

                                                            87
absorb any excess liquidity in the banking system to contain inflationary pressures. This led to the
recent policy mix of keeping interest rates constant while gradually increasing back the reserves
requirements ratio. As liquidity was still abundant and credit growth was edging up in early 2010, the
BCT increased the reserve requirement ratio twice, from 7.5 percent to 10 percent in March 2010 and
then to 12.5 percent in May 2010. These actions, combined with a decline in foreign exchange
reserves, reduced excess liquidity in the banking system.
Balance of Payments
The current account deficit increased in 2010, reflecting deterioration in the trade balance and
stagnating services and income balance. The current account deficit decreased from 3.8 percent of
GDP in 2008 to 2.8 percent in 2009 mainly the result of the global economic slowdown (falling
commodity prices and imports of capital goods), but widened to 4.8 percent of GDP in 2010,
reflecting the re-launch of re-exports and capital goods sector (which has high import content).
Tunisia’s revenues from tourism and remittances from Tunisians abroad remained broadly stable in
2010.
Financial and capital inflows were much lower in 2009 and 2010 as a result of the substantial
drop in FDI. This was compounded in 2010 by a reduction in short term capital flows.

Table A2. Balance of Payments 2008-2013

                                                                   2008       2009          2010       2011       2012      2013
                                                                   Act.       Act.          Est.       Proj.      Proj.     Proj.
                                                                                       (USD millions)
Current account balance (excluding grants)                       -1,712     -1,234        -2,118      -2,892   -1,972      -1,416
  Trade balance                                                  -4,010     -3,701        -5,092      -5,471   -6,666      -5,717
    Exports, f.o.b. (millions of U.S. dollars)                   19,184     14,418        15,852      16,936   16,497      17,357
    Imports, c.i.f. (millions of U.S. dollars)                   23,194     18,119        20,944      22,407   23,163      23,074
  Net Factor Income                                                         -2,282        -2,019      -1,182   -1,651      -1,922
  Net transfers                                                              2,223         2,287       3,110    2,723       3,104
    Of which: workers remittances                                           1,952         2,127        1,915    2,298       2,849
Capital account                                                       79        146           122        191      201         203
  Financial account                                                3,295      2,762           624        892    1,885       1,971
    Direct foreign investment (net)                                2,558      1,525         1,417        834    1,370       1,545
    Medium- and long-term loans (net)                                -10        196          -533       -312      137          56
       Disbursement                                                1,416      1,543         1,850      2,215    2,429       2,058
       Amortization (-)                                           -1,426     -1,346        -2,383     -2,527   -2,293      -2,002
    Short-term/other capital flows                                   747      1,040          -260        370      378         369
  Capital and financial balance                                    3,374      2,907          746      1,083       2,085     2,174
Overall Balance                                                    1,662      1,673        -1,372     -1,810       113        757
                    1
Changes in reserves                                               -1,027     -1,673         1,459      1,900       -23       -667
Memorandum items:
 Current account balance/GDP (excluding grants)                      -3.8       -2.8          -4.8      -6.2        -4.0      -2.7
 Current account balance/GDP (including grants)                      -3.6       -2.5          -4.5      -6.0        -3.8      -2.5
 Gross international reserves (USD billion)                           9.0      11.1            9.6       7.7         7.7       8.4
                                   2
     In months of imports of GNFS                                     4.0        6.3           5.0       3.5         3.5       3.7
 Exchange rate (TND per USD, period average)                       1.232      1.350         1.430     1.445       1.482     1.519
Sources: Tunisian authorities, World Bank staff estimates; (Projections for 2012 and 2013 by World Bank staff).
Notes: 1. Differs from the overall balance because of valuation effects.
2. End-of-year reserves over current year imports.




A tightening in global conditions during the global financial crisis also led the government in
2009 to revise its sources of financing to rely solely on domestic sources and development

                                                              88
partners. To address financing needs without crowding out the private sector and without recourse to
the international capital markets, the government decided to limit domestic financing and increase
external official borrowing.60 The domestic bond market financed 100 percent of the budget deficit
while the World Bank, the African Development Bank and the EU together provided budget support
of US$600 million (through a development policy loan) that helped Tunisia address additional
financing needs. Along the same lines, the central government deficit in 2010 and 2011 was expected
to be financed mostly through domestic sources and development partners. This stance is likely to be
maintained in 2011 as credit ratings have been revised downwards and spreads have widened due to
the uncertain political situation.61
The exchange rate policy pursued by the BCT has stabilized the real exchange rate of the dinar.
Against the backdrop of high volatility among the major currencies, the real exchange rate of the dinar
remains in line with its fundamentals. Gross official reserves decreased from US$ 11.1 billion in 2009
to US$ 9.6 billion as of December 2010, which is still a comfortable level (around 5 months of
imports).




60
   The global financial crisis led to a sharp increase in international spreads in the late 2008 and first half of 2009. While
spread decreased gradually in the second half of 2009, they remain higher than their pre-crisis levels.
61
   Following the upheaval, Moody’s, R&I, S&P, and Fitch all downgraded Tunisia's sovereign rating by one notch. The
EMBIG Tunisia Sovereign Spread increased by 150 bpt between January 10 and February 7, but has since stabilized.
Despite the recent increase in January jump since December, Tunisia’s EMBI is still the lowest in non-GCC MENA.

                                                             89
                           ANNEX 8: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE (includes country map)
Tunisia at a glance                                                                                                                                                            5/6/11

                                                                                    M . East        Lo wer
Ke y D e v e lo pm e nt Indic a t o rs                                              & No rth       middle
                                                                      Tunisia        A frica      inco me            Age distribution, 2008
( 2 0 10 )
                                                                                                                                             Male                              Female

P o pulatio n, mid-year (millio ns)                                       10.4             331      3,81 1          75-79
Surface area (tho usand sq. km)                                           1 64           8,778     31,923
                                                                                                                    60-64
P o pulatio n gro wth (%)                                                   1.0             1.8        1.2
Urban po pulatio n (% o f to tal po pulatio n)                              67              57         40           45-49

                                                                                                                    30-34
GNI (A tlas metho d, US$ billio ns)                                      42.8            1,076      7,709
                                                                                                                    15-19
GNI per capita (A tlas metho d, US$ )                                   1,070            3,311      2,046
GNI per capita (P P P , internatio nal $ )                              7,820            7,710      4,481                0-4

                                                                                                                               6         4          2           0          2       4    6
GDP gro wth (%)                                                            3.7             4.8         7.5
                                                                                                                                             percent of total population
GDP per capita gro wth (%)                                                 2.7             2.9         6.3

( m o s t re c e nt e s t im a t e , 2 0 0 3 – 2 0 10 )

P o verty headco unt ratio at $ 1 .25 a day (P P P , %)                      3               4          ..
                                                                                                                    Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)
P o verty headco unt ratio at $ 2.00 a day (P P P , %)                      13              17          ..
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                            74              71         68
                                                                                                                    80
Infant mo rtality (per 1,000 live births)                                   18              29         44
                                                                                                                    70
Child malnutritio n (% o f children under 5)                                 3              12         25
                                                                                                                    60
                                                                                                                    50
                                   5
A dult literacy, male (% o f ages 1 and o lder)                             86              82         87
                                                                                                                    40
                                     5
A dult literacy, female (% o f ages 1 and o lder)                           70              65         73
                                                                                                                    30
Gro ss primary enro llment, male (% o f age gro up)                        108             106        109
Gro ss primary enro llment, female (% o f age gro up)                      106             104        105           20
                                                                                                                    10
                                                                                                                     0
A ccess to an impro ved water so urce (% o f po pulatio n)                  94              87         86
A ccess to impro ved sanitatio n facilities (% o f po pulatio n)            85              84         50                             1990          1995            2000        2007


                                                                                                                                   Tunisia              Middle East & North Africa



N e t A id F lo ws                                         19 8 0       19 9 0        2000          2 0 10   a



(US$ millio ns)
Net ODA and o fficial aid                                     240          391            222         479           Growth of GDP and GDP per capita (%)
To p 3 do no rs (in 2008):
 Euro pean Co mmissio n                                         1           25              71        230           10
 France                                                        79           76              93        160
                                                                                                                     8
 Japan                                                          5           27              72         54
                                                                                                                     6
A id (% o f GNI)                                              2.8          3.3              1.1        1.1
                                                                                                                     4
A id per capita (US$ )                                        38           48               23         46
                                                                                                                     2

Lo ng- T e rm E c o no m ic T re nds                                                                                 0

                                                                                                                                               95                                05
Co nsumer prices (annual % change)                               ..        6.5             3.0         3.8
GDP implicit deflato r (annual % change)                      12.8         4.5             3.3         2.9                               GDP                          GDP per capita


Exchange rate (annual average, lo cal per US$ )               0.4          0.9              1.4        1.4
Terms o f trade index (2000 = 100)                              ..         64              100        100
                                                                                                                     19 8 0 – 9 0 19 9 0 – 2 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 – 10
                                                                                                                            (average annual gro wth %)
P o pulatio n, mid-year (millio ns)                            6.4         8.2            9.6         10.4                         2.4                    1.6                    1.0
GDP (US$ millio ns)                                         8,743       12,314        21,473       43,527                          3.3                    4.7                    4.5
                                                                          (% o f GDP )
A griculture                                                  14.1        15.7            10.0        8.2                          2.8                    2.3                     1.6
Industry                                                      31 .1       29.8            26.8       28.8                          3.1                    4.6                    -6.1
  M anufacturing                                               1
                                                              1 .8        16.9            16.3       15.6                          3.7                    5.5                  -42.9
Services                                                     54.8         54.5            51.5       54.4                          3.5                    5.3                    6.5

Ho useho ld final co nsumptio n expenditure                  61.5         63.6            60.6       61.9                      2.9                        4.3                    5.6
General go v't final co nsumptio n expenditure               14.5         16.4            16.7       16.2                      3.8                        4.1                    5.5
Gro ss capital fo rmatio n                                   29.4         27.1            26.1       24.8                      -1.8                       3.6                    3.7

Expo rts o f go o ds and services                            40.2         43.6            39.5       45.0                          5.6                    5.1                    3.6
Impo rts o f go o ds and services                            45.6         50.6            42.9       48.0                          1.7                    3.8                    4.9
Gro ss savings                                               25.1         22.2            22.1       22.0


No te: Figures in italics are fo r years o ther than tho se specified. 2009 data are preliminary. .. indicates data are no t available.
a. A id data are fo r 2008.

Develo pment Eco no mics, Develo pment Data Gro up (DECDG).




                                                                                    90
                                                                                                                                                                         Tunisia

B a la nc e o f P a ym e nt s a nd T ra de                    2000           2 0 10
                                                                                            Governance indicators, 2000 and 2009
(US$ millio ns)
To tal merchandise expo rts (fo b)                             5,840        15,852
To tal merchandise impo rts (cif)                              8,556        20,944           Voice and accountability
Net trade in go o ds and services                               -705         -2,019
                                                                                                      Political stability
Current acco unt balance                                           -821          1
                                                                             -2,1 8
 as a % o f GDP                                                    -3.8        -2.8                 Regulatory quality

                                                                                                             Rule of law
Wo rkers' remittances and
 co mpensatio n o f emplo yees (receipts)                          796       2,127
                                                                                                 Control of corruption

Reserves, including go ld                                          1,821     9,600
                                                                                                                            0        25           50           75         100

                                                                                                      2009                      Country's percentile rank (0-100)
C e nt ra l G o v e rnm e nt F ina nc e                                                                                           higher values imply better ratings
                                                                                                      2000

(% o f GDP )
Current revenue (including grants)                                 21.8        23.1         Source: Kaufmann-Kraay-Mastruzzi, World Bank

 Tax revenue                                                       19.6        20.1
Current expenditure                                                18.0        18.1
                                                                                       T e c hno lo gy a nd Inf ra s t ruc t ure                           2000           2 0 10
Overall surplus/deficit                                            -3.4        -1.3
                                                                                       P aved ro ads (% o f to tal)                                           68.4         65.8
Highest marginal tax rate (%)                                                          Fixed line and mo bile pho ne
 Individual                                                           ..         ..                         00
                                                                                        subscribers (per 1 peo ple)                                                 11          95
 Co rpo rate                                                          ..        30     High techno lo gy expo rts
                                                                                        (% o f manufactured expo rts)                                          3.4           4.9
E xt e rna l D e bt a nd R e s o urc e F lo ws
                                                                                       E nv iro nm e nt
(US$ millio ns)
To tal debt o utstanding and disbursed                          1
                                                               1 ,307          ,1
                                                                             21 91     A gricultural land (% o f land area)                                     61           63
To tal debt service                                             1,906        3,009     Fo rest area (% o f land area)                                          6.2           7.0
Debt relief (HIP C, M DRI)                                          –             –    Terrestrial pro tected areas (% o f surface area)                         ..          1.5

To tal debt (% o f GDP )                                           52.7        48.1    Freshwater reso urces per capita (cu. meters)                          429           406
To tal debt service (% o f expo rts)                               20.1        12.6    Freshwater withdrawal (billio n cubic meters)                           2.6            ..

Fo reign direct investment (net inflo ws)                          752       1,595     CO2 emissio ns per capita (mt)                                           2.1          2.3
P o rtfo lio equity (net inflo ws)                                  -18        -89
                                                                                       GDP per unit o f energy use
                                                                                        (2005 P P P $ per kg o f o il equivalent)                               7.1          8.2
  Composition of total external debt, 2010
                                                                                       Energy use per capita (kg o f o il equivalent)                         764           864
                                             IDA, 18      IMF, 0
                   Short-term,
                     4,801
                                                 IBRD, 1,294 Other multi-               Wo rld B a nk G ro up po rt f o lio                                2000           2 0 10
                                                           lateral, 5,412
                                                                                        (US$ millio ns)

                                                                                        IB RD
                                                                                         To tal debt o utstanding and disbursed                                ,21
                                                                                                                                                              1 1          1,294
              Private, 5,983                                                             Disbursements                                                         136             1
                                                                                                                                                                              15
                                                   Bilateral, 3,683                      P rincipal repayments                                                 150           206
                                                                                         Interest payments                                                      79            30

  US$ millions                                                                          IDA
                                                                                         To tal debt o utstanding and disbursed                                 39              18
                                                                                         Disbursements                                                           0               0
P riv a t e S e c t o r D e v e lo pm e nt                    2000           2 0 10      To tal debt service                                                     2               2

Time required to start a business (days)                              –          11     IFC (fiscal year)
Co st to start a business (% o f GNI per capita)                      –         5.7      To tal disbursed and o utstanding po rtfo lio                              11      280
Time required to register pro perty (days)                            –         39        o f which IFC o wn acco unt                                               11      179
                                                                                         Disbursements fo r IFC o wn acco unt                                        1      109
Ranked as a majo r co nstraint to business                    2000           2 0 10      P o rtfo lio sales, prepayments and
 (% o f managers surveyed who agreed)                                                     repayments fo r IFC o wn acco unt                                         1            6
  n.a.                                                                ..          ..
  n.a.                                                                ..          ..    M IGA
                                                                                         Gro ss expo sure                                                           –            –
Sto ck market capitalizatio n (% o f GDP )                         13.2        21.0      New guarantees                                                             –            –
B ank capital to asset ratio (%)                                    7.5           ..


No te: Figures in italics are fo r years o ther than tho se specified. 2009 data are preliminary.                                                                         5/6/11
.. indicates data are no t available. – indicates o bservatio n is no t applicable.

Develo pment Eco no mics, Develo pment Data Gro up (DECDG).




                                                                                       91
Millennium Development Goals                                                                                                                                                   Tunisia


With selected targets to achieve b etween 1990 and 2015
(estimate clo sest to date sho wn, +/- 2 years)                                                                                       T unis ia


G o a l 1: ha lv e t he ra t e s f o r e xt re m e po v e rt y a nd m a lnut rit io n                                19 9 0         19 9 5              2000                       2 0 10
                                     .25
 P o verty headco unt ratio at $ 1 a day (P P P , % o f po pulatio n)                                                   5.9            6.5                2.6                            ..
 P o verty headco unt ratio at natio nal po verty line (% o f po pulatio n)                                             7.4            7.6                  ..                           ..
 Share o f inco me o r co nsumptio n to the po o rest qunitile (%)                                                      5.9            5.6                5.9                            ..
 P revalence o f malnutritio n (% o f children under 5)                                                                 8.5             8.1                 ..                        3.3


G o a l 2 : e ns ure t ha t c hildre n a re a ble t o c o m ple t e prim a ry s c ho o ling
 P rimary scho o l enro llment (net, %)                                                                                 93              97                       96                      98
 P rimary co mpletio n rate (% o f relevant age gro up)                                                                 80              92                       88                      93
 Seco ndary scho o l enro llment (gro ss, %)                                                                            44              58                       76                      92
 Yo uth literacy rate (% o f peo ple ages 15-24)                                                                        84              90                       93                      96


G o a l 3 : e lim ina t e ge nde r dis pa rit y in e duc a t io n a nd e m po we r wo m e n
 Ratio o f girls to bo ys in primary and seco ndary educatio n (%)                                                      85              92                       99                     103
 Wo men emplo yed in the no nagricultural secto r (% o f no nagricultural emplo yment)                                   ..             23                       24                      25
 P ro po rtio n o f seats held by wo men in natio nal parliament (%)                                                     4               7                       12                      23


G o a l 4 : re duc e unde r- 5 m o rt a lit y by t wo - t hirds
 Under-5 mo rtality rate (per 1 ,000)                                                                                   50              36                       27                      21
 Infant mo rtality rate (per 1,000 live births)                                                                         40              30                       23                      18
 M easles immunizatio n (pro po rtio n o f o ne-year o lds immunized, %)                                                93              91                       95                      98


G o a l 5 : re duc e m a t e rna l m o rt a lit y by t hre e - f o urt hs
 M aternal mo rtality ratio (mo deled estimate, per 1     00,000 live births)                                          130              1
                                                                                                                                       10                        83                      60
 B irths attended by skilled health staff (% o f to tal)                                                                69              81                       90                      95
 Co ntraceptive prevalence (% o f wo men ages 1         5-49)                                                           50             60                        66                      60


G o a l 6 : ha lt a nd be gin t o re v e rs e t he s pre a d o f H IV / A ID S a nd o t he r m a jo r dis e a s e s
 P revalence o f HIV (% o f po pulatio n ages 1  5-49)                                                              ..                   ..                      0.1                     0.1
 Incidence o f tuberculo sis (per 100,000 peo ple)                                                                29                    29                       24                      24
 Tuberculo sis case detectio n rate (%, all fo rms)                                                               87                    93                       90                      94


G o a l 7 : ha lv e t he pro po rt io n o f pe o ple wit ho ut s us t a ina ble a c c e s s t o ba s ic ne e ds
 A ccess to an impro ved water so urce (% o f po pulatio n)                                                     81                     86                    90                          94
 A ccess to impro ved sanitatio n facilities (% o f po pulatio n)                                               74                     78                     81                         85
 Fo rest area (% o f to tal land area)                                                                          4.1                    5.2                   6.2                         7.0
 Terrestrial pro tected areas (% o f surface area)                                                                ..                     ..                    ..                        1.5
 CO2 emissio ns (metric to ns per capita)                                                                       1.6                    1.8                   2.1                         2.3
 GDP per unit o f energy use (co nstant 2005 P P P $ per kg o f o il equivalent)                               6.6                     6.8                   7.1                         8.2


G o a l 8 : de v e lo p a glo ba l pa rt ne rs hip f o r de v e lo pm e nt
                               00
 Telepho ne mainlines (per 1 peo ple)                                                                                  3.7             5.8                  10.0                        12.0
                                     00
 M o bile pho ne subscribers (per 1 peo ple)                                                                           0.0             0.0                   1.2                        83.3
                        00
 Internet users (per 1 peo ple)                                                                                        0.0             0.0                   2.7                        27.1
                               00
 P erso nal co mputers (per 1 peo ple)                                                                                 0.3             1.4                   2.2                         9.7



   Education indicators (%)                                       Measles immunization (% of 1-year                           ICT indicators (per 100 people)
                                                                  olds)
   125                                                            100                                                         120

   100                                                                                                                        100
                                                                  75
    75                                                                                                                        80

    50                                                            50                                                          60

    25                                                                                                                        40
                                                                  25
     0                                                                                                                        20
           2000       2002        2004         2006        2008    0                                                           0

                                                                            1990   1995         2000       2007                       2000       2002       2004           2006         2008
                Primary net enrollment ratio


                Ratio of girls to boys in primary & secondary            Tunisia        Middle East & North Africa                  Fixed + mobile subscribers         Internet users
                education




No te: Figures in italics are fo r years o ther than tho se specified. .. indicates data are no t available.                                                                       5/6/11

Develo pment Eco no mics, Develo pment Data Gro up (DECDG).




                                                                                           92
TUNISIA COUNTRY MAP IBRD 33500




              93
94
