                                                                                                         93773
Promoting Governance Reforms and Economic Opportunities in Tunisia                                       April 23, 2012




 Development Policy Lending to support Tunisia following the January
 2011 revolution


Overview
Immediately following the revolution in Tunisia, the Bank quickly prepared and disbursed an
US$500 million Development Policy Loan (DPL). The DPL provided budgetary support which
helped the Interim Government address the short-term financing needs and meet the demands
of the January uprising. The reform measures supported by the DPL marked a clear break
from the past and set the foundations of a new Tunisia. A number of reforms have been
instituted lifting restrictions on access to information, allowing for greater citizen participation,
and increasing transparency and accountability.



Challenge
In January 2011, Tunisia experienced a wave of protests that
                                                                      More Results
led to the toppling of the previous regime. These protests
were fueled by a lack of social, economic and political

                                                                      33%
opportunities. Young Tunisians were especially frustrated at
their lack of voice in the management of public affairs. While
macroeconomic policies were sound, the economic
environment under the ex-President Ben Ali was                        Increase in the number of
                                                                      websites “.tn” during the period
characterized by lack of transparency, cronyism and related           from December 2010 to
anti-competitive practices that discouraged entrepreneurship          September 2011
and private sector investment, and resulted in growing youth
unemployment. A broader lack of transparency, social
accountability and citizen participation in government’s affairs
further exacerbated a sense of denied opportunities. In
meeting the demands of the revolution, and providing a               MORE INFO
stimulus to the economy, the Interim Government also faced
                                                                       Tunisia Website
significant short-term financing needs. The uprising
interrupted normal business activity leading to production             Tunisia Governance and
disruptions, and resulted into a substantial drop in tourism           Opportunity DPL
and investments, and lower exports. In parallel, the outbreak          Program Document (pdf)
of conflict in Libya produced an influx of refugees and a loss
of remittances, placing an added strain on the economy.

Approach
Following the revolution, the Bank quickly developed, approved and disbursed an IBRD
US$500 million DPL. The DPL supported the Interim Government in implementing a set of
reforms that signaled a clear break from the past. The thrust of the reforms program
underscores that greater voice, transparency, participation, inclusion, all lead to increased
investment and competition, and thereby support sustained economic growth. It aims to provide
the building blocks for a strong, more open and inclusive Tunisia, and set the country on a
faster, more inclusive, development path. Specifically, the Bank supported the government in
adopting legislation to remove the constraints on access to public information, such as basic
economic and social data, creating scope for independent analysis and inform the policy
debate and public choice; lift restrictions on the internet and ease the registration of Tunisian
websites; improve public procurement to accelerate decision-making while reducing discretion
and increasing transparency and competition; reduce the red tape in tax administration and
customs to reduce cronyism, discretion and arbitrariness; introduce new rules for good
governance in the banking sector; reform the National Employment Fund, which was used by
the previous regime to reward supporters; introduce programs to assist the unemployed;
introduce citizen-voice mechanisms in the provision and evaluation of public services; and
adopt a national services outreach policy to expand access to health care, education and social
assistance services using participatory approaches in underserved regions.

Results
While most of the reforms will require more time for the population to achieve the full benefits
of greater voice and accountability and increased economic opportunities, some immediate
results include:

      NGOs, think-tanks and other groups, can now form easily, and indeed there has been a
      blossoming of such actors across the country.

      The public has greater access to information, including economic and social data.
      Starting from March 2011, the Ministry of Finance now publishes monthly data on
      budget execution; the backlog of annual reports of the Supreme Audit Institution have
      been published online in June 2011; and as of October 2011 the Statistical Office
      introduced on-line access to key survey databases (Household Budget Survey 2005;
      Labor Force Survey 2010; a sample of the Population Census 2004).

      Use of the internet has expanded, connecting Tunisians and opening up Tunisia to the
      world. During the period from end-December 2010 to end-September 2011 there was a
      33 percent increase in the number of websites “.tn”.

      Sound corporate governance rules have been introduced in the banking sector, and
      their adoption is being monitored by the Tunisia Central Bank.

      The unemployment support program was launched in March 2011 and as of end-
      December 2011 approximately 130,000 graduate unemployed were receiving monthly
      financial support.

Voices


     The program of reforms undertaken by the transition
   government responds to the key aspirations of the Tunisian
   people and demonstrates that Tunisia has turned a page in its
   history. We have many needs in post-revolution Tunisia but as
   a transition government, we have worked with the World Bank
   and its partners to find a way to begin to address the most
   pressing and immediate challenges. The Tunisian people have
   said they want to see improvements in transparency and
   governance as well as immediate action to relieve the plight of
   the unemployed, the poorest and most vulnerable. This loan
   will help us respond to these demands and help prevent a
   recurrence of some of the most visible ills of the old regime.
           — Former Tunisian Interim Prime Minister, Mr Béji Caïd
                                 Essebsi, said of the DPL program


Bank Contribution
The Bank provided a US$500 million loan which helped leverage another US$800 million in
financing (from the EU, African Development Bank, and French Development Agency).


Partners
The operation has been prepared jointly with the African Development Bank (AfDB), the
European Union (EU), and the French Development Agency (AFD), and in collaboration with
the Japanese Development Agency (JICA) and UNDP. The DPL allowed these institutions to
deepen the policy dialogue with the government on key economic issues. The funding was
provided through separate financing agreements for each institution on the basis of the same
Joint Policy Reforms Matrix.

Moving Forward
The transition in Tunisia will not happen quickly—follow up reforms and consolidation of gains
will be needed. In addition, Tunisia is now being affected by the Eurozone crisis, which could
destabilize the country and endanger the transition. Financing needs remain high. The Bank
remains committed to helping secure the transition and is working with the authorities and
development partners on a follow up DPL operation to support the Tunisian economy and
consolidate the reforms program.
