The Tunisian Experience: Improving Efficiency, Governance, Results through Public
Procurement Reform
                                                                                                        93775
                                                                                                        April 25, 2012




 The Tunisian Experience: Improving Efficiency, Governance, Results
 through Public Procurement Reform


Overview
For many years Tunisia has been saddled with an inefficient procurement system, in which the
awarding of contracts often took years, and the potential for political interference was ever
present. The Interim Government, with the support of technical advice from the World Bank,
has passed a public procurement decree. It removes major bottlenecks and lays the
groundwork for a wider public procurement reform program.



Challenge
A lengthy process governed the purchasing of vital goods or
                                                                  More Results
hiring contractors to build necessary infrastructure, with some
contract awards taking years to achieve. In addition, the
procurement system did not do enough to prevent the
                                                                  MORE INFO
possibility of political interference affecting the outcomes of
the contract award process. A dialogue to address these and        Tunisia Website
others issues had proved difficult to sustain. The inefficiency    The dynamic effects of
of the procurement process also hindered the response to           countercyclical fiscal stimulus on
the recent economic crisis , by slowing down the                   output in Tunisia
implementation of the government’s economic stimulus plan.

Approach
The World Bank provided technical assistance to the
Government of Tunisia to help the public procurement stakeholders in Tunisia identify and
remove major bottlenecks in the current public procurement system that were compromising
the effectiveness and efficiency of public expenditures. The goal was to streamline contract
award procedures to ensure that the allocation process (from invitation to bid to contract
signing/mobilization) took no more than 4 months. In addition, other measures would be taken
to increase the transparency and integrity of public procurement while ensuring its
effectiveness, such as the mandatory publication of procurement notices (to ensure all
business would have the same access to bid opportunities) and procurement award results on
the Observatory portal (to ensure civil society organizations and others would have the tools
necessary to monitor expenditures), and the improvement of the existing complaint system (to
ensure all would have the right to raise issues that might arise with awarding and implementing
contracts).
Results
The Interim Government of Tunisia issued a new public procurement decree on May 23, 2011.
The changes made in the revised public procurement decree were designed to assist in the
following:

      Promoting equal opportunities and access to public procurement for all businesses,

      Keeping Civil Society informed about public procurement and use of tax payer money,

      Curbing corruptive and fraudulent practices,

      Reducing the bureaucratic process while maintaining control of the procurement
      proceedings,

      Delivering timely and more efficient services to citizens,

      Improving the timely implementation of the development investment policy, and ensuring
      better use of public resources and value for money.

Although the new decree was only recently passed, it effects are already helping to improve
the way contracts are awarded in Tunisia.



Voices


     The new procurement decree is primarily focused on the
   improvement of the efficiency and transparency of the public
   procurement procedures as well as the reduction of the
   duration of the decision process without compromising quality.

   The main changes in this Decree include the improvement of
   the efficiency throughout the reduction of the procurement
   cycle duration to about 3 months. Hence, this will accelerate
   the implementation of public investment particularly in the
   context of government's program to boost the economic
   activity. This obviously implies: (i) the reduction of the
   procurement review by the procurement commissions; (ii) the
   increase of the thresholds for procurement prior review by the
   Higher Tender Commission; and (iii) the granting of a greater
   latitude to the public purchaser for the implementation of its
   budget by the introduction of the post review concept for
   smaller contracts,

   The new decree is the first step toward a wider reform
   program that extends beyond the short-term actions. Indeed, a
   thorough review of the public procurement system will be
   undertaken in the medium term in order to modernize the
   procurement regulatory framework and align it with the
   international best practices.
        — Mr Abdelhamid TRIKI, Former Minister of Planning and
                                   International Cooperation .
Bank Contribution
Within the framework of the US $500 million Governance & Opportunity Development Policy
Loan, IBRD provided the Government of Tunisia with technical support from the Bank’s
procurement support team in the MENA region. The local and international consultant and
Bank staff costs amounted to a total of US $24,000.



Partners
The Governance & Opportunity DPL, which was the vehicle through which the revised
procurement decree was prepared and passed, was the result of the joint efforts by the World
Bank, the African Development Bank (AfDB), the European Union, and the French
Development Agency (and in collaboration with JICA and UNDP). Additional follow up
measures and improvements to the public procurement system are being addressed through a
coordinated approach involving the World Bank and the AfDB.


Moving Forward
The AfDB and the World Bank’s previous collaboration during the first step of Tunisian public
procurement reform (enactment of a revised public procurement decree) led to an agreement
from both institutions to coordinate and complement each other’s work. As a result, the World
Bank, in coordination with AfDB, has been engaged with the Tunisian Government to further
strengthen and modernize the national public procurement framework, systems and processes
through a US $250,000 IDF grant.
