Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 25074-PE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITY
PROPOSED GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR1 1 MILLION
(US$14.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE PERUVIAN NATIONAL TRUST FUND FOR PROTECTED AREAS - PROFONANPE
PERU
FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF A
PARTICIPATORY MANAGEMENT OF PROTECTED AREAS
PROJECT
FEBRUARY 20, 2003
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 18, 2002)
Currency Unit = New Soles
S/. 3.6 = US$1
US$1 = S/. 0.28
FISCAL YEAR
1 January - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                      Country Assistance Strategy
CBD                      Convention on Biological Diversity
CEPF                     Critical Ecosystems Partnership Fund
CHM                      Clearing House Mechanism
CI                       Conservation Intemational (NGO)
CONABID                  National Biodiversity Commission
CONAM                    National Environmental Council
COP                      Conference of the Parties to the Biological Diversity Convention
DGANP                    General Directorate of Natural Protected Areas
EF                       Environmental Framework
EMP                      Environmental Management Plan
EU                       European Union
FANPE                    Proyecto Fortalecimiento del Sistema Nacional de Areas Naturales Protegidas
PONANPE                  National Fund for the Natural Protected Areas
GEF                      Global Environmental Facility
GOP                      Government of Peru
GTZ                      German Technical Cooperation
ICR                      Implementation Completion Report
INRENA                   National Natural Resources Institute
KfW                      Kreditanstallt fur Wiederaufbau
MAG                      Ministry of Agriculture
MIS                      Management Information System
NGO(s)                   Non-Govemment Organization(s)
NPA                      Natural Protected Areas
OP                       Operational Program
PA(s)                    Protected Area(s)
PAMC(s)                  Protected Area Management Committee(s)
PCD                      Project Concept Document
PIMA                     Indigenous Management of Protected Areas in the Peruvian Amazon Project
PNH                      Huascaran National Park
PRONAMACHCS              National Program for River Basin Management and Soil Conservation
PROFONANPE               Peruvian National Trust Fund for Protected Areas
RNSAB                    Salinas y Aguada Blanca National Reserve
RNT/PNBS                 Tambopata National Reserve and Bahuaja Sonene National Park
SBSTrA                   Subsidiary Body on Scientific, Technical, and Technological Affairs (of the CDB)
SINANPE                  National Natural Protected Areas System of Peru
SNLMT                    National Sanctuary Los Manglares de Tumbes
UNDP                     United Nations Development Program
WB                       World Bank
Vice President:      David de Ferranti
Country Director:      Marcelo Giugale
Sector Director:     John Redwood
Task Team Leader:        Pierre Werbrouck



PERU
PARTICIPATORY MANAGEMENT OF PROTECTED AREAS
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                    2
2. Key performance indicators                                                        2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CASi goal supported by the project    3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and sirategic choices                5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     9
3. Benefits and target population                                                    9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    10
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies    12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                              17
4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership                   20
5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project                           20
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         21
2. Financial                                                                        21
3. Technical                                                                        21
4. Institutional                                                                    22
5. Environmental                                                                    24
6. Social                                                                           25
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               28



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   29
2. Critical risks                                                                   29
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   31
G. Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          31
2. Other: 1. Effectiveness Conditions and 2. Disbursement Conditions                31
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       32
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      32
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        33
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  37
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       44
Annex 4: Incremental Cost Analysis                                                     46
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                             51
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                     52
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   59
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 60
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                61
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          63
Annex 11: Protected Areas Profiles                                                     65
Annex 12: Environmental Assessment                                                     71
Annex 13: Social Assessment and Strategy                                               75
Annex 14: Institutional Analysis and Implementation Arrangements                       86
Annex 15: Implementation Plan                                                          91
Annex 16: Endowment Fund Asset Management Strategy                                     93
Annex 17: Financial Gap Analysis and Follow-up Strategy                                96
MAP(S)
IBRD 30828 and IBRD 32190



PERU
Participatory Management of Protected Areas
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSEPR
Date: February 20, 2003                          Team Leader: Pierre Werbrouck
Sector Director: John Redwood                    Sector(s): Other social services (45%), Forestry (40%),
Country Director: Marcelo Giugale                Central government administration (10%), Sub-national
Project ID: P068250                              government administration (5%)
Focal Area: B - Biodiversity                     Theme(s): Civic engagement, participation and
community driven development (P), Biodiversity (P),
Environmental policies and institutions (P)
Project Firiancing Data  -  ,   -                      -               : -
[ Loan      [] Credit    [X] Grant    [ ] Guarantee   [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 14.8
Financing. Plan (US$m):  Source -         .     -          Local   -     Foreign,       Total
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                            2.46           0.50          2.96
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY                                  10.30           4.50         14.80
FINLAND, GOV. OF (EXCEPT FOR MIN.FOR FOREIGN                  0.00           2.50          2.50
AFFAIRS)
GERMANY: KREDITANSTALT FUR WIEDERAUFBAU                       4.38           2.20          6.58
(KFW)
NETHERLANDS: MIN. OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS / MIN. OF                3.64           0.80          4.44
DEV. COOP.
LOCAL FARMER ORGANIZATIONS                                    0.53           0.00          0.53
NON-GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATION (NGO) OF                          1.00           0.00          1.00
BORROWING COUNTRY
Total:                                                       22.31          10.50         32.81
Borrower/Recipient: PROFONANPE
PERUVIAN NATIONAL TRUST FUND FOR PROTECTED AREAS
Responsible agency: PROFONANPE
Address: Prolongaci6n Arenales No. 722, San Isidro, Lima, Peru
Contact Person: Alberto Paniagua, Director
Tel: 51-1-2121010           Fax: 51-1-212 1011          Email: apaniagua@profonanpe.org.pe
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
A  *  >   --'2003:.:  2dol*,04'4  -- §2005  2006-;          s   -28 - }   27200  '2009
Annual      3.61      1.56       2.31      2.89       2.35      1.88      0.20
Cumulative     3.61      5.17       7.48      10.37     12.72      14.60     14.80
Project implementation period: From April 15, 2003 to April 14, 2009
Expected effectiveness date: 04/15/2003 Expected closing date: 10/14/2009
Lo,Ab.  dt*n



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project's development objectives are: (i) to ensure biodiversity conservation by increasing the
involvement of civil society institutions and the private sector in planning and sustainable management of at
least five protected areas (PAs) of the Peruvian System of Natural Protected Areas (SINANPE), and one PA
to be created during project implementation; and (ii) to obtain sustainability for the financing of recurrent
costs in SINANPE.
The PAs are: Tambopata-Candamo National Reserve, Bahuaja-Sonene National Park, Salinas and Aguada
Blanca National Reserve, Huascaran National Park, Manglares de Tumbes National Sanctuary, and Morona
Pastaza prospective PA. The first five PAs were selected using criteria explained in Annex 11. Morona
Pastaza was selected by INRENA and cofinancier KfW. During project implementation additional PAs
could be included.
SINANPE's financial sustainability will be increased by an additional endowment of US$6 million to the
Peruvian National Trust Fund for Protected Areas (PROFONANPE) endowment fund which will allow an
additional US$250,000 per year for recurrent cost financing. A strategy for long-term financing of
SINANPE will help to channel these resources.
The project will build upon the experience gained during first GEF Grant to PROFONANPE, supporting the
Trust Fund's establishment and development of its capacity to attract financial resources for conservation.
Over the last years PROFONANPE has ensured the funding of the basic operational costs in twelve PAs.
One important instrument for project implementation will be the equal participation of women in planning,
management of PAs and monitoring and evaluating of PA management.
The global objective of the project is to contribute to the conservation of biodiversity of global importance.
Peru, in terms of its total number of species, levels of endemism, and range of habitats, is considered to be
one of the world's great centers of biological diversity. Peru has been classified as one of earth's seventeen
mega-diverse countries. In terms of species, Peru leads the world in numbers of butterflies, orchids, and
endemic invertebrates. It also accounts for a total of 460 mammals and 1705 bird species, or 10 and 19
percent, respectively, of the world's total. As an indicator of its habitat diversity, Peru has been documented
to have more life zones than any other country on earth with 84 of the world's 110 life zones identified in
Holdridge's Life Zones System. In terms of its agro-biodiversity, the country is considered to be one of the
five world centers of origin of cultivated plants and has an immense natural germplasm resource of useful
wild species. In part, this rich endowment can be attributed to Peru's 675,000 km' of Amazon rainforest
(including the Peruvian and Bolivian Yungas), the largest continuous forest on earth representing 40% of all
remaining tropical forests of the world. Other major eco-regions include the country's central Andean and
Wet Puna, the Sechura Desert, the Tumbes Mangroves, and others.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Increased management effectiveness in project PAs.
*Improved the degree of biodiversity conservation in project PAs.
Increased participation of women in planning, managing, monitoring and evaluating project PAs.
Increased stakeholder participation in the management of project PAs.
Increased capacity to finance SINANPE recurrent costs with local resources.
Participation of indigenous people in PA conservation programs
-2 -



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: CAS Report No. 24205-PE Date of latest CAS discussion: 9/17/2002
The objectives of the FY03 CAS are poverty alleviation, sustainable growth, and institutional development.
The project is fully aligned to the 2003 CAS, which specifically includes this project in the chapter related
to the environment and sustainable growth. The CAS includes also a proposal to consolidate the Peru GEF
Investment Strategy that already exists in draft form.
la. Global Operational strategy/Program objective addressed by the project:
Operational Programs
The proposed project is fully compatible with objectives defined by the GEF Operational Programs for: (i)
Coastal, Marine, and Freshwater Ecosystems (OP2) by supporting, through conservation activities, the
functions of freshwater and coastal ecosystems at risk; (ii) Forest Ecosystem (OP3), in promoting in situ
protection of primary/old growth and ecologically mature secondary forest ecosystems; and (iii) Mountain
Ecosystems (OP4), in promoting conservation activities in sub-alpine, mountain grasslands, and/or montane
forest zones. The project is also consistent with all of the aforementioned OPs through: (i) promoting closer
integration of the communities located adjacent to project-supported PAs in the conservation and
management of biodiversity by increasing their participation in the management of the respective protected
areas; (ii) facilitating the adoption of sustainable production activities among inhabitants of the buffer areas,
consistent with core area conservation objectives; and (iii) increasing capacity among relevant local
institutions including civil society and the private sector.
Agenda 21
The proposed project is fully consistent with and respcinsive to relevant principles established under Agenda
21. Specifically these are: the conservation of biological diversity (Chapter 15), promoting sustainable
agricultural and rural development (Chapter 14), strengthening the role of NGOs as partners in sustainable
development (Chapter 27), providing support to local authorities initiatives to support Agenda 21 objectives
(Chapter 28), facilitating new and innovative sources of financing to support the sustainable biodiversity
conservation (Chapter 33), and promoting education, public awareness and training (Chapter 36).
National Communication to the Convention of the Parties (COP)
The proposed project is also consistent with the GEF Operational Strategy supporting long-term important
global ecosystems protection. The project is consistent with Peru's first report to the Fourth Meeting of
Conference of the Parties (COP IV) to the Biological Diversity Convention (CBD) and the principles of the
Convention, to which Peru is a signatory. It will support three levels of biodiversity (ecosystems, species,
and genes) through three GEF Operational Programs within the biodiversity focal area. The project further
supports COP Decisions 1/8, 11/8, 1/9, I111/9, I111/10 and 11/12, and Recommendation 1/3 of the Subsidiary
Body on Scientific, Technical, and Technological Affairs (SBSTTA) of the CBD.
Clearing House Mechanism (CHM)
The proposed project is fully compatible with the objectives supported under the CBD's Clearing House
Mechanism (CHM). During preparation, the local design team worked in close collaboration with
CONADIB and consultation with other relevant organizations in support of CBD objectives. During
implementation, project activities will facilitate access to and sharing of biodiversity-relevant information.
.3 -



This will occur primarily through: (i) developing and strengthening national capacity to manage and
conserve biodiversity; (ii) developing and providing information supporting national and thematic
biodiversity reports called for under the CHM; and (iii) promoting increased awareness of the importance of
biological diversity conservation.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Sector Threats and Constraints
Despite the global importance of the country's vast biodiversity endowment, this richness is increasingly at
risk. Peru has an estimated 222 species in the process of extinction, including 81 aquatic species. Within
South America, only Brazil has more threatened flowering plants. This accelerated loss of biodiversity is
fundamentally the result of unsustainable human activities, causing deforestation, soil erosion, water
pollution and illegal trade in wildlife and plants. Mining and oil exploration are major economic activities
contributing to the loss of biodiversity particularly when done without proper environmental standards
(Annex 13, D).
Major constraints affecting the public sector's capacity to address biodiversity conservation include:
Limited public sector capacity to design and implement policies to address adverse consequences to
environment and biodiversity of non-sustainable economic activities and to work with civil society and the
private sector. In addition, many local civil society organizations have weak technical capacities to
participate in conservation related activities.
Limited Financial Resources and Absence of a Self-financing Policy. Peru spends less than US$50 per
km on biodiversity funding, while Brazil spends US$130 and Mexico US$420 per km. Moreover, given the
budgetary constraints in the public sector, most financial resources to manage Peru's PAs come from
international bilateral assistance and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs). Growing dependency on
foreign financial aids makes it necessary that Peru develops a coherent financing policy for SINANPE. A
recent gap-analysis indicates a large shortfall of financial resources particularly when taking into account
the needs of the buffer zone communities. Instruments to capture people's willingness to pay for
biodiversity conservation are not implemented. As a result, PAs such as the Historic Sanctuary of Macchu
Picchu and the Huascaran National Park are subject to intense environmental pressure due to high numbers
of visitors.
Lack of Environmental Awareness. A 1997 national survey on environmental awareness indicated that
only 17 percent of the population has an "adequate" knowledge of environmental problems; and
Inadequate Management Information Systems. The lack of a good information system has not only
lirnited the public sector's ability to manage PAs but has hindered its ability to promote public awareness
and make informed decisions to achieve long-term sustainability.
Government Strategy
During the past few years, Peru has taken a series of important steps towards conserving its rich biodiversity
endowment. The country's National Environmental Council (CONAM) chairs or participates in a number of
commissions related to biodiversity conservation. CONAM is also the national focal point for the Global
Environmental Facility (GEF). The institution responsible for coordinating activities required under the
Convention on Biodiversity (CBD) is the National Commission for Biodiversity (CONADIB). The lead
institution responsible for in situ conservation and management of the country's biodiversity is the General
Directorate of Natural Protected Areas (DGANP) of the National Institute for Natural Resources (INRENA)
under the Ministry of Agriculture (MAG) which has the mandate for administering the country's national
system of 54 PAs.
-4 -



The main government policy for in situ biodiversity conservation is based on the establishment of
SINANPE whose objective is to conserve representative samples of the country's biodiversity by creating
and managing PAs efficiently while guaranteeing that environmental, social and economic benefits accrue
to society at large. Some of the more significant milestones to expand and consolidate SINANPE include:
(i) approval of enabling legislation: the Environmental Code (C6digo de Medio Ambiente y de los Recursos
Naturales, Decreto Legislativo No. 613, 1992); the signature and ratification of the Biodiversity Convention
(1992); the revised National Constitution (1993); the Biodiversity Law (Ley sobre la Conservaci6n y
Aprovechamiento de la Diversidad Biol6gica, Ley No. 26839, 1997); the Protected Areas Law (Ley de
Areas Narurales Protegidas, Ley No. 26834, 1997); the Protected Areas bylaw (DS No 038-2001-AG), and
the Master Plan of SINANPE (Plan Director); (ii) strengthening of management capacities of INRENA's
Directorate for Protected Areas (DGANP) and PA staff; and (iii) establishment of new protected areas. In
the last decade, 14 new protected areas (1 National Park and 13 Reserved Zones), representing a total
aggregate surface area of 10,049,069 ha, were added to SINANPE.
To assist with the financing of SINANPE, PROFONANPE was created with GEF support. Since its
creation, PROFONANPE has catalyzed additional funding (US$38 million) from the national treasury and
bilateral and multilateral sources that are being channeled to PAs to improve conservation management.
Despite these strong achievements, much remains to be done. Many PAs are still not adequately protected.
There remains a significant gap between the needs and available financial resources. Furthermore, PAs
created to conserve biodiversity of global importance are increasingly at risk due to illegal squatters,
non-sustainable economic activities in adjacent buffer areas, and poorly-managed tourism development.
In conformity with other major public sector reforms, the GOP has provided an opportunity to increase the
role for the private sector and civil society in conservation management. The aforementioned strategic plan
for SINANPE, the Natural Protected Areas law and its bylaws provide the conceptual and legal framework
for the private sector and civil society participation in the management of SINANPE. The most relevant
provisions are: (i) ensuring participation of the public and private sectors in a system-wide SINANPE
Coordination Council; (ii) involving private sector, civil society and community-based organizations and
public sector stakeholders in PA Master Plans; (iii) strengthening PA Management Committees (PAMCs) as
a vehicle for stakeholder participation; (iv) delegating PA management functions to private non-profit
agencies; and (v) allowing the establishment of private conservation areas.
Unlike in other Latin American countries that have gained substantial advances in the incorporation of a
gender perspective in environmental strategies, in Peru the environmental authority CONAM has not yet
started to do so. The National Environmental Strategy 2002-2003 does not include gender-related objectives
or actions to institutionalize a gender approach in public policies or plans on environment.
Implementation remains a challenge. Each PA needs to design and implement a Master Plan. This requires
technical skills not easily available in Peru and implies considerable capacity-building of various
stakeholders. The proposed project provides an opportunity to implement the new policy directions outlined
above, initially in six PAs and then expanded and applied through experience and "lessons learned" to the
rest of the SINANPE and the Andean region.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project ancl strategic choices:
The proposed project will address four constraints identified above: (i) increasing and strengthening the role
of civil society and the private sector in the design and implementation of PA plans; (ii) increasing financial
resources and implementing a financing strategy for the growing numbers of PAs; (iii) increasing
environmental awareness for conservation; and (iv) strengthening management information systems.
- 5 -



The design of the proposed project reflects a fundamental strategic choice leading to an increased role for
the private sector and civil society in PA management. GOP can not afford to cover all costs associated with
the management and conservation of biodiversity of global importance. Rather, it will have to increasingly
call upon the skills and resources of civil society and the private commercial sector through partnerships.
The project will therefore use a significant amount of resources to finance the implementation of PA
management plans by private non-profit organizations through capacity-building of local civil society
organizations, INRENA, and PROFONANPE. Given that the participation of women is of essential
importance in this project, a gender strategy will be implemented in the project.
To increase PA financial resources the project will increase PROFONANPE's endowment fund (now at
about US$5.4 million) by US$6 million (US$3 million from GEF and US$3 million from other sources -
including the Government of Finland for US$2.5 million). With this additional contribution,
PROFONANPE will be able to increase SINANPE recurrent cost financing by US$250,000 annually. This
contribution to the endowment fund may provide an incentive for other donors to contribute to the
PROFONANPE endowment fund in support of additional operations.
The strategic choice for environmental awareness enhancement is based on the need to increase qualitative
knowledge about the mission, role, values, and activities of PAs and SINANPE. In addition, it will inform
decision-makers at national, regional and local levels of SINANPE's potential benefits. The project also
aims to approach and involve educators and the media to prepare future leaders in environmental values and
the benefits of sustainable use of biological resources.
-6 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project has three main components: (i) participatory protected area management, (ii) institutional
development, and (iii) PA financing, project administration, monitoring and evaluation and information
dissemination.
, wT~ponent                            - ,a! -  ,;  ,-  '[,  ,,,,,,., .,  ,, -  ;; ndimatFe ;'  'GqF  .%of
Comapon1 c-osts, nt                                 financingl ', nk  finaning ' :,GEF"
.(U      __ mi   (USsM).' *f0inacIng  (LSSM)'.: financlng
1. Participatory Protected Area Management
1. I Preparation of Master and Management Plans  2.59   7.9    0.00      0.0     1.15     7.8
1.2 Participatory Plan Implementation         8.15     24.8    0.00      0.0     4.48    30.2
1.3. Sustainable Economic Activities in PAs and  7.49  22.8    0.00      0.0     1.51    10.2
Buffer zones
2. Institutional Development
2.1. Training and TA INRENA/ PROFONANPE       2.47      7.5    0.00      0.0     1.74     11.7
2.2. Capacity Building of Civil Society       0.99      3.0    0.00       0.0    0.64     4.3
2.3. Public Awareness Program                  1.52     4.6    0.00       0.0    0.31     2.1
2.4 SINANPE-based MIS                         0.76      2.3    0.00       0.0    0.50     3.4
3. PA Financing, Project Administration, M&E
and Info Dissemination
3. 1. Increase of Endowment Fund              6.00     18.3    0.00       0.0    3.00    20.2
3.2. Financing Strategy for SINANPE           0.30      0.9    0.00       0.0    0.30      2.0
3.3. Project Implementation and Monitoring and  2.45    7.5     0.0       0.0    1.10      7.4
Evaluation
3.4. Information Dissemination                0.12      0.4    0.00       0.0    0.10     0.0
Total Project Costs  32.84    100.0   0.00       0.0    14.83   100.0
Total Financing Required  32.84    100.0    0.00      0.0    14.83   100.0
Project Component 1: Participatory Protected Area Management (US$18.23 million; 55.5% of total
project cost. GEF US$7.14 million; Netherlands cofinancing US$3.65 million, Germany parallel financing
US$4.31 million).
The objective of this component is to involve civil society, private sector and local community organizations
in the decision-making processes and management of the PAs and share in the benefits resulting from the
PA sustainable use.
Outcomes: The expected outcomes of this component are: (i) two PA master plans prepared and four
updated, several resource management plans prepared, all of them implemented; (ii) studies and PA-specific
data baselines to support management and monitoring and evaluation activities; (iii) all PAMCs fully
-7 -



functional in each participating PA; (iv) the management of three PAs and services in support of
management contracted out to civil society private sector and communities; (v) all PA basic infrastructure
established, and equipment and staff requirements provided to ensure adequate conservation; and (vi)
threats to biodiversity reduced and environmentally and socially sustainable economic activities in PA and
buffers zones promoted.
Activities: To produce the above outcomes, the component would support activities in three subcomponents:
(i) participatory preparation and updating of master and resource management plans, including: threat and
root cause analysis, social studies, natural resource inventories, boundary demarcation, targeted research,
establishment of management rules and norms, sector plan preparation etc.; (ii) implementation of master
and resource management plans, including infrastructure, equipment and operating costs through PA
management services contracts with the nonprofit private sector; and (iii) financial support and technical
assistance for 30 conservation and sustainable use programs in PAs and buffer zones and 100 small-scale
sustainable economic activities in PA buffer zones, compatible with management plan objectives and
designated use zones. The approval by PROFONANPE of the Sustainable Economic Activities Operations
Manual will be a condition of disbursement for expenditures related to those activities.
Project Component 2: Institutional Development (US$5.74 million; 17.5% of total project cost. GEF
US$3.19 million; Netherlands cofinancing US$0.59 million; Germany parallel financing US$1.71).
The main objective of this component is to consolidate PA management through: (i) the strengthening of
INRENA, PROFONANPE, PAMCs, civil society organizations and private sector to manage the PAs
collaboratively; (ii) increased public awareness of the importance of Peru's biodiversity and the role of PAs;
and (iii) the development and implementation of a management information system.
Outcome: The expected outcomes of this component will be: (i) a strengthened INRENA, PROFONANPE
and PAMCs as well as increased organizational capacities to manage and administer PAs in participation
with civil society and private sector; (ii) strengthened local civil society organizations, equipped to support
project objectives; (iii) an environmental behavioral change through increased conservation awareness; and
(iv) an enhanced decision-making process by national administrators, stakeholders and civil society
organizations through better and updated information on PA management and biodiversity.
Activities: To produce the above outcomes, the component will support activities in four subcomponents: (i)
staff training and technical assistance for INRENA and PROFONANPE; (ii) capacity building for PAMCs
and civil society institutions and organizations located in the proximity of project PAs; (iii) development
and implementation of a biodiversity conservation-based public awareness program including media
campaigns, internet home pages and school education materials; and (iv) design and implementation of a
SINANPE Management Information System (MIS).
Component 3: PA Financing, Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation, and Information
Dissemination (US$8.86 million; 27.0% of total project cost. GEF US$4.50 million; Netherlands
cofinancing US$0.21 million; KfW parallel financing US$1.57; Finland contribution to PROFONANPE
endowment fund of US$2.5 rnillion and PROFONANPE's contribution to endowment fund: 0.5 million).
The main objectives of this component are to increase the PROFONANPE endowment fund, design and
implement a SINANPE financing strategy, manage and monitor the project and disseminate information on
the project's progress and achievements.
Outcome: The expected outcomes of this component will be: (i) an increase in the endowment fund by
US$6 million; (ii) increased private sector contributions; (iii) an updated and operating Monitoring and
- 8 -



Evaluation system appropriate for PROFONANPE providing timely reports; (v) improved institutional
capacity for financial management of the PAs; (vi) enhanced relations with national, regional and local civil
society and private sector; and (vii) relevant experiences and "lessons learned" disseminated to other PAs in
Peru's SINANPE and abroad. In particular, the experiences associated with promoting increased private
sector inputs in the financing of PAs and innovative resource generating mechanisms will be disseminated.
Activities: To produce the above outcomes, the component will support activities in four subcomponents: (i)
an increase in the endowment fund of US$6 million (US$3 million from GEF, US$2.5 million from Finland
and US$500,000 from PROFONANPE); (ii) design and implementation of a SINANPE financing strategy;
(iii) project implementation; (iv) design and operation of a monitoring and evaluation system; (v) design and
implementation of an information dissemination strategy on lessons learned using reports and workshops
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The proposed project reinforces the key policy initiatives promoted by the GOP in the Natural Protected
Area Law and in SINANPE's Strategic Plan which give INRENA the mandate to involve the private sector
in PA management by contracting non-profit organizations for PA management. It will also be a first
experience to manage PAs via management services contracts and involving various stakeholders.
The project will support PAMCs, an instrument for active participation of interested stakeholders in
planning and overseeing PA management. The project will strengthen INRENA and other public institutions
to work collaboratively with civil society and the private sector in the conservation of biodiversity. The
project will also promote gender equity policies in PAs.
The project will implement a SINANPE financing strategy. The project will build PROFONANPE's
capacity to use innovative financing instruments and increase the availability of PA funds from local
sources in Peru. It will also double PROFONANPE's capacity to finance SINANPE recurrent costs.
The project will support the strengthening of a critically-needed management information system to: (i)
enhance the management and conservation of the country's biodiversity; (ii) strengthen INRENA's ability
to promote public awareness; and (iii) make informed decisions for long-tern PA sustainability.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project objective is to ensure biodiversity conservation without hindering the legitimate rights of people
living within the PAs and their buffer zones. Hence, the main benefits relate to the maintenance of
ecosystem functions and services, the conservation of flora and fauna species and of genetic diversity for
the benefit of local populations and of society at large. The project's strategy seeks to diminish human
pressures in PAs and buffer zones by demonstrating sound alternatives to the present unsustainable
production practices in proximity to, and within F'As. Therefore, the project will promote sustainable
economic activities for these people, providing incentives for conservation while strengthening local
economies. Better management will have a positive impact on the livelihood of hunters, gatherers and
farmers, as they will be presented with options that are biodiversity-friendly and economically more
attractive. Women in particular will benefit from the gender equity approach. Local communities and other
stakeholders will also benefit from training and capacity-building measures. Subcontracting of PA
management to the private nonprofit sector will enhance the overall efficiency of PA management and
attract additional financing.
Peru has adopted a policy principle based on coexistence of people with protected areas, and therefore no
resettlement is envisioned. However, in exceptional cases, such as in areas zoned for strict conservation,
-9-



there might eventually be the need for limiting access to resources. In these cases, a Process Framework has
been established, complying with OD 4.30 requirements (Annex 13); and any restrictions on access to
resources will be defined jointly with the affected communities in the preparation of the PAs' management
plans. Alternative revenue-generating activities will be developed as part of the management of these areas
and targeted to affected people.
The implementation of PAMCs will allow communities to play important social and economic roles, as well
as to increase the PAs long-term local acceptance and social sustainability. Individuals from the PA
communities, as well as those living in buffer zones, will represent these key constituencies to ensure PA
conservation and benefit sharing. There is also a potential for revenues to local communities through
services provided to the PA adrninistration and visitors.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The proposed project will be implemented over a period of six years. PROFONANPE will be the recipient
of the GEF Grant. INRENA will implement all activities related to the management of PAs as well as its
own institutional strengthening activities (training, TA and MIS). All other activities will be subcontracted
by PROFONANPE to the private sector and civil society.
A framework agreement between INRENA and PROFONANPE (agreed upon during appraisal) defines the
roles and responsibilities of both institutions under the project. The responsibilities of INRENA are to: (i)
prepare terms of reference for PA technical studies and carry out quality control of the studies; (ii)
subcontract PA management to the private non-profit sector in accordance with Supreme Decree 038-2001
and Bank guidelines; (iii) use a participatory and gender equitative approach to PA planning and
management; (iv) monitor the technical implementation of the PA management services and other contracts
and buffer zones; and (v) comply with and enforce the requirements for environment, social development,
indigenous peoples and other safeguards in PA management. PA management service providers will be
selected and contracted by INRENA according to its own procedures modified to comply with Bank
guidelines. PAMCs will be involved in the management service providers' selection process.
The role of PROFONANPE is one of a financing agency. It will pay: (i) consultants and management
service providers contracted by INRENA; and (ii) PA works contractors and suppliers. It will contract and
delegate implementation and supervision of components 1.3, 2.2, 2.3 and 3.2 to specialized agencies,
institutions and consulting firms.
This project presents a unique opportunity for 1NRENA and PROFONANPE to consolidate their
relationship and contribute to the successful implementation of INRENA's core institutional functions.
Since the role of both institutions has been evolving over time and to ensure that the above arrangements fit
within a long-term strategic view of SINANPE's management, a long-term institutional study to define the
roles of both institutions in the management of SINANPE will also be prepared under the Project. The terms
of reference of the study are in the project files.
PROFONANPE's Board of Directors will provide overall guidance and supervision to the project. A
project-specific Administrative Board (Junta de Administraci6n) including one representative of INRENA,
one of PROFONANPE, one representative of the PAMCs on a rotating basis and one observer of the Dutch
Government will be established and will meet at least twice per year to review project progress and approve
annual work plans and audits.
A project director will be responsible for the day-to-day operations The project director will meet every two
months with a consultative committee of PA chiefs and PAMC representatives to ensure that field
- 1 0 -



experience is reflected back into the work plans and to smooth out operational difficulties. PROFONANPE
will recruit a procurement specialist to assist the various actors with procurement issues and related Bank
rules and procedures. An environmental specialist will ensure the environmental quality of the activities
financed by PROFONANPE as well as compliance with Bank environmental guidelines. PROFONANPE's
administrative structure will support project implementation.
PROFONANPE will contract specialized agencies, institutions and consultants to design and implement
programs to (i) strengthen PAMCs, (ii) provide gender training to staff, civil society and institutions; (iii)
develop a gender policy, strategy and guidelines; (iv) carry out the public awareness program; and (v)
design and manage the sustainable economic activities program in coordination with INRENA, the PA
management service providers and PAMCs. The latter includes the design of the sustainable economic
activities operations manual, the evaluation of the subproject proposals as well as the administration of the
program itself. PROFONANPE will provide guidelines for evaluation of programs and subprojects. The
contracting of an agency to prepare the manual and implement the program and the adoption by
PROFONANPE of the manual are conditions of disbursement of the funds for these activities.
PROFONANPE's present asset manager will manage the endowment fund portfolio (Annex 16) and a
part-time external advisor will advise on financial investment options.
Project Organization Chart
IN RENA  |Ne of Eaviro-                                   n te ational
]           m *nlul ~~~I,.  NG O .             t) Dn. ra
_  ~     ~~~~~~~~~~ lrolo nans_-
Ptotol lanpe         A Portlollo~~~~~~A I.vmn
Excu0v Dloco a n/ rL               Ad,l-o
j Projct Adn I   01 PAO
-1= -
,_ Cmmi ( PAMC    )
D      N P         |           P r ojec/t/
iIN ENA   1|Manage                        /        /
FBu.l f r Tons .    <      /      /    
r*ANAI | NGOn, CBO I i LOCAL & R~~~EGIONAL    PRIVAYE 
OFPA                                 M II OITY| |roENENTS l lSECTOR l
P Pro IQc, O rganizatlon to support m anagem ent of PAs
Rep.r. ng lines in the ma n ageme nt of PAs
,___,_.. 0 MamlbershlPS
Reporting and Supervision.
PROFONANPE will present half-yearly and annual project and endowment fund progress reports based on
the model for financial monitoring reporting (Annex 6). The reports will include a specific chapter on



progress with the gender strategy. The annual project workplans and procurement plans will be discussed
and submitted to the Bank for approval. The Bank will carry out six-monthly supervision missions in
coordination with the Dutch, German and Finnish Government Representatives in Lima. A project
launching workshop will take place at the onset of the project and a mid-term review during the third project
year.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Considering that the main thrust of the project is to increase the involvement of civil society organizations
and the private sector in PA management, the evaluation of alternatives was centered on the best
institutional arrangements to achieve this purpose.
a) Implementing the project through INRENA (a public sector agency with overall responsibility for
protected areas management, under the Ministry of Agriculture) was examined and rejected for the
following reasons: (i) it fails to support INRENA's policy shift towards delegation of on-the-ground action
to private-sector actors and focuses instead on core values of long-term strategic planning, overseeing, and
monitoring of SINANPE; (ii) PROFONANPE as a private institution is better positioned to channel
resources to private agents in SINANPE; (iii) the proposed project will allow PROFONANPE to better
fulfill its broader mandate, diversify its client base and enhance its capacities to play a pivotal role in
SINANPE'S sustainability; (iv) INRENA will remain focused on those protected areas where civil society
organizations and the private sector are not yet interested for reasons of security and isolation; and (v)
placing the project within PROFONANPE was also judged to be the best option, taking into account the
World Bank's ICR recommendations for PROFONANPE to fully implement its mandate in financing
environmental education and public awareness programs and to implement projects that integrate
conservation and development to benefit communities living in the protected areas and their buffer zones.
b) Focusing the project exclusively on financing civil society and the private sector was also rejected for
the following reasons: (i) there is still an important need to provide support to INRENA as the lead agency
responsible for biodiversity conservation in SINANPE, and as the main institution for protected areas
management in isolated protected areas where civil society and the private sector are not active; (ii)
international experience has shown that leading public agencies such as INRENA can play a key role in the
definition and implementation of much-needed public goods such as strategic planning for SINANPE's
management, policy making for implementing the strategic plan, information production and dissemination
of information and good practices; and (iii) other protected areas, beyond the boundaries of this project, will
benefit through INRENA from important activities such as capacity building, networking and information
exchange.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
The World Bank is implementing four complementary GEF projects in Peru: (i) the Indigenous
Management of Protected Areas in the Amazon, dealing with indigenous management of five PAs located in
the Amazon region; (ii) Participatory Conservation and Sustainable Development with Indigenous
Communities in Vilcabamba project (MSP); (iii) Collaborative Management for the Conservation and
Sustainable Development of the Northwest Biosphere Reserve (MSP); (iv) Biodiversity Conservation and
Community Natural Resource Management Project in the Nanay River Basin (MSP).
UNDP is presently responsible for the implementation of the following GEF-supported projects: (i)
Biodiversity Conservation of Lake Titicaca; (ii) Conservation and Sustainable Use of the Biodiversity of the
- 12 -



Amarakaeri Indigenous Lands project; (iii) Collaborative Management for the conservation of Native
Cultivars and their Wild Relatives project. The latter strengthens SINANPE stakeholders' capacities,
involving indigenous peoples and practices in resources management; and (iv) Conservation and
Sustainable Use of the Central Lomas of Southern Peru targets the Sechura desert.
A few other MSPs are under preparation: (i) Conservation of the Ampay National Sanctuary and the
Sustainable Development of the Marinio Watershed targets the Peruvian Yungas and the central Andean
Puna; (ii) Conservation of Biodiversity and Sustainable Development in Indigenous Lands Ashaninka in
Central Amazon of Peru targets the Southwestern Amazon Moist Forest; (iii) Sustainable Management of
Biodiversity of the Cotahuasi Basin falls within the Sechura Desert and Central Andean Puna; and (iv) the
Sechura Wetlands Conservation project.
The Bank is also supporting the Critical Ecosystems Partnership Fund (CEPF), in partnership with GEF,
Conservation International, the MacArthur Foundation, and the Government of Japan. This CEPF project
will support conservation activities to consolidate the Vilcabamba-Amboro corridor of Peru and Bolivia,
which encompasses two of the areas to be supported under this project (Babuaja-Sonene and Tambopata
Candamo). The Ecosystem Profile prepared to guide CEPFs investments in the corridor has fully taken into
account the existence of this project and does not contemplate investments in the consolidation of these two
areas. Thus, the CEPF complements rather than duplicates the goals of this project.
The German Technical Cooperation finances several SINANPE's activities projects through
PROFONANPE. These are: (i) four technical advisors to INRENA; (ii) infrastructure, equipment and the
development of master plans for six PAs; (iii) recurrent costs, mainly salaries, in nine PAs; (iv) the
management of buffer zones in Alto Mayo PF; (v) FANPE Project (implemented through GTZ); and (vi)
Conservation, Management and Sustainable Use of the Biological Diversity of the Paracas NR. KfW is
providing US$6.81 million debt-for-nature swap for the Cuenca de Morona Pastaza prospective PA and this
amount has been included as parallel financing of this project, given its complementary nature. This project
involve the establishment of a communal reserve or a binational biosphere reserve.
In June 2002, the USA and Peru Governments have signed a US$10.6 million debt swap agreement to be
disbursed over a 12 year period.
The Dutch Government cofinances this project on a total amount of US$4.45 million. It has also contributed
for project preparation as complement to the GEF Block-B as well as finance for local capacity building in
various PAs and their buffer zones including Bahuaja-Sonene NP, Huascaran NP, Yanachaga-Chemillen
NP, Tambopata-Candamo NR, Lagunas de Mejfa NS and through national or international NGOs in the
mangrove forests of northwestern Peru.
Some projects geographic overlapping occur, in particular in the Bahuaja-Sonene NP, Huascaran NP and
Tambopata-Candamo NR. These costs, however, have been included as part of the baseline in the
incremental cost analysis. These three largest of the five selected PAs have the greatest needs for effective
management through civil society and private sector involvement. The type of investments provided by the
above mentioned agencies complement, rather than duplicate these project activities.
Finland Technical Cooperation is currently providing strong financial support to the management of
Macchu Picchu NS and finances scientific studies of Amazonian biodiversity (Biological Diversity in the
Peruvian Amazon).
Finally, the European Union is financing the PROMANU Project, aimed at the sustainable development of
the Manu NP and Manu Biosphere Reserve.
- 13 -



Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Natural resources management      Sierra - Natural Resources      S             S
Management and Poverty
Alleviation Project
GEF - Financed
Biodiversity                      Indigenous Management of         S            S
Protected Areas in the Amazon
Biodiversity                      Participatory Conservation and   S            S
Sustainable Development with
Indigenous Communities in
Vilcabamba
Biodiversity                      Collaborative Management for     S            S
the Conservation and
Sustainable Development of
the Northwest Biosphere
Reserve
Biodiversity                      Biodiversity Conservation and    S            S
Community Natural Resource
Management Project in the
Nanay River Basin
Other development agencies
United Nations Development Program  Biodiversity Conservation of
(UNDP)                            the Titicaca Lake;
Biodiversity                      Conservation and Sustainable
Use of Biodiversity of the
Amarakaeri Indigenous Lands;
In-Situ Conservation of Native
Cultivars and their Wild
Relatives;
GEF Small Grants Program
European Union (EU)               Sustainable Development of
Biodiversity                     the Manu National Park
Finland                           Support to Macchu Picchu;
Biological Diversity in the
Peruvian Amazon
Germany (GTZ + KfW)              NPA Protection Program;
Biodiversity                     Technical Assistance to
SINANPE Institutional
capacity; Recurrent Costs
Financing of 9 PAs;
Technical assistance to
SINANPE (FANPE);
- 14 -



Alto Mayo Integrated
Development;
Conservation, Management and
Sustainable lJse of the
Biological Diversity of the
Paracas National Reserve.
Netherlands                      Capacity building in various
Biodiversity                     PAs and their buffer zones
implementecl through national
or international NGOs.
Protected areas include:
Bahuaja-Sonene NP,
Huascaran NP,
Yanachaga-Chemillen NP,
Tambopata-Candamo NR,
Lagunas de Mejia NS and, in
the mangrove forests of
northwestern Peru.
United States of America International Conservation and Management
Development Agency USAID         of Fragile Ecosystems
I(BIOFOR)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
Why additional GEF funding is needed
The project preparation team has carried out two estimates of the financial needs: at the level of the PAs
included into the project and at the overall SINANPE level.
The Baseline
In light of the system's size and diversity, existing and growing threats, and current financial crisis in the
public sector, the long-term conservation of the ecosystems of global importance proposed in the GEF
Alternative does not appear possible under currently secured financing.
Analysis of financing needs and resources at the level of the six protected areas. The currently secured
financing constitutes the baseline scenario of this analysis. The GEF alternative is presented as the baseline
scenario plus the activities to be financed by GEF and the cofinanciers during the life of the project.
Relevant projects that have been used as a basis to determine the proposed project baseline are presented in
Table 1.
As shown in Table 1, large portions of the country's Amazon rainforest receive little assistance. While some
PAs protecting portions of the Central Andean and Wet Puna receive assistance, the magnitude and range of
threats far exceed existing institutional and financial capacity. Peru's last representative sample of
mangroves receives virtually no support at all and remains at risk. Moreover, all proposed PAs under the
GEF Alternative are increasingly subject to growing threats associated with non-sustainable land use and
other extractive pressures in their adjacent buffer zones. Under the baseline scenario, these practices are
likely to continue and expand into the PA core areas.
The low level of support to PAMCs means that little progress will be made addressing threats by
- 15 -



incorporating local stakeholders into the management of these critically important PAs. Despite GOP's
policy to establish collaborative relationships with civil society and private sector in managing PAs, there is
no other sizeable project at present dedicated to support this objective. Thus, the policy will likely remain
unimplemented under the baseline scenario. Finally, the lack of funds under the baseline scenario for
addressing the information management constraint means that INRENA's effectiveness in responding to the
needs of SINANPE will remain slow and inefficient.
Table 1. Major OP-related Assistance Projects used to Calculate Baseline Cost
PAs to receive support under      Activity Type
PROFONANPE I**
C             q: C  C
Donor/Project Title                                                               E >  A
GOP                            x    x     x    x   x   x   -   x   -  x    x     -
GEF/World: Bank Indigenous
Management of PA in the        x   -                           x  xCo )-        -    -
Amazon                         _    _                          _
German Technical
Cooperation
-SINANPE Institutional Capacity  x  - E       -            -  x      x  - 2x    -     -
-Strengthening 6 PAs           -    -    -    -   x    -   -x     x   x    x    -     -
-Recurrent Costs of 9 PAs      -    -    -    x   x    -   -x     x   x    -    -     -
-FANPE                         x    -    -    -    -   -    -x   x Ex           x     -
Dutch Technical Cooperation
Conservation and Sustainable
Use of Natural Resources in the   x                                  x   x
Tambopata-Candamo Reserved
Zone and the Bahuaja-Sonene
NP and Buffer Zones.
USAID BIOFOR                   x    x    x    -   x    -   -      x   -    x    x     x
Spanish Technical                             x                x  x   x    x
Cooperation
Araucaria-Colca_Project      _____ ___       __
Mountain Institute ional Cxa-acity-                                        x    x     -
Andean Program Cori
Conservation International  ex            x   _   _            -      -    x     x
Analysis of financing agap at the anareWgate SINANPE level. The financial gap analysis has estimated the
financing needs and resources over the period 2000-2010. The provisional results of this analysis indicate a
gap of about US$30 million, after accounting for the funding under this project. The SINANPE needs are
estimated at US$96 million (US$10 million in investments, US$56 million in salaries and operating costs
and US$30 million in support to buffer zones). The estimated resources available to meet this need are
about US$66 million. In the longer term, two lines of actions are necessary: (i) increasing the endowment
fund to finance PA operating costs, and (ii) increasing the sources of revenue in each area. The first action
is now being addressed through the proposed increase in the endowment fund (but further increases will be
- 1 6-



needed). The second action will be addressed through the formulation of a financing strategy whose end
objective will be to expand and diversify SINANPE's traditional funding sources (Annex 17). As part of the
strategy formulation process, pilot financial instruments will be designed and implemented in PAs covered
by the project.
Present Financing of the System (Annex 17)
In the base year, SINANPE's estimated funding level was US$6.25 million. The main sources are public
funds and grants, the latter supported through multi- and bilateral assistance organizations and NGOs. The
major sources of public funds are: the government treasury, PA generated revenue (dominated by
concession and entrance fees and to a much lesser extent research and photography permits) and debt swaps.
In aggregate, public funding represented US$2.23 million or approximately 36% of the SINANPE's total
funding in the year 2000. The percent of debt purchase financing is projected to increase significantly with
the recent agreements reached with Canada, Germany and the USA. Grant funding accounted for
approximately 64% of SINANPE funding of which bilateral funding was the major source of funds (36%).
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons learned from PROFONANPE I
Recommendations were made in the mid-term review of 1998, the ICR and the Aide-memoire of the final
GEF supervision in December 1999 and the Independent Evaluation of January 2000.
Trust Fund financial resources should also be invested in large, developed markets, in order to minimize
investment risks. Portfolio management and investment agreements need to include clear guidelines for
investment risks, asset quality and portfolio diversity. Investment contracts must include performance
clauses so that the owner of the assets can move the funds out of the portfolio in the event of portfolio
mismanagement. PROFONANPE's current investment policy already incorporates these recommendations
and the asset management strategy stipulates clear rules for sound financial management (Annex 16).
The proposed project fully supports the ICR's recommendations to PROFONANPE to finance the
involvement of civil society and the private sector in SINANPE's management and programs.
Lessons learned from other countries:
This section draws heavily on the Mexican experience, given its simnilarities to the situation in Peru (Putney,
Allen et. al. March 2000. Independent External Evaluation. Proyecto de Areas Naturales Protegidas.
Government of Mexico, FMCN, WB).
The importance of adequate legal instruments to delegate responsibility between the public sector and the
civil society/private sector involved in the management of protected areas cannot be overemphasized. Many
pilot operations involving the civil society/private sector in the management of PAs have run into problems
because the legal arrangements between the public owner of the protected area and the private
concessionaire/administrator were unclear or confusing. PROFONANPE will have to recruit a legal expert
to ensure that the contracts are clear and can be implemented.
The importance of long-term sustainability of private sector involvement. Short-term administration and
concession contracts normally do not provide sufficient incentives to civil society and the private sector to
place high-level staff and resources in the management of PAs. Therefore, the project appraisal team has
examined how continuity and sustainability could be ensured. The increased endowment fund and the
- 17 -



implementation of the SINANPE financing strategy will add credibility to the financial sustainability of PA
management and be an incentive for the private sector to dedicate adequate resources to this contract.
The critical requirement for the effective operation of PAMCs is to have well-informed stakeholders;
PAMC members need clear definitions and objectives of PAMC rules, procedures and responsibilities. It
must be clearly stated that decisions must be related to conservation as the main axis of interchange.
Consequently, training programs will provide a continuous flow of information directed to PAMC members
through newsletters and other media instruments.
PAMCs also require a good balance of members' power in the decision-making process to avoid conflicts.
PAMCs require, at the very least, a set of clear and consensual decision-making rules. A review of the rules
regarding PAMC membership, operation and recommendations for assimilating lessons learned from other
countries will be developed throughout project implementation.
Much of the successful leadership of PAs for the conservation of biodiversity and sustainable use of
resources relies on very well-trained PA staff, in particular senior staff. Training programs for PA staff will
include the development of abilities in public relations and in technical and financial support to local
initiatives.
Finally, there is need for transparency in the funds assignment in each PA. MIS and awareness programs
will be used by the project as the main means to meet the transparency requirements.
Independent External Evaluation of PROFONANPE: Summary
PROFONANPE requested an external independent evaluation to obtain a critical view of its results. In
general, the review concluded that PROFONANPE is a solid institution that has gone through an important
institutional strengthening program, and has earned the trust of both donors and project implementation
agents. The most striking result of the institution's performance is that in a period of only five years it has
managed, jointly with other actors, to double the funding available for SINANPE. Such an unprecedented
achievement, the climate of confidence it has generated, and the valuable experience gained by
PROFONANPE makes it clearly eligible for new and larger projects than those underway.
According to the evaluation, the best indicators of PROFONANPE's performance are the following (in
2000): (i) raising US$16 million and resource commitments for an additional US$11 million to be executed
starting in 2000; (ii) average return on investment portfolios of 13.3% in 1996; 9.6% in 1997; -3.3% in
1998, and 5.9% through September 1999 (Annex 16, Attachment A); (iii) implementing US$5.4 million of
investment for SINANPE; (iv) channeling funds towards 17 protected natural areas with concentration on
10 areas; and (v) reduced operating expenses as a percentage of operating costs, from 38% in 1996 to 15%
in 1999; and a 92% disbursement capacity (1996-1998).
The following weaknesses were also identified: (i) a weak strategic framework, especially concerning a
second phase when it will engage in direct fund raising; (ii) a decision making process that could benefit
from more agility and that results in decisions that are not necessarily the most relevant from a strategic
viewpoint, thus advising: a better use of the various departments within the agency and the synergies among
them; and a more careful handling of potential or apparent conflicts of interest; (iii) a rigid institutional
framework that does not provide sufficient room for the structural adjustments required for the agency's
growth; and (iv) channeling of funds to only a handful of actors. Recommendations of the review were:
- 18 -



In the Short Term                                         Actions Taken
To diversify the actors benefiting from PROFONANPE's financial  PROFONANPE is financing two more NGOs
assistance
To use the project as a catalyst to aKtract and coordinate financial  PROFONANPE is now managing about US$38 million in donor
support from other donors                                funds (March 2002)
To explore the   possibility of linking  donations aimed  at  Possibilities have been explored, but astempts to obtain loans for
PROFONANPE with a loan aimed at strengthening the public sector,  the public sector have been unsuccessful as the country's borrowing
capacity is limited
For the PROFONANPE Board of Directors to push for a law   Neither the Ministry of Economy and Finance nor the World Bank
exonerating PROFONANPE of taxes                          favor tax exonerations. Nevertheless, some Value Added Tax
reimbursement for management contracts is being sought.
To modify PROFONANPE's operational manual to establish    A subcommittee for financial and strategic planning has been
subcommittees within the technical commiKtee, each one presided by  established. Proliferation of more subcommiKtees is feared to create
a member of the Board; to appoint new expert members for each  confusion and overlap. Member rotation mechanism (every 2 years)
subcommittee and establish a member rotation mechanism    established
To establish a mechanism to avoid conflict of interests in the Board  Modification of Board would require a modification of the law to
move INRENA out of the PROFONANPE Board, which is not
advisable at this moment and could have negative consequences
for PROFONANPE's ability to raise funds from debt swaps.
To develop a new strategic plan                           Ongoing to be finalized by December 2002
To strengthen the Management in the technical and financial  Additional staff has been recruited
management departments
To create a financial management commiKtee to supervise the  Done
portfolio management
To develop a financial management strategy                Investment guidelines are now part of the contract with asset
managers
To contract the services of an expert who knows the risks of funds  Done
embargoes abroad to ensure that PROFONANPE does not run the
risk of such embargoes
To introduce a rotation system for the Members of the Board of  Two years rotation system introduced
Directors
To bring together and leverage a wider range of the diverse  This wil be done under this project
capabilities present across the State, civil society, local communities,
indigenous groups and the private sector to preserve and - in cases
requiring less protective management - to profit in a sustainable
manner from the natural resources in the areas under SINANPE;
To support INRENA's efforts to increase its management capabilities  This process is ongoing;
as a directing, control and catalyst agent.
Adopt a system of monitonng and evaluation of the institution in  Done
general
In the Long Term:
To develop a broad participation process for project design as a  Project has been prepared with a wide range of partners; however
mechanism to begin updating PROFONANPE's strategic framework,  Bank rules on conflict of interest limrt NGO participation during
and promote the initial studies to quantify the SINANPE's capital and  project preparation as NGOs participatng in project preparaton can
their potential to generate resources, mainly in environmental  not obtain contracts for services under the project.
services and tourism;
To coordinate the inputs from a larger number of donors and  This has been done during the last years and will be continued
community players by including funds earmarked for co-financing;  under this project.
To modify the PROFONANPE Law to ensure that the President of the  Considering the important Govemment funds PROFONANPE is
Board, the representatives of NGOs, and the representative of the  managing, the chances that such Law would pass are very small.
donors would be appointed by the Board itself             The Board does now function very well, and seeking modifications
in the Law at this stage would not be opportune.
To rotate the Board members more frequently               Board members are rotated every two years
To use PROFONANPE funds as leverage for more contributions to  Ongoing, also under this project.
SINANPE
- 19-



4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership:
The PROFONANPE Executive Board, including INRENA and national NGO representatives approved the
project design in March 2000. An endorsement letter was received from the National Environmental
Council (CONAM) as GEF Focal Point on 29 February 2000. The proposal for Block B funding was
endorsed by the PROFONANPE Executive Board. The PCD has been endorsed by the PROFONANPE
Board on November 22, 2001 and by CONAM on March 18, 2002. PROFONANPE has actively
participated in the preparation of the project. An endorsement letter from the Ministry of Economy and
Finance was sent to the World Bank and GEF on August 26, 2002.
GOP contribution to PA financing remains important. In Peru, debt swaps in support of a specific project
entail an elaborate evaluation process. All activities proposed to be financed under this mechanism pass
through two steps: (i) the project/program has to be considered a sector priority by GOP; and (ii) said
priority has to be reflected in the investment plan formulated by MEF. Furthermore, the Ley de Inversiones
requires that the public treasury makes a financial commitment to debt swap supported projects, just like all
other internationally-supported investments.
Since 1995, PROFONANPE has completed 7 debt swaps for a total value of US$27 million equivalent. This
has been achieved because conservation reflects the high national priority GOP (through MEF) and the
international community. In the absence of this strong public recognition of the sector's importance, the
debt swaps could have been directed to address other national priorities (e.g., poverty alleviation, social
infrastructure, and/or alternative development). GOP's support for PROFONANPE demonstrates that the
sector is a priority.
5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project:
The Bank, with its extensive experience in biodiversity conservation as well as decentralized,
demand-driven rural investment projects, is well placed to support the GOP in its efforts to improve PA
management through the implementation of decentralized management systems with strong stakeholder
participation and clear biodiversity conservation objectives. Bank participation in the project would
complement central government and local expertise, bringing lessons and insights from related projects in
other countries to ensure the design of an effective program of technical and financial assistance.
The project will also benefit from the Bank's involvement in related rural development projects in Peru
(such as the Sierra Natural Resources Management Project), which strengthen local organizations and
increase their participation in project design and implementation. The Bank has experience in the
management of projects of national scope, and has a Regional Office with adequate staff located in Lima.
GEF, through the World Bank, financed the establishment of PROFONANPE and proven PROFONANPE' s
viability to manage an endowment fund as a way to finance the needs of PAs. The GEF's capacity to fund
projects and to attract other financiers is important to meet the needs of a SINANPE. GEF is also actively
supporting INRENA through the implementation of Indigenous Management of PAs in the Peruvian
Amazon project and has good working experience with both organizations.
The World Bank/GEF will also contribute with its gained experience in working with NGOs in Peru: (i) the
Participatory Conservation and Sustainable Development with Indigenous Communities in Vilcabamba
project; (ii) the Collaborative Management Project for the Conservation and Sustainable Development of
the Northwest Biosphere Reserve; and (iii) the Biodiversity Conservation and Community Natural
Resources Management Project in the Nanay River Basin.
- 20 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
(_9 Cost benefit  NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
(9 Cost effectiveness
* Incremental Cost
U Other (specify)
The incremental cost over the six-year life of the project is estimated as the difference between the costs of
the GEF Alternative and the costs of the baseline situation. In the estimate of baseline costs within the PAs,
only ongoing and relevant activities and their respective buffer zones were used. The exception was AECI
assistance for the Manglares de Tumbes SN to be implemented by ProNaturaleza, which appears highly
likely to be approved. While some of the support for these projects/activities may end prior to the
completion of the proposed project, it was assumed they would be offset by new activities, as a number of
national and international NGOs are developing new proposals for several of the proposed project sites. A
detailed estimate of the baseline and GEF Alternative is included in Annex 4.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Total project cost is US$32.81 million, divided into: (i) Participatory Protected Area Management
(US$18.20 million); (ii) Institutional Strengthening (US$5.75 million); and (iii) PA Financing, Project
Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation and Information Dissemination including the increment in the
Endowment Fund (US$8.86 million). Financial resources to fund this project will come from: the GOP
(US$1.88 million); GEF (US$14.83 million); the Government of the Netherlands (US$4.45 million); the
Government of Germany, KfW (US$6.58 million); Finland (US$2.5 million); beneficiary contributions
(US$0.60 million) and PROFONANPE (US$1.08 million). Local NGOs will contribute US$1.0 million.
Fiscal Impact:
Overall there is a positive fiscal impact on this operation. GOP will contribute US$1.88 million that will
come from the INRENA budget during the six-year life of the project; at the same time, GP will receive
taxes for about US$2.1 million. SINANPE will receive grant funding from GEF, Germany, the Netherlands,
and Finland to cover investment and recurrent costs, which otherwise INRENA would not have been able to
fund. The additional endowment fund will provide US$250,000 per year to finance recurrent costs in the
SINANPE system. The establishment of management service contracts in at least three PAs will also reduce
the need for increased financing from the Treasury. The implementation of the financing strategy will
identify new sources of revenue.
3. Technical:
The technical evaluation has focused on the threats to biodiversity, the social situation and problems
(including the role of indigenous peoples) in each PA, and on the capacity of the institutions and private
sector to manage the PAs. To improve the quality of the master plans and related studies, INRENA is
working out guidelines, standards and quality control mechanisms for the design (including techniques for
consultations and consensus building) and implementation of master and resources management plans. A
replication strategy/ plan for the project will be developed during project implementation. The preparation
team has also examined how to ensure good quality management of PAs by the private sector, with
- 21 -



particular emphasis on the integration of the experience of other countries into the PA management
contracts. Project preparation has also addressed issues in relation to eligibility criteria for sustainable
economic activities.
4. Institutional:
An assessment of institutional capacities has been carried out at three levels with the objective of
identifying the strengths and shortcomings of the main institutional agents that will participate in the
management of protected areas. The findings are in Annex 14 and the project files.
A.     A first-level institutional assessment has been made to evaluate the capacity of local NGOs,
private-sector operators, grassroots communities, and indigenous groups in each PA to become involved
with the project. Researched items included: (i) the range of formal and informal institutions in the public,
private and not-for-profit sectors; (ii) an assessment of their specific interests, resources and mandates, and
problems perceived by them in relation to the project; (iii) an assessment of institutions and institutional
linkages that are critical for project success, and whether or not they need to be strengthened; (iv)
constraints to equitable access to benefits and/or services by women and indigenous peoples; and (v) an
examination of which institutional assets exist in indigenous communities including institutional linkages,
which allow indigenous peoples to cope with formal organizations.
B.     A second-level institutional assessment was conducted at the local government agencies' level to
determine their strengths and shortcomings for becoming involved in the project. This assessment indicates
the low degree of local government organizations' experience, capacity and interest to become involved in
PA management committees.
C.     A third-level institutional assessment has been carried out at the level of INRENA and
PROFONANPE. The Dutch Government is financing a diagnostic and re-engineering plan of INRENA. The
assessment evaluates the strengths and shortcomings of INRENA and PROFONANPE as pillar institutions
for project implementation. In the case of INRENA the assessment includes: (i) identification of available
resources and instruments for PA management; (ii) specific mandates in the areas of strategic planning,
policy making, administrative organization, and information gathering and dissemination; (iii) legal
instruments that shape its mandate; and (iv) its capacity to carry out policies for the administration of
protected areas according to new laws and bylaws.
The Dutch Government is financing an INRENA institutional development program that takes into account
the results of this assessment. In general, INRENA is considered to be an institutionally weak organization
with multiple roles and responsibilities in difficult logistical and territorial situations. DGANP reflects a
similar weakness. Therefore, the project will strengthen DGANP's capacity with additional staff
(consultants), equipment and logistics. The institutional assessment of PROFONANPE includes an: (i)
assessment of its corporate governance rules; (ii) assessment of management capacity (including
procurement and financial management); and (iii) assessment of mandates, resources and problems in
relation to project implementation. The assessment has highlighted PROFONANPE's administrative
strength. PROFONANPE would however benefit from support in the technical field of environment and
biodiversity.
4.1 Executing agencies:
PROFONANPE will be the proposed project's main executing agency. To date, it has successfully
administered a GEF grant (Grant TF28612) (see also ICR No. 20625) for the creation, setting up and
operation of PROFONANPE, and a grant (Block B grant TF28656) for the preparation of the present
project. PROFONANPE presently implements several projects financed by other donors (KfW, the
- 22 -



Government of Germany, the Government of Canada, the Government of Finland, the Government of the
Netherlands). These projects finance public sector, private sector, and NGO operations; and
PROFONANPE has successfully demonstrated its abililty to successfully complete public and private sector
contractual arrangements.
INRENA will remain PROFONANPE's most important partner. INRENA is the public institute in charge of
SINANPE and, despite the GOP's policy shift towards decentralized management, INRENA will most
likely remain responsible for strategic planning and management of SINANPE, policy making, data
collection and information dissemination, as well as monitoring and evaluation. INRENA' s capacity to
fulfill its role is crucial. In the past, INRENA has demonstrated that it has weak management and may have
difficulties initially assuming its new role as partner with the private sector and civil society. These
difficulties may be overcome by implementing institutional strengthening activities, which are now
underway under the Dutch-financed INRENA Institutional Development Program.
Management Service Providers for PAs. In the stakeholder analysis the following non-profit organizations
were identified as likely candidate institutions expected to submit proposals for management contracts:
Instituto de MontanLa, Instituto Kuntur de Investigacion y Desarrollo Andino, CARE, DESCO and
Asociacion para la Conservaci6n de la Naturaleza, Conservacion Internacional, ProNaturaleza, WWF,
Centro EORI, THREES and ACETTUM. These agencies have significant experience in conservation
management and related activities.
4.2 Project management:
PROFONANPE will be responsible for project management. It will recruit a project director, a procurement
specialist, an environmental specialist, a monitoring and evaluation specialist, and some administrative
assistants. PROFONANPE will finance service contracts between INRENA and civil society, private sector
operators and grassroots organizations. PROFONANPE will also finance contracts for the design and
implementation of project subcomponents. PROFONANPE's relationship with INRENA has been defined
in a framework agreement between both institutions reviewed during appraisal. To carry out the sustainable
economic activities, PRIOFONANPE will recruit a specialized agency (NGO, institution or company). The
present asset management firm will manage the endowment fund.
4.3 Procurement issues:
A procurement assessment of PROFONANPE and MRENA has been carried out and was further reviewed
during appraisal. The procurement risk is evaluated to be "average". To ensure smooth project
implementation and considering the multiple service contracts, PROFONANPE will hire a procurement
specialist to train PROFONANPE and INRENA staff in procurement of mainly consulting and management
services, works and goods.
4.4 Financial management issues:
An accredited financial management specialist conducted an assessment of the accounting, controls over
disbursements and resources, planning and budgeting as well as the level of administrative staff. The
assessment determined that PROFONANPE has proved to be a solid institution that has gained the trust of
both donors and project implementing agents. This success clearly qualifies PROFONANPE as an eligible
entity to implement larger projects. PROFONANPE's experience has allowed to develop the procedures and
internal controls that contribute to a sound financial management system; however, the system still needs to
be strengthened in terms of number of staff, adequate t-aining to PAs staff, installment of the computerized
system in the PAs; and the effective implementation of the procedures defined. Under these considerations,
the inherent risk can be rated as low, but with a medium control risk, which can be downgraded to low if
- 23 -



all systems and procedures defined for the operation of the project are implemented and put in place as
expected. On the basis of the assessment performed, the financial management team concluded that the
financial management of PROFONANPE, currently satisfies the Bank minimum financial management
requirements. This capacity has been further consolidated through the implementation of some key financial
assessment recommendation in the areas of organization, staffing and the accounting system.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Most project activities will have a very positive environmental impact. The project's very nature and
objective are to conserve biodiversity. Nevertheless, some activities under component I of the project
(Participative Management of Protected Areas) may trigger environmental issues. Specifically, the
Environmental Assessment (Annex 12) has identified two subcomponents under Component I that may
trigger environmental issues: (i) Sub Component 2 (Implementation of Participative Management Plans);
and (ii) Sub Component 3 (Sustainable Economic Activities). For this reason, an environmental framework
(EF) has been prepared. According to the EF, activities in buffer zones and in resource use reserves under
such sub-components will need to undergo a specific environmental screening which will be part of the
subproject evaluation.
The EF has identified likely potential environmental impacts by the activities in the referred
sub-components, and has grouped and presented them in the form of a data sheet that will be used as an
input into the development of a screening system of activities on the resources within the PA and the buffer
zones. The EF presents 6 categories of environmental impacts: (i) load capacity; (ii) visual impact; (iii)
natural environment deterioration; (iv) solid and liquid waste; (v) fire and emissions; and (vi) hosts and
visitors security. As in some cases the screening may be a complex interactive issue when financing
activities under the project, an environmental impact analysis of some subprojects will be performed by
specialists recruited by the specialized agency employed by PROFONANPE to assist the subproject
preparation teams with ad hoc advice on environmental impact.
The EF also presents measures to mitigate adverse environmental impacts, if any, and provides practical
steps to include such measure in the design of projects under the referred subcomponents. In this way,
project design for all activities with possible adverse environmental impact will include a well-defined
Environmental Management Plan (EMP).
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The EF presents practical steps on how mitigation measures will be incorporated in the project design and
implementation of activities to be financed under the referred subcomponents. The steps to prepare an EPM
to mitigate the possible negative environmental impacts of some economic initiatives include: (i) screen
every subproject under the referred subcomponents for environmental impact; (ii) include impact mitigation
measures in the design and implementation of the subprojects whenever necessary, by providing specialized
consultants to the design teams; (iii) consult with stakeholders on whether the impact mitigation measures
can and will be implemented; and (iv) include in the monitoring and evaluation system the monitoring of
compliance with the proposed mitigation. All these steps are described in Annex 12.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: May 2002
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
- 24 -



Since subprojects will be designed on a demand-driven basis, at the stage of environmental screening the
stakeholders will be consulted by subproject design teams and within the framework of the PAMCs.
Consultations are envisioned for all activities in the protected areas under the current Natural Protected
Law, and are being applied for the case of environmental concerns.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The same monitoring and evaluation system as designed in INRENA (under the Indigenous Management of
Protected Areas in the Peruvian Amazon) will be used to monitor the project's impact on biodiversity. As
adverse impacts from other project activities are expected to be small and localized, the Project Monitoring
and Evaluation System will include localized monitoring of the possible negative impacts identified during
environmental screening. The EF proposes that PROFONANPE's monitoring and evaluation team in close
cooperation with INRENA should: (i) establish a forum with sub-project implementers and private
management providers, if any, to discuss and solve issues of mutual interest; (ii) design a standard format
for monitoring information which project implementers will send periodically to PROFONANPE/INRENA;
and (iii) prepare an annual report about activities implemented in all project Protected Natural Areas to be
made available to all interested parties.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
A comprehensive social assessment and consultation process were carried out in the six PAs and their buffer
zones to identify main social issues and possible impacts arising from the project. The main results of this
analysis are summarized below (see Annex 13 and the project files for complete documentation).
a. Restrictions in access to natural resources. Peru has adopted a policy principle based on coexistence of
people within protected areas; therefore, resettlement is not envisioned to take place under the project.
Instead, the project aims at preserving biodiversity without hindering legitimate aspirations of people living
in those areas and it is expected to have a positive impact on their livelihood by promoting a better
management of natural resources. However, in exceptional cases, as in areas zoned for strict conservation,
there might be the need for limiting access to resources. To address the possible impact from this restriction,
the project's social strategy comprises a Process Framework to operate under the following principles: (i)
any restrictions on access to resources will be jointly defined with the affected communities during the
preparation of the PA's management plans; (ii) participation mechanisms will ensure these communities to
be actively involved in decision-making process, incorporating a gender perspective; and (iii) sustainable
alternatives will be developed to provide affected people with revenue-generating activities with a positive
impact on both biodiversity and people's income, to substitute damaging practices, both within protected
areas and in buffer zones.
b. Involvement of Indigenous Peoples. In five protected areas in the project there are several ethnic groups
that preserve some of their cultural traditions in spite of the pressures of migration, cultural deterioration,
and urban growth. Most of them live in poverty or, extreme poverty conditions, dedicated to agriculture
activities and natural resources extraction. In the Andean area, the Quechua, Aymara and Collahua groups
still preserve their language and some traditional practices in the use of natural resources. However, they are
fully integrated to market practices and culture. In the Amazon area, the main indigenous groups are the
Ese'eja and some Quechua- Collahua groups who have migrated towards tropical areas seeking land.
Demographic growth of these, groups and changes in their consumption patterns have altered the balance in
the use of natural resources and land use. Under the project, a specific strategy and Indigenous Peoples
Development Plans have been designed to protect indigenous peoples rights and ensure that they benefit
- 25 -



from the project by supporting sustainable activities rooted in their traditional natural resources
management and strengthening community organizations.
c. Land Tenure Issues. Five protected areas in the project have officially registered and defined
boundaries. However, with the exception of Tambopata and Bahuaja Sonene, each PA faces some form of
conflict over land. In Huascaran, three private fishing firms claims rights in the PA. In the remaining PAs
there are a mix of unresolved conflicts among small landowners and indigenous communities; some have
legal titles while others are illegally occupying PA lands. Though there are several land claims, the actual
number of families living within the PAs is limited. While the Ministry of Agriculture is addressing this
issue, PROFONANPE will not proceed to demarcation of those areas under dispute until an agreement on
land issues is reached. The project will support these effort through participatory management planning and
economic sustainable activities.
d. Private Management Service Contracts. The project proposes to promote private involvement in
protected area management. Some communities have perceived this proposal as a "privatization" of
protected areas that might affect their rights. There is also the argument that the proposed management
service provider might become yet another hierarchical layer that complicates rather than facilitates the
already difficult relationships between INRENA and the local communities. To address this issue, the
selection of PA management service providers will be a transparent competitive process. Selection criteria
will include: local and regional knowledge and linkage with involved communities; experience in
participatory management of PA; and a gender perspective. PA Law provides for PAMCs involvement in
the selection of private management service providers and supervision of its activities. The project will
endorse this approach by supporting the establishment of PAMCs and encouraging community participation
to ensure a social monitoring and control.
The project's social strategy incorporates in an integrated manner, four different instruments to address
above-described social issues and mitigate possible social impacts, namely: (i) a Process Framework to
mitigate restrictions in natural resources in PA and prevent threats towards PA from buffer zones; (ii)
Indigenous Peoples Development Plans to ensure indigenous peoples benefiting from the project; (iii) a
Gender Strategy to ensure that both women and men benefit from the project according to their abilities and
needs; and (iv) a Public Participation Promotion to guarantee stakeholders involvement in establishment an
operations of PAMCs as a vehicle to participate in PA management. On the basis of this strategy specific
Social Action Plans are to be prepared for each PA to be executed through Annual Programs. The project
budgets comprises resources to carry out social plans preparation and implementation as well as PAMCs
participation through the process.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The project has been prepared under a participatory approach comprising a beneficiary assessment
involving population in PAs and buffer zones; this exercise helped to identify their expectations and social
issues that might affect project implementation. Additionally, an extensive consultation process took place
in the PA in the project comprising local NGOs and community organizations in surrounding communities.
Overall, more than 500 people were contacted through various consultation mechanisms such as: 261
participants in local consultation meetings; 189 persons in focal groups (for public, private and social
sectors); 74 surveys on environmental management and institutional development experiences; and 66 key
informants in-depth interviews.
The results of these processes were further discussed in regional workshops and alternatives identified to
address main social and environmental threats were discussed and agreed with main stakeholders. This
participatory process will continue during preparation of PA management plans and social strategy action
- 26 -



plans.
During implementation, participation is ensured by the PAMCs in which communities, private sector, NGOs
and local and central government will participate through their representatives in decision-making and
conflict resolution. Communities will also play an active role and benefit from small-scale economic
activities financed under the project and from activities derived from the execution of the master and
resource management plans.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
National NGOs, representatives of large NGO networks, and local NGOs actively participated in
consultation and in the project design stage. However, for those that might be involved during project
implementation, participation in detailed project design was restricted.
During project implementation national and local NGOs will be invited to bid for contracts to implement
PA management contracts and studies. Local NGOs and local govemment will also be able to participate
through the PAMCs.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achiieves its social
development outcomes?
The Natural Protected Areas Law provides the legal framework for private sector and civil society
participation in the management of SINANPE through: (i) private sector participation in the SINANPE
Coordination Council; (ii) involvement of NGOs, private sector, community-based organizations and public
sector stakeholders in the design and implementation of PA Master Plans and Management Plans; and (iii)
establishment and strengthening of PAMCs as a tool to allow stakeholders participation in PA management.
The project endorses this framework by supporting PA management planning under a participatory
approach that will institutionalized in all processes. The project will support establishment and
strengthening PAMCs, to ensure the inclusion of relevant stakeholders, particularly indigenous leaders and
women and civil society participation through public awareness campaigns. INRENA, responsible for PA
management, will incorporate a social scientist-gender specialist to be responsible for implementation of the
social strategy. PROFONANPE will implement the social strategy in buffer zones through a experienced
NGO to lead and overlook the process and local NGOs in charge of its implementation.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The project monitoring and evaluation system will incorporate specific process and outcomes indicators to
assess progress in implementation of the social strategy and monitor its impacts particularly those activities
targeting indigenous peoples and women. PROFONANPE will prepare semester reports about social
strategy implementation for each PA and annual repoits on the basis of annual programs results.
6.6. Gender Impact
In compliance with current legislation to manage protected areas, beneficiary communities will be actively
involved in all stages of the preparation and execution of sub projects financed under the project. NGOs will
be promoted and provided with materials, training and technical support to reach and recruit target groups
within the protected areas and their buffer zones. Local communities will be encouraged to form
representative, gender-balanced community groups for the implementation of micro projects and other
project activities.
- 27 -



By the end of the project, the protected areas will have incorporated gender analysis and gender concerns
into all aspects of policy, procedures, projects and monitoring systems. Both men and women will benefit
from the environmental improvements brought about by the component. The project offers many
opportunities for gender related activities. They include employment and training of female PA specialists,
communication strategies addressed at the female part of the population, and subprojects in buffer zones
especially addressing female concerns. The latter is particularly important as women are often in charge of
collecting wood and non-timber forest products, and animal raising duties in the Sierra. To reduce pressure
on the protected areas women will learn how to use resources more efficiently (less wood for the same
quantity of energy), how to add more value to the non-timber resources collected and how; for instance,
pastures can be improved to increase its loading coefficient.
The project will ensure that data collected for environmental and social assessments captures gender issues,
and that both men and women are encouraged to participate in project activities. The design and timing of
project activities will take into consideration the daily and overall yearly workload of women, so they have
actual time to participate in project activities. The cultural diversity of each protected area will be taken into
account when incorporating gender issues in the design project activities.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Are any of the following safeguard policies triggered by the pro ect?
.> -- . Policy                      -      Triggered
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          0 Yes (9No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  () Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   S Yes (9 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    )(9 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 (9 Yes S No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                         U Yes (9 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                            Yes (9 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             (9 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  () Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       ( 9Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The provisions to ensure compliance with safeguards are: (i) the design and updating of master and resource
management plans in each PA will include safeguard aspects; (ii) the project monitoring and evaluation
system will monitor compliance with safeguards; (iii) an Environmental Framework and a Process
Framework to address restictions in access to natural resources have been established (see Annex 13 -
Attachment A) to ensure compliance with environmental and social safeguards; and (iv) Bank supervision
missions will contain environmental, biodiversity and social specialists to review safeguard compliance.
- 28 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Technical sustainability will be assured by: (i) increasing awareness and participation in biodiversity
conservation and its sustainable use by local populations, local organizations and institutions through
training, the use of participatory approaches and tangible benefits; (ii) implementing the legal framework
that encourages a participatory approach to conservation and management of protected areas; (iii)
strengthening participation of local stakeholders in management decisions through PAMCs; (iv) funding
-demand-driven, small productive projects identified by local communities which are economically feasible
and environmentally friendly; and (v) involving civil society and the private sector in the planning,
management and implementation of the PA system as a whole.
Financial sustainabililty will be ensured partly through the Endowment Fund mechanism, which will enable
PROFONANPE to double its contribution to the financing of the recurrent costs of SINANPE. Obviously,
this amount is relatively small, but it helps to improve overall sustainability. The endowment fund put in
place under the initial GEF grant has been able to ensure continued provision of funds to partially cover
recurrent costs in 10-12 PAs. The additional contribution by GEF, Finland and PROFONANPE is therefore
very welcome and may encourage the Government to increase the PROFONANPE endowment fund. The
implementation of the SINANPE financing strategy will put additional funding mechanisms in place.
The private management services will also reduce the need for payment of recurrent costs as management
service providers will contribute to recurrent costs financing. Some of the PAs could become
self-sustainable. Sustainability of community initiatives will ensured through an adequate project design and
participation.
la. Replicability:
A replication strategy has been designed in Subcomponent 3.4.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Apart from the risks below, there is an inherent institutional risk linked to the reform of the Peruvian
public sector,the reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture and consequently of INRENA. At this
time (December 2002) the future role of INRENA is being discussed and it is possible that some
institutional changes may take place with a temporary impact on the project. The channeling of funding
though PROFONANPE is therefore an important risk mitigation measure.
-Risk                  'Risk Rating           Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Due to internal conflict and other         S        Training of PAMCs and civil society to include
political circumstances, PAMCs are                  conflict resolution systems, communication
unable to manage PAs and buffer zones               skills, technical biodiversity matters and role of
in such a way that biodiversity is being            the management service providers and
conserved.                                          INRENA in PA management will remain
predominant.
Special-interest groups disrupt the        H        Internal transparency, public information and a
sustainable management system through               communications strategy to increase overall
political and other means.                          external transparency.
Private non-profit sector is not capable of  M      Management contracts to include detailed
- 29 -



managing all aspects of conservation               clauses and monitoring indicators to foster
including maintaining good relationships           conservation and to penalize non-conservation;
with surrounding communities and                   accurate monitoring and evaluation systems in
PAMCs                                              place and adequate INRENA oversight.
Management providers to participate with
PAMCs in conflict resolution training.
There are no ready economic and           M        Project to finance adaptive research studies,
technical solutions to replace non                 study tours to other countries and adoption of
sustainable land use and extractive                successful models in similar ecosystems.
practices in buffer zones.
Local communities are unwilling to adopt  H        Project to implement incentive system to
solutions to adopt biodiversity friendly           promote adoption of conservation friendly
technologies and initiatives are not               technologies. Project to organize training,
socially viable.                                   market information and demonstration of local
ventures to attract community involvement.
Eligibility criteria and appraisal process match
local values & viability.
Other international and national financial  M      PROFONANPE will be strengthened in fund
sources do not make additional                     raising and the financing strategy will provide
contributions.                                      additional fund raising mechanisms.
MIS and M&E reports not used to           M         Stakeholders have easy & permanent access to
improve sustainable management of                  MIS and M&E information Training to
SINANPE and 1NRENA does not have                   emphasize value of information in
the counterpart funds to maintain the               decision-making processes. Government - Bank
MIS system.                                         dialogue on counterpart funding will continue.
Educational authorities not willing to    M         Training quality and project support attracts
participate in environmental awareness              participation of educational authorities and
campaigns.                                          organizations of parents.
Working relationship between INRENA       M        Framework Agreement between INRENA and
and PROFONANPE deteriorates                         PROFONANPE can be modified and adjusted
to the needs. - Bank dialogue will remain
important.
From Components to Outputs
Present proper designs do not lead to     M         PA management plans will be updated.
good management by the non-profit                  Management procedures and plan
private sector.                                    implementation will undergo monitoring by
INRENA & PROFONANPE. Contracts to
include clauses to penalize non-proper
management. Experience of trainers, advisors
and Project team assures quality of designs.
Beneficiary organizations not capable of  S         Specialized agency to be contracted will train
administering resources provided.                  beneficiaries in proper accounting procedures
and ensure subproject and program designs
- 30 -



viable in local conditions.
Training institutions, public awareness   S        Terms of reference of contractors to be very
agency and MIS design firms to be                  detailed. Selection processes to be based on
contracted by PROFONANPE do not                    quality rather than on price. PROFONANPE
perform according to professional                  staff to monitor contractors performance very
standards.                                         closely and contracts requiring detailed report
and client surveys to ensure adequate
performance.
Reorganization of NRENA is potentially    M        Project funding through PROFONANPE
disadvantageous for DGANP, thus                    guarantees some stability in the financing of
making it less effective.                          PAs and the program.
Counterpart funding not available         S        Bank-Government dialogue will stress the need
for counterpart funds
INRENA does not implement long-term       N        PROFONANPE will substitute to some extent
financing strategy                                 for INRENA weaknesses
Overall Risk Rating                       M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The project will operate in the interface that exists between conservation of biodiversity and exploitation of
natural resources. As such, the possibility always exists that, as a result of the enhanced conservation of
biodiversity and more sustainable rates of natural resource use, some people will be economically
negatively affected. The history of Peru's PA management has not been one without violence. This
controversial aspect is addressed by the project by emphasizing a very strong participatory nature through
the direct involvement of local populations in managernent decisions via the PAMCs. Local communities
will pay very close attention to ensuring that the functioning of these comrnittees enhances the level of
ownership of the project and of PAs.
G. Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
There are no effectiveness conditions
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Disbursement Conditions
Proof of availability of funds from the Government of Finland in PROFONANPE's endowment fund is a
condition of disbursement of the first tranche of the GEF endowment fund. Availability of an additional
US$500,000 from PROFONANPE (or other financing agency) is a condition of disbursement of the
second tranche (US$500,000) of the endowment fund.
The recruitment of the agency to prepare the Sustainable Economic Activities manual and implement the
- 31 -



program as well as the approval by PROFONANPE of the manual is a condition of disbursement for
expenditures related to those activities.
H. Readiness for Implementation
C 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
El 1. b) Not applicable.
E 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
D 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
The subproject operations manual
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
EN 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[1] 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
erbrouck ~  ~       John Redwooadace                             gl
ofearn Leader                    Sector Director                   Co4nt Director
- 32 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
PERU: Participatory Management of Protected Areas
. < > . su  ^  ¢    . .     Key Performance -    Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives       Indicators                       .         Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:    Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Supporting sound        Poverty headcount in rural INEE household surveys.  - macro-economic situation
environmental           areas and around Protected                     improves;
management, reducing    Areas.                  SINANPE    MIS  system, - political stability is
poverty and extreme                             project  monitoring  and maintained in Peru;
poverty.                Management effectiveness evaluation  system  and - socioeconomic conditions
of SINANPE              scorecards.             improve among rural
populations.
GEF Operational Program:  Outcome / Impact
Indicators:
Support long term       Global ecosystem        International reports and
protection of globally  indicators.             scientific studies.
important ecosystems.
To ensure biodiversity  Adoption of collaborative  GEF program  monitoring
conservation by increasing  public/private sector  and evaluation system.
the involvement of civil  management approaches to National reports to CBD
society institutions and the other PAs and biodiversity  and  Clearing  House
private sector in the   conservation/management  Mvechanism (CHM).
planning, management and sub-sectors.           INRENA     and    NGOs
sustainable use of Peru's                       gender-specific  annual
biodiversity resources.  Increased stakeholder and  reports and scorecards.
women's participation in  Minutes of meetings of
the management of at least PAMC and other related
6 PAs.                  reports.
Global Objective:       Outcome / Impact        Project reports:        (from Objective to Goal)
Indicators:
To improve the          Increased management    INRENA biodiversity     INRENA policies
management and          effectiveness in project  monitoring and evaluation  promoting collaborative
conservation of         PAs.                    system.                 public/private sector
biodiversity in SINANPE.                        PAMC reports.           approaches remain
Technical studies.      consistent;
Reduced number of       Parkguard
non-sustainable         reports/infraction records.  other related sectors adopt
development activities in  Annual bio-physical  a similar approach to
PA and buffer zones.    monitoring and evaluation  conservation of
reports.                biodiversity.
Improved degree of      INRENA biodiversity
biodiversity conservation in Monitoring and Evaluation -working relationship
project PAs.            reports.                between INRENA and
PROFONANPE remains
Increased stakeholder   PAMCs minutes of        good.
participation in project  meetings.
PAs.                                            INRENA has defined and
- 33 -



Gender-specific annual  implemented a gender
Increased women's      socioeconomic M&E       policy.
participation in the    reports.
management of project PAs
Management and PAMC
Participation of Indigenous reports.
Peoples in PA conservation
programs.
To increase the financial  Increased revenue in each  PA accounting system and
sustainability of the   protected area to finance  SINANPE management
financing of PA.        recurrent costs.       information system.
Output from each        Output Indicators:      Project reports:       (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Improved management of  - 2 new and 4 updated  Project implementation  - There are economic and
six PAs.                master plans by PY4.   reports.                technical solutions to
- 5 PAMCs operating by                         replace non sustainable
end of Project Year I   Project Monitoring and  land use and extractive
(PY1).                  Evaluation reports.    practices in buffer zones.
- 3 PAs administered by
private non-profit      Bank Supervision reports  - PAMCs remain coherent,
organizations by December Mid-term evaluation.  make decisions on the basis
2004.                                           of technical rather than
- 50% of PA management  All reports will be gender  political criteria, remain
activities contracted out to  specific.         honest and transparent, and
private sector in three                         manage areas according to
remaining PAs by                                conservation and public
December 2004.                                  business principles.
- 100 small-scale activities
implemented in 5 PAs over                       -Special interest groups not
6 years, of which at least                      able to disrupt sustainable
10% will target women                           management systems.
initiatives.
- 30 programs in 5 PAs                          - Local communities are
implemented to reduce                           willing to adopt solutions to
biodiversity threats.                           adopt biodiversity friendly
technologies and initiatives
are not socially viable.
Increased institutional  - NRENA-GDPA and       Project implementation  - Private non-profit sector
capacity of public/private  PROFONANPE staff   reports.                is capable of managing all
sectors to work        trained over life of project. INRENA internal reports  aspects of conservation
collaboratively in the  - INRENA DGANP          Project Monitoring and  including maintaining good
management of the national reduces average response  Evaluation reports.  relationships with
system of protected areas.  time.               PAMC reports.          surrounding communities
- 25 local civil society  Bank Supervision reports.  and PAMCs.
receiving assistance from  Mid-term evaluation.
project.
- gender concerns are taken
- 34 -



into account in all training
programs.
-PAMCs recommendations
are being implemented
Increased public awareness -public awareness strategy  Public awareness surveys. Educational authorities are
of the importance of Peru's implemented by PY3 and  Project implementation  willing to participate in
biodiversity and the role of measured.          reports.                environmental awareness
protected areas in its   - media campaigns      Project M&E reports.    campaigns.
conservation and        implemented by end of   Bank Supervision reports.
management.             PY4.                    Mid-term evaluation.
- 20,000 school age
children to receive
educational materials.
Improved efficiency in the  - establishment of an MIS in  Project implementation  MIS reports will be
management of SINANPE. PY3                      reports.                effectively used.
- MIS operating by end of  E'roject M&E reports.
PY3.                   IBank Supervision reports.  INRENA has counterpart
Mid-term evaluation.    funds to finance recurrent
costs of MIS system.
Improved basis for      - increase of the       Project implementation  Co-financing in place and
financing the costs of  PROFONANPE              reports.                other institutions make
biodiversity conservation.  endowment fund by US$5  Project M&E reports.  contributions.
million in PY 1 and US$1  Bank Supervision reports.
million by PY3.         Mid-term evaluation.
-capture of US$3 million in
additional funds over life of
project.
-additional funding
mechanisms implemented.
Dissemination of project  - creation of a project  Project implementation
related experiences and  website.               r eports.
lessons learned to other  - 20,000 hits/year over life  Project M&E reports.
SINANPE PAs and regional  of project.           Bank Supervision reports.
projected area systems.  - publication of       Mvid-term evaluation.
experiences.
Project Components /    Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:      (from Components to
Sub-components:         component)                                      Outputs)
Component 1.
Participatory           US$18.20 million out of Project implementation  Proper designs lead to good
preparation of PA master  which GEF will finance reports.               management.
and resource management  US$7.11   million  and Financial Monitoring
plans.                  Netherlands     US$3.65 Reports.                Beneficiary organizations
million.                Project M&E reports.    capable of administering
Master and resource plan                        Bank Supervision reports.  resources provided.
implementation.                                 Mid-term evaluation.
- 35..



Implementation of
environmentally
sustainable economic
activities.
Component 2.
Training of INRENA /    US$5.74 million out of Project implementation
PROFONANPE staff.       which GEF will finance reports.
US$3.19 million and the Project M&E reports.
Technical assistance to  Netherlands   US$0.59 Bank Supervision reports.  INRENA's institutional
INRENA and              million.                Mid-term evaluation.   set-up remains favorable
PROFONANPE.                                                            towards DGANP.
Capacity building among                                                Training institution
local environmental                                                    selected performs
institutions /organizations                                            according to professional
in proximity to                                                        standards and contract
project-supported PAs.                                                 requirements.
Development and                                                        - Public awareness agency
implementation of a                                                    performs according to
biodiversity                                                           professional standards and
conservation-based public                                              program requirements.
awareness program.
Design and implementation
of SINANPE Management                                                  - MIS design agency
Information System (MIS).                                              performs according to
professional standards.
Component 3.
Increasing the          US$8.86 million, out of Project implementation  - Counterpart funding
PROFONANPE              which GEF will finance reports.                available.
endowment fund.         US$4.50 million and the Project M&E reports.
Development and adoption Netherlands   US$0.21 Bank Supervision reports.
of a long term SINANPE  million.                Mid-term evaluation.   - INRENA agrees with and
Financing Strategy.                             GEF Extemal evaluations. implements the strategy.
Establishment and
operation of a project unit.
Design and implementation
of a gender-specific M&E
system and a dissemination
strategy.
- 36 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
PERU: Participatory Management of Protected Areas
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$18.20 million
Participatory Protected Area Management
The objective of the component is to involve civil society, private sector and local communities in the
decision-making process and management of PAs, and share in the benefits derived from their sustainable
use. There are three sub-components: (i) participatory planning in PAs; (ii) participatory master and
resource management plan implementation; and (iii) environmentally sustainable economic activities in PAs
and buffer zones.
Sub-component 1.1. Participatory Planning in PAs (US$2.56 million; 7.9% of total project cost. GEF
contribution: US$1.12 million and Dutch contribution US$0.2 million).
Expected Outcomes: (i) at least two new PA master plans, four updated PA master plans and several
resource, public use and other management plans prepared; (ii) gender sensitive and specific studies and
data collection for management, monitoring and evaluation; and (iii) instruments to implement the master
plans.
Activities: To produce the above outcomes, the component would finance the following activities: (i)
collection and/or completion of basic information such as biodiversity baseline studies, social and economic
studies, gender approach studies, natural resources inventories, legal and land tenure studies, ecological
indicators and other field assessments necessary to support master plan updating and subsequent monitoring
and evaluation; (ii) gender balanced participatory design of master plan updates, resource management
plans and public use programs; (iii) preparation of financing plans and financial strategies for each PA; and
(iv) market research and other studies in support of sustainable economic initiatives.
Studies will involve local people and PAMCs who also need to be informed of all study results.
Consequently the project will finance the presentation of study findings at events catering to local
audiences.
This sub-component will also design and develop instruments facilitating PAMC and stakeholder
involvement in master plan implementation. These instruments include: management services contracts,
subcontracts for PA management services, community resource use plans, community PA protection and
control systems and conflict resolution mechanisms.
The design of master plan updates and resource management plans will be contracted out to specialized
agencies working collaboratively with PA managers, local institutions and people. If the German
Cooperation would not finance an update of the SINANPE overall master plan by PY02, such update could
be financed under this subcomponent.
Sub-component 1.2. Participatory Master and Management Plan Implementation (US$8.15 million; 24.8%
of total project cost. GEF contribution US$4.48 million and Dutch contribution US$0.45 million).
Expected Outcomes: (i) three PAs will be managed directly by nonprofit private organizations through
contracts with INRENA, guided by approved master plans and under direct PAMC oversight; (ii) at least
- 37 -



50% of all management activities identified in the management and master plans in the remaining PAs
would be provided by civil society, private sector or communities; (iii) increased management and
protection enforcement capacity; (iv) establishment of basic infrastructure, equipment and staff
requirements to ensure the conservation of biodiversity of international importance; and (v) PAMCs
functioning in each participating PA.
Activities: The sub-component will finance the following activities: (i) the contracting out of a range of PA
management responsibilities and services to the nonprofit private sector organizations, private sector and
communities; (ii) physical demarcation of PA boundaries (where necessary); (iii) management and services
contracts with the private sector; (iv) salaries for park rangers and administrative personnel; (v) vehicles and
equipment; (vi) small-scale infrastructure; and (vii) some incremental PAMC operational costs.
Specifically, three PAs will be managed through management services contracts with the nonprofit private
sector. These management service providers will be responsible for implementing master and resource
management plans, administering the PA financial resources, promoting local community participation in
PA management, preparing annual work plans, and providing information for monitoring and evaluation
purposes. On behalf of INRENA, they will subcontract and supervise private sector, NGOs and
communities carrying out smaller contracts including: construction and maintenance of PA infrastructure
(visitor centers, walking paths, etc.); studies; biodiversity research; wildlife management; protection against
invasions by farmers and loggers; and activities with local communities (including initiatives of a social,
anthropological and educational nature to foster local conservation). Where possible, the management
service providers will implement the local components of the sustainable economic activities program
(subcomponent 1.3) and foster tourist activities where appropriate and environmentally acceptable.
INRENA's authority to sanction trespassing will not be delegated to the management service providers.
Criteria for the selection of management service providers will include: (i) demonstrated experience and
capacity in PA management; (ii) technical capacity of the management team; (iii) strength and relevance of
partnership arrangements with local institutions in proximity to the PA; and (iv) financial commitment and
the proposed future financial sustainability strategy for the PA. In the stakeholder analysis the following
non-profit organizations were identified as likely candidate institutions expected to submit proposals for
management contracts: Instituto de Montafia, Instituto Kuntur de Investigacion y Desarrollo Andino,
CARE, DESCO and Asociacion para la Conservacion de la Naturaleza, Conservacion Internacional,
ProNaturaleza, WWF, Centro EORI, THREES and ACE'iTUM. In addition, there are a number of smaller
more activity/issue specific NGOs which have been identified in each of the project-supported PAs that are
likely to team up with the previously identified institutions.
Salaries for park rangers are salaries for rangers and INRENA staff in PAs that are not or not yet managed
by a management service provider.
The PAMC incremental operational costs refer to the costs of the organization of meetings to inform and
discuss optional activities/projects that will go as part of the master plans.
Sub-component 1.3. Sustainable Economic Activities (US$7.49 million; 22.8% of total project cost; GEF
contribution US$1.51 million and Dutch contribution US$3.0 million).
Expected Outcomes: (i) 30 programs/projects in PAs and the buffer zones oriented to stop/revert acute
pressure on or threats to PAs; (ii) 100 small-scale demonstrative economic/productive initiatives for the
sustainable use of biodiversity.
Activities: This subcomponent will provide financial and technical assistance to: (i) communities, women
- 38 -



organizations, rural and indigenous organizations to formulate and implement sustainable conservation
programs and small sustainable economic subprojects in PAs and buffer zones; (ii) economic sectors with
activities representing a threat to the PAs to mitigate damages or reconvert activities toward alternative
non-degradable environmental activities; and (iii) sustainable biodiversity initiatives and other subprojects
presented by poor communities and families under the social strategy (Annex 13).
Conservation implies not only the right PA management but requires suitable solutions to mitigate pressures
or threats to the areas, based on a concerted process-perhaps a conflict resolution process--with the
participation of the principal stakeholders in the PAs and buffer zones. This implies giving a relevant role to
the Management Committees (PAMCs) as well as conciliation opportunities and promoting development
programs that could generate sustainable economic alternatives substituting degrading or contaminating
economic activities. Under this subcomponent, the gender aspects will play an important part in the design
of the subprojects, considering the economic role of women in the households.
An illustrative list of activities that could be financed under this component is: (i) management of grazing
land programs, animal health and dairy production; promotion of sustainable agroecological production;
forest management; marketing and processing of agricultural products; (ii) introduction of appropriate
environmentally-adapted technologies for mining; reconverting illegal loggers; technical assistance to small
shrimp industries; wildlife management for tourism development; and (iii) use of medicinal, ornamentals,
nourishing species; apiculture; wood and handicrafts; tourism services; Brazil nut management; etc.
PROFONANPE will coordinate the funding of these subprojects with regional and local governments.
PROFONANPE will contract a specialized agency to develop the subproject operating manual and
implement the program in cooperation with the PA management service providers and smaller NGOs active
in buffer zones. Under this subcomponent the specialized agency will transfer funds to beneficiaries
(communities, women organizations, farmer and business associations) on a grant basis to carry out the
subprojects. The eligibility criteria of beneficiary groups, matching grant requirements and environmental
and social safeguards will be established in the subproject operating manual. GEF financed subprojects have
a 50% cofinancing requirement. The recruitment of the specialized agency and approval by
PROFONANPE of the Sustainable Economic Activities Operations Manual will be conditions of
disbursement for expenditures related to those activities.
Project Component 2 - US$5.74 million
Institutional Development
The main objective of this component is to consolidate SINANPE by: (i) strengthening INRENA,
PROFONANPE, PAMCs, civil society and private sector organizations to collaborate in SINANPE's
management; (ii) increasing public awareness of Peru's biodiversity and the role of PAs; and (iii)
developing and implementing a SINANPE management information system (MIS).
The component has four sub-components: (i) training and technical assistance to INRENA and
PROFONANPE; (ii) capacity building of PAMCs and local civil society in the proximity of PAs; (iii)
developing and implementing a biodiversity conservation-based public awareness program; and (iv)
designing and implementing SINANPE's MIS.
Sub-component 2.1. Training and Technical Assistance for INRENA and PROFONANPE (US$2.47
million; 7.5% of total project cost; GEF contribution US$1.74 million and Dutch contribution US$0.26
million).
- 39 -



Expected Outcomes: (i) enhanced management performance of INRENA and PROFONANPE; (ii) INRENA
strengthened in strategic planning, policy making, monitoring of management services contracts and
activities requiring participation by local communities, civil society and the private sector; and (iii)
INRENA and PA staff skilled in biodiversity management, participatory gender sensitive processes and
cultural approaches, environmental impact assessment, and conflict resolution.
Activities: Training will include: seminars, study tours, on-thejob training in foreign countries, staff
training in local training institutions and through non-degree university courses in management, rural
development, resource conservation, communication, management information systems, and monitoring and
evaluation. Field staff will be trained in specific ranger abilities and knowledge, fine-tuned to local
circumstances.
Technical assistance to INRENA and PROFONANPE will include of short- and long-term consultancies to
reduce management workload in the areas of technical and financial management, monitoring of PAs and
activities in the buffer zones, social and gender analysis, consolidation of PAMCs, environment, legal
services, procurement and conservation.
Sub-component 2.2. Capacity Building of PMACs and Local Civil Society Institutions (US$0.99 million;
3% out of total project cost; GEF contribution US$0.64 million and Dutch contribution US$0.16 million).
Expected Outcomes: (i) At least six PAMCs fully participating in PA management and monitoring, conflict
resolution, and planning and monitoring of buffer zones sustainable activities in a gender sensitive way; and
(ii) 25 local civil society organizations (NGOs and grassroots organizations) capable of formulating and
carrying out conservation programs and small-scale sustainable economic activities in the buffer zones.
Activities: This subcomponent will finance training, technical assistance and equipment for capacity
building of PAMCs. Training will include study tours, seminars and courses on conservation management
and environment, leadership courses, diagnosis of threats to PAs, conflict resolution, PA control
mechanisms and management procedures. It will also finance courses in small project development,
implementation and management, PA rules and regulations for local civil society organizations in the buffer
zones. All training and technical assistance will be implemented from a gender perspective and promote the
participation of women in PAMCs.
Through this subcomponent, the project will enable PAMCs to fully participate in PA management and in
rural development of buffer zones. The participative nature of this Project requires PAMCs to play the
leading role as a hinge between the conservation of PAs and the development of buffer zones; a place for
meeting and conciliating different economic and social interests; and as a local institution that exercises the
social control of INRENA or INRENA-designated representative for the management of PAs.
PROFONANPE will contract a training institution to design and implement the above program.
Sub-component 2.3 Public Awareness Programn (US$1.52 million; 4.6% of total project cost; GEF
contribution US$0.31 million and Dutch contribution US$0.17 million).
Expected Outcome: An environmental behavioral change and increased awareness at national and local
level of the importance of conservation and PAs.
Activities: (i) design and implementation of an awareness program in the proximity of the PAs, applying a
systematic approach including awareness assessment, design of awareness programs, pretesting and
fine-tuning, implementation, and monitoring and evaluation; (ii) media campaigns at national level and in
- 40 -



the proximity of the project PAs; (iii) design and maintenance of PA internet home pages; and (iv)
production of PA related education materials for 20,000 school-age children in the areas in proximity of
project PAs.
The effectiveness of this program will be measured through changes in environmental behavior as opposed
to a change only in awareness or knowledge. Target groups (including decision makers at the national level)
and desired results will be defined. Various tools will be considered, including: (i) an environmental media
campaign targeting selected social segments; (ii) the use of the Internet, and (iii) facilitate stakeholder
involvement at the local level through consultations and consensus-building to enhance awareness of the
importance of conservation of biodiversity. It will also prepare educational materials aimed at
schoolchildren (e.g., teaching aids and school kits would be produced, teacher training programs instituted
and youth events organized). Printed and audiovisual materials would be distributed through local media.
Cross-site visits of key stakeholders to view successfully-managed conservation activities would also be
supported under this sub-component.
The project will also schedule PA field visits of ciitical decision-makers including members of Congress,
the Ministries of Agriculture and Economy, and 1NRENA.
PROFONANPE will recruit a firm to design and implement the awareness program.
Sub-component 2.4 SINANPE-based MIS Sub-component (US$0.76 million; 2.3% of total project cost;
GEF contribution US$0.50 million).
Expected Outcome: The projected output of this activity is an enhanced decision-making process through
better and updated information, providing feedback to national administrators as well as to stakeholders and
civil society organizations.
Activities: (i) design and implementation of an MIS system; (ii) standardization of information data bases;
(iii) dissemination of processed information, including GIS data produced by INRENA or national/ local
organizations; and (iv) resource assessments and socioeconomic studies.
The lack of a centralized management information system (MIS) has impeded SINANPE's effectiveness and
poses a risk to its long-term viability. The project would support the design and establishment of a
SINANIPE-based MIS in INRENA. The MIS would be instrumental to arrive at a more informed
management decision-making for planning and budget allocation. The MIS would complement lNRENA's
monitoring and evaluation system and provide technical data (e.g., status of biodiversity conservation, the
results of natural resource inventories, indicators and threat alert information) to the public at large.
The MIS design will include an assessment of training needs and training programs at local levels, rules for
net access and participation, and the system's architectural design (see project files under MIS guidelines).
Both public and non-governmental data collection entities are expected to be major information sources.
The system would support the sharing of online information with all SINANPE stakeholders.
Although the project will finance the establishment and development of an MIS system catering for the
whole of SINANPE, it will initially only finance the data input and maintenance of the project supported
PAs. INRENA will contract the MIS design and implementation engineering firm.
- 41 -



Project Component 3 - US$ 8.86 million
Protected Area Financing, Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation, and Information
Dissemination.
This component includes four subcomponents: (i) an increase of the PROFONANPE endowment fund; (ii)
the preparation and adoption of a long-term financing strategy for SINANPE; (iii) project implementation
and monitoring and evaluation; and (iv) design and implementation of an information dissemination
strategy.
Sub-component 3.1. Increase of the PROFONANPE Endowment Fund (US$6.0 million; 18.2% of project
costs; GEF contribution US$3.0 million; Finland US$2.5 million).
Expected Outcomes: (i) a well functioning increased PROFONANPE endowment fund; and (ii) increased
private sector contributions in at least two PAs.
Activities: A replenishment of the endowment fund and additional fund-raising for individual PAs and
SINANPE in general.
The PROFONANPE endowment fund will be increased from US$5.4 million to at least US$13.4 million
through three contributions: GEF (US$3 million), the Government of Finland (US$2.5 million) and
PROFONANPE (US$0.5 million). Bringing the endowment fund up to at least $13.4 million will provide a
return of about $550,000 per year for PROFONANPE's financing of the PA recurrent costs. The additional
endowment will be placed through PROFONANPE's asset manager following an investment strategy
described in Annex 16. The Government of Finland has already placed its US$2.5 million into the
endowment fund. At project effectiveness, GEF will disburse the US$2.5 million into the endowment fund
account. The remaining US$500,000 will be disbursed when PROFONANPE has contributed its own
additional US$500,000 that can not come from the investment proceeds of the GEF contribution to the
endowment fund. The returns of the endowment fund brought in by Finland will be used exclusively for the
recurrent costs of Macchu Picchu. The returns on the endowment fund financed by GEF will not be
earmarked. The Bank will supervise the performance of the PROFONANPE portfolio twice a year.
Moreover, PROFONANPE will undertake additional fund-raising activities in particular with the private
sector by recruiting a fund raising agent to research where additional funds are available and to attract those
funds for PA financing. This additional fund raising activity should not be in conflict with the fund raising
activities of other Peruvian NGO's.
Sub-component 3.2. Financing Strategy for SINANPE (US$0.3 million; 0.9% of project costs (GEF
contribution US$0.3 million)
Expected Outcomes: A long-term financing strategy that will lead to financial sustainability of SINANPE .
Activities: SINANPE needs to adopt a more strategic approach to close its existing funding gap and
eventually achieve financial sustainability. Key elements in the preparation of the financing strategy will
include: (i) identification of appropriate under or non-utilized financing mechanisms to diversify existing
funding sources, (ii) pilot testing of selected financing mechanisms in the field, (iii) PA specific review of
management and operational needs and associated costs, (iv) evaluation of existing distribution and funding
levels among PAs, and (v) the implementation of the strategy itself.
- 42 -



PROFONANPE will contract a consulting firm to elaborate and implement the above strategy.
Sub-component 3.3. Project Implementation and Monitoring and Evaluation (US$2.45 million; 7. 1% of total
project cost; GEF contribution US$1.10 million and Dutch contribution US$0.20 million).
Expected Outcomes: The main output will be a project implemented in an efficient and timely manner and a
monitoring and evaluation system applied to this project. Specific outputs include: (i) an improved
institutional capacity of PROFONANPE to fulfill its role; and (ii) timely monitoring and evaluation reports
conforming GEF, World Bank and public monitoring and reporting requirements.
Activities: For the project implementation (i) employment of additional staff for PROFONANPE (a project
coordinator, a procurement specialist, an environmental specialist and a financial administrator), purchasing
of equipment (including one terrain vehicle) and operating costs. For project monitoring and evaluation: (i)
updating of the draft design of the M&E program; and (ii) implementation of the M&E system.
One of the principal recommendations stemming from the mid-term evaluation of PROFONANPE I was to
design and implement a monitoring and evaluation program. As a response, PROFONANPE formed a
working group and hired a consultant to prepare the system to guide future monitoring of PROFONANPE
financed activities. A description of the system is available in the project files and will be applied to this
project. The estimated implementation cost of the system over the project life is about $273,000.
The above monitoring and evaluation system should not be confused with the biodiversity and PA
management monitoring and evaluation system that is being developed under the Indigenous Management
of Protected Areas in the Peruvian Amazon Project (PIMA-GEF). This biodiversity and PA management
monitoring and evaluation system will be field tested and implemented first in the PAs covered by the
PIMA-GEF project. Once it becomes operational and applicable, the system will then be implemented by
INRENA in the PAs covered under this project. Therefore, in each PA covered under this project
biodiversity and PA management baseline studies will be carried out in the first project year.
Sub-component 3.4. Information Dissemination (US$0.12 million; 0.3% of total project cost; GEF
contribution US$0.1 million and Dutch contribution US$0.01 million).
Expected Outcomes: The main expected outputs are: (i) enhanced relationships with national, regional and
local civil society and private sector through dissemination of results and lessons learned using reports and
workshops; and (ii) adoption of relevant experiences from this project by other PAs in Peru's SINANPE and
other national systems of protected areas.
Activities: This sub-component will support the dissemination of the results of project-supported activities
to national, regional, and global stakeholders and the media through written reports, workshops and
available information systems including the establishment of a project web page. It will also cover the costs
of identifying and disseminating best practices to INRENA staff, PAMCs and stakeholders.
- 43 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
PERU: Participatory Management of Protected Areas
Local  .    Foreign       Total
-Project Cost By Component              US $mnilion  US $million  US $million
1. Participatory Protected Area Management.             14.13        4.07        18.20
2. Institutional Development.                            5.32        0.43         5.75
3. PA Financing, Project Administration, Monitoring and  2.86        6.00         8.86
Evaluation and Information Dissemination - including
endowment fund.
Total Baseline Cost                                     22.31        10.50       32.81
Physical Contingencies                                  0.00        0.00         0.00
Price Contingencies                                     0.00        0.00         0.00
Total Project Costs'            22.31        10.50        32.81
Total Financing Required            22.31        10.50        32.81
Pro-jec.                                 Local       Foreign       Total-
Project Cost By Category               USl$million  US $million  US $million
Civil Works                                               0.67          0.00         0.67
Goods and Equipment.                                       1.00         0.41         1.41
Consulting Services and Audits                            2.52          0.50         3.02
Training services                                         2.31          1.90         4.21
Subgrants for Sustainable Economic Activities             6.49          0.00         6.49
Contribution to Endowment Fund                            0.00          6.00         6.00
PA Management Services Contracts                          4.23          1.69         5.92
Incremental Operating Costs                               5.09          0.00         5.09
Total Project Costs     22.31        10.50        32.81
Total Financing Required    22.31         10.50        32.81
- 44 -



Peru
Participatory Management of Protected Areas
Component Costs by Financiers
INRENA      PRO  -      GEF      DFmch eos Gov.           FIn*ih    Famier     NGOs        Total
FONA                         Gov        Gov.        -         -
US$M % US$N% USSM             % USSM % US$M % US$M %UUS                     %          USSM US$M  %
A. Participative Protected Area
Management
1. Preparation of Master and Managemnen     .               1.2   44   0.20   8    1.24  48   -        -        -2.56                7.9
Plans
2. Participatory Plan Impenementation  1.62  20             4.48  55   0.45   6    0.60  7                           100  12  8.15  25.0
3. Sustainable Economic Activities in PA; .                 1.50  20   30D    40   2.47  33              0 60   8    .         7.49  23.0
and Buffer Zones
Subtotal Participative Protected  1.62   9               7.14  39   3.66  20    4.31  23              0.60   3   1.00  5   18.20  55 9
Area Management
B. Institutional Development
1. Training and Technical Assistance  -                     1.74  70   0.26   11  0.47   19   -               -2.47                  7.5
2. Capacity Building of Local Civil              .     .    0 64  65   0.16   16   0.19  19    -       --                      0.99   3.0
Society
3. Biodiversit Conservation Public                          031   21   0.18   11   104   68                                    152    47
Awareness Program
4. SINANPE Managenment Information   0.26  34               0.50  66    -     0           0                 -0.76                     2.3
Svstem_
SubtodalInstftutiona Development  0.26   4               3.19  56   0.60   10   1.71  30  -                                 5.74  17.5
C. Project Administration, M&E, and
Intfor naffon Dissemiination
1. 1. Contribution to Endownient Fund  -        0.50   8    3 00  50    -     -     -     -    2.50  42                        6.00  18.2
&Mngmnt
2. 2 Financing Strategy                          -          0.30  100   -                                                 .    0.30   0.9
3. Project lniplementation and M&E              0.58  25    1.10  45   0.20   8    0.57  23  -                            .    2.45   7.1
4. information Dissemination (lesson             -     -    0.10  90   0.01   10    -                .                         0.12   0.3
learned)                                                                                 I _
Subtotal Project Administration,             1.08  12    4.50  51   0.21   2    0.57   6    2.50  28                        8.86  27.0
M&E, and Info. Dissemination     _I                                           II_  _       _         
Total Project Costs                1.88  6   1.08  3.3  14.80  45   4.45   14   6.58  20    2.50  8   0.60   2   1.00  3   32.81  100
Identifiable taxes and duties are 2.1 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 30.71 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 48.19
% of total project cost net of taxes.
- 45 -



Annex 4: Incremental Cost Analysis
PERU: Participatory Management of Protected Areas
Overview
Costs were estimated over the six-years of the project. Only ongoing protection-relevant activities in PAs
and their respective buffer zones constitute the base line. While some of the support for these
projects/activities may end prior to the completion of the proposed project, it was assumed that they would
be offset by new activities, as a number of national and international NGOs are developing new proposals
for several of the proposed project sites.
The total project costs of the GEF Alternative represent the sum of the baseline and incremental costs
associated with proposed additional actions required to secure biodiversity conservation objectives of global
importance within the five PAs, the prospective PA and central interventions. The scope of the analysis
captures existing and proposed interventions broken down into the proposed Alternative's three
components: (i) participatory protected area management, (ii) institutional development, and (iii) PA
financing, project administration, M&E and information dissemination.
Baseline Scenario
The GOP, through INRENA with assistance from PROFONANPE and a number of donors, has made great
strides in expanding and consolidating Peru's SINANPE. Nevertheless, in light of the system's size and
diversity, existing and growing threats, and the current financial crisis in the public sector, the long-term
conservation of the ecosystems of global importance proposed in the GEF Alternative does not appear
credible under the baseline scenario. At present, there is little management effort in the PAs created to
protect large portions of the country's Amazon rainforest. While a number of management efforts are
currently being supported in PAs protecting portions of the Central Andean and Wet Puna, the magnitude
and range of threats far exceed existing institutional capacity. Peru's last remaining representative sample of
mangroves receives virtually no support from any quarter and remains at risk. Moreover, all proposed PAs
under the GEF Alternative are increasingly subject to growing threats associated with non-sustainable land
use and other extractive pressures in their adjacent buffer zones. Under the baseline scenario, these practices
are likely to continue and expand into the PA core areas. The failure up to now to support the newly-called
for PAMCs also signifies that little progress will be made in these same PAs addressing the aforementioned
threats by incorporating local stakeholders into PA management. Despite GOP's shift in policy and good
intentions to establish a collaborative relationship with civil society and the private sector in managing PAs,
no other project is presently dedicated to supporting this much needed and laudable objective. This will
likely remain an unimplemented policy under the baseline scenario. Finally, the lack of support under the
baseline scenario for addressing the constraints associated with information management will signify that
1NRENA's effectiveness in managing and responding to the needs of SINANPE will remain relatively slow
and inefficient.
Baseline Cost Analysis
All proposed project PAs, except the prospective PA of Morona-Pastaza, receive a variable level of
technical and/or financial assistance at present. Sources of this assistance vary: GOP, bi- and multilateral
organizations whose funds are typically channeled through national NGOs and PROFONANPE and through
international NGOs. The GOP's contributions to baseline costs are mainly to cover central and field staff
salaries, central and field infrastructure maintenance and small efforts for awareness activities in the PAs'
zones of influence.
- 46 -



Project Component 1: Participatory Protected Area Management. Baseline Cost US$3.5 million
An estimated 80% of the baseline PA management costs are financed by various international agencies
while the remaining 20% are paid by 1NRENA.
Baseline Protected Areas
Approximately 56% of baseline costs under this component represent ongoing activities in the PA cluster
Bahuaja-Sonene and Tambopata Candamo. This comes primarily in the form of support from the Dutch
Government and Conservation International (CI) which is financing studies and research in support of
improved management; and from INRENA for staff salaries and small operational activities. The USAID
BIOFOR project is also providing support for a series of small, environmentally-friendly economic
activities in the PA buffer zone. While this support may end before project implementation, it was used for
baseline calculations since it is under consideration for an extension.
An additional 25% has been calculated from assistance derived from Spanish Technical Cooperation
(AECI) for Salinas - Aguada Blanca. Through the Aracauria-Colca project, Spain is supporting a wide
range of activities including the preparation of a PA Master Plan, support for community-based management
of vicufia populations, domestic cameloid management, and management of protected species. Support will
continue until the end of 2003. PROFONANPE is also providing support to this PA through the
administration of funds provided by German Technical Cooperation to INRENA. These pay for salaries and
small-scale infrastructure through 2003.
PN Huascardn represents approximately 16% of baseline support to component 1, consisting primarily of
salaries and small-scale infrastructure from the aforementioned German Technical Cooperation grants to
1NRENA administered by PROFONANPE. The USAID-supported BIOFOR project is also financing some
minor small-scale, environmentally-friendly economic activities in the buffer zones.
Finally, the Manglares de Tumbes SN, while a recipient of significant support in previous years, is currently
only receiving funding from INRENA primarily for the financing of staff salaries and small operational
activities.
Project Component 2: Institutional Development. Baseline Cost US$4.1 million.
Under this component, only 7% of estimated baseline financing comes from INRENA while the remaining
93% comes from donors and NGOs.
Baseline-supported Protected Areas
Bahuaja-Sonene and Tambopata Candamo cluster receives an estimated 60% of total baseline support
calculated under component 2. It comes mainly from Conservation International-supported activities
designed to promote, train, and build capacity in local communities, civil society and the private sector
located in the buffer zone. CI will maintain this level of support through the life of this project. Additional
support comes from the Netherlands Technical Cooperation through ProNaturaleza to assist local
communities in the development of practices for sustainable use of natural resources located in the PA
buffer area.
An additional 25% of baseline costs under component 2 comes from the Salinas - Aguada Blanca NR
through the aforementioned Aracauria-Colca project financed by the Spanish Technical Cooperation
(AECI). This consists of funding for activities designed to strengthen local civil society's capacity to
participate in the management of PA and buffer zone resources and for the development of a strong
- 47 -



communications and awareness program. Support will continue until the end of 2001 but an extension of at
least two more years is under consideration.
The Huascardn NP accounts for 11% of baseline costs under component 2. The German Technical
Cooperation through PROFONANPE, with an estimated completion date in 2003, is financing activities in
support of increased communication and public awareness among local communities for purposes of
biodiversity conservation. In addition, this PA. is receiving support from the Mountain Institute which is
financing local capacity strengthening in resources management in the Park's buffer zone. INRENA's
support to component 2 goes mainly to this PA which is considered a high priority PA in the national
system.
ProNaturaleza is developing a proposal to obtain support from the Spanish Agency AECI to finance
communications and public awareness activities for 2001-2002 for Manglares de Tumbes NS. This probable
support is estimated at 4% of total baseline support to component 2.
Baseline Support for INRENA's Central Office
Under this component, there is some relevant financing for the strengthening of SINANPE'S central
administration. It mainly covers provision of advisors, support for operational costs (German Technical
Cooperation: 2-3 projects) and support for the design, equipment and staff of SINANPE's central
Monitoring & Evaluation system (GEF Indigenous Management of Protected Areas in the Peruvian Amazon
Project and USAID through BIOFOR project).
Project Component 3: Project Financing, Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation, and
Information Dissemination. Baseline Cost: US$50,400
Baseline cost is the cost of PROFONANPE's Monitoring and Evaluation system.
Global Environmental Objectives
The goal of GEF assistance would be to support long-term protection of globally important ecosystems by
increasing the involvement of civil society institutions and the private sector in the planning, management
and sustainable use of protected areas and resources within the Peruvian System of Natural Protected Areas
(SINANPE).
GEF Alternative
By financing the incremental costs of the activities proposed under the GEF Alternative, INRENA would be
able to address a number of major constraints affecting its capacity to mitigate threats to biodiversity of
global importance. These would be through: (i) increasing the role of civil society and the private sector in
the design and implementation of PA plans; (ii) increasing financial resources to manage the selected
protected areas in a sustainable manner; (iii) increasing environmental awareness for biodiversity issues;
and (iv) developing an adequate information management system.
The design of the proposed Alternative reflects a fundamental strategic choice leading to an increased role
for the private sector and civil society in the management of the country's PAs. The GOP can not cover all
costs associated with the management and conservation of biodiversity of global importance. Instead,
through the establishment of strategic partnerships, it will call upon the skills and resources of civil society
organizations and the private commercial sector. The project will therefore use a significant amount of
resources to finance the design and implementation of PA management plans based on a substantially
- 48 -



increased role for the private sector and civil society, facilitated through capacity building of civil society
organizations, INRENA and PROFONANPE.
Without the GEF Alternative, INRENA will be able to maintain only a minimal presence in the two large
PAs created to protect portions of the Peruvian Puna.
Incremental Costs
The matrix below summarizes the baseline and incremental expenditures during the six years project period.
The total requested GEF funding amounts to US$11.8 million plus an amount of US$3 million for the
endowment fund. Out of this total, US$18.23 million would strengthen the Participatory Protected Areas
Management in the selected PAs; US$4.65 million would go to institutional development of organizations
involved in the project, US$6 million would go to the endowment fund and US$1.89 million would allow
proper project implementation in PROFONANPE. Morona Pastaza would be fully financed by German
parallel funding while the other five PAs will receive funding from the Netherlands in addition to what is
provided by GEF.
Incremental Cost Matrix for the Participatory Management of Protected Areas Project
Component          Cost          US$                    Domestic Benefit                       Global Benerit
Category        Mill.
Participatory     Baseline          3.50  Minimum   staff assured; basic operations underway;  Partial conservation  of
Protected   Area                          some training; some scientific work in very few of the  globally  significant
Management                                selected PAs. Basic management, monitoring and     biodiversity.
evaluation info flowing from some PAs of the system.
Few experiences in competitive funding underway in
very few of the selected PAs. PAMCs formed mainly
with Government institutions.
GEF              21.70  Enhanced operations in selected PAs; number of park  About 25% of
Alternative             rangers trained; better qualified staff; infrastructure for  SINANPE's area is under
control and visitors improved. Baseline and other info is  improved conservation of
flowing regularly. Important number of civil society  globally significant
organizations are concession holders or are contracted  biodiversity. The base
for activities in management of PAs, including visitor  support to national
guides, and are developing experiences in use of natural  authorities has been
resources for economic revenues. Improved experiences  widened. Generation of
of competitive funding spreads over buffer areas of  revenues supports the
selected PAs. PAMCs in selected PAs have improved  reduction of poverty and
local stakeholcler participation.                  extreme poverty.
Increment         18.2C
Institutional     Baseline          4.09  Basic management info flowing from some PAs to the
Development                               system. Good participatory processes in surroundings of
a few PAs. Lcvels of national decision-makers receive
info of doubtless quality; quantity of the same is scarce.
Info for media is mainly available as info for tourists,
shadowing other values   such as   economic and
ecological ones. Some important efforts concentrated in
a few PAs with private enterprises facing more access
difficulties than other civil society organizations.
GEF               9.83  Improved info flowing from selected PAs and from   MIS grows as a model for
Alternative             some   other SINANPE     PAs; other organizations  PAs' central
networked to improve quality and quantity of info for  administrations. It is part
management. System has been generalized for entire  of global systems such as
SINANPE. Increased numbers of PAs are supporting  the WCMC. Increased
local   media   programs;   national  levels  of   public environmental
- 49 -



decision-making are receiving updated info from SINA  awareness is improving
NPE with emphasis on info from selected PAs. Schools  environmental conditions
and youth organizations around selected PAs are using  in Peru. Much greater
the  info  and  facilities  of PAs  for enhanced  public awareness has
environmental educational purposes. Civil society  been fostered among
organizations and private sector are capable of funding  decision-makers.
and conducting the responsible use of natural resources,
they are also key elements in spreading the values and
benefits of biodiversity protection
Increment        5.74
Endowment         Baseline          5.4   Annual retums of invested endowment fund is about  Preservation of  world
Fund                                     US$220,000. Which allows PROFONANPE partial      biodiversity  in   the
financing of the recurrent costs in some 11 PA and  Amazon,  Sierra  and
reserves.                                        Coastal areas.
GEF                11.4 Annual retums of invested endowment fund is abou Additional  preservation
Altemative             US$550,000. Which   allows  PROFONANPE     partia of world biodiversity in
financing of the recurrent costs in twice the number of PA the Amazon, Sierra and
and reserves                                      Coastal areas
Increment           6.0
Project           Baseline         0.05
financing,
project
administration,
M&E and info
dissemination
GEF                2.50  PROFONANPE     is carrying  out proper project
Altemative              implementation; including  proper management of
endowment fund in non-emerging markets and proper
procurement processes. In addition, PROFONANPE's
relationships with national, regional and local civil
Isociety and private sector is enhanced.
Increment           2.45
Total Baseline      13.33
GEF                 46.14
Altemative
Increment           32.81
Netherlands          4.45
Cofinancing
KfW                  6.58
Cofinancing
Finland & other      3.00
endowment
Govemment and        3.98
other local
sources
GEF Funding         14.80
- 50 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
PERU: Participatory Management of Protected Areas
Years Ending
Year 1I Year 2       Year 3    Yeare4 Year 5        Year 6    Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           7.0        3.1       4.6       4.2        3.8       1.1       0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.2        0.7        0.7       0.8       0.8       2.2       3.3
Total Project Costs          7.2        3.8       5.3       5.0       4.6        3.3       3.3
Total Financing              7.2        3.8       5.3       5.0       4.6        3.3       3.3
Financing
IBRDI1DA                   3.8       1.5        2.5       2.5       2.2       1.7       0.2
Government                0.3        0.3        0.3       0.3       0.3       0.3       0.0
Central                0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers             0.4        0.8        0.8       1.0       0.9       0.1       0.0
Netherlands
User Fees/Beneficiaries      0.0       0.1        0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1        0.1
Other, German parallel       0.0       0.7        0.7       0.7       0.7       0.7        3.0
financing
Other, Finland               2.5       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Other, NGOs                            0.2        0.2       0.2       0.2       0.2        0.0
Other, PROFONANPE and        0.2       0.2        0.7       0.2        0.2      0.2        0.0
Beneficiaries
Contingencies                0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     7.2        3.8       5.3       5.0        4.6      3.3        3.3
Main assumptions:
- 51 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
PERU: Participatory Management of Protected Areas
Procurement
Procurement of goods under the Project would be carried out in accordance with the "Guidelines,
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated January 1995 and revised in January and
August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999. Consultants would be employed in accordance with the
" Guidelines, Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrower, " dated January 1997
and revised in September 1997, January 1999 and April 2002.
The Project includes a US$3 million amount to be deposited into an Endowment Fund, which would be
invested to produce interest earnings. The Fund will be managed by an Asset Manager selected in 1995
under a prior GEF Grant (PROFONANPE 1) through a competitive process, reviewed and accepted by
the Bank, with the assistance of a qualified financial adviser.
Assessment of the agency's capacity to implement procurement
PROFONANPE, the implementing agency, is a non-profit and well-organized entity operating under
private legal framework. As the recipient of the Grant funds, it will have overall responsibility for
procurement under the Project. An assessment of PROFONANPE's capacity to implement procurement
actions under the Project has been carried out and its outcome has been approved by the Regional
Procurement Advisor's office on May Ist, 2002. The overall risk has been assessed as AVERAGE. With
respect to procurement, the following actions have been recommended: (i) recruitment of a qualified
procurement specialist; (ii) preparation of a Subproject Operational Manual specifying procurement
procedures to be followed under the Sustainable Economic Activities; and (iii) presentation of a detailed
Procurement Plan for the first year of operations, by the time of Grant negotiations.
Procurement Plan
PROFONANPE has developed an indicative project procurement plan which provided the basis for the
amounts in Table A. A more specific plan for the first year of operation has also been prepared. At the
beginning of each calendar year, PROFONANPE will update the Procurement Plan with a detailed
procurement schedule for the coming year.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement of Works
Civil works include small contracts for construction of PA information centers, guard stations, river
landings, etc. Contracts estimated to range between US$5,000 and US$100,000 will be procured (up to
an aggregate amount of US$250,000) on the basis of comparison of at least three price quotations in
response to a written invitation that will include a detailed description, specifications and relevant
drawings of the works, the completion date, and a basic form of contract acceptable to the Bank.
Procurement of Goods
The project will finance procurement of vehicles, boats, radio equipment, electricity generators, water
pumps, computers and other office equipment, estimated at a total of US$1 million. To the extent
- 52 -



possible, these goods will be grouped into bidding packages of more than US$50,000 for procurement
through open competition nationally advertised (NCB). Contracts for goods costing more than
US$250,000 will be procured through ICB. Standard bicdding documents acceptable to the Bank would be
used. Contracts with estimated value below US$50,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$500,000 will be
procured following shopping procedures.
Selection of Consultants, Training and Management Services
Consulting and management services will be contracted in the following areas of expertise: PA
management, capacity building, public awareness campaigns, participatory planning, training,
biodiversity conservation, legal, social, and financial management.
Firms/NGOs. Consulting and management contracts with firms estimated to cost US$200,000 and more
would be procured through Cost-Quality Based Selection (QCBS). Contracts ranging between
US$50,000 and 200,000 would be awarded through Fixed Budget (FB) method. Other contracts,
estimated at US$50,000 or less, would be selected through Consultants' Qualifications (CQ) method or,
in the case of routine and straightforward nature services, through the Least-Cost Selection (LC) method.
Management Service fees for the PAs are estimated to range between US$300,000 and US$600,000.
According to Peruvian Law, PA management can only be delegated by INRENA to non-profit
organizations. Therefore, INRENA will select a non-profit organization (NGO) following QCBS
procedures and sign a management service agreement. Subsequently, a contract will be made between
PROFONANPE and the selected NGO to finance the management services, of which the INRENA
agreement will be integral part. A Request for Proposals suitable for these type of services is in
preparation; its terms and conditions will be subject to Bank's review and acceptance.
In addition to service fees, the contracts will include advances to be made by PROFONANPE for
purchasing office equipment, tools, uniforms, building of ranger posts, reforestation, organizing training
workshops, etc. These goods, works and services would be reimbursed to the management service
provider at cost against invoices. Procurement of these items will follow commercial practices requiring
comparison of price quotations whenever possible. Given the remote location of PAs a certain amount of
direct contracting is expected. The contract between PROFONANPE and the NGO includes the
procurement aspects in an annex. This annex will provide the possibility for the management service
providers to employ individual contractors and handymen. PROFONANPE will be responsible for
ensuring procurement compliance and will authorize sole-sourcing at the time the annual implementation
plans are agreed upon.
Administrative Services for Environmentally Sustainable Programs/Subprojects. An NGO/firm will be
selected on a competitive basis to administer a subgrant fund to finance these small
programs/subprojects. This administration contract is estimated at US$500,000.
Individuals: Specialized advisory services would be provided by individual consultants selected up to an
aggregate amount of US$2,000,000 by comparison of qualifications of three candidates and hired in.
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Environmentally Sustainable Economic Activities
The Grant includes US$1.2 million equivalent to finance small-scale environmentally sustainable
- 53 -



activities executed by local communities; an additional US$5 million would be added by Dutch and
German cofinanciers. The subgrants, estimated to range between US$10,000 and US$100,000, will be
awarded on a competitive basis and will be cofinanced, in kind or in cash, by the subgrant beneficiaries.
Goods and works financed under the subgrants would follow local commercial practices requiring price
comparison to the extent possible. Eligibility, requirements and other aspects, along with specific
procurement and financial procedures will be detailed in a Subproject Operations Manual.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
. ..t : -      :                   - ~   '   -Procurement Method.
.   Expenditure-Category          ICB:            NCB       - Other       -N.B.F:.   Total Cost
1. Works                           0.00           0.00         0.25         0.41       0.66
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.25)      (0.00)      (0.25)
2. Goods                           0.00           0.60         0.I0         0.71        1.41
(0.00)         (0.60)        (0.10)      (0.00)      (0.70)
3. Services                        0.00           0.00          8.08        5.07       13.15
3) Consulting; 4)Management       (0.00)          (0.00)       (8.08)      (0.00)      (8.08)
and 5) Training Services
6. Subgrants                       0.00           0.00          1.20        5.28        6.48
(0.00)         (0.00)        (1.20)      (0.00)      (1.20)
7. Recurrent Costs                 0.00           0.00          1.74        3.36        5.10
(0.00)         (0.00)        (1.57)      (0.00)      (1.57)
8. Endowment Fund                  0.00           0.00          3.00        3.00        6.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (3.00)      (0.00)      (3.00)
Total                           0.00            0.60         14.37       17.83       32.80
(0.00)          (0.60)      (14.20)       (0.00)     (14.80)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. All costs include contingencies.
2Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project unit, training, technical assistance and incremental operating costs
- 54 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
The proposed thresholds for prior review are based on the procurement capacity assessment of the
project implementing unit.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
¢ ii+-o. s  -  X .   , Conitract Value                   _    ContractsSubject to.
Threshold              Procurement           -Prior Review
Expenditure Category    - (US$-thousands)           - Method     .       (US$ millions)
1. Works                       >100                    NCB                None expected
<100                  Shopping              First contract
(0.01)
2. Goods                        >50                    NCB                 First contract
(0.30)
<50                  Shopping                 None
3. ServicesConsulting          >200                   QCBS                 All contracts
(4.30)
4. Management                   >50                 Fixed Budget              None
5. Training                     <50                 Least Cost or             None
Consultants' Qualification      None
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  US$4.61 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
'Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 55 -



Disbursement
Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
The proceeds of the grant will be disbursed over a six year period. Disbursements will be transaction based,
i.e., against Statement of Expenditure (SOEs), full documentation, direct payments or special commitments.
The Project is estimated to reach completion by April 14, 2009 and the Grant closing date is set at October
14, 2009. Retroactive financing up to an amount of US$500,000 will be possible for expenditures of
categories 2, 3, 5 and 7, and after October 1, 2002 up to Grant signature.
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million        Financing Percentage
1. Works                                  0.20                        100
2. Goods                                  0.60                         100
3. Consulting Services, including         1.40                         100
audits
4. Management Service Contracts           4.00                         100
5. Training                               2.20                         100
6. Subgrants for Small Scale Economic      1.10              100% of disbursed amounts
Activities
7. Incremental Operating Costs             1.30                        100
8. Endowment Fund                         3.00                         100
9. Unallocated                             1.00
Total Project Costs                       14.80
Total                                     14.80
A first tranche for the capital contribution for the Endowment Fund in the amount of US$2.5 million will be
disbursed into the Fund when PROFONANPE provides proof that the contribution of the Government of
Finland is available in the PROFONANPE endowment fund. A second tranche disbursement of US$500,000
will be disbursed into the Fund, again, once an equal amount has been matched by PROFONANPE. The first
tranche disbursement is estimated to occur at the time of Grant effectiveness.
The recruitment of an agency that will prepare the operational manual for the Sustainable Economic
Activities subcomponent and implement the program, as well as the approval of this manual by
PROFONANPE are conditions of disbursement for expenditures under category 6: Subgrants.
Training costs include, inter alia: training fees, facilitators' fees, rentals of training centers, meals,
supplies, and transportation and per diem for participants.
Premiums for accident insurance policy for PROFONANPE consultants traveling and working in the PAs
will be included under category 3: Consultant Services.
Incremental Operating Costs are operating costs arising from the implementation of the Project,
including, inter alia: utilities, communications, transportation costs, per diems, office supplies, office
- 56 -



rent, labor and salaries for INRENA's PA staff.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Most grant funds are expected to be disbursed through Statement of Expenditure (SOEs) forms. They
include: (i) contracts for civil works costing less than US$100,000; (ii) goods under contracts costing less
than US$50,000; (iii) individual consultant contracts costing less than US$50,000; and (iv) contracts with
consulting firms costing less than US$200,000; (v) training expenditures; (vi) small-scale subgrants and
(vii) incremental operating costs. Full supporting documentation will be required for all other
expenditures. Supporting documentation would be maintained by PROFONANPE for at least one fiscal
year after the year in which the last disbursement from the Grant took place, and would be available for
Bank staff and independent auditors' review.
Special account:
The recipient will open and maintain a Special Account (SA) in a commercial bank, in US dollars, under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank to cover GEF's share of eligible expenditures. Until
aggregated disbursement amount to SDR 2,500,000, the Special Account will have an authorized
allocation of US$300,000. After such threshold is met, the authorized allocation will be of US$650,000.
The Special Account will be maintained by the depository bank in a way that satisfies the requirements
listed in Annex A of OP 12.2.
Accounting and Financial Management
A Financial Management Specialist conducted an assessment of the accounting, controls over
disbursements and resources, planning and budgeting as well as the level of administrative staff. The
assessment determined that PROFONANPE has proved to be a solid institution that has gained the trust
of both donors and project implementing agents. This success clearly qualifies PROFONANPE as an
eligible entity to implement larger projects. In spite of the expertise developed over these years, the
financing of six protected areas at large distances from the capital will make the process quite complex,
regarding the flow of funds and information to and from the PAs. PROFONANPE's experience has
allowed them to develop a series of procedures and internal controls that contribute to a sound financial
management system; however, such system still needs to be strengthened in terms of number of staff,
adequate training to PAs staff, installment of the computerized system in the PAs; and the effective
implementation of the procedures defined. Under these considerations, the inherent risk can be rated as
low, but with a medium control risk, which can be downgraded to low if all systems and procedures
defined for the operation of the project are implementecl and put in place as expected.
On the basis of the assessment performed, the financial management team concluded that the financial
management of PROFONANPE, currently satisfies the Bank minimum financial management
requirements. However, this capacity can be further consolidated through the implementation of some
key recommendation in the areas of Organization and Staffing and the Accounting system. These
recommendations have been summarized in an action plan with the following main characteristics: (i)
two additional financial management assistants should be recruited by effectiveness; (ii) the operation of
the treasury module should be fully integrated into the budget and accounting modules so that all
transactions are recorded only once. This automation should include the selection of the bank account
that currently has to be selected manually by the Treasurer; (iii) the definition of the project plan for the
proposed grant should include the classification of expenditures by cost category, so that the budgeting
module allows the preparation of reports by project component/activity and category; (iii) regarding the
- 57 -



use of the exchange rate under the different modules of the system, PROFONANPE should prepare
specific instruction explaining the new procedures to determine the exchange rate to be used by the PAs.
Most recommendations were implemented by project appraisal.
Audit
PROFONANPE has recruited an independent auditing firm, satisfactory to the Bank, to carry out yearly
audits of the financial statements, special account and statement of expenditures (SOEs) and the
Endowment Fund. The audit firm will work under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. Audit
reports will include explicit opinions and comments, as applicable, on the methodology employed in the
preparation of SOEs, their accuracy, relevance of supporting documents, eligibility for financing,
standards of record keeping and internal controls, and the financial statements required by the Bank.
Audit reports would be submitted within six months following the end of PROFONANPE's fiscal year.
A multi-year contract would be sought to avoid delays in submission of audit reports to the Bank, and its
cost would be eligible for Bank financing.
Project financial reporting arrangements. The semi-annual financial statements will include: (i) the
statement of receipts and payments by funding source (with expenditures classified by budgetary line
and/or disbursement category); (ii) uses of funds by project activities (including budget comparison); and
(iii) the Special Account reconciliation statement. These project financial statements, along with the
physical progress and procurement sections of the Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs), will be
submitted to the Bank no later than 45 days after the end of each reporting period. FMRs will be used for
reporting, not disbursement, purposes.
For Bank purposes, the annual financial statements will include, additionally, the schedule of Statements
of Expenditure (SOEs) presented during the year in support of Withdrawal Applications.
- 58 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
PERU: Participatory Management of Protected Areas
Project-Schedule                               - Planned                     -Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      15                          41
First Bank mission (identification)             05/15/1999                  05/15/1999
Appraisal mission departure                     08/15/2000                  11/11/2002
Negotiations                                    10/15/2000                  01/09/2003
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   01/15/2001                  04/15/2003
Prepared by:
PROFONANPE: Alberto Paniagua (Director); Manuel Rios (Biodiversity and Protected Area Specialist);
Alan Putney (Protected Area Management Specialist); Roberto Espinoza (Sociologist - Indigenous Peoples
Specialist); Sixto A. Requena (Project Design Engineer); Raul Tolmos (Environmental Economist);
Frederica Barclay (Anthropologist); Hugo Wiener (Financial Analyst)
INRENA: Luis Alfaro (Director of Protected Areas); Gustavo Suarez de Freitas (Director of Protected
Areas)
FAO/CP: Random Dubois (Sr. Environmental Advisor)
Dutch Government: Kees Konstapel (Representative of the Dutch Embasssy, Lima); Karin Verbaken
(Gender Analyst); Chris van Dam (Sociologist)
Preparation assistance:
Liliana Vendeuvre
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Pierre Werbrouck                  Lead Agricultural Economist
Carlos Monge                      Rural Development Specialist
Carmen Palaco Nielsen             Procurement Analyst
Lourdes Consuelo Linares          Financial Management Specialist
Maria Elena Castro                Social Scientist
Gonzalo Castro                    Biodiversity Specialist
David Varela                      Sr. Legal Counsel
Xiomara Morel                     Sr. Finance Officer
Patricia McKenzie                 Financial Management Specialist
Luz Meza-Bartrina                 Sr. Legal Counsel
- 59..



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
PERU: Participatory Management of Protected Areas
A. Project Implementation Plan
See Annex 15
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
1.     Biodiversity Threats Assessments in PAs
2.     Protected Areas Profiles
3.     Social and Institutional Assessment in five PAs
4.     Detailed Reports on Social Consultations in five PAs
5.     Studies of Sustainable Economic Activities by Protected Area and Buffer Zones
6.     Indigenous Peoples Development Plans
7.     Documents related to Parallel Financing from KfW - Morona- Pastaza
8.     Terms of Reference of the PA Management Service Providers
9.     Terms of Reference of the Institutional Development Study (PROFONANPE-INRENA)
10.    Terms of Reference of the Specialized Agency to Manage the Sustainable Economic Activities
Component
11.    Terms of reference of PAMCs
12.    Project Gender Analysis
13.    Specimen Contract for Endowment Fund Asset Manager
14.    Draft Framework Agreement PROFONANPE - 1NRENA (November 2002)
15.    Project Monitoring and Evaluation Plan
16.    Project Cost tables
17.   Institutional Analysis of NGOs at national and PA level
18.    Guidelines for the Management Information System
19.    SINANPE Financial Gap Analysis and Terms of Reference of the Financing Strategy study
20.   INRENA draft Institutional Reform document (Instituto Apoyo)
*Including electronic files
- 60 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
PERU: Participatory Management of Protected Areas
Difference between expected
and actual
Orginal Amount in US$ Millions                              disbursements
Project ID    FY    Purpose                                       IBRD        IDA                          Cancel.   Undisb.       Org   Frm Rev'd
P060499        2000 Indigenous Peoples Development                    5.00       0.00                           0.00       4.95      -0.05      0.00
P062932        2000 PE-HEALTH REFORM PROGRAM                         80.00       0 00                            o.oo     80.00       0.00      0.08
P047690        2000 RES. & EXTENSION                                  9.60       0.00                            0.00      9.10      -0.50      0.00
P039086        1999 PE URBAN PROPERTY RIGHT                          38.00       0.00                            0 00     21.76       9.03      0 00
P042442        1997 SIERRA NATURAL RES.                              51.00       0.00                            0.00     12.97       2.97      0.00
P008037        1997 IRRIG. REHAB                                      85.00      0.00                            0.00     40.16      35.16     22.16
Pooo80s        1995 UMA WATER Rehabilitation & Mgt. Proj.            150.00      0.00                            0.00     23.51      23.51      0.00
P008055        1995 PE-PRIM.EDUC                                     14640       0.00                           20.71      896       29.68      5.73
Total:      565.00       0 00                          20.71     201.42      99 80      27 88
- 61 -



PERU
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Apr-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                      Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic  Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
2000               Agrokasa                      6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               Alicorp                      20.00    0.00   20.00   20.00   20.00    0.00   20.00   20.00
1979/83/90/93      Buenaventura                  0.00    0.38    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.38    0.00    0.00
1997               Interbank-Peru               20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               Laredo                       15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    9.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               Latino Leasing               10.00    2.50    0.00    0.00   10.00    2.50    0.00    0.00
1999               Milkito                       3.50    0.00    3.50    0.00    3.50    0.00    3.50    0.00
1984               Minera Regina                 1.29    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.29    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994               PPF Cayman                    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               Paramonga                    22.00    0.00    0.00   21.76   14.18    0.00    0.00   13.59
1994               Peru Prvtzn Fund              0.00   13.89    0.00    0.00    0.00   13.89    0.00    0.00
1993/96/00         Quellaveco                    0.00    0.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.56    0.00    0.00
1999               RANSA                        10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2001               UPC                           7.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1982/92/95         Wiese Leasing                 4.55    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.55    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993/94/99         Yanacocha                    20.00    0.00    0.00   80.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998/01            Agroguayabito                 2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.74    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:       141.34   17.37   23.50   121.76  105.26  17.33    23.50   33.59
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                         Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
1998              Wong                         25000.00   5000.00      0.00  60000.00
2000               CAMSA                         2000.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
2001               Peru OEH                     10000.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
Total Pending Commitment:    37000.00   5000.00     0.00  60000.00
- 62 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
PERU: Participatory Management of Protected Areas
Latin   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        America   middle-
Peru   & Carib.  Income      Development diamond'
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                     25.2      509     2,094                Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                 2,350    3,840     1,200
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                    59.3     1,955    2,513
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%                                        1.7       1.6      1.1
Labor force (%)                                      2.6       2.5      1.2     GNP                            Gross
per                           primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                           capita                     enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  41
Urban population (% of total population)             72        75        43
Life expectancy at birth (years)                     69        70        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)             40        31        33
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)            8         8I       15              Access to sate water
Access to Improved water source (% of population)    80        75        86
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                 10        12        16
Gross primaryenrollment (% ofschool-age population)  123      11:1      114             Peru
Male                                                           .      114             Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                                116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989      1998     1999
Economic ratioa'
GDP (US$ billions)                         15.5     28.6      62.7     57.2
Gross domestc InvestmenVGDP                21.7     20.7      24.3     21.7
Exports of goods and services/GOP          27.7     12.4      12.0     13.6                    Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                 30.3     20.8      19.5     19.9
Gross national savings/GDP                             .      18.3     18.2
Current account balance/GDP                 4.7     -0.8      -6.0      -3.6     Jmt
interest payments/GDP                       3.7      0.5       1.8      2.4      omInvestment
Total debtGDP                              59.6     64.9      51.6     56.8     Savings                     n
Total debt service/exports                 33.8      8.9      27.4     26.2
Present value of debWGDP                      .               53.5
Present value of debt/exports                                374.8
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99    1998      1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GOP                                0.5      4.3     -0.5       1.4      5.3        -P    eru
GNP per capita                    -2.3      3.3     -2.4      -0.8      3.5          -   Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services      -1.8     7.3      3.3       7.4      7.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GOP)                                1979     1989      1998      1999     Growth of Investmint and GDP (%)
Agriculture                                11.7      8.0       7.1      7.2     30
Industry                                   42.8     36.2      36.3     37.3       l
Manufacturing                            23.5     25.3      23.1      23.7
Services                                   45.5     55.8      56.1     55.5     0o                7      "     s
Private consumption                        61.0     68.7      71.5     71.1    l15
General govemment consumption               8.6     10.5       8.9      9.0
Imports of goods and services              19.1     12.3      16.7     15.5                   616P
(average annual growth)                 1979-89  1989-99     1998      1999     Growth of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                 2.8      4.5       0.4      12.9    so
Industry                                    0.3      5.5      -0.3      0.0     20
Manufacturing                              0.3     3.7      -3.6       0.3 
Services                                    0.2      3.6      -0.7      0.9
Private consumption                         2.5      2.4      -0.4      0.8    .                                  "94  95  go  97
General govemment consumption               1.2      2.3       1.8      3.2    lo0
Gross domestic Investment                  -2.5      8.9      -1.3     -11.9   -20
Imports ot goods and services              -2.9      9.7       0.1    -17.3              -Exports       Imports
Gross national product                     -0.1      5.1      -0.7      1.0
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators In the country (in bold) compared with Its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be Incomplete.
- 63 -



Peru
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                            1979     1989      1998     1999     Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                      r0
Consumer prices                             64.7  3,398.7      6.0       3.5    40
Implicit GDP deflator                       73.5  2,926.6      6.4       3.8
20
Govemment finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                              o
Current revenue                               ..      ..       14.0     12.8            94    95    96   97    99    99
Current budget balance                        ..      ..        1.7      0.0                 GDP deflator  O  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..      ..       -0.7     -2.7
TRADE
(US$ millions)                             1979     1989      1998     1999      Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                            -   3,533      5,735    6,114    to.ooo
Copper                                      ..     764        779      776
Fishmeal                                    ..     405       392       533     7.900
Manufactures                                ..     989      1,968    1,874
Total imports (cif)                           ..   2,287     8,200     6,581     s.ooo      A    J
Food                                        ..     366      1,146      932     2.500
Fuel and energy                             ..     219       579       629
Capital goods                                ..    801      2,592    2,140        o
93  94    95956    97  99   99
Export price index (1995=100)                         90        83       72
Import price index (1995--100)                        82        96       95                * Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995-100)                            110        86       76
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                             1979     1989      1998     1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services              4,085   4,369      7,487    7,793     0
Imports of goods and services              2,511   3,429     10,492    8,857
Resource balance                           1,573     940     -3,005   -1,064    -2
Net income                                  -966   -1,355    -1,484   -1,635
Net current transfers                       123      175       697      669 _4
Current account balance                     730     -240     -3,792   -2,030    - 
Financing items (net)                       418      780      2,786    1,255
Changes in net reserves                   -1,148    -540      1,006     775     -a
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        ..       .      9,982    9,002
Conversion rate (DEC, locaMUS$)          2.25E-7  4.02E-3       2.9      3.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998     1999
(US$ millions)                                                                   Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       9,269   18,582    32,397   32,445
IBRD                                      235     1,085    2,128     2,417                         A 2,417
IDA                                         0        0         0        0             G: 6,187           C: 754
Total debt service                         1,402     407      2,454    2,387                                   2
IBRD                                       31        0       184      249                                 D:2.a47
IDA                                         0        0         0        0
Composition of net resource flows                                                        ..- -
Official grants                            47      121       239         ..
Officialcreditors                         195      117        61      709
Private creditors                         248       76       620      310         F: 8,268  
Foreign direct investment                  71       59      1,930    2,068                   4       _    E1,7
Portfolio equity                            0        0       174     -352
World Bank program
Commitments                               171        0        38      390      A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              61        0       271      381      B - IDA  D - Other muhilateral  F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                       12        0        64       89      C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                  49        0       207      291
Interest payments                          19        0       120      166
Net transfers                              31        0        88      125
Development Economics                                                                                           9/9/2000
- 64 -



Additional Annex 11: Protected Area Profiles
PERU: Participatory Management of Protected Areas
The Methodology
The methodology employed leading to the selection of the project supported protected areas (PAs) was
re-iterative and adaptive requiring adjustments to changing circumstances as they arose during the project
preparation process. Initial site selection criteria were: (i) presence of significant biological diversity, (ii)
existence/potential threat to PA biodiversity, (iii) socioeconomic importance, particularly in terms of a PA's
potential for generating income, and (iv) level of management needs and requirements.
These criteria were applied to all PAs in SINANPE, and a comprehensive matrix for the entire system was
then developed based on the weighted average of score points assigned to each criterion. Through this
process all PAs were ranked. Once ranked, an additional criterion was applied which screened out PAs
which were or will be receiving meaningful funding. T'his process led to a list of eight PAs. Of these only
NP Huascaran is receiving support and was included after discussions with representatives of
PROFONANPE's Board of Directors and the World Bank, because its financial and technical needs were
judged as being far greater than the current and planned support due to pressures on the Park associated
with a large population living in proximity to it and adjacent mining and tourism development. An
additional four protected areas were included due to their proximity to two of the initial eight selected
protected areas resulting in two PA clusters. These were: (i) CR Yanesha and PF San Matias-S.Carlos (NP
Yanachaga-Chemillen), and (ii) HS Chacamarca and NS Huallay (NR Junin). The 12 PAs are shown in
Matrix 1.
Following PA selection, projected reductions in the likely GEF grant required a further prioritization among
the aforementioned PAs. This was achieved through the development and application of additional criteria
such as the presence of private sector and NGOs with the capacity and interest to manage protected areas.
Through this process, the five PAs identified for support under the project were: (i) Huascaran NP, (ii)
Tambopata-Candamo NR, (iii) Bahuaja-Sonene NP, (iv) Salinas & Aguada Blanca NR, and (v) Manglares
de Tumbes NS. In addition, a sixth protected area still to be created, Morona Pastaza (protected area
category to be decided), was included for support under the project. Studies financed by KfW indicated that
if Morona Pastaza had already existed it would easily rank at the top of the previously cited long list; it is
very large (more than 2.2 million of hectares) and has unique species, information gaps, indigenous
populations, economic potential in prospective buffer zones, etc. Moreover, its inclusion will further
provide a learning opportunity by participating in the setting up of a protected area based on sound
environmental and economnic sustainability principles from the very start.
Protected Area Profiles
Brief profiles of the six PAs proposed for support under the project are presented below.
Huascaran National Park (HNP)
HNP was established in 1975 shortly after which UNESCO recognized it as a Biosphere Reserve (1977)
subsequently followed by its designation as a Natural Heritage Site (1985). It encompasses 340,000 ha in
the Department of Ancash and ranges in altitude from 2,500 to 6,768 meters above sea level. It includes the
country's highest mountain (Huascaran). The HNP protects the largest portion of the Central Andean Humid
Puna in Peru and includes 779 species of flora. Remnant forests of "quenioas" (Polylepis spp.) can also be
- 65 -



found. Indicative examples of "flagship" mammalian species include "taruca" (Hippocamelus antisensis),
spectacled bear (Tremarctos ornatus), vicufia (Vicugna vicugna) and puma (Felis concolor). The Andean
condor (Vultur gryphus), ducks such as Merganetta armata and the puna partridge (Tinamotis pentlandii)
are among the site's 112 bird species.
The people living within or adjacent to NPH is estimated at 300,000, mostly peasant, with indigenous
Quechua and mixed cultural backgrounds. The main economic activities consist of mining and small-scale
subsistence agriculture and cattle ranching. Increasingly there is evidence of the growing importance of
ecotourism.
Main threats to biodiversity stem from overgrazing, mining-related contamination, and illegal hunting. The
HNP has a Master Plan since 1990 that is being updated, and has a tourist plan that was prepared in 1996. It
has 59 community committees to handle conflicts over natural pasture use.
Among the numerous stakeholders identified in HNP are included the following: Mountain Institute, Kuntur
Institute (local-based environmental management), Hurpichallay Association (agro-biodiversity), the Huari
Municipality, tourism service associations, and 39 peasant communities.
Tambopata-Candamo National Reserve (TCNR)
Established in 2000 in the Department of Madre de Dios, NRTC covers some 254 thousand ha. and supports
exceptionally high levels of biodiversity which in part is due to the presence of species characteristic of
three different systems within the Amazon basin: the high forest of the eastern slopes of the Andes; the
basin of the Ucayali River and the upper Amazon; and the basin of the Madre de Dios and Madeira Rivers.
Available data indicate an estimated 575 bird species, 1200 butterfly species of which 26 are endemic, and
135 ant species.
The total estimated population within TCNR and its surrounding area is 43,400 of which local indigenous
populations number 1,140. The main economic activities in or adjacent to the TCNR consist of ecotourism
(7 enterprises), agriculture, and Brazil nut gathering and other extractive activities. Gold mining, although
not allowed in the TCNR, takes place on the Malinowski River in areas neighboring the TCNR and on the
Madre de Dios River which is adjacent to the buffer zone. There are two important tourist lodges inside the
PA.
Main threats to the Reserve's biodiversity are associated with the aforementioned extractive activities,
particularly wood extraction, Brazil nut overexploitation and gold mining. There is also evidence of
growing impacts associated with deforestation for agriculture and extensive cattle ranching in the buffer
zone.
PAMC for TCNR has been established but is awaiting resolution from DGANPFS. Among numerous
identified stakeholders in TCNR are the following: International Conservation (IC), Pro-Natura, Federacion
Agraria de Madre de Dios, Native Communities, ecotourism private companies (Rain Forest Expeditions),
small- and medium-scale miners and loggers.
Bahuaja-Sonene National Park (BSNP)
Established in 1996 in the Departments of Madre de Dios and Puno BSNP is the country's second largest
national park measuring just over one million has. The Park protects the entire Beni savanna ecoregion. It
also protects the second-largest example of Southwestern Amazon Humid Forest. Among the Park's large
number of species, the following are considered threatened: otters (Ptenonura brasiliensis), wild mountain
- 66 -



dogs (Speothos venaticus) and eagles (Harpya harpyja).
Within and adjacent to the BSNP, there is an estimated 73,200 people which include indigenous peoples and
settlers who migrated mainly from Puno, Cuzco, and Madre de Dios. The region's main economic activities
include gold mining, small-scale agriculture, local trade of flora and fauna, Brazil nut gathering and other
extractive practices.
Main threats to BSNP biodiversity are associated with small-scale agriculture, non-sustainable extractive
activities and gold mining. While these pressures remain localized given the size of the BSNP, they already
exceed the enforcement capacity of park staff.
Among numerous identified stakeholders in TCNR are the following: organized native commnunities
(Federacion Nativa de Madre de Dios-FADEMAD), organized farmer community (Federacion Agraria de
Madre de Dios), Intemacional Conservation (IC), PRONATURALEZA, Defense committee of Northern
Frontier Qechua-Aymara (CDSFNQA), Immigrants from Puno (Colonos), small miners, Research Institute
of the Peruvian Amazon (HAP).
Salinas & Aguada Blanca National Reserve (SABNR)
The SABNR was established in 1979 and covers 367,000 ha in the Departments of Arequipa and
Moquegua. The Reserve ranges in altitude from 3500 to over 6000 meter above sea level and includes a
chain of volcanoes and alpine lakes within its boundaries. The high plateau surrounded by the mountains
includes a diverse life typical of the Arid Puna. As a result of the extreme temperature range, a unique
biodiversity has evolved consisting of 24 out of 470 mammal species in Peru (of which 4 are vulnerable or
endangered); 141 out of 1,729 bird species (of which 10 are vulnerable or endangered); 4 out of 365 reptile
species; 4 out of 332 amphibious species; and 3 out of 797 fish species. A total of 358 plant species has
been identified dominated by the genera Calamagrostis (15 species), Senecio (12 species) and Werneria (10
species). There also exist remnant forests of Buddleia sp. Polylepis sp and Puya which are also protected.
Within and adjacent to the SABNR there is an estimated population of 94,700 people. The main economic
activities include agriculture, cattle ranching (including native camelids), informal hunting (vicuna and
guanaco), and vicufia wool production. Mining is another very important activity, and 23 concessions and 1
well-established mining company are active, producing mainly gold and other precious metals.
Main threats to biodiversity include overgrazing, slash-and-burn practices, illegaL hunting of wild camelids
(vicufia and guanaco), over-extraction of vegetation, and adverse environmental impacts associated with
power generation, road construction, and mining activities in proximity to the Reserve.
Zoning was defined and a Master Plan was ready in 2001. The PAMC is not yet set up, although members
have been identified. There are 13 Vicuina Management Committees, national NGOs, one bilateral program
and one government program in the SABNR.
Among the numerous stakeholders identified in SABNR are included the following: AECI (alpaca herd
improvement and tourism), DESCO (alpaca and vicuna improvement), PRODEMA (alpaca improvement,
tourism, and reforestation), the Vicuna committee, alpaca associations, peasant communities, private farms,
Charcani hydropower, and mining companies.
Manglares de Tumbes National Sanctuary (MTNS)
Located in the Department of Tumbes, the MTNS was established in 1988. It covers an area of 2,972 ha and
is characterized by a rich ecosystem that produces a number of environmental "goods and services". The
- 67 -



MTNS was established to protect the only representative example of mangrove forests which exist in Peru,
the endangered Tumbes crocodile (Crocodylus acutus), and the populations of invertebrates of economic
significance. The Sanctuary supports a large diversity of biological resources of significant economiz
importance for local populations. These include: shrimp, "conchas negras", crabs and fish. Species counts
exist for: fish (93), gastropods (33), bivalves (24), birds (57) of which 8 of the latter are exclusive to the
mangrove ecosystem and 26 species other identified as migrants from North America.
The population within MTNS and its environs is an estimated 15,650 people; however much of it is
dispersed as there is only one small village, El Bendito, with a population of 276 people, located within the
buffer zone (BZ). The main economic activity of the population in and around the TMNS is based on
shrimp and fish production. There are currently 27 private shrimp and fish production companies which are
allowed to work within the TMNS and its buffer zone. Additionally, some villagers provide limited tourist
services, such as boat trips and guiding.
Main threats to its biodiversity is associated with illegal fishing and mollusk collection, shrimp farming, and
mangrove harvesting. Sewage and garbage from villages, shrimp farms or other settlements are polluting
waters and beaches.
Registry of land property rights is well established. The TMNS set up its PAMC in 1999, and prepared a
master plan in 2001; however, the MP is still in need of precise scheduling and operating plans. Its PAMC
includes 15 institutional representatives. The TMNS also has a hydro-biology producers' committee.
Among the numerous stakeholders identified in TMNS are included the following: PRONATURALEZA
(park management), ACETUM (reforestation), ASEPROHI (sustainable aquaculture), wood producers
cooperative, Genesis (environmental education), private sector shrimp farm producers.
Morona Pastaza
This proposed protected area covers an estimated 2.3 million ha which represents a portion of a larger 6
million ha zone overlapping Ecuador and Peru formed by volcanic sediments over thousands of years. It
includes both sides of the Pastaza River and the eastem part of the Morona basin from the Ecuadorian
border down to the Maranon River; and left bank of the Maranion River between both basins in the
Department of Loreto. The proposed site's biodiversity significance stems from the wide range of
ecosystems, including humid ecosystems of high global value which contain unique flora and fauna. It is
estimated that 95% of ecosystems are still intact. According to an ongoing study (WWF) , Morona Pastaza
contains four types of forests rich in rarely studied flora and wildlife. Species counts include: (i) resident
birds (43 of economic significance of which 35% are endangered species), and migratory species (25% of
which are endangered); (ii) mammals (including small terrestrial mammals, small flying mammals, and 4
species of aquatic mammals in the Pastaza and Uritayo River basins; 44% of identified mammals are under
some category of threat); (iii) fish species (165 species identified in 32 fish families, which is richer than the
fish diversity in Pacaya Samiria, including the paiche (Arapaima gigas).
In proximity to the proposed protected area, there is an indigenous population estimated to be about 10,230
people including the Quechua, Candoshi, and Achuar ethno-linguistic groups. The main economic activities
which takes place in the Morona Pastaza region are related to oil exploration and exploitation with limited
spillover into the local economy; the latter which is dominated by small-scale, subsistence agriculture, cattle
ranching, hunting, gathering and fishing.
While there is widespread uncontrolled economic activities along the banks of the Morona, Pastaza and
their tributaries, the major threat comes from oil exploration and exploitation. As Morona Pastaza has yet to
- 68 -



be created there are neither staff nor supporting infrastructure and equipment.
Detailed description of the selected areas are available in the project files. Major threats to biodiversity
are presented in Matrix 1.
Matrix 1. Major Threats to Conservation of Biodiversity in Protected Areas Proposed
for the PMPA Project
Protected Area        Threats              Sources           Underlying Causes/Constraints      Possible Project-Supported
Activities to Address Threats
HuascarAn NP    grassland degradation/  overgrazing       unclear land tenure                clarification of tenure
bush fires            illegal occupation  lax enforcement of existing PA     domestic and wild camelid
within PA           regulations                         management in buffer zones
unknown carrying limits            wild resources management and/or
insufficient PA financial sources  rearing in buffer zones
water contamination   mining rghts and                                       clarification of mining rights
operations          weak GOP sectoral coordination      promotion of mining cooperatives -
insufficient PA financial sources for  introduction of low-impact processing
enforcement                        technologies
land degradation/ solid  heavy and poorly                                    awareness program
waste                 planned tourist use  failure to implement existing tourism  implementation of tourism
management plan                    management plan
insufficient or inadequate infrastructure
illegal hunting     unknown tourism carrying capacity   construction of necessary support
wild fauna population                                                        infrastructure
decreasing                                insufficient PA financial sources for  support study of tourism carrying
enforcement                        capacity
implementation of controls and
patrolling
Tambopata-Can   water contamination   gold mining activities  poor knowledge of better environmental  clarification of mining rights,
damo NR         and loss of plant cover                   approaches                         promotion of mining cooperatives
lack of respect for PA from other public  introduction of low-impact processing
sectors                            technologies
poor coordination between GO       awareness program
deforestation       institutions, enterprises, INRENA
loss of biodiversity  illegal hunting     indigenous and peasant settlements
bush fires          follow "traditional markets"       information for productive decisions
ignorance of regulations           reforestation with rapid-growth trees
low-income agricultural practices  research for productive activities with
poor knowledge of resource potential for wild resources
productive opportunities           development of agrotourism/ nature
tourism.
research for productive activities with
aquatic resources in buffer zones
Bahuaja-Sonene  loss of biodiversity  - deforestation     indigenous and peasant settements   development of agrotourism/nature
NP                                    - illegal hunting   follow "traditional markets" / ignorance  tourism-research for producbve
- bush fires        of regulabions / low-income agricultural  activities with aquatic resources in
practices / poor knowledge of resource  buffer zones
potential for productive opportunibes
water contamination   mining              poor knowledge of befter environmental
approaches                         introduction of low-impact processing
lack of respect for PA from other public  technologies
sectors / poor coordiniabon between GO  awareness program
institutions, enterprises, INRENA /
insufficient PA financial sources for
enforcement
Salinas/ Aguada  soil and vegetabon   overgrazing         poor knowledge of resource potential for informabon for productive decisions
Blanca NR       degradabon / bush fires  confused land tenure  productive opportunities       on grassland management
/ introduction of exotic  poorly-planned  lack of respect for PA from other public  research for productive activities with
- 69 -



grasses              economic            sectors                            wild resources / domestic camelid
development                                            use / wild camelids management
development of agrotourism/ nature
tourism
illegal hunting                                        research for productve activities with
heavy loss of vicuha                                                        aquatc resources in buffer zones
populahons                               insufficient PA financial sources  implementabon of controls and
loss of animal species                   poor populabon unaware of collecton  patrolling
limits / poor knowledge of resource  wild resources management and/or
power generation    potental for productive opportunities  rearing
water use interference / activites inside PA  unclear NR status in local populabons  management of wild vicufia
contamination        territory           lack of respect for PA from other public  management of domestic alpaca
mining activites    sectors
awareness program
water management program
clarification of mining rights
introduction of low-impact processing
technologies
implementaton of controls and
patrolling
Manglares de    overexploitaton of   increasing populabon  non-enforcement of existing regulatons  increase of nature and sport tourism
Tumbes NS       marine resources and  poor knowledge of  poor populaton unaware of collecton  acivibes
mangroves            resource potential for  limits                         management of marine resources
productive          poor knowledge of resource potental for (conchas negras, fishes) in buffer
opportunities       productve opportunities            zones
shrimp/tilapia farms
inside and surrounding
mangrove conversion  PA                  non-enforcement of existng regulations
insufficient PA financial sources
implementation of existing mangrove
management plan/public awareness
- 70 -



Additional Annex 12: Environmental Assessment
PERU: Participatory Management of Protected Areas
Environmental Assessment Methodology
The methodology adopted in completing the Environmental Assessment (EA) consisted of the
identification of potential positive and negative environmental impacts associated with project activities.
An initial environmental impact screening was conducted. Activities with potential adverse impacts
received a more detailed analysis. Potential adverse impacts were grouped into six categories: (i)
exceeding carrying capacity, (ii) visual impacts, (iii) modification of environmental systems/processes,
(iv) solid and liquid waste, (v) fire hazards, and (vi) increased human health risk. Following impact
identification, appropriate mitigation measures were developed. These were subsequently incorporated
and budgeted in the respective component's design during the project preparation process. The
aforementioned process is in conformity with the World Bank's OP 4.01 as applied to Category B
projects and Peru's Natural Protected Areas Law (see below).
Natural Protected Areas Law
Environmental requirements associated with any development activities proposed for a National
Protected Area in Peru falls under the country's Natural Protected Areas Law. In the case of large works
the Law requires an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA). In the case of smaller works, the law
requires only an environmental analysis. The law also provides some specific environmental safeguards
regulating ecotourism projects. All proposed ecotourism projects must include an environmental impact
declaration and a description of monitoring activities, to be reviewed by INRENA.
Impacts
Most project environmental impacts will be positive. The initial screening identified potential negative
impacts in the following sub-components: (1.2) participatory master and resource management plan
implementation; and (1.3) small-scale environmentally sustainable economic activities in PAs and buffer
zones. See Matrix 1 for more detail
Master and Resource Plan Implementation
Activities which are likely to be identified in the master plan implementation include small-scale
infrastructure (e.g., construction and maintenance of PA infrastructure such as visitor centers, trails, and
refuges), concession contracts for extractive and other economically productive activities, and tourism
development. The specific nature and location of the activities implemented under the above
sub-components will be identified in the master plans.
Sustainable Economic Activities
Under the sub-component "Sustainable economic activities in PAs and buffer zones," an estimated 100
small-scale economic initiatives or development subprojects will be implemented in the buffer zones
and/or PA core areas financed under a matching grant scheme with participating beneficiaries.
Productive investments with potential adverse impacts might include ecotourism projects, economic use
of flora and fauna, small-scale mining, and livestock production.
- 71 -



Proposed Mitigation and Monitoring of Negative Environmental Impact
Given that have yet to be specified, mitigation measures are based on ensuring that the necessary
procedures and resources are in place a priori into the design and implementation of relevant activities
and that appropriate mitigation measures have been incorporated. To achieve this, the following
measures have been included in project design:
Inclusion of Environmental Mitigation in Plans. Under sub-component 1.1 guidelines, standards, and
criteria for planning will be developed. In conformity with INRENA's environmental policies and
procedures, environmental assessment and mitigation procedures will be incorporated in these guidelines
and applied where specific activities supported in the PA may have potential adverse impacts. Specific
expertise will be contracted to develop investment/site-specific mitigation measures. The master plan
will provide the necessary framework to identify infrastructure works to be financed and will serve as the
framework to assess whether proposed small-scale, environmentally-sustainable development activities
are compatible with conservation criteria. All plans are to be approved by INRENA prior to
implementation. It is estimated that all infrastructure works supported under the project will be small and
only an environmental analysis will be required under the Protected Areas Law. Sirrilarly, for
non-infrastructure activities to be carried out under sub-components 1.2 and 1.3 , Environmental Impact
Declarations will be required.
Monitoring of Management Contracts. Where private non-profit entities will be responsible for PA
management responsibilities, their contracts will explicitly state that they will be required to monitor and
ensure environmental compliance with any park activities which could potentially result in adverse
environmental impacts. Similarly, where private sector entities will be responsible for specific activities
(e.g., construction of PA infrastructure and/or ecotourism activities), relevant environmental safeguards
will be specified in their contracts. Ultimately, INRENA will be the responsible agency for the
environmental screening, inclusion of mitigation measures in contracts and enforcing compliance with
environmental mitigation measures. INRENA staff, responsible for monitoring and enforcing contractor
compliance will be trained in such tasks. Where needed, INRENA may contract individuals or firms to
carry out environmental assessments and subsequent monitoring.
Environmental Screening of Small-scale, Sustainable Economic Activities. Guidelines, technical
assistance, and environmental review and clearance by the project environmental specialist in
PROFONANPE will ensure that subprojects avoid adverse environmental impacts. Specifically,
environmental screening procedures and mitigation requirements and procedures will be included in the
Sustainable Economic Activities Operational Manual. Nevertheless, no subproject will be approved by
PROFONANPE unless the environmental specialist has approved the subproject. To simplify the
screening, the Manual will include a categorization of subprojects and a standard list of mitigation
measures. As many of the targeted beneficiaries will require technical assistance to prepare subproject
proposals, such technical assistance wilL also assist with identifying and incorporating relevant
mitigation measures, where necessary.
List of Activities and Subprojects Excluded from Financing. Less the exception noted below, the project
will not finance the following activities: air strips; connections to the power grid; forestry exploitation;
use of large boats and deep nets; introduction of exotic species in the strict and wild protection zones;
large-scale fishing or processing activities within PAs; use of highly toxic substances (e.g., persistent
organic pollutants, heavy metals, etc.); and construction of roads (except short tracks between buildings
in one single compound).
- 72 -



Matrix 1. Illustrative Project Supported Activities and Mitigation Measures
Relevant EA
Potential Adverse Impacts  Measure     Possible Mitigation Measures
Sub-comoonent 1.2 Plan
Implementation          Improper siting; visual  MP; EA; CO; RC PA properly zone and reflected in MP;
Construction of a visitor  eyesore; water and solid            architectural design in conformity with
center                  waste contamination;                   PA surroundings; appropriately
vegetation removal;                   sized/designed human waste facilities;
increased erosion/sediment             dry season construction and sediment
loading                                screens; revegetation
Visual impacts; vegetation  MP; EA; CO; RC PA properly zone and reflected in MP;
Trail construction      removal; increased                     dry season construction and sediment
erosion/sediment loading;              screens; revegetation; controlled use;
off-trail impacts; wildlife            proper maintenance; actions to increase
conflicts                              visitor awareness
Extraction levels exceed  MP; EA; RC;  Baseline study to ascertain sustainable
Permit to extract Brazil nuts sustainable replacement          harvest capacity; extraction contracts
levels; associated illegal             negotiated; lottery/rotating system of
extractive activities; wildlife        awarding contracts; monitoring and
conflicts; induced                     enforcement.
incremental extractive
demand
Environmental mitigation  EA; CO; TA; TR  Include contractual obligations in PA
measures associated with               management contracts with penalty
infrastructure works and               clauses; provision of TA and training
small-scale reproductive               support if needed; INRENA oversight.
activities within PA are not
being adequately enforced
/monitored resulting in
adverse environmental
Construction contracts  impacts.
Environmental mitigation  EA; CO; TA; TR  Same as above.
measures associated with
infrastructure works are not
being applied resulting in
adverse environmental
Concession contract for  impacts.
ecotourism tours
Development and use of  MP; EA; CO; RC PA properly zone and reflected in MP;
tour route adversely impacts           support baseline study to support sound
PA core area; visual                  tour design in conformity with PA
impacts; exceeds local                 surroundings; limits on human use; tour
carrying capacity                      operator self-polices tourists and
Sub-component 1.3                                              supports public awareness activities.
Sustainable Economic
Activities              Human and environmental MP; EA; TA; TR; MP zones buffer zone and permissible
Small-scale mining      contamination associated  RC           activities supported by project;
production              with ore processing;                   extraction/processing plans required
vegetation removal;                    and include human health and
increased erosion/sediment             environmental safety standards;
loading; induced                       provision of TA and training to small
. development.                            producer to comply; monitoring and
enforcement
Small-scale livestock   Overgrazing; vegetation  MP; EA; TA; TR; MP zones buffer zone and permissible
production              removal; livestock-wildlife  FIC       activities supported by project; baseline
- 73 -



conflicts.                            study to establish carrying capacity for
grazing; permit system established; TA
and training to small producer to
comply; monitoring and enforcement
Exceed sustainable      MP; EA; TA; TR; MP zones buffer zone and permissible
Wildlife extraction     reproductive capacity;  RC             activities supported by project; baseline
create increased demand               study to establish sustainable
met illegally.                        replacement levels; permit system
established; TA and training to hunter
to comply; monitoring and enforcement
Key:   MP Management Plan                    TA Technical Assistance
EA Environmental Assessment Procedures TR Training
CO Contractual Obligations           RC Review/Clearance Requirements
- 74 -



Additional Annex 13: Social Assessment and Strategy
PERU: Participatory Management of Protected Areas
Introduction
During project preparation, a social assessment and public consultation were carried out to identify: (i)
the social factors contributing to environmental degradation and loss of biodiversity in five project PAs
(Attachment D), and (ii) potential adverse social impacts associated with the project. Following the
assessment and consultation process, a project social strategy was designed.
Main Social Issues
The Natural Protected Areas Law and its bylaws (DS 038) provide the conceptual and legal framework
for private sector and civil society participation in the management of the national system of protected
areas through: (i) private sector participation in the SINANPE Coordination Council; (ii) involvement of
NGOs, private sector, community-based organizations and public sector stakeholders in the design of PA
Master Plans; and (iii) establishing and strengthening PAMCs as a tool to allow stakeholders
participation in PA management. The project will implement this framework. Despite many positive
features, the project may have some adverse social impacts and has to address some social issues.
Restrictions in Access to Natural Resources
There will be no resettlement under the project. However, there is a slight possibility that certain
conservation measures may result in limiting or eliminating access to relevant areas (e.g., strict
conservation areas) affecting some poor communities' source of living. Demographic growth and
non-sustainable activities in buffer zones that are threatening PAs make it necessary to develop
sustainable altematives.
Involvement of Indigenous Peoples
In five of the six project PAs, there are indigenous communities of various ethnic groups. Most of them
live in poverty and their livelihood depend on subsistence agriculture and natural resources exploitation.
Because of cultural differences and lack of representation, indigenous communities have not been able to
fully participate in the management of PA that influences directly their welfare. This demands to identify
altematives that address poverty reduction and conservation, taking into account their cultural
background.
Gender Eguitv Issues
Men and women play a distinctive role using and managing natural resources in PAs. Women's
involvement is particularly important in plants and wood collection, small agriculture and cattle rearing,
and other activities closely related to PA conservation. However, they have a limited participation in
decision-making and the lack of a gender approach in traditional PA management makes it difficult for
them to access training and resources to play a more active role. This traditional perspective limits the
effectiveness of conservation strategy and deepens the gender gap.
- 75 -



Land Tenure Issues
The project's five PAs have mapped and registered boundaries. However, there are land and boundary
disputes in three of them. While the Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for addressing this issue,
PROFONANPE has decided not to proceed to area demarcation under dispute until a solution is reached.
Protected Areas Management Contracts
INRENA will contract private non-profit PA management providers (NGOs). Some communities
perceive this approach as a "privatization" of PAs that might adversely affect their welfare. There is also
concern that this approach may complicate the already difficult relationship between 1NRENA and the
communities and result in another institutional layer that impedes rather than facilitates PA management.
Strategy to Address Social Issues
The project's social strategy comprises the complementary application of the following instruments: (i) a
Process Framework (PF); (ii) Indigenous Peoples Development Plans (IPDPs); (iii) a Gender Strategy
(GS); and (iv) the promotion of public participation (PPP). This social strategy will be integrated into the
PA management plans and will guide project implementation.
Process Framework (PF)
The PF focuses on mitigating possible impacts of restricting access or use of natural resources.
Agreements with affected groups to address this issue will be reached through a participatory process
comprising: (i) impact assessment of restrictions on livelihoods; (ii) design and financing of sustainable
economic alternatives to re-establish, or improve previous conditions, culturally compatible with
communities involved; and (iii) providing training and technical assistance to carry out agreed activities.
The PF comprises a mechanism to address possible conflicts through the established PAMCs to operate
under the following principles: (i) any restrictions on access to resources will be jointly defined with the
affected communities during the preparation of the PA's management plans; and (ii) participation
mechanisms will ensure that these communities will be actively involved throughout the decision-making
process (see Attachment A for more detail).
Indigenous Peoples Development Plans (IPDPs)
IPDPs includes all activities specifically intended to promote indigenous peoples participation in the
project, ensuring that they receive an equitable share of project-derived benefits, and that their rights are
protected. IPDPs for the five protected areas have been prepared and are to be implemented through
annual plans agreed with involved indigenous communities. IPDPs comprise strengthening indigenous
organizations, supporting their participation in PMACs and financing sustainable economic alternatives,
training and technical assistance. The project's M&E System comprises specific indicators to track
benefits towards indigenous peoples. (see detailed summary in Attachment B and complete IPDPs in the
project files).
Gender Strategy (GS)
The project's gender strategy will mainstream a gender equity approach among communities, civil
society organizations, and public institutions involved. All activities under the project will follow this
approach, taking into account gender priorities and designing activities according to their abilities and
- 76 -



needs. The project will support: (i) strengthening women organizations; (ii) training men and women to
promote an innovative leadership allowing equal access in decision-making; (iii) financing women
initiatives involving sustainable use of natural resources; and (iv) technical assistance and training to
implement this initiative. Gender equity guidelines will help to mainstream a gender equity approach in
INRENA, PROFONANPE and civil society organizations participating in the project. The PA
Management Service Provider will include qualified personnel to implement this approach. Gender
disaggregated data and analysis will help to monitor compliance with this strategy. The project's M&E
System will comprise specific indicators to track progress in gender equity promotion.
Public Participation Promotion (PPP)
PPP is intended to address concerns raised by the proposed PA Management Service Contracts and to
support the project participatory approach through: ensuring stakeholder participation in the design and
execution of PA management plans and in PAMCs. PPP comprises: (i) dissemination of project-related
information to increase local communities involvement in biodiversity conservation activities; (ii)
support stakeholders participation, particularly indigenous and women, in PA mnanagement, including
selection of PA management contractors; (iii) strengthening civil society organizations and developing
vulnerable groups leadership skills to ensure stakeholders representation in PAMCs; and (iv) a public
awareness campaign about biodiversity conservation to promote social responsibility toward PA
protection.
Social Strategy Action Plans and Annual Programs
Social Strategy Action Plans, to cover the six years project span, are to be prepared for each PA
identifying specific activities for each one of the four Social Strategy's instruments. These Social
Strategy Action Plans are to be an integral part of the PA Management Plans providing a social
perspective to enhance and complement conservation activities. Social Strategy Actions Plans will be
implemented through annual programs, agreed with local organizations through participatory
mechanisms.
Institutional Arrangements and Participation
The PA Law includes the creation of a Coordination Council comprising public organizations to
coordinate sector policies and PAMCs to allow for stakeholder participation in PA management. PAMCs
will establish mechanisms such as periodical consultation and public campaigns to promote an active
participation in PA decision making. The project will strengthen PAMCs. Resources will target
specifically indigenous and women organizations. Specifically, under sub-component 2.2, the project will
help PAMCs to gain social recognition and legitimate their role in PA and to further promote stakeholder
participation. (See budget table at the end of this annex).
The PA Management Service Provider in coordination with the NGO responsible for activities in buffer
zones will prepare and implement Social Action Plans and for the monitoring and assessment of annual
plans in close coordination with PAMC. This commitment will be incorporated in the TOR of the service
management provider and the NGO in charge of project activities in buffer zones. The selection process
will take into account in both cases technical capacity and experience to comply with this commitment.
INRENA will incorporate in its project's management team an experienced social scientist-gender
specialist to ensure the compliance with the project's social strategy and to monitor and up-date social
strategy action plans and to carry out annual programs assessments. PROFONANPE will include in each
semester report progress on action plan implementation.
- 77 -



Social Strategy Budget
Social strategy budget is comprised in the project's general budget, therefore it is not an extra cost. The
next table comprises a six year budget estimate for the above-described social strategy.
Social Strategy Budget (in US$ '000)
Social Strategy Budget (in US$ '000)
Componentl Social Strategy Activities        PF     IPDP   Gender   PPP  Total
1. Participatory PA Management
1.1. Preparation of Plans
Social action plan preparation                                   50     50
Social issues and impact studies               X _     _        180    180
Consultation Process                                             60     60
1.2. Management Plan Implementation
PPP(PAMC support)                                               121    121
Vulnerable groups participation                   45       45           90
1.3. Sustainable Economic Activities (SEA)
PF: Sustainable economic activities      1,350                       1,350
SEA to benefit indigenous peoples                900                   900
SEA to finance women initiatives                          450          450
2. Institutional Development
2.1. Training and Technical Assistance             I
PF: Training and TA                       595                          595
Training and TA to benefit indigenous peoples    396                   396
Training and TA to benefit women                          198          198
2.2. Capacity Building of Civil Society                               _
NGO gender awareness capacity                  _           20           20
Women org. strengthening and leadership                    60           60
Indigenous Organizations Strengthening            80                    80
2.3. Public Awareness Program
Public participation promotion                                   50     50
3. Project Financing, Administration, M&E and
Information Dissemination
3.3. Project Implementation and M&E
Monitoring (gender, indigenous, other)                             7      7
Social staff capacity building                                   303    303
3.4. Info Dissemination (lessons learned)
Social strategy experiences and exchanges                        10     10
TOTAL                      1,945  1,421      773  781   4,920
PF= Process Framework; IPDP = Indigenous Peoples Development Plan; PPP: Public Participation
Promotion
- 78 -



Attachment A
Process Framework
Peru has adopted a conservation policy based on the coexistence of people within PAs. Therefore,
resettlement is not envisioned under the project. However, in exceptional cases, as in areas zoned for
strict conservation, it might be necessary to change some damaging practices and limit the access to
natural resources. Though this strategy is expected to have a long-term positive impact, both for
community well-being as PA conservation, it is necessary to mitigate some short-term impacts. This
process framework defines the procedures to address a possible social impact taking into account
Peruvian laws and World Bank OP 4.12.
Sustainable Economic Activities When restrictions do occur, the project has adopted impact mitigation
measures to re-establish, or improve if possible, pre-existent socio-economic conditions by financing
sustainable economic activities and providing training, technical assistance and long-term support for its
implementation in the following cases: (i) to promote preventive actions intended to reduce or eliminate
threats and risks from non-sustainable practices in buffer zones targeting indigenous population, small
farmers and other poor groups to replace these damaging practices; (ii) to contribute to poverty reduction
in buffer zones by implementing rural development programs targeting small farmers and indigenous
communities living in poverty conditions to stabilize the agriculture frontier thus reducing threats to PA;
(iii) to minimize or avoid social impact from management plans that result in restrictions or access to
resources traditionally used by local people.
The definition and adoption of restrictions will be agreed under a participatory approach with
communities involved, taking into account their cultural diversity and socio-economic background.
Traditional practices and legal rights of indigenous groups established in national laws, and international
agreements will be fully respected to establish culturally compatible sustainable economic altematives.
The strategy will ensure the full and equal participation of women in the planning and execution of the
proposed rural development programs and small-scale projects, by incorporating a gender equity
approach throughout the process framework implementation. Decisions about priorities and alternatives
to address threats will be taken under a participatory approach with PAMCs. Members will receive
training in environmental regulations, conservation practices, conflict resolution and monitoring.
INRENA will be responsible to comply with this framework in coordination with the PAMCs. The PA
Management Services Provider's contract incorporates the commitment to lead the process framework,
identify, design and reach agreements with communities and groups involved.
Financing. The project will finance impact assessment analysis, design and feasibility studies to carry
out sustainable economic activities, comprising training and technical assistance. At least 30 % of the
budget allocated to this type of activities (subcomponent 1.3) and a similar percentage of training and
technical assistance (sub-components 2.1) are ear-marked for this.
Monitoring and Evaluation. The project's M&E system includes process and outcome indicators to
assess implementation and impact of sustainable economic activities, particularly to monitor
re-establishment of socio-economic conditions of target population, recovery of protected resources and
areas, and effectiveness in enforcing restrictions. INRtENA will be responsible to monitor implementation
and participation.
- 79 -



Government Commitment. Peruvian Protected Areas Law recognizes the right to compensate for
limitation in access of use of natural resources establishing the legal basis to carry out this process
framework (NPA Law, Art. 4). There is a commitment in INRENA and PROFONANPE to follow this
framework to address restrictions when applicable and to promote instead sustainable activities.
Attachment B
Indigenous Peoples Development Strategy
PA Law specifically establishes the obligation to consult and involve indigenous population in PA
management. Bank OD 4.20 mandates that indigenous peoples participate and benefit from Bank
operations. Accordingly, IiPDPs have been prepared to address identified social issues and to comply with
these regulations. See summary next, IPDPs are available in the project's files.
Objectives. The objectives of IPDPs are: (i) to guarantee legal and social rights of indigenous
communities over land; (ii) to promote sustainable use of natural resources compatible with their cultural
background; (iii) to promote a multicultural approach in the access and management of natural resources;
and (iv) incorporate specific indicators regarding indigenous peoples participation in the project's M&E
System.
Legal Framework. Peruvian Constitution recognizes the rights of indigenous population defined as
"peasant communities" and "native communities". In 1993, Peru signed the OIT 169 Agreement
regarding indigenous peoples rights to their territory, labor rights and other human rights. Several
regulations protect their land rights and autonomy. PA regulation also includes several regulations to
protect indigenous peoples rights and mechanisms to ensure that they participate and benefit from the
project. This legal framework as well as the guidelines established in World Bank OD 4.20 Indigenous
Peoples are the basis for this strategy.
Base Line Data. Socio-economic conditions and main social issues affecting indigenous population in PA
have been identified during the social assessment and consultations carried out during project preparation
including analyses of the socio-economic situation, cultural background and organizations.
Land Tenure. According to Peruvian regulations indigenous peoples rights are compatible with PA
management and activities such as hunting are permitted for subsistence and traditional purposes. In two
of the project PAs indigenous communities have titled lands while in other three they have titled land in
buffer zones. The project will protect these rights and will support sustainable economic activities to
ensure indigenous peoples livelihood while promoting conservation.
Participation. Initial consultations with indigenous organizations occurred during project preparation.
IPDPs are the result of this process. The project will strengthen indigenous peoples organization to be
able to actively participate in PA management and to participate in the PA Management Committees
including transport and per diem, if necessary, to enable their participation. Project's budget ear-mark
resources to finance indigenous peoples participation and to ensure they benefit from the project.
Respect to culture and traditions. The project will respect and promote traditional approaches to the
management of natural resources that have proven to be environmentally-friendly. Because most
- 80 -



indigenous communities live in poverty or extreme poverty conditions, small-scale sustainable economic
activities will target indigenous communities.
Monitoring and Evaluation. The project's monitoring and evaluation system includes indicators in its
three components to track IPDPs implementation. Indigenous peoples representatives in the PAMC will
be trained in monitoring and evaluation to directly participate in periodic evaluations. The social
scientist-gender specialist in charge of the project's social strategy in INRENA will be responsible to
overview IPDPs implementation.
Action Plan. Specific activities and budget to implement this Indigenous Peoples Strategy are to be
found in PA annual plans.
Attachment C
Gender Strategy
International experience indicates that incorporating a gender approach contributes to improve efficiency
in conservation, increases sustainability, and has a positive impact on poverty reduction. A gender
analysis is available in the project files.
The project will elaborate a gender policy or vision on the basis of which it will incorporate a gender
equity strategy intended to: (a) reduce the gender gap by targeting both, men and women, according to
their abilities and needs promoting their collaboration to achieve common conservation goals; (b)
mainstream a gender approach in public institutions and civil society organizations participating in the
project to minimize cultural and institutional obstacles that limit gender equity; and (c) better understand
gender differences to improve efficiency in conservation strategy and throughout project implementation.
The elaboration of a gender policy and strategy will be based on gender specific base line studies to be
carried out in order to fill the existing knowledge gap on gender relations in the various PAs and their
buffer zones. This gender strategy is threefold cormprising specific activities towards: (i) communities
and potential beneficiaries; (ii) civil society organizations; and (iii) public institutions.
Communities and beneficiaries. While cultural limitations prevent an equal participation of men and
women, empiric evidence shows that promoting productive activities, in which women have a
comparative advantage are well received by men and have positive outcomes empowering women. The
success of these activities increases by providing training and technical assistance and promoting an
innovative leadership among women and men. On the basis of these experiences the gender strategy
comprises: (a) financing women's initiatives to ensure equal access to project benefits; (b) provision of
gender differentiated training and technical assistance; and (c) strengthening leadership capacity from a
gender perspective.
Civil Society Organizations. Women usually participate in organizations that accentuate traditional
"women roles" reducing their possibilities of accessing income generating activities. More pro-active
organization either lack a gender approach, or when gender-aware do not have the capacity to promote
productive activities or conservation. To respond to this situation the project will incorporate incentives
- 81 -



for civil society organizations to adopt a gender approach and provide training in the matter. Incentives
will include: (i) conservation activities that benefit women; (ii) participating in cross-regional
experiences; and (iii) training.
Public Institutions. Although institutions in the project such as INRENA and PROFONANPE are
sympathetic towards a gender approach, they do not have an institutional policy on gender nor
specialized staff on the matter. Therefore, both institutions will adhere to the following gender equity
guidelines: (a) INRENA will incorporate a social scientist-gender specialist responsible for fine tuning
the project gender strategy to each PA conditions; (b) staff will be trained in practical methods to
incorporate a gender equity approach in daily operations. This process comprises hiring female staff
members to be responsible for relations with women organizations as required; (c) all processes such as
consultant selection, training activities, work programs, etc. will incorporate a gender perspective; (d)
information and data production will be gender-disaggregated in all processes to better track outputs and
possible bias; (e) project reports will incorporate a section specifically addressing progress in gender
strategy implementation; and (f) experience in gender will be taken into account in the selection of the
PA Management Service Provider, which will also comply with above-defined guidelines in all its
activities incorporating specialized personnel as required according to the situation of each PA.
Monitoring and Evaluation. Gender specific base line studies are to be prepared in each PA while
specific indicators have been incorporated into the M&E System to track progress in this gender equity
strategy.
Financing. Women organizations, leadership promotion and gender awareness campaign and training
will be financed with resources from sub-components 2.2 and 2.3 while a 10% of subcomponents 1.3 and
2.1 will target women initiatives and women organizations.
Attachment D
Protected Area Social Assessment Profiles
Huascaran National Park (HNP)
The dispute over the use and administration of tourism income is the main source of social conflict in the
PA. Spurred by poverty, local communities dispute INRENA's right to charge for entering the PA;
municipal authorities also claim to have rights to tourist-generated income. The fact that income is
centrally managed and is not reinvested locally aggravates the conflict. INRENA lacks capacity to
control tourism activities which increasingly represents a threat to the conservation of biodiversity. Of
secondary importance is pressure stemming from poor farmers seeking land and using natural resources
in the PA. There are also some positive trends lead by some NGOs, community organizations and
municipal authorities promoting a sustainable approach to continue tourism development without
affecting the PA.
The main stakeholders in proximity to the PA are 39 Quechua peasant communities totalling some
300,000 inhabitants. Most live below the poverty line and are primarily dependent on cattle-raising, a
major cause of overgrazing affecting the PA. In an effort to manage this issue, INRENA has organized
172 Natural Grass Users Committees, 58 within the PA. Tourism agents comprise another stakeholder
- 82 -



group and range from urban entrepreneur to provider of small local services. They are the most
influential actors due to their role in controlling the access and activities within the PA and failure to
share income with local communities and lack of a conservation ethic . Several NGOs and municipalities
seeking sustainable alternatives and a share of tourism-derived income generation are becoming
increasingly important actors.
HNP is characterized by a mix of legal rights comprising the lands of three titled peasant communities
(Vicos, Aquia y Cashan); small owners with inheritance claims and no legalized titles (including workers
of haciendas affected during the agrarian reform movement of the 1970s who received land as a
compensation). There are also 79 mining concessions, of which 39 are entirely within the PA and 36
partially occupy an area of the HNP estimated to total 6,095 ha The recent development of industrial
mining within the area surrounding the PA might eventually have a negative impact.
Tambopata National Reserve (TNR) and Bahuaja Sonene National Park (Madre cle Dios Sector)
The population living in proximity to TNR/BSNF' lives under either poverty or extreme poverty
conditions with few options available to ensure their survival. As a result unregulated extraction of wild
plants and animals, and illegal logging are their main source of livelihood and also threat to the PA's
biodiversity. Some animals such as the "huangana" and the "sabalo" are endangered by the
overexploitation by indigenous E'ejas, that have changed their traditional fishing for self-consumption to
fishing for the local markets Fluvial mining along the Malinowski and Madre de Dios rivers (both legal
and illegal), though outside the PA, causes environmental impact due to inadequate disposal of waste of
oil and mercury and the removal of material from the bottom of the rivers. Castafia (Brazilian nuts)
collectors, of which 80 groups have concessions to collect the nuts within the PA boundaries, are its main
protectors. However, the market crisis of the product and a drop in market prices is seriously damaging
the local economy.
This PA is characterized by several social groups with opposing interests. Eco-tourism entrepreneurs of
all sizes including some indigenous communities, represent a privileged group to INRENA, engaged it
what is considered to be an environmentally-friendly conservation activity. Small farmers and loggers,
though willing to co-operate in conservation activities, need support to be able to implement sustainable
alternatives and management plans. Castafia collectors comprise mainly former migrants and some
indigenous communities who have developed approaches to sustainable use of natural resources, also
consider themselves as "conservationists." The small gold miners in the rivers, are now integrated in the
PA Management Committee and are willing to seek sustainable alternatives; WWF is helping in this
effort. The real danger is the possible establishment of large mining firms, as has happened in other areas
in Madre de Dios.
There are no land tenure conflicts in TNR/BSNP; in 2000 the regularization process was completed;
small owners around Maldonado Lake and indigenous reserves have titles and lands outside the PA.
There are however some claims by small farmers which would lead to a reduction in the size of buffer
zones to enable them to expand their production activities. There are also disputes among indigenous
communities, small mining concessionaires and large mining firms that claim rights over sub-soil
minerals, all opposing environment impact requirements of INRENA.
National Park Bahuaja Sonene (Puno Sector)
Over the last two decades, NPBS has been affected by waves of colonisation of farmers arriving from
Cuzco and Puno seeking new lands and economic opportunities. These groups settled in two areas before
the PA was created :: Colorado Sector, and the Inambari River catchment. These colonos have destroyed
- 83 -



natural flora and fauna by opening land for cultivation. The discovery of gold in the Inambari River has
contributed to further in-migration of colonos to exploit gold. Finally, there are unconfirmed reports of so
called "non-contacted" indigenous groups, which are likely to represent a small number of indigenous
families who for social and historical reasons have decided to isolate themselves from contact with
outsiders. Their rights are protected under Peruvian regulations.
The Andean colonos are mainly poor peasants who instead of addressing soil deterioration caused by
inadequate agricultural practices, occupy new lands; in the last year this process has become transformed
into the speculation of lands that are not used for productive purposes. The gold miners of this area are
not well organized and are less sensitive toward conservation that their counterparts found elsewhere in
Peru (e.g., Madre de Dios). Two indigenous organizations, FENAMAD and AIDESEP are involved in
protecting the rights of the "non contacted indigenous people"
There are no land ownership issues within this PA as most conflicts are outside of its boundaries.
Indigenous reserves are titled outside the PA though the people enter PA lands to collect and hunt; these
activities that used to be for subsistence purpose and compatible with conservation efforts, now under the
pressure of additional needs and market pressures need to be regulated. There are eight "castana"
concessionaires within the PA but they appear to support conservation efforts. There are 228 families
who claim land rights within the PA, though only one is actually inside. In situ verification of these
claims is an on-going process to certify if property rights existed prior to the creation of NPBS .
Salinas & Aguada Blanca National Reserve (SABNR)
The Yura-Santa Lucia road, in its final stage of construction in 2001, has resulted in several social and
environmental impacts. Construction destroyed the "bofedales", (small water reservoirs) which were the
main source of water for cattle, the latter the principal source of income of local families. The possible
construction of a small dam to generate electricity for Arequipa, presently under study might also result
in further damage. Adequate social and environmental impact studies and compensation for loss of land
associated with road construction are critical. Another source of natural deterioration, closely related to
poverty conditions, is the over-exploitation of "tola" a wild plant used to produce charcoal.
Peasant communities of Collahua ancestry represent a major stakeholder in the SABNR area of
influence. Though under external pressures, they still maintain their traditions based on the rearing of
alpacas and vicunias and the use of wild herbs for medical purposes. The replacement of alpaca and
vicunia for sheep is having a negative impact on soils and grasses. Some communities also collect "tola"
for charcoal for the bakeries in Arequipa. Urban growth of Arequipa, one of the most important cities in
Peru is having a negative albeit indirect influence on this PA; the location of solid waste dump sites are
already reaching its boundaries.
The north side of SABNR is occupied by small farmers, comprising 2,700 inhabitants sharing 728 family
houses. In the south, there are 12 indigenous communities who for centuries have occupied those lands,
however, their properties have not been surveyed and there are some disputes with private land owners
and the legal titling of their ancestral lands has yet to be completed. Overall, both private and communal
lands total 312,141 ha, which represent 92% of the PA's land of 360,000 ha. Finally, there are 23 mining
concessions, which were granted before the PA was created which are still in use.
Manglares de Tumbes National Sanctuarv (MTNS)
The main source of environmental degradation in MTNS is associated with the shrimp pond development
- 84 -



and production. The initial boom resulted in the illegal occupation of 63 ha of land within the PA. The
subsequent economic bust contributed to increased poverty in the surrounding areas and additional
pressure on the PA itself. Contradictory policies among two public sector ministries have further
exacerbated the situation. While the Fishery Ministry continues to promote new pond development,
INRENA opposes these efforts. Recently, some NGOs such as Pro Naturaleza and ASEPROH have
succeeded in a process to rehabilitate degraded lands in association with local communities and
re-introduce traditional species (black shells).
The cultural patterns of the MTNS area of influence have changed over the recent years due to increased
in-migration of people who do not share the values of the local communities. Presently the big prawn
entrepreneurs, who have rights over 8, 580 ha, are one of the major actors and likely to affect the future
of the PA as they intend to develop fishing activities with external species (Tilapia) without assessing its
impact. There is also a large number of people located in isolated areas (El Bendito) who extract
resources illegally from the PA. Local communities are dominated by small farmers carrying out
subsistence agriculture. Though they live outside the PA, poverty and lack and alternatives in the region
force them to occupy and/or develop activities in the PA.
The three main actors in the MTNS area have legal rights over portions of this PA's territory (i) three
prawn firms (around 100 ha among the three); (ii) the Peruvian Navy with 1,879 ha; and (iii) 1NRENA
with 1,026 ha that represent around 34% of the total area. The area dedicated to prawn ponds in total is
an estimated 8,636 ha. The lack of co-ordination among the actors involved is a serious threat to the
long-term sustainability of this PA.
- 85 -



Additional Annex 14
Institutionai Analysis and Implementation Arrangements
PERU: Participatory Management of Protected Areas
Institutional Analysis
The institutional analysis is divided into a brief summary of the two major national stakeholders
(INRENA and PROFONANPE) and summary accounts of the PAMCs and their potential constituent
local institutions evaluated through a detailed stakeholder analysis completed during project preparation.
A more detailed account exists in the project files.
INRENA, a semi-autonomous agency under the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), is Peru's lead public
agency responsible for the management and sustainable use of the country's renewable natural resources.
Under its Ley Orgdnica (DL 25901), INRENA which operates at the central, regional and local levels,
administers SINANPE through the General Directorate of Protected Areas (DGANP) whose main
functions include: (i) financing PAs, (ii) strategic sectoral planning, (iii) policy making, (iv) monitoring
and supervision, and (v) public dissemination of PA-relevant information. The principal financing
sources for SINANPE are public funds and grants, the latter supported through multi- and bilateral
assistance organizations and non-governmental organizations (NGOs). The major sources of public funds
are: the government treasury (including government counterpart requirements associated with relevant
internationally-financed loans and grants) and debt swaps. At the national level, INRENA manages
SINANPE's activities within the framework of a national strategic plan (Plan Director del SINANPE).
Each PA is managed through strategic management plans (Plan maestro) and resources management and
public use plans. PA-specific activities are implemented through Annual Operating Plans.
While the institutional responsibilities of INRENA/DGANP in relation to the management of SINANPE
are clear their implementation have been less than effective. Major factors cited for these inefficiencies
include: (i) the absence of detailed strategic planning; (ii) the recent rapid expansion of SINANPE and
the accompanying logistical demands associated with managing the many new and barely accessible PAs;
(iii) human and financial resource constraints; and (iv) poor information systems. In an on-going
dutch-supported institutional assessment and modernization study of INRENA, a number of options are
currently being considered to address these institutional weaknesses. These include: (i) creation of
technical unit within a new mnacro-superintendencia responsible for natural resources that reports directly
to the President of the Council of Ministers; (ii) creation of an autonomous entity responsible for
biodiversity conservation (superintendencia) similar to the US National Park Service; and (iii)
strengthening the existing institution. While supporting institutional changes at the level of INRENA is
beyond the scope of the present project, INRENA and SINANPE will be strengthened through the project
by supporting a greater but complementary role for the private sector and civil society in the management
of PAs (sub-component 1.2) and increasing DGNAPs and local PA administrators ability to manage these
new roles (sub-component 2.1).
PROFONANPE, created in 1992 to administer the National Fund for Protected Areas (FONANPE), this
quasi public-private entity currently channels financing to SINANPE from both multilateral (GEF) and
bilateral organizations (e.g., CIDA, KFW, Holland, Finland). In its ten years of existence,
PROFONANPE has channeled US$28 million to finance the recurrent and capital costs of selected PAs'
and capacity building at all institutional levels of SINANPE. PROFONANPE's success is in part due to
following the norms of good corporate governance and creating and implementing a range of fund raising
instruments. PROFONANPE has an independent management (general director) in charge of day-to-day
administration, reporting to a Board of Directors whose members have a two-year tenure. The Board of
- 86 -



Directors includes three representatives of INRENA (including the Chief Executive Officer, who presides
over the Board), three representatives of environmental NGOs, and one representative of the international
community (in its capacity as provider of technical and financial assistance). Through this management
independence and its coherent financial management and information practices, PROFONANPE has
gained the confidence of the international community. The fund raising instruments developed by
PROFONANPE include: grants, debt for nature swaps, endowment funds, sinking funds and financial
income from the administration of the endowment fund formed with a previous GEF grant. The
formulation and implementation of the SINANPE financing strategy as well as the contracting of a
specialized agent to raise additional funds to support the System will ensure long-term financial
sustainability.
Despite these strengths, PROFONANPE needs to address a number of issues identified in a recent
independent external evaluation. These include: (i) a weak strategic framework; (ii) a sometimes
cumbersome decision making process; (iii) a rigid institutional framework that impedes institutional
change required to support its growth; and (iv) the need to diversify the number of recipients receiving
PROFONANPE funds. Fortunately, many of these issues are already being addressed. Moreover, the
project will strengthen PROFONANPE through activities under Project components 2 and 3.
PAMCS. As noted above, there is a clear need for IPRENA to involve additional local partners in a
collaborative approach to manage the country's national protected areas. Created in the reglamento of the
Ley de Areas Naturales Protegidas (Ley no. 26834), Protected Area Management Committees (Comites
de Gesti6n) represent a new institutional mechanism created to support this approach. PAMCs which are
primarily advisory and coordinative in nature, would be responsible for: (i) collaborating and supporting
the management of the PA; (ii) promoting and coordinating the participation of other institutions and
entities in PA management and administration; and (iii) supporting the DGNAP administration in
biodiversity conservation, development of participative processes, and conflict management of the PA.
One key task of the PAMCs is to supervise contractors compliance with administrative and related PA
contracts and agreements associated with the management and/or provision of services in the PA.
Moreover, while the previously cited reglamento does not specify a role for PAMCs in buffer zones, it
does not prevent them from providing a coordinating role between activities supported in the PA core
area and buffer zones, respectively; a complementary responsibility supported under the present project.
Through the PAMC mechanism local institutions and individuals will become involved as active
participating stakeholders in each PA. Likely members will include representatives from local
govemments, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), community-based organizations, civil society,
and the private sector. At present, PAMCs are a new entity and only a few are functioning. The major
outputs of the project will be strengthening of these PAMCs.
Local institutions were evaluated through a stakeholder analysis completed during project preparation. A
detailed description of the analysis is in the project files.
The key non-public institutions identified and evaluated in proximity to the project's PAs include the
following:
NGOs play a number of important roles in PA management. These include: as main decision-makers on
PROFONANPE's Board of Directors; (ii) vehicles for technical expertise in PA management; and (iii)
promoters for biodiversity conservation and protection of indigenous peoples and local communities
rights.
- 87 -



Civil society organizations play a broader role than most NGOs, including facilitating the transfer of
technical expertise as well as the development of PA policy concepts and implementation. Typically,
their focus is on the implementation of specific PA management tasks, using local resources (mostly
labor), and presenting cost-effective alternatives to implement project tasks.
Private sector agents have specific interests in development activities associated with PAs that on
occasion may conflict with PA management objectives. Private sector companies normally work under
licenses issued by sector ministries other than the Ministry of Agriculture or INRENA. Those licenses
sometimes date from before the creation of the PA, which can present legal conflicts with present PA
objectives.
Indigenous peoples. Five of the 6 PAs proposed for support under the project have indigenous peoples
with legal or customary land rights within their respective core areas. Indigenous peoples' interests are
often not easy to assess and taken into account in the PAs' management. In response, an Indigenous
Peoples Development Strategy (IPDS) was developed (see Annex 13 for more detail).
In addition to INRENA, key public institutions identified in one or more of the project's PAs include:
Mainline ministries with local interests, which need to be taken into account during the PA management
plan preparation process. These include: the Ministry of Fisheries (issuing shrimp farming permits in
MTNS); the Ministry of Energy and Mines (concession permitting for mining in NRTC and BSNP); and
the Navy (MTNS).
Local public institutions represented primarily by local municipalities are typically responsible for local
development and management (including matters associated with environmental planning and
management.
As described above, project support for the strengthening of existing and creation of new PAMCs, will be
the primary mechanism to facilitate the necessary coordination and participation of these varying and
possible conflicting sets of institutional interests located in proximity to the 6 PAs.
Implementation Arrangements
PROFONANPE will be the recipient of the GEF Grant. INRENA will implement all activities related to
the management of PAs as well as its own institutional strengthening activities (training, TA and MIS).
All other activities will be subcontracted by PROFONANPE to the private sector and civil society.
Project implementation requires a framework agreement detailing the implementation arrangements
between INRENA and PROFONANPE. The present draft framework agreement (reviewed by the Bank
during appraisal) clearly defines the roles and responsibilities of both institutions under the project.
The framework agreement stipulates the responsibilities of INRENA to: (i) prepare terms of reference for
technical studies and carry out quality control of the studies; (ii) subcontract PA management to the
private sector in accordance with the legal framework and World Bank guidelines; (iii) use a participatory
and gender equitable approach to PA planning and management; (iv) monitor the technical
implementation of the management services and other contracts related to PAs; and (v) comply with the
Bank requirements for environment, social development, indigenous peoples and other safeguards in the
management of the Project PAs.
- 88 -



The role of PROFONANPE is one of a financing agency. It will pay: (i) consultants and service providers
contracted by INRENA to carry out studies and providing management and other services to INRENA
and the PAs; (ii) works contractors and suppliers; (iii) contract consultants and NGOs to carry out
activities in the buffer zones (in coordination with INRENA) under components 1.3, 2.2, 2.3 and
component 3, where INRENA is not competent. An initial agreement between PROFONANPE and
INRENA for the administration of the Indigenous Management of Protected Areas in the Peruvian
Amazon project is already under implementation.
This project presents a unique opportunity for INRENA and PROFONANPET to consolidate their
relationship and contribute to the successful implementation of INRENA's core institutional functions.
Since the role of both institutions has been evolving over time and to ensure that the above arrangements
fit within a long-term strategic view of the management of PAs, a long-term institutional study to define
the roles of both institutions in the management of SINANPE will be prepared under the Project.
PROFONANPE's Board of Directors will provide overall guidance and supervision to the project. A
project-specific Administrative Board (Junta de Administraci6n) including one representative of
IINRENA, one of PROFONANPE, one of the Dutch Govemment (observer) and one representative of the
PAMCs on a rotation basis will be established and will meet at least twice per year to review project
progress and reports and to review and approve the annual work plans and audits.
A project director will be responsible for the day-to-day operations and a part-time extemal advisor will
advise on financial investment options. The project director will report to the PROFONANPE executive
director. The project director will meet regularly every two months with a consultative committee of PA
chiefs and PAMC representatives to ensure that field experience is reflected back into the work plans and
to smooth out operational difficulties. PROFONANPE will recruit a procurement specialist to assist the
various actors involved in project execution with procurement issues and related Bank rules and
procedures. An environmental or biodiversity specialist will ensure the quality of the activities financed
by PROFONANPE under the project as well as compliance with World Bank environmental guidelines.
PROFONANPE's existing administrative structure will support project implementation.
The PA management service providers will be contracted by INRENA according to its own procedures
and compatible with World Bank guidelines. The INRENA evaluation criteria for management service
providers do include experience in PA involvement, qualifications of staff, alliances with local and
international institutions and a financial contribution of the service provider to the management of PAs
(Resolution No. 270). For these management service contracts to become eligible for financing under the
Project the evaluation criteria should also contain criteria such as the quality of the management
proposal, a strategy for financial sustainability of the PA and a cost element.
In the stakeholder analysis the following non-profit organizations were identified as likely candidate
institutions expected to submit technical proposals to be considered in the selection of administrative
contracts: Instituto de Montana, Instituto Kuntur de Investigacion y Desarrollo Andino, and CARE (PN
Huascaran); DESCO and Asociacion para la Conservaci6n de la Naturaleza (RN Salinas y Aguada
Blanca); Conservaci6n Internacional, ProNaturaleza, WWF, Centro EORI, and THREES (RN de
Tambopata); Conservaci6n Internacional, Asociacion para la Conservaci6n de la Cuenca Amazonica
and ProNaturaleza, Centro EORL THREES, and WWF (PN Bahuaja Sonene); and ProNaturaleza and
ACETTUM (SN Los Manglares de Tumbes). In addition, there are a nurriber of smaller more
activity/issue specific NGOs which have been identified in each of the project-supported PAs which are
likely to team with the previously identified institutions.
A specialized agency (NGO or company to be recruited) will manage the sustainable economic initiatives
- 89 -



program. This includes the evaluation of the proposals to be financed with civil society and private sector
organizations as well as the administration of the program istelf. The terms of reference of the specialized
agency includes clearance of the environmental assessment and mitigation of the proposed initiatives.
PROFONANPE will provide guidelines for evaluation of programs and small projects executed by civil
society organizations. These guidelines will be similar to the ones that have been developed under the
Indigenous Management of Protected Areas in the Peruvian Amazon Project.
- 90 -



Additional Annex 15: Implementation Plan
PERU: Participatory Management of Protected Areas
Participative Management of Protected Areas
Draft Project Implementation Plan
US$   20 -2        2003                2004          2005       2006     2007     2008
Rasp 1. ... t r   S S S 57  S  I   S   S 6 7 atO11 1254575     u a. . . . ...
1. Participatory Protected Area Management                 a
1.1 PreparatiorVupdating of Plans                      125 f_
Prepaation of Bidding Packages for preparaton of Master    W_
and Management Plans                                 PT
Tendedng of preparation of studles and plans        PFT
Implementation of studies for plans                  PT
Updating of SINANPE Master Plan (Plan Director)     aNR
Institutional Study INRENA/PROFONANPE                PS
1.2 Plan Implementation                                SOD
Preparation of bidding documents for PA Management
Contracts
Approval of INRENA's Resoluton 270 rules for selection of  NR
PA management cortacts
Tendenng of Administration Contracts               INRWT
NegotiaUon of Administration Contracts for selected PAs  INFmrW
Implementation of PA Administratlon Contracts       NGO
Implementation of other contracts In PAs            NGO
1.3 Sustainable Economic Activities                    4 50
TORs for hiring of NGO to design and Implement program  PT/AT
Preparaton of Program Implementation Plan           NGO
Program Implementation                              NGO
PreparatiorVupdating Annual Implementation plan     NGO                                                       E         E
2. InstIttutIonal Development
2.1 Technical Assistance and Training                  1.C3
Implementation of INRENA Institutional Re-engineering  INR       i
Contracting staFl of INRENA (2)                      PRF                  _
Implementation of INRENA institutional strengthening  PTi
Hiring of PROFONANPE support team                    PT           m
2.2 Capacity Building PAMCs and Clvil Society          s.ea
Preparion of Civil Society/PAMC capacity building program                _
Definiton of PAMC organization models                                                     _
Recnuitment of capacity building agency
Implementation capacity building program                                                   -              -         -         _   _
2.3. Blodiversity Conservation Public Awareness program  o0so
Public Awareness strategy prepared                                                               _
Recruitment of program Implementation agency                                                          M
Implementation of public awareness campaign                                                               -         -     i   _
2.4. Design and implementation of Management Information Sys 0.50
Prepration of bidding document for the MIS
Tendering of the contract for the Implementation of MIS                                                 M
MIS lmplementation                                   _                              _                                -
- 91 -



Prolect Implementation Plan (continues)               ____                                        _
US$ .2002          2003               2004           2005      2006      2007    2008
R-p  '4   i1:~  . .  .  .   .  ., .  . c  ., .',, .   .............
3. PA financing, Project Administration, M&E, and
Information Dissemination
3.1 Increase of Endowment Fund                         309i
Payment of Finnish contribution to Endowment Fuand (2.5)  PRF
Payment of GEF contribution to Endowment Fund (2.5 M)  PRF
Payment of PROFONANPE contribution to Endowment Fund  PRF                                                   U
Payment of FGEF contribution to Endowment Fund (0.5 Milti PRF                                               U
3.2 Financing Strategy                                 030
Studies to formulate PAs Financing Strategy        PT,tNR
Preparation of PAs Financing Strategy               INRn
Implementation of Financing Strategy                INR                             -                    -                   -    _
3 3 Establishment of the Project Implementation Unit end M&E  i.35
Hiring of Project Team                              PRF       n
Establishment of the Project Board                  PRF            _
Preparation of detailed Project Implementation Plan  PRF
Update First Year Procurement Plan                  PRF                                                                *        *       U
Design of Project Monitoring and Evaluation System   PT
Implementation Monitoring and Evaluation System      PT                                              i
Implementation of Blodversity M&E system            INR                                                             -     
Preparation of Operating Annual Plan                 PT 
Presentation of PROFONANPE's Strategic Plan         PRF
INRENA/PROFONANPE Project Frameworki Agreement
Draft agreement presented/discussed
Framework Agreement Signed
Hiring of PROFONANPE lund raising specialist
C3. Information Dissemination                          012
Preparation of Dissemination and Information Plan   PT
Implementation of Dissemination and Information Plan  PT                                                               m           a
- 92 -



Additional Annex 16: Endowment Fund Asset Management Strategy
PERU: Participatory Management of Protected Areas
The project endowment fund will be governed by the policies and procedures currently implemented
in PROFONANPE's overall portfolio. This portfolio includes the first endowment fund established
with a 1995 GEF grant (for the amount of 3.5 million SDRs, now valued at US$5.4 million) through
the National Trust Fundfor Protected Areas Project (TF028656), the 1994 Canadian endowment fund
(US$0.3 million), the 1994 German sinking fund (US$6.0 million), two German mixed funds (sinking
+ endowment) in 1999 (US$1.9 million each one) and a mixed fund with the 1995 Finnish debt for
nature swap (US$6.1 million).
Given the results achieved by the first GEF grant (see Attachment A), PROFONANPE will implement
a similar strategy for this fund, i.e. retaining the same local Asset Manager and identifying an
investment structure that pools purchases in both the local and international markets, as detailed
below.
Investment strategy. The project's portfolio investments will adopt a moderate risk strategy of
portfolio diversification so that 25% of the investment portfolio will be comprised of foreign equity
investment instruments purchased in non-emerging markets. The remaining 75% will be invested in
fixed income instruments, 50% of which will be purchased in the local market and the other 50% in
non-emerging foreign markets.
PROFONANPE specific investment guidelines for fixed income instruments (including bonds,
commercial paper and bank certificates) require purchasing risk I and II grade papers. Neither of these
instruments shall exceed 30% of the total portfolio value. Equity instruments will be purchased
exclusively through investments in blue-chip grade stock. Attachment B provides an account of the
investment strategy to be applied.
Asset Manager Services. Banco Internacional del Peru S.A.A.-Interbank has been retained as
PROFONANPE's Asset Manager. This financial entity has managed GEF's first endowment since
August 18, 1995. Interbank services were hired by PROFONANPE after a call for bids to Peru's six
highest ranking banking institutions. This selection procedure was accepted by the World Bank. Under
this project, a "Trusteeship Contract" (Contrato de Comisi6n de Confianza), whereby the Asset
Manager makes investment decisions on behalf of PROFONANPE will be signed. Interbank will
record and keep separate accounts for portfolio transactions and yields.
Both a general strategy and specific guidelines for investments, in addition to all safeguards required
to ensure diligent investment portfolio management, will be included in the Contract. Among the main
safeguard clauses are those holding Interbank responsible for any unilateral changes in the agreed
upon investment strategy and specific guidelines; and for reimbursing to PROFONANPE any damages
that may be attributed to the Asset Manager; as well as for unauthorized use of the portfolio's
financial resources, and the subsequent immediate reimbursement to PROFONANPE without need of
court proceedings. A specimen contract approved by the World Bank in 1995 is kept in
thePROFONANPE Project Files.
The contract explicitly determines the fees corTesponding to portfolio management and stock
brokerage. At present, Interbank charges PROFONANPE a management fee equivalent to 0.675%
annually on the portfolio's final value, a 0.01% brokerage fee for purchases and sales of fixed income
instruments, and 0.3% for equity stock purchases.
- 93 -



Monitoring of investment portfolio. PROFONANPE's present Financial Committee will be in
charge of monitoring of the endowment fund.   This Committee contains: a member of
PROFONANPE's Board of Directors (presently a representative of the Ministry of Economy and
Finance), PROFONANPE' s Executive Director, the Head of PROFONANPE's Operations
Department, and the External Financial Advisor.
PROFONANPE's Operations Department will be in charge of day-to-day follow up. This Department
will receive financial reports from the Asset Manager and other sources of information (with the latter
concerning particularly stock market fluctuations). In compliance with contract specifications and
concerning portfolio transactions, the Asset Manager will submit to PROFONANPE within the first
seven days after the end of each month, a detailed Monthly Report covering all portfolio transactions.
This report will detail all purchases and sales, the corresponding monthly yield ratios, the
year-over-year yield, the yearly-adjusted cumulative yield, and the yearly adjusted cumulative yield
since the beginning of operations. Likewise, these reports will mention the portfolio's final value for
the corresponding months and a detailed account of withdrawals incurred for project financing.
Furthermore, the Operations Department will receive daily, weekly and monthly electronic reports on
the main local and world economic and financial developments, a sumrnary version of which will be
distributed among members of the Financial Committee.
For purposes of ongoing follow up, the monthly financial report prepared by the Asset Manager will
be distributed among all members of the Financial Committee to be thoroughly reviewed before their
scheduled monthly meeting. In addition, at this meeting, the External Financial Advisor, accepted by
the World Bank in 1997, will submit his professional opinion based on which the Committee may
issue its remarks to the Asset Manager, as appropriate. Regular quarterly meetings will be scheduled
between the Financial Committee and the Asset Manager. Nevertheless, if so required and at the
Committee's request, they may hold extraordinary meetings. Attachment C outlines the basic contents
of the Monthly Report required from the Asset Manager.
Additionally, an annual audit report including the analysis of the portfolio's management will be
submitted to the Board of Directors by the external independent auditing firm hired by
PROFONANPE.
Attachment A
Yields of the GEF Endowment Fund
T               l  1996     1997    1998    1999    2000     2001   2002
Portfolio Value in US$
million                     5.224    5.962   6.101   5.223   5.371    5.558  5.506
Investment income on a       17.60    9.20    -5.40    2.30    8.57    5.77   5.63
yearly basis (%) 
- 94 -



Attachment B
Strategy and specific guidelines for investments.
General Investment Strategy.
Instruments                           Percentage of portfolio
Variable Income of which                                       25%
National                                                       0%
Foreign                                                      100%
Fixed Interest of which                                         75%
National                                                      50%
Foreign                                                      50%
Specific Investment Guidelines
*      Stocks: World Blue chips.
*      Bonds: risk category I and II (category II bonds to a maximum of 30% of bonds)
*      Comercial notes: risk category I and II (category II Comercial Notes up to a max. 30%
of commercia notes portfolio)
*      Deposits in Peruvian principal banks.
*      Bank certificates of deposit in Peruvian principal banks.
*      Comercial instruments of environmentally friendly companies
*      International investments: only in the USA, Caniada, Japan and EU-countries
*      Other instruments of similar risks to those mentioned above.
*      Short-term Mutual Funds in Dollars.
*      The portfolio diversification rules restrict investments to a maximum 20% in
financial instruments of the same emissor.
Any variation in the investment guidelines and policies, must be approved in writing,
by PROFONANPE.
- 95 -



Additional Annex 17: Financial Gap Analysis and Follow-up Strategy
PERU: Participatory Management of Protected Areas
Background
The objective of the Financial Gap Analysis of Peru's National Protected Area System (SINANPE) was
to ascertain if there is sufficient funding to support the sustainable management of Peru's national system
of protected areas over the medium to long-term. The analysis assessed demand (existing and projected
investment and recurrent costs to support SINANPE) and supply (identified and existing and projected
funding) to cover these costs and attempted to determine if a gap exists between the two. If a deficit was
found to exist, secondary objectives of the analysis were to: (i) identify potential under- or non-utilized
financing mechanisms relevant to Peru, and (ii) prepare an approach leading to the development of a
SINANPE Financing Strategy to be supported under the project.
Results of the Study
Supply
In the base year, SINANPE's estimated funding level was US$ 6.25 million (Table 1). The main sources
are public funds and grants, the latter supported through multi- and bilateral assistance organizations and
NGOs. The major sources of public funds are: the government treasury (including government
counterpart requirements associated with relevant internationally-financed loans and grants), PA
generated revenue (concession and entrance fees and research and photography permits), and debt swaps.
In aggregate, public funding represented US$ 2.23 mnillion or approximately 36 % of the SINANPE's
total funding in the year 2000. The percent of debt swap financing is projected to increase significantly
with the recent -agreements with Canada, Germany and the USA. Grant funding accounted for
approximately 64% of SINANPE funding of which bilateral funding was the major source (36 %).
Table 1. Sources of Financial Support Administered by INRENA for SINANPE (2000)
Source                  Amount (US$)             Percentage of Total
Public Funds
Treasury                            247,799                      4.0
PA-generated revenue                534,418                      8.5
Debt purchase                      1,448,879                     23.2
Subtotal                     2,231,096                     35.7
Grants
Bi-lateral Funds                   2,266,882                     36.3
Multilateral Sources                648,830                      10.4
NGOs                               1,100,433                     17.6
Subtotal                         4,016,145                     64.3
Totals                    6,247,241                      100
Thirty-eight PAs were identified as receiving funding in 2000. Of these, 7 PAs received US $ 400,000 or
more of the identifiable funding accounting for 64% of all PA funding (Manu, Huascaran,
Yanachaga-Chemillen, Bahuaja-Sonene, Paracas, Pacaya-Samiria, and Machupicchu). Sixteen PAs
received no funds, a figure which increases to 39 if areas receiving less than US$100, 000 were included.
- 96 -



Buffer zone activities were estimated to account for US$1.3 million (21%) of estimated SINANPE
funding leaving US$4.93 million for core areas. Of the latter figure, recurrent costs exceed the resources
that went into new equipment and infrastructure by a factor of 7. The highest cost category was salaries
(US$1.87 million or about 30% of the total). Resources available for training and supporting management
committees represented 3 and 1% of total funding, respectively.
A projection of funding levels based on existing and identified likely future sources of funds for the
ten-year planning period was estimated to be US$66 million. The pattern of allocation appeared to be
highly bimodal. Relatively substantial levels of funding (defined as exceeding US$2 million) were
projected for 10 PAs, most of which are either national parks or reserves. Twelve PAs remained without
any sources of funding, a number that increases to 18 by including PAs projected to receive US$200,000
or less over the next years, a disproportionate number representing Peru's reserved zones, protected
forests, community reserves, and hunting refuges.
Demand
For the base year (2000), the number of PAs classified as Category HI (capable of supporting basic
conservation objectives) and Category HI (support basic visitor services and public participation in
management processes) were 11 and 4, respectively. A total of 39 PAs were identified as receiving little
(defined as less than US$100,000) to no funding and failed to meet mninimal criteria and were classified
as Category I PAs (i.e., not capable of achieving basic biodiversity conservation objectives).
The costs associated with shifting SINANPE and the present status of its constituent PAs to a System
characterized as one where basic visitor and community outreach services could be provided in 40 of the
country's 54 PAs and biodiversity conservation would be assured in all PAs was projected to be US$95.5
million (approximately US$ 9.5 million/year).
GAP Analysis
Based on a comparison of supply and demand projected over a ten-year planning period, a net deficit of
US$29.5 million was estimated. These projections indicated that 43 PAs had funding gaps at the end of
the period and, in the absence of securing additional funding, would be unlikely to achieve Category Im
(13 PAs) or Category II status (11 PAs). Conversely, there also were a number of PAs with budget
surpluses (i.e., funding above what was estimated as needed to reach Category IH development status).
A conservative estimate of 6% return on the funds obtained through debt purchase and administered by
PROFONANPE (National Fund for Natural Protected Areas of the State) produce a revenue stream of
approximately US$2 million which over the period planning period would accumulate to approximately
US$14 million (Table 2). This would increase to US$2.8 million if other sources of public funds were
included and remained at recent levels. This contrasts with an average annual demand (based on the
demand analysis) of approximately US$9.5 million, or a short fall of US$6.7 million, annually. This
implies that the funding for much of the system will remain dependent on less stable foreign sources of
funding for the foreseeable future.
- 97 -



Table 2. Existing and Projected Permanent Endowment Funds Supporting SINANPE
Source             Type of Fund     Capital      Estimated     Estimated Revenue
Basis     Annual Revenue   Generated 2000 -
(millions,                   2010 ('000 US$)
US$)        ('000 US$)'
GEF I                     Endowment Fund       5.20           312            3,120.0
GEF II (partial)           Endowment Fund       3.1           186             1,112.0
Canada Debt Purchase       Endowment Fund      0.35            21                 .2
Finnish Debt Purchase      Sinking +            6.0           360            2,520.0
Endowment Fund
German Debt Purchase (FCR)  Sinking Fund       6.09           314                3.1
German Debt Purchase      Sinking +            1.99           119             1,071.0
(SINANPE II)               Endowment Fund
German Debt Purchase (Alto  Sinking +          1.99           119             1,071.0
Mayo)                     Endowment Fund
USA                                            10.6           636             5,088.0
Totals                               21.62         2,067            13,985.3
1                                    2
Assumes 6% return.                   Accumulated projections based from year fund was established.
Existing and Potential Funding Mechanisms of SINANPE
INRENA benefits from the use of a number of conventional funding mechanisms to support its protected
area system (Table 3). However, as demonstrated in Table 1, over 64% depends on foreign grants.
Another 23% is represented by debt purchase which are administered by PROFONANPE. There exist a
number of other financial mechanisms for PA financing which have yet to be adopted in Peru.
Table 3. Checklist of Common Funding Mechanisms for Protected Areast
Funding Mechanism                   Used in Peru
International Sources
Multilateral Banks,                              x
GEF                                              x
Bi-lateral agencies                              x
International foundations                        x
International NGOs                               x
National-level Mechanisms
Taxes, levies, surcharges, etc.
Tax deduction schemes
Grants from private foundations                  x
National environmental funds                     x
Debt purchase/swaps                              x
National/provincial lotteries
Public-good service payments
Workplace donation schemes
Site-level Mechanisms
User fees                                       x
Cause-related marketing
Adoption programs
- 98 -



Corporate donations
Individual donations
Planned giving
Site memberships ("friends" schemes)
Source: Phillips, A (ed), 2000. Financing Protected Areas Guidelines for
Protected Area Managers, IUCN Best Practice Protected Area Guidelines Series
No. 5 (IUCN, Gland).
Financial Management Strategy for SINANPE
Peru needs to adopt a more strategic approach to ensure the eventual financial sustainability of the
country's national system of protected areas. The major elements of the Strategy to be supported under
sub-component 3.3 of the Participatory Management of Protected Areas Project are: (i) studies, (ii) pilot
testing, and (iii) strategy formulation.
Unit Cost   Number          Total Cost
Element                (US$'000)    of Units        (US$'000)
Studies
Legal/policy constraints analysis       15          1                 15
Financial administration               15           1                 15
Financial mechanism evaluation          15          1                 15
Evaluation of PA financial need        20           1                20
Subtotal                                                   65
Pilot testing'                           10          5                 50
Strategv Formulation
Creation/support of task force          5           1                 5
Workshops                               5           8                40
Technical assistance (local pm)         5           12               60
Technical assistance (international pm)  15         5                75
Subtotal                                                         180
Contingency                                                            5
Total                                                     300
Assumes PA-specific financial management plans will be supported under component 1.1
Inputs would be scheduled over the first 2.5 years of the project. A draft strategy would be formulated in
parallel and coordinated with the preparation of a new Plan Director to be supported under the project
and completed midway through PY3. The Gap Analysis and Draft Terms of Reference of the financing
strategy are in the project files.
- 99 -






MAP SECTION






78'                                  4                 72'
PERU
EXISTING PROTECTED AREAS 
)           '~~~     COLOMBIA
8%     ~E CU ADOR// 
23..W
IU.I-3 2                                                                                                      A<jo
24A ,o                                j 
-  '             'I~411                                                                             6
I'.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
/33                                                                           BA     I
L   ~RIAD                                                                                   a
T,ir    20 f'
43    /.
ANC         Cl    2\       /
3  Hu6nuoo0  ~->-'4  49    UC   YA        .
PARGUES NACIONALES                             ¾    PS          CYL
2Tlingo Marno                              0Car- do Poso~
5Crrs denAnotope               1
6 Rio A6oi-oNI
7Ycnuoa'SonCo1no                   --~~MADRE DE DIOS
9Biab6orodillem A.]                31-
FMRESERVAS NACIONALES
10 Pampa- Gler-/Bb1ro d'An+iIIeZC
I IJunin                                   42~                26         CUC
12 Poranas2
13 Lcnlsy
14Thficaca                                         '    "             22'   "      u-
15 Salinos yAguodaBonc                    L%116M)                  kAPRMC                                "       4
16 Colipoy                                           'y              AURM      C                                 14S
17 Pacoayo'Scmiro                         IthA   CA      AYACUCH-O            s`H                           ron
18 Trm6opoto'Canda,no                                 '      0 1
SANTUARIOS NACIOiNAiS       PCFCA                               ~     -?C                     U  O~
20 Calipoy                                                   ""'14
21 Lagoons do Mojia         v-          -             ~~~~~AREQUIPAt                     Zoc
22 Ampay                      '7'                                                        ,0
23 Manglero d. Turm6es 
24 Tob6aon--NamblI6.11.1                                                                                   Y
FMBOSGUES DE PROTECCICN'                                  g
SAN11JAIOS HIST6RICOS     42 Alod.alo a Ia Bcatonia Canl1                            *
25 Chanma oNuov Imnperial-2                                                             "
26 Pampas do Ayao-oa         43 Puqoin Santa Ros.'
27  Maclopiccuho4               Pui Poi                                               I'"
28 Bosqoo do Poma (RoMen Grondo  45 San MaIia'-Son Codas--                                     -i
29 Loquipampa        ~~~~~~46 Pgagi6amba         I    >'~     w   ..                  :    
ZONAS RESERVADAS          47 All. Mayo.             J'C.Pr.
30 Apurim-                     RESERVAS COMUNALES-'I
31Pontanas do Villa        48 Ya-osb
332 Tumblos                  49 El Simo
33 AIgarro6al El Mor.        50 Amarak-ooi
34 Cbranoaybaiios
35 Aymrna-Lup-o                 COTOS DE CAZA               ®   NATIONAL CAPETAL             TMp mop mc. T. Wrdocd b rho
36  Gio.ppi                  51  El Angola                                                    TopDo.g  Ao  Th, ol  ok
37 Rio Ri-a                  52 S-oo6-16omb                  0  SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS     odb ..oto -,ormuo sho- o d--c
28  Santicago Comoina                                      -~-  RIVERS                        th,, mop do -o moply, o- the port of
39 Allpqhuayo            RESERiAPAISAIISTICA        -~DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES             The Wsdd BakDoo,syjo oo
40 Alto P.nds                53 Nor Yauyos'Cocea JAJto Caob ete   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIESschoodre
4 1Car Ibmr do Colon             yCaches Poclacoyo) 






IBRD 32190
PAL IEI                                                                 / ~~~~~Eu4OPPOMABAMBA  /PERU
0CLEA                                                                                          -' HUA~N&C           PARTICIPATORY MANAGEMENT
,-<          ~~OF PROTECTED AREAS
FW  PROJECT TARGET AREAS
ANCAS_H- CARHIJAT                                                 NATIONAL CAPITAL
0 SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
-    PAVED ROADS
CASMA  Tou~~~~~6n  HUARA?  .  Son M ~~~~~~-        UNPAVED ROADS
. 1   -  r                                                                      -.---.--.--  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAILROADS
-- .- RIVERS
'C> GLACIERS
TUMBES   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(  ECUADOR  - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEPARTMENT EOUNDARIES
4/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Ag-,  J                                Toq 1160
M  ANGLARES                   Ago V1e0Hau,Is                                                                  n    Th,, -op po.podued 9p hre MOp Veog L of Tho WoOd Ho-k
KILOMETERS(TOH U ASC ARAN                                                       CHIQIJIAN   KILOMETERS     oo-pror- oP-hr b-o.odoie
MADRE DE DIOs                               r                  OOBAv
eodTto  -  -  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-=1= 1 
ARE QUIPASnnoi                            To./n J.Ii-
\rot.iotoloqon  I~~~~~~~~  01020304500  PU  N  ~ ~~ 13 -     FL                   IL
-                  TX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
KILMEER
3  SALINAS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                 O



