ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                            AWorld Frcs7 ol Poverty  v
,.,__., .
InfoShop
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 12/19/2002                                25318
Section I - Basic Information                                  December 19, 2002
A. Basic Project Data
Country: PERU                                    Project ID: P068250
Project: Participatory Management of Protected Areas  Task Team Leader: Pierre Werbrouck
Authorized to Appraise Date: November 20, 2002   IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: March 27, 2003                    IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: Environmentally and Socially       Sector: Other social services (45%); Forestry (40%);
Sustainable Development Sector Unit               Central government administration (10%);
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Sub-national government administration (5%)
Status: Lending                                  Theme: Civic engagement; participation and
community driven development (P); Biodiversity (P);
Environmental policies and institutions (P)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The project's development objective is to ensure biodiversity conservation by: (i) increasing the
involvement of civil society institutions and the private sector in the planning and sustainable
management of five protected areas (PAs) of the Peruvian System of Natural Protected Areas
(SINANPE), and one PA, to be created during project implementation; and (ii) to obtain sustainability for
the financing of recurrent costs in SINANPE.
The six PAs are: Tambopata-Candamo National Reserve, Bahuaja-Sonene National Park, Salinas and
Aguada Blanca National Reserve, Huascaran National Park, Manglares de Tumbes National Sanctuary,
and Abanico de Morona Pastaza. The PAs were selected using the following criteria: (i) biological
diversity, (ii) socioeconomic importance, (iii) imminence of biodiversity threats, (iv) management needs,
(v) degree of ongoing participatory management, and (vi) likelihood of involving civil society and the
private sector.
SINANPE's financial sustainability will be increased by an additional endowment of US$6 million to the
PROFONANPE protected areas endowment funds which will allow and additional US$250,000 per year
for recurrent cost financing. A management strategy for long-term financing of SINANPE will help to
channel these resources.
The project will build upon the experience gained during first GEF Grant to the Peruvian National Trust
Fund for Protected Areas (PROFONANPE), supporting the Trust Fund's establishment and development
of its capacity to generate and attract new financial resources for conservation. On the basis of the first
GEF trust fund and other projects, PROFONANPE has ensured the regular and long-term funding of the



2
ISDS
basic operational costs and investments in 10 and 12 PAs, respectively.
The global objective of the project is to contribute to the conservation of biodiversity of global
importance. Peru, in terms of its total number of species, levels of endemism, and range of habitats, is
considered to be one of the world's great centers of biological diversity. Despite a series of field
inventories estimated to cover only two-thirds of the national territory, Peru has been classified as one of
earth's seventeen mega-diverse countries (Mittermeir R. et al. 1997. Megadiversity: Earth's Biologically
Wealthiest Nations). In terms of species, Peru leads the world in numbers of butterflies, orchids, and
endemic invertebrates. It also accounts for a total of 460 mammals and 1705 bird species, or 10 and 19
percent, respectively, of the world's total. As an indicator of its habitat diversity, Peru has been
documented to have more life zones than any other country on earth with 84 of the world's 110 life zones
identified in Holdridge's Life Zones System. In terms of its agro-biodiversity, the country is considered
to be one of the five world centers of origin of cultivated plants and has an immense natural germplasm
resource of useful wild species One source estimates that Peru has 4217 species of native vascular plants
which have 42 different uses (e.g., food, medicinal purposes, tannin, etc.) In part, this rich endowment
can be attributed to Peru's 675,000 km2 of Amazon rainforest (including the Peruvian and Bolivian
Yungas), the largest continuous forest on earth representing 40 percent of all remaining tropical forests of
the world. Other major eco-regions include the country's central Andean and Wet Puna, the Sechura
Desert, the Tumbes Mangroves, and others.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The project has three main components: (i) participatory protected area
management, (ii) institutional development, and (iii) PA financing,
project administration, monitoring and evaluation and information
dissemination.
Components:
1. Participative Protected Area Management
A. Preparation of Master Plans
B. Master Plan Implementation
C. Small-Scale Environmentally Sustainable Economic Activities
2. Institutional Development
A. Training and Technical Asssitance to INRENA & PROFONANPE
B. Capacity Building of local Civil Society
C. Biodiversity Conservation-based Public Awareness Program
D. SINANPE-based Management Information System
3. Project Administration, M&E and Info Dissemination
A. Establishment and Management of Endowmnent Fund
B. M&E Project Implementation
C. Information Dissemination
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
PERU in six Protected Areas: Tambopata-Candamo National Reserve, Bahuaja-Sonene Nationaf Park,
Salinas and Aguada Blanca National Reserve, Huascaran National Park, Manglares de Tumbes National
Sanctuary, and Abanico de Morona Pastaza. The latter is now a reserved zone which may become a
protected area.



3
ISDS
B. Clheck Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: An environmental assessment has been done; the EA has been publicized in the Bank's Infoshop
and on the PROFONANPE Website. A summary of the environmental assessment is in Annex 12 of the
PAD.
C. Safeguard Policies Trigered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                    0 Yes C! No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                       C} Yes * No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                               * Yes C No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                0D Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                       * Yes G No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                * Yes C No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)                                 G Yes* No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*           0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)         0 Yes 0 No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The Protected Areas Master Plans and Resource Management Plans to be designed under the project are to
be done in accordance with INRENA protected areas environmental policies.
The Involuntary Resettlement Process Framework consists of the Small-Scale Sustainable Economic
Activities to be compatible with the master plans within the protected areas and to undergo an
environmental screening. The activities in the bufferzones are aimed at reducing stress on the protected
areas and those intitiatives will have to undergo environmental screening and an environmental impact
assessment where necessary.
The natural habitats and forestry policy safeguards are affected mainly in the buffer zones of the protected
areas. The protection policies take care of both safeguards in the protected areas. In the bufferzones all
economic initiatives and resource plans will undergo environmental screening including for natural
habitats and forestry polcies.
The Indigenous Peoples Development Safeguard Policy has been dealt with through a policy framewok and
individual indigenous peoples development plans.
Il.D.1b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
There will be no cumulative impacts from one safeguard to another, however the issues of forestry, natural
habitats and indigenous peoples are very closely related, as indigenous peoples both exploit and conserve
the natural resources of the protected areas and the buffer zones.



4
ISDS
ll.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
The long-term impacts are hoped to be very positive for the environment and other safeguards. It is the
objective of the project to protect the preotected areas better and to help the people living in and around
the areas to better conserve the resources.
Il.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
The objective of the project is to identify alternatives to exploitation of natural resources in and around the
protected areas.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The grantee will implement the project that contains the way safeguards will be dealt with
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
The project has been prepared under a participatory approach comprising a beneficiary assessment
involving population in and around the PAs; this exercise helped to identify their expectations and
fears towards the project. Additionally, the project team met with local NGOs and representatives of
surrounding communities. Overall, more than 500 people were contacted through various consultation
mechanisms such as: 261 participants in local consultation meetings; 189 persons in focal groups (for
public, private and social sectors); 74 surveys on environmental management and institutional
development experiences; and, 66 key informants in-depth interviews.
With the results of these processes, initial draft protected areas management plans were prepared and
further consulted through regional workshops. Simultaneously, alternatives to address identified main
social and environmental threats were discussed and agreed with main stakeholders. This participatory
process will continue during preparation of PA master and management plans involving main
stakeholders as the Peruvian legal framework establishes.
During implementation, participation is ensured by the PAMCs in which communities, private sector,
NGOs and local and central government will participate through their representatives in
decision-making and conflict resolution. Communities will also play an active role and benefit from
small-scale economic activities financed under the project and from activities derived from the
execution of the master and resource management plans.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on1 basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
] SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. - No safeguard issues
] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:          Expected       Actual



5
ISDS
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               5/21/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                           10/14/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop                                            10/21/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                         Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               11/3/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                           11/5/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop                                            11/6/2002
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:              Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               6/20/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                           11/5/2002
Date of submission to lnfoShop                                            10/21/2002
Pest Management Plan:                                       Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                 Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:             Pierre Werbrouck                            12/19/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Maria E. Castro Munoz                  12/19/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
AnDroved by:                  Name                                        Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Juan D. Quintero                         12/18/2002
Sector Manager/Director:      John Redwood                                12/19/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
sEArCH         FEED5ACK       $rrEM AA _O$WSASE



