Annex 13: Social Assessment and Strategy
Peru: Participatory Management of Protected Areas
Introduction
During project preparation, a social assessment and public consultation were carried out to
identify: (i) the major social factors contributing to environmental degradation and loss of
biodiversity in five of the project's six PAs (summarized in Attachment C), and (ii) potential
adverse social impacts associated with the project. Following the assessment and
consultation process, a project social strategy was designed.
Main Social Impacts
The Natural Protected Areas Law and its bylaws (DS 038) provide the conceptual and legal
framework for private sector and civil society participation in the management of the national
system of protected areas through: (i) private sector participation in the SINANPE
Coordination Council; (ii) involvement of NGOs, private sector, community-based
organizations and public sector stakeholders in the design of PA Master Plans; and (iii)
establishing and strengthening Protected Area Management Committees (PAMC) as a tool
to allow stakeholders participation in PA management.
The project endorses this framework by preparing master plans through a participatory
process and strengthening PAMCs.   Public consultation in all project Pas will be
institutionalised, conflict resolutions mechanisms will be established, PAMC members will be
trained and PAMCs will include representatives of relevant stakeholders, including
indigenous leaders and women.
Despite these positive features, the project may have some adverse social impacts identified
through the social assessment and public consultation process during preparation. These
were:
Restrictions in Access to Natural Resources.
Resettlement will not be financed under the project. However, although the Management
Plans will be prepared through a participatory process, there is a slight possibility that certain
zoning categories defined in the Management Plans (MPs), may result in limiting or
eliminating public access to relevant areas (e.g., strict conservation areas).
Involvement of Indiqenous Peoples.
In five of the six project PAs are ethnic or indigenous groups. Most live in extreme poverty
and their livelihoods depend on subsistence agriculture and natural resources exploitation.
Demographic growth among these groups and changes in their consumption patterns have
combined and contributed to increased pressure on PA lands and natural resources.
Land Tenure Issues.
The project's five existing PAs are registered in Peru's Land Registry and have well mapped
boundaries. However, there are land and boundary disputes in three of the five areas. The
Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for resolving these land disputes and since the project
will not finance changes in boundaries, PROFONANPE will not be responsible for resolving
these land tenure issues.
Aras- nignos epls tmcy cOcoer1,202FIllE                    COPY
L:\PRONAMACHCS\PERU - Participatory Management of Protected
Areas - Indigenous Peoples Strategy.cloc October 21, 2002



Private Management Concessions.
The project will promote private involvement in PA management through concessions. Some
communities have perceived this approach as "privatization" of PAs, a process that may
adversely affect their welfare. There is also the risk that this approach may adversely impact
the already complicated relationship between INRENA and the communities and result in
another institutional layer that impedes rather than facilitates PA management.
Strategy to Address Social Impacts
To address these issues, the project's social strategy is based on the adoption of the
following social mitigation tools: (i) a Process Framework (PF); (ii) an Indigenous Peoples
Development Framework (IPDF); and (iii) the promotion of public participation (PPP) in
project-supported PAs.
Process Framework
The PF will be based on the following elements: (i) identification of restrictions in the use of
natural resources and agreement on alternatives; (ii) small scale sustainable economic
activities; and (iii) training and technical assistance to carry those sustainable alternatives.
The PF will operate under the following principles: (i) any restrictions on access to resources
will be jointly defined with the affected communities during the preparation of the PA's
management plans; and (ii) participation mechanisms will ensure these communities will be
actively involved in the decision-making process (see Aftachment A for more detail).
Indigenous Peoples Development Framework.
The IDPF includes all activities specifically intended to promote indigenous peoples
participation in the project and ensuring that they receive an equitable share of project-
derived benefits (see Attachment B for more detail) .
Promotion of Public Participation
Project support for PPP will be based on: (i) the dissemination of project-related information
to increase local community awareness about project objectives and importance of
biodiversity conservation; (ii) the involvement of all stakeholders into the decision making
process through consultations and participatory events; and (iii) strengthening of PAMCs;
Social Action Plans
The Social Strategy will be implemented through PA-specific social mitigation action plans
which will be an element of each PA Master Plan. Once the Master Plans are prepared,
annual programs, agreed through a participatory approach, will identify specific activities of
the social mitigation tools. The action plans will address social conflicts associated with the
use of natural resources and the legal rights of various stakeholders, specifically indigenous
groups, through a participatory approach. The action plans will comprise the following
activities:
Concessions.
Local stakeholders will participate in the selection of PA concessionaries throughout the
selection process. Public information campaigns and promotion of expressions of interest
among local organizations, universities, and NGOs will be undertaken.
2



Technical Assistance.
The identification and adoption of sustainable development alternatives and the associated
modification of traditional practices will require access to technical assistance.
LeadershiP Promotion.
For PAMCs to succeed, there will be a need for "conservation champions" to play an active
role in leading the process, promoting partnerships and mitigating conflicts. Support for the
development of leadership skills will be needed to ensure that main stakeholders are well
represented in Protected Areas Management Committees, particularly vulnerable groups.
Annual Social Operational Plans
The PAs' annual operating plans will include funds for implementing the social mitigation
action plans. An initial estimated of budget for the five years project operation is summarized
below (to be completed during appraisal).
Five Year Social Action Plan Budget (000 US $)
Protected Area                  PF    IPDF    PPP   Total
Huascaran National Park (HNP)
Tambopata -Candamo National Reserve (NRTC)
Bahuaja Sonene National Park (BSNP)
Salinas & Aguada Blanca National Reserve (SABNR)
Manglares de Tumbes National Sanctuary (MTNS)
Morona Pastaza
Totals
3



Attachment A
Process Framework to Incorporate Small Scale Environmentally Sustainable
Economic Activities in PA Master Plans
Peru has adopted a policy principle based on coexistence of people within protected areas,
therefore, resettlement is not envisioned to take place under the project. Instead, the project
aims at preserving biodiversity without hindering the legitimate aspirations of people living in
those areas and it expects to have a positive impact in their livelihood by promoting a better
management of natural resources. However, in exceptional cases, as in areas zoned for
strict conservation, it might be necessary to change some damaging practices and limit the
access to natural resources to be substituted by sustainable alternatives. Though in the long
run this strategy is expected to have a positive impact, both in communities' well being as in
the PA, it is necessary to mitigate some impacts that might occur in the short run.
To address these possible impacts, the PA Master Plans will include support to develop and
implement small scale economic sustainable activities providing also technical assistance
and training as required. These programs will be agreed with the affected population
following the procedures established in this process framework that is consistent with Bank
OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement.
1.       Principles
a. Minimizing Social Impact. The main principle guiding this effort is to avoid negative social
impacts. Thus, the conservation strategy will take into account actual practices of
resident and/or user communities in each PA compatible with conservation. Limiting the
access to natural resources and areas will be a last resource in the event that a specific
fragile ecosystem is under threat, has limited capacity, or is particularly important for
preservation purposes. This decision will be agreed during Master Plans preparation.
b. Participation. Decision making about restrictions and alternative use of natural resources
will be taken under a participatory approach established in the PA Management
Committees as established in DS 038-2001-AG. PAMCs will receive training in
environmental regulations, conservation practices and monitoring to be able to take
informed decisions. INRENA will be responsible to follow up and enforce agreements.
c. Re-establishing Socio-economic Conditions. The main goal of mitigation alternatives will
be to re-establish, or improve, wherever possible, previous socio-economic conditions.
The proposed small-scale economic alternatives are intended to replace damaging
practices and produce an income to compensate for eventual loses. The strategy
foresees providing training, technical assistance and long standing support to achieve
this goal. Master Plans Annual implementation plans will budget funds for these activities.
d. Target Population. This process framework will apply to those persons and/or
organizations directly affected by restrictive measures resulting from PA Master Plans'
conservation strategy, or related programs. Target population comprises those who for
these actions:
Are subject to limitations of resources needed for their subsistence;
Suffer negative effects on the means of subsistence or productive activities; and
Are isolated from their neighbours and/or disconnected from their social
networks.
4



e. Respect of national laws. The policy applies regardless of the absence of legal titles. It
does not apply to persons who carry out activities or actions classified as offences under
national laws.
f. Respect to Cultural Diversity. The definition of restrictions to practices in PA will take into
account the cultural diversity of the different groups involved in each one of them.
Traditional practices and legal rights of indigenous groups established in national laws,
and international agreements signed by the Peruvian Government will be fully respected
in the process of defining sustainable economic alternatives.
2.       Guidelines to Prepare Small Scale Environmentally Sustainable Economic
Activities
During project preparation, draft management plans identified some conflictive activities and
possible restrictions as well as alternatives to address these restrictions. This process is
summarized in the Social Mitigation Strategy and will be further refined during preparation of
PA Master Plans. The Chief of each PA will be responsible of promoting a dialogue and
reaching agreements about restrictions following the principles described above. However,
all decision-making is to be taken within the framework of PA Management Committee in
each PA to prepare Small Scale Environmentally Sustainable Economic Activities.
a. Justification. The reasons for limiting access to and/or use of resources, if any, should be
explained, including a description of the restricted area and/or resources to be limited.
b. Impact Assessment. During the process of preparing PA Master zoning restrictions and
affected population should clearly identified. A socio-economic diagnosis will analyze
economic activities, population social characteristics, cultural background and local
organizations. Possible impacts will be assessed including economic losses, changes in
social organizations, restrictions to traditional practices, etc. This analysis will be
prepared using available information and/or carrying out specific studies if necessary.
Impact assessment should include consultation with target population and local
organizations.
c. Altematives Assessment and Agreements. Seeking mitigation alternatives will be a
participatory effort. Within the framework of PAMC the PA Chief and target population will
jointly analyse feasible alternatives, balancing benefits for affected population and
conservation strategy. Agreements should include commitments and responsibilities on
both sides, as well as provisions to avoid other groups overlooking restrictions.
e. Program and Budget. The proposed activities need to be budgeted and can cover a
period of several years. They should be incorporated in the PA Master Plans including
an implementation program and budget for each one of the activities to be carried out.
f. Format. To facilitate the review and approval of Small Scale Environmentally Sustainable
Activities information on agreements will cover the following aspects::
Location and description of the protected area;
Location and description of the resources or areas where access to, or uses of,
will be limited;
Reasons for limiting access and/or use;
Identification and diagnosis of target population;
Impact assessment of restrictions;
Alternative assessment and agreed solution with stakeholders;
Applicable legal framework;
5



Measures to prevent use of, or access to, restricted areas or resources by other
groups;
Summary of consultation process;
Implementation schedule and budget
3.       Financing
In any given year, the Small Scale Environmentally Sustainable Activities will be financed
with resources from component 1, Participative Protected Areas Management.
4.       Monitoring and Evaluation
The project's M&E system will include process and outcome indicators to specifically assess
Small Scale Environmentally Sustainable Activities implementation and impacts, particularly
to monitor re-establishment of socio-economic conditions of target population, recovery of
protected resources and areas, and effectiveness in enforcing restrictions.
5.      Institutional Arrangements
INRENA, in charge of PA management and leading Master Plan preparation, will be
responsible for establishing and enforcing restrictions. PA Chiefs will be directly responsible
to lead the participatory process for preparing and implementing SSSEAP. However, as
mentioned above this process will be carried out within the framework of participation
established in PA Management Committees. As established in DS 038-AG-2001, several
instruments can be used to implement these agreements such as contracts, agreements,
concessions and permits.
6.       Borrower Commitment
The consultation process carried out during project preparation addressed the issue of social
impact that may arise from the above-mentioned restrictions and possible alternatives were
identified and incorporated in this process framework. There is a commitment in INRENA
and PROFONANPE to follow this framework where applicable and prepare Small Scale
Environmentally Sustainable Activities in a participatory manner. The agreement to carry out
the proposed Social Mitigation Strategy is an indication of borrower commitment to the
framework, principles and processes.
6



Attachment B
Indigenous Peoples Development Strategy
1.       Background
This Indigenous Peoples Strategy will target indigenous population in five of the six PAs
under the project; it does not include Manglares de Tumbes because there is no indigenous
population.
2.        Objectives
The objectives of this strategy are: (i) to guarantee legal and social rights of indigenous
communities over land; (ii) to promote sustainable use of natural resources compatible with
their cultural background; (iii) to promote a multicultural approach in the access and
management of natural resources; and (iv) incorporate specific indicators regarding
indigenous peoples participation in the project's M&E System.
3.        Main Aspects of the Strategy
Legal Framework. The Peruvian Constitution recognizes the rights of the various ethnic
groups in Peru recognized as "peasant communities" and native communities. Peru has
already signed the OIT 169 Agreement regarding indigenous peoples rights. Protected areas
regulation as established in DS 038 also includes several regulations to protect indigenous
peoples rights and mechanisms to ensure that they participate and benefit from the project.
This legal framework as well as the guidelines established in World Bank OD 4.20
Indigenous Peoples is the basis for this strategy.
Base Line Data. Socio-economic conditions and main social issues affecting indigenous
population in PA have been identified during the social assessment and consultation carried
out during project preparation including analyses of the socio-economic situation, cultural
background and organizations.
Land Tenure. According to Peruvian regulations indigenous peoples rights are compatible
with PA management. In the project's five PAs land rights of indigenous peoples have been
recognized and legal tittles granted. There are however conflicts over the use and lack of
boundary delimitation in three of the PAs with other actors.
Participation. Initial consultation with indigenous organizations helped to prepare draft PA
management plans that were consulted with indigenous communities. This proposed IPDS
is the result of this process and specific agreements. During implementation, indigenous
peoples will be represented in PA Management Committees and annual plans will
specifically allocate resources to respond to indigenous priorities in PA. Ensuring that
benefits reached indigenous peoples.
Respect to culture and traditions. The project will respect and promote traditional approaches
to the management of natural resources that have prove to be environmental-friendly.
Because most indigenous communities live in poverty or extreme poverty conditions, small
sustainable economic activities are foreseen in the project will target indigenous
communities.
Monitoring and Evaluation.
7



Three specific evaluations of this Indigenous Strategy will take place during the 2nd, 4th and
6th years of project implementation under the following basis:
> Indigenous peoples representatives in the PAMC will be trained in monitoring and
evaluation to directly participate in these evaluations;
> The PAMC will incorporate specific actions to monitor this strategy;
> The project M&E System will incorporate specific actions to assess impact.
Action Plan
Specific activities and budget to implement this Indigenous Peoples Strategy are to be found
in PA annual plans.
8



Attachment C
Protected Area Social Assessment Profiles
Huascaran National Park (HNP).
The dispute over the use and administration of tourism income is the main source of social
conflict in the PA. Spurred by poverty, local communities dispute INRENA's right to charge
for entering the PA; municipal authorities also claim to have rights to tourist-generated
income. The fact that income is centrally managed and is not reinvested locally aggravates
the conflict. INRENA lacks capacity to control tourism activities that increasingly represents a
threat to the conservation of biodiversity. Of secondary importance is pressure stemming
from poor farmers seeking land and using natural resources in the PA. There are also some
positive trends lead by some NGOs, community organizations and municipal authorities
promoting a sustainable approach to continue tourism development without affecting the PA.
The main stakeholders in proximity to the PA are 39 Quechua peasant communities totalling
some 300,000 inhabitants. Most live below the poverty line and are primarily dependent on
cattle raising, a major cause of overgrazing affecting the PA. In an effort to manage this
issue, INRENA has organized 172 Natural Grass Users Committees, 58 within the PA.
Tourism agents comprise another stakeholder group and range from urban entrepreneur to
provider of small local services. They are the most influential actors due to their role in
controlling the access and activities within the PA and failure to share income with local
communities and lack of a conservation ethic. Several NGOs and municipalities seeking
sustainable alternatives and a share of tourism-derived income generation are becoming
increasingly important actors.
HNP is characterized by a mix of legal rights comprising the lands of three titled peasant
communities (Vicos, Aquia y Cashan); small owners with inheritance claims and no legalized
titles (including workers of haciendas affected during the agrarian reform movement of the
1970s who received land as a compensation). There are also 79 mining concessions, of
which 39 are entirely within the PA and 36 partially occupy an area of the HNP estimated to
total 6,095 ha. The recent development of industrial mining within the area surrounding the
PA might eventually have a negative impact.
Tambopata National Reserve (TNR) and Bahuaia Sonene National Park (Madre de Dios
Sector)
The population living in proximity to TNR/BSNP lives under either poverty or extreme poverty
conditions with few options available to ensure their survival. As a result unregulated
extraction of wild plants and animals, and illegal logging are their main source of livelihood
and also threat to the PA's biodiversity. Some animals such as the "huangana" and the
"sabalo" are endangered by the overexploitation by indigenous E'ejas, that have changed
their traditional fishing for self-consumption to fishing for the local markets Fluvial mining
along the Malinowski and Madre de Dios rivers (both legal and illegal), though outside the
PA, causes environmental impact due to inadequate disposal of waste of oil and mercury
and the removal of material from the bottom of the rivers. Castana (Brazilian nuts) collectors,
of which 80 groups have concessions to collect the nuts within the PA boundaries, are its
main protectors. However, the market crisis of the product and a drop in market prices is
seriously damaging the local economy.
Several social groups with opposing interests characterize this PA.  Eco-tourism
entrepreneurs of all sizes including some indigenous communities, represent a privileged
group to INRENA, engaged it what is considered to be an environmentally friendly
conservation activity. Small farmers and loggers, though willing to co-operate in conservation
activities, need support to be able to implement sustainable alternatives and management
9



plans.  Castana collectors comprise mainly former migrants and some indigenous
communities who have developed approaches to sustainable use of natural resources, also
consider themselves as "conservationists." The small gold miners in the rivers, are now
integrated in the PA Management Committee and are willing to seek sustainable alternatives;
WWF is helping in this effort. The real danger is the possible establishment of large mining
firms, as has happened in other areas in Madre de Dios.
There are no land tenure conflicts in TNR/BSNP; in 2000 the regularization process was
completed; small owners around Maldonado Lake and indigenous reserves have titles and
lands outside the PA. There are however some claims by small farmers that would lead to a
reduction in the size of buffer zones to enable them to expand their production activities.
There are also disputes among indigenous communities, small mining concessionaires and
large mining firms that claim rights over sub-soil minerals, all opposing environment impact
requirements of INRENA.
National Park Bahuaia Sonene (Puno Sector).
Over the last two decades, NPBS has been affected by waves of colonisation of farmers
arriving from Cuzco and Puno seeking new lands and economic opportunities. These groups
settled in two areas before the PA was created: Colorado Sector, and the Inambari River
catchment. These colonos have destroyed natural flora and fauna by opening land for
cultivation. The discovery of gold in the Inambari River has contributed to further in-migration
of colonos to exploit gold. Finally, there are unconfirmed reports of so called "non-contacted"
indigenous groups, which are likely to represent a small number of indigenous families who
for social and historical reasons have decided to isolate themselves from contact with
outsiders. Their rights are protected under Peruvian regulations.
The Andean colonos are mainly poor peasants who instead of addressing soil deterioration
caused by inadequate agricultural practices occupy new lands; in the last year this process
has become transformed into the speculation of lands that are not used for productive
purposes. The gold miners of this area are not well organized and are less sensitive toward
conservation that their counterparts found elsewhere in Peru (e.g., Madre de Dios). Two
indigenous organizations, FENAMAD and AIDESEP are involved in protecting the rights of
the "non contacted indigenous people"
There are no land ownership issues within this PA as most conflicts are outside of its
boundaries. Indigenous reserves are titled outside the PA though the people enter PA lands
to collect and hunt; these activities that used to be for subsistence purpose and compatible
with conservation efforts, now under the pressure of additional needs and market pressures
need to be regulated. There are eight "castana" concessionaires within the PA but they
appear to support conservation efforts. There are 228 families who claim land rights within
the PA, though only one is actually inside. In situ verification of these claims is an on-going
process to certify if property rights existed prior to the creation of NPBS .
Salinas & Aauada Blanca National Reserve (SABNR).
The Yura-Santa Lucia road, in its final stage of construction in 2001, has resulted in several
social and environmental impacts. Construction destroyed the "bofedales", (small water
reservoirs) which were the main source of water for cattle, the latter the principal source of
income of local families. The possible construction of a small dam to generate electricity for
Arequipa, presently under study might also result in further damage. Adequate social and
environmental impact studies and compensation for loss of land associated with road
construction are critical. Another source of natural deterioration, closely related to poverty
conditions, is the over-exploitation of "tola" a wild plant used to produce charcoal.
10



Peasant communities of Collahua ancestry represent a major stakeholder in the SABNR
area of influence. Though under external pressures, they still maintain their traditions based
on the rearing of alpacas and vicufnas and the use of wild herbs for medical purposes. The
replacement of alpaca and vicuna for sheep is having a negative impact on soils and
grasses. Some communities also collect "tola" for charcoal for the bakeries in Arequipa.
Urban growth of Arequipa, one of the most important cities in Peru is having a negative albeit
indirect influence on this PA; the location of solid waste dump sites are already reaching its
boundaries.
The north side of SABNR is occupied by small farmers, comprising 2,700 inhabitants sharing
728 family houses. In the south, there are 12 indigenous communities who for centuries have
occupied those lands, however, their properties have not been surveyed and there are some
disputes with private landowners and the legal titling of their ancestral lands has yet to be
completed. Overall, both private and communal lands total 312,141 ha, which represent 92%
of the PA's land of 360,000 ha. Finally, there are 23 mining concessions, which were granted
before the PA was created which are still in use.
Manalares de Tumbes National Sanctuary (MTNS).
The main source of environmental degradation in MTNS is associated with the shrimp pond
development and production. The initial boom resulted in the illegal occupation of 63 ha of
land within the PA. The subsequent economic bust contributed to increased poverty in the
surrounding areas and additional pressure on the PA itself. Contradictory policies among two
public sector ministries have further exacerbated the situation. While the Fishery Ministry
continues to promote new pond development, INRENA opposes these efforts. Recently,
some NGOs such as Pro Naturaleza and ASEPROH have succeeded in a process to
rehabilitate degraded lands in association with local communities and re-introduce traditional
species (black shells).
The cultural patterns of the MTNS area of influence have changed over the recent years due
to increased in-migration of people who do not share the values of the local communities.
Presently the big prawn entrepreneurs, who have rights over 8, 580 ha, are one of the major
actors and likely to affect the future of the PA as they intend to develop fishing activities with
external species (Tilapia) without assessing its impact. There is also a large number of
people located in isolated areas (El Bendito) who extract resources illegally from the PA.
Small farmers carrying out subsistence agriculture dominate local communities. Though they
live outside the PA, poverty and lack and alternatives in the region force them to occupy
and/or develop activities in the PA.
The three main actors in the MTNS area have legal rights over portions of this PA's territory
(i) three prawn firms (around 100 ha among the three); (ii) the Peruvian Navy with 1,879 ha;
and (iii) INRENA with 1,026 ha that represent around 34% of the total area. The area
dedicated to prawn ponds in total is an estimated 8,636 ha. The lack of co-ordination among
the actors involved is a serious threat to the long-term sustainability of this PA.
11



