Report No. PID10125
Project Name                     Peru-Participatory Management of...
Protected Areas
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Environment
Project ID                       P068250
Grantee:                         PROFONANPE
Implementing agency              PROFONANPE, 722, Prolongaci6n
Arenales,
San Isidro, Lima, Peru,
Contact Person: Alberto Paniagua,
Director;
Tel: 51-1-2121010
Fax: 51-1-2121011
Email: apaniagua@profonanpe.org.pe
Date this PID prepared           August 24, 2002
Projected appraisal date         November 11, 2002
Projected Board date             March 15, 2003
Country and Sector background:
Despite the global importance of the country's vast biodiversity endowment,
this richness is increasingly at risk. Peru has an estimated 222 species in
the process of extinction, including 81 aquatic species. This accelerated
loss of biodiversity is the result of unsustainable human activities, among
them deforestation, soil erosion, water pollution and illegal trade in
wildlife and plants. Mining and oil exploration are major economic
activities which generally contribute to the loss of biodiversity when
executed without proper environmental standards.
Major identified constraints affecting the public sector's capacity to
address biodiversity conservation issues include the following: (i) limited
policy development and implementation capacity; (ii) market failure and
forgone revenues for protected areas; (iii) limited financial resources and
absence of a self-financing policy; (iv) weak public sector capacity to work
with civil society and private sector institutional agents in biodiversity
conservation activities; (v) lack of environmental awareness; and (vi)
inadequate information management systems.
Government Strategy
Reflecting the importance Peru gives to its rich biodiversity endowment, the
country's National Environmental Council (CONAM) chairs or participates in a
number of commissions related to biodiversity conservation. CONAM is also
the national focal point for the Global Environmental Facility (GEF). The
institution responsible for coordinating activities required under the
Convention on Biodiversity (CBD) is the National Commission for Biodiversity
(CONADIB). The lead institution responsible for in situ conservation and
management of the country's biodiversity is the General Directorate of
Natural Protected Areas (DGANP) of the National Institute for Natural
Resources (INRENA), under the Ministry of Agriculture (MAG) which has the



mandate of administering the country's national system of natural protected
areas.
The main government policy for in situ biodiversity conservation has been
based on the establishment of Peru's Natural Protected Areas System (SINANPE)
whose objective is to conserve representative samples of the country's
biodiversity by creating and managing protected areas efficiently while
guaranteeing that environmental, social and economic benefits accrue to
society at large. During the past few years, Peru has taken a series of
important steps towards expanding and consolidating its national system of
protected areas. Some of the more significant milestones achieved during
this process include: (i) approval of the necessary enabling legislation;
(ii) strengthening of management capacities of DGANP and PA staff; (iii)
preparation of a national strategic plan (Plan Director) for the national
protected area system; and (iv) establishment of new protected areas.
To assist with the financing of SINANPE, the National Trust Fund for Natural
Protected Areas (PROFONANPE) was created with GEF support. Since its
creation, PROFONANPE has catalyzed additional funding from the national
treasury and bilateral and multilateral sources. These resources have been
channeled directly to PAs to support increased staffing levels and
operations. To date, PROFONANPE has raised about US$28 million for the
country's protected areas and remains very active in identifying and seeking
additional funds.
Despite these strong achievements, much remains to be done. Many of the
system's existing PAs are still not adequately managed and protected.
Protected areas are increasingly at risk due to illegal squatters, non-
sustainable economic activities in adjacent buffer areas, and poorly-managed
tourism development. In conformity with other major public sector reforms,
the GOP has provided an opportunity to increase the role for the private
sector, NGOs and civil society institutions in the management and
conservation of the country's biodiversity resources. The aforementioned
strategic plan for SINANPE, the Natural Protected Areas law and its bylaws
provide the conceptual and legal framework. The most relevant provisions
include: (i) ensuring participation of both the public and private sectors in
a system-wide SINANPE Coordination Council; (ii) involving all private, NGO,
community-based and civil society organizations, and public sector
stakeholders in drawing up PA-specific Master Plans; (iii) strengthening PA
Management Committees (PAMCs) as a vehicle for stakeholder participation;
(iv) delegating functions inherent to the management of PAs to private
agencies; and (v) allowing the establishment of private conservation areas.
Project objectives
The project's development objective is to ensure biodiversity conservation by
(i) increasing the involvement of civil society institutions and the private
sector in the planning and sustainable management of five protected areas
(PAs) of the Peruvian System of Natural Protected Areas (SINANPE), and one PA
to be created during project implementation; and (ii) to obtain additional
financial sustainability for the financing of recurrent costs in SINANPE.
The six PAs are: Tambopata-Candamo National Reserve, Bahuaja-Sonene National
Park, Salinas and Aguada Blanca National Reserve, Huascaran National Park,
Manglares de Tumbes National Sanctuary, and Abanico de Morona Pastaza.
- 2-



The global objective of the project is to contribute to the conservation of
biodiversity of global importance. Peru, in terms of its total number of
species, levels of endemism, and range of habitats, is considered to be one
of the world's great centers of biological diversity. Despite a series of
field inventories estimated to cover only two-thirds of the national
territory, Peru has already been classified as one of earth's seventeen mega-
diverse countries
Project description
The project has three main components: (i) participatory protected area
management, (ii) institutional development, and (iii) protected area
financing, project administration, monitoring and evaluation and information
dissemination.
Project Component 1: Participatory Protected Area Management (US$17.55
million;57.1- of total project cost. GEF US$9.47 million; Netherlands co-
financing US$2.17 million, Germany parallel financing US$4.27 million).
The objective of this component is to allow civil society and private sector
organizations to actively participate in the decision-making processes
leading to the management of protected areas, and to share the benefits
resulting from them.
Outputs.- The expected outputs of this component will be: (i) five PA master
plans prepared and one updated (Huascaran), all of them substantially
implemented; (ii) a series of supporting studies and PA-specific data
baselines prepared, to support management, monitoring and evaluation
activities; (iii) Protected Areas Management Committees (PAMC) fully
functional in each participating PA; (iv) up to three PAs and a series of
services and concessions in support of management objectives contracted out
to civil society and/or private sector organizations/consortiums; (v) basic
infrastructure established, and equipment and staff requirements provided to
ensure conservation of biodiversity of international importance in six PAs;
and (vi) an estimated 150 small-scale development initiatives designed to
reduce threats to biodiversity while promoting sustainable economic
activities in PA buffers areas.
Activities.- To produce the above outputs, the component would support
activities in four subcomponents: (i) preparation of participatory PA master
plans, including: boundary demarcation, studies, natural resource
inventories, targeted research, establishment of management rules and norms,
sector plan preparation etc.; (ii) master plan implementation, including
infrastructure, equipment and operating costs; (iii) concession and
management contracts for PAs; and (iv) support for small-scale,
environmentally sustainable economic activities in PA buffer zones and inside
Natural Resource Reserves, compatible with management plan objectives.
Project Component 2: Institutional Development (US$4.88 million; 15.9t of
total project cost. GEF US$1.51 million; Netherlands co-financing US$1.86
million; Germany parallel financing US$1.51).
The main objective of this component is to consolidate PA management through:
(i) the strengthening of INRENA, PROFONANPE, PAMC and civil society and
private sector organizations to work collaboratively in the management of
-3 -



PAs; (ii) increased public awareness of the importance of Peru's biodiversity
and the role of protected areas; and (iii) the development and implementation
of a standardized management information system.
Outputs.- The expected outputs of this component will be: (i) a strengthened
INRENA, PROFONANPE and PAMCs, and increased organizational capacities to
manage and administer small-scale projects; (ii) strengthened small, locally-
based civil society organizations, provided with the tools and equipment to
support project objectives; (iii) implementation of a national public
awareness strategy; (iv) a series of media campaigns, Internet home pages,
and school program materials developed and implemented in districts in
proximity to the project's six PAs; and (v) an enhanced decision-making
process through better and updated information, supplying feedback to the
national administrators as well as to the stakeholders and civil society
organizations.
Activities.- To produce the above outputs, the component would support
activities in four subcomponents: (i) staff training for INRENA/PROFONANPE
and national and regional civil society institutions/organizations to enhance
closer collaborative relationships in PA management; (ii) capacity building
for environmental institutions/organizations located in the proximity of
project-supported PAs; (iii) development and implementation of a biodiversity
conservation-based public awareness program; and (iv) design and
implementation of a SINANPE Management Information System (MIS).
Component 3: PA Financing, Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation, and
Information Dissemination (US$8.28 million; 27T of total project cost. GEF
US$3.82 million; Netherlands co-financing US$0.42 million; Germany parallel
financing US$1.04; Finland contribution to PROFONANPE endowment fund of
US$2.5 million and other donor contribution to endowment fund: 0.5 million)
The main objectives of this component would be to increase the PROFONANPE
endowment fund, manage and monitor the project and disseminate information on
the project's progress and achievements.
Outputs.- The expected outputs of this component will be: (i) an increase in
the endowment fund by US$6 million above the already existing US$5.7 million;
(ii) increased private sector contributions in at least two PAs; (iii) an
updated M&E system appropriate for PROFONANPE; (iv) timely M&E reports
prepared according to GEF and World Bank monitoring and reporting standards;
(v) improved institutional capacity to monitor projects; (vi) enhanced
relations with national, regional and local civil society and private sector
through dissemination of results and lessons learned using reports and
workshops; and (vii) relevant experiences and "lessons learned" from
PROFONANPE II disseminated to other PAs in Peru's SINANPE and other national
systems of protected areas.
Activities.- To produce the above outputs, the component would will support
activities in three subcomponents: (i) an increase in the endowment fund;
(ii) project implementation and a monitoring and evaluation system; and (iii)
design and implementation of an information dissemination strategy.
Project financing
-4-



NOTE: This document contains tables that cannot be converted into text
files. However, if you have MS Word or Word Viewer on your computer, you
should be able to download the complete original version by going to:
http://www.worldbank.org/pics/pid/pO68250.
Project implementation
The proposed project will be implemented over a period of six years.
PROFONANPE will be the recipient of the GEF Grant, and will disburse
resources upon request of various implementers, including INRENA that will be
entitled to request technical assistance support and financial resources to
implement project activities.
Project implementation will require a framework agreement between INRENA and
PROFONANPE. Such agreement will clearly define the roles and
responsibilities of both institutions in PA management under the project, and
will form part of a framework project agreement between the Bank and
PROFONANPE. The framework agreement will also stipulate the responsibilities
and approach to project implementation (e.g., which institution will be
responsible for the design of terms of reference and bidding documents for
the studies to be financed under the project, how contracts will be awarded,
who will be responsible for quality control of studies and contract
implementation, how the contractors will be paid, etc). An analysis of the
best mechanisms for funding of project activities, taking into account the
mandates of both institutions, their comparative advantages, their
efficiency, and their effectiveness, has been done during preparation.
PROFONANPE's existing Board of Directors will provide overall guidance and
supervision to the project.    A project-specific Administrative Board (Junta
de Administraci6n) will be established, including some of the members of
PROFONANPE's Board of Directors and representatives of stakeholders.
A professional project manager will be hired to ensure supervision of day-to-
day activities according to the rules contained in project manual and the
framework agreement signed between the Bank and PROFONANPE. Financial
management of endowments (one from GEF and the other from the Finish
bilateral cooperation) will be provided by a part time financial advisor, and
financial revenue from the endowments is expected to be used to cover
recurrent costs of protected areas.
Project sustainability
Technical Project sustainability will be assured by: (i) increasing awareness
and participation in biodiversity conservation and sustainable use of
biodiversity by local populations, local organizations and institutions
through training, the use of participatory approaches and tangible benefits;
(ii) implementing the legal framework that encourages a participatory
approach to conservation and management of protected areas; (iii)
strengthening participation of local stakeholders in management decisions
through PAMCs; (iv) funding demand-driven, small productive projects
identified by local communities which are economically feasible and
environmentally friendly; and (v) involving civil society and the private
sector in the planning, management and implementation of the system as a
whole.
-5-



Financial sustainability will be ensured partly through the Endowment Fund
mechanism, which will enable PROFONANPE to double its contribution to the
financing of the recurrent costs of SINANPE.
The concessions will also reduce the need for payment of recurrent costs as
concessionaires will be responsible for supporting recurrent costs. Some of
the areas, which could be managed by private sector institutions as a result
of this project, could be self-sustainable. Sustainability of community
initiatives will be ascertained prior to funding.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Lessons learned from the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of the GEF
Grant creating PROFONANPE:
1.      Trust Fund financial resources should be invested in large, developed
markets, in order to minimize investment risks. Portfolio management and
investment agreements need to include clear guidelines for investment risks,
asset quality and portfolio diversity. Investment contracts must include
performance clauses so that the owner of the assets can move the funds out of
the portfolio in the event of portfolio mismanagement. The project appraisal
team will evaluate how PROFONANPE's investment policy can be improved and the
operational manual will clearly stipulate the rules for sound financial
management.
The proposed project fully supports the ICR's recommendations to PROFONANPE
to
finance the involvement of civil society and the private sector in SINANPE's
management and programs. Recommendations were made in the mid-term review of
1998, the ICR and the Aide-Memoire of the final GEF supervision in December
1999 and the Independent Evaluation of January 2000.
Lessons learned from other countries:
3.      The importance of adequate legal instruments to delegate responsibility
between the public sector and the civil society/private sector involved in
the management of protected areas cannot be overemphasized. Many pilot
operations involving the civil society/private sector in the management of
PAs have run into problems because the legal arrangements between the public
owner of the protected area and the private concessionaire/administrator were
unclear or confusing. The project preparation team includes an experienced
legal expert to design high-quality collaboration contract models and
learning from other countries.
4.      The importance of long-term sustainability of private sector
involvement. Short-term administration and concession contracts normally do
not provide sufficient incentives to civil society and the private sector to
place high-level staff and resources in the management of PAs. Therefore,
the project preparation team is examining with PROFONANPE how continuity and
sustainability could be ensured. The endowment fund (with funds being
available) will add credibility to the sustainability of the financial
resources for protected areas management and in this sense be an incentive
for the private sector to dedicate the required resources to this type of
contract.
-6-



5.      The Mexican experience shows that participatory activities, such as
those planned for this project, develop a positive reaction in civil society,
the people living in and around PAs, and in the government. Consequently,
local support to conservation of biodiversity and the strengthening of PA
control is better achieved. Moreover, awareness programs and school
participation improve the reduction of pressure on natural resources.
6.      The critical requirement for the effective operation of PAMCs is to
have well-informed stakeholders; PAMC members need clear definitions about
the objective of PAMC operation rules, procedures and responsibilities. It
must be clearly stated that decisions must only be related to conservation as
the main axis of interchange.
7.      PAMCs also require a good balance of members' weight in the decision-
making process to avoid conflicts or loss of time. PAMCs require, at the
very least, a set of clear and consensual rules for the decision-making
approach. A review of rules regarding PAMC membership, operation and
recommendations for assimilating lessons learned from other countries will be
developed by the project.
8.      Finally, there is need for transparency in the assignment of funds to
support annual planned activities in each PA involved in similar projects.
MIS and Awareness Programs will be used by the project as the main means to
meet the transparency requirements.
Poverty category: B
Environmental aspects:    Environmental category B
Most project activities will have a very positive environmental impact. The
project's very nature and objective are to conserve biodiversity.
Nevertheless, some activities under component 1 of the project (Participative
Management of Protected Areas) may trigger environmental issues. The
Environmental Assessment (May 2002) has identified three sub components under
component 1 that may trigger environmental issues: (i) implementation of
participative management plans; (ii) concession contracts for the management
of protected areas; and (iii) small scale environmentally sustainable
economic activities. For this reason, an environmental framework (EF) has
been prepared. Activities in buffer zones and in resource use reserves under
such sub-components will need to undergo a specific environmental screening
which will be part of the subproject evaluation.
The EF has identified likely potential environmental impacts by the
activities in the referred sub-components, and has grouped and presented them
in the form of a data sheet that will be used as a screening system of
activities on the resources within the PA and the buffer zones. The EF
presents 6 categories of environmental impacts: (i) load capacity; (ii)
visual impact; (iii) natural environment deterioration; (iv) solid and liquid
waste; (v) fire and emissions; and (vi) hosts and visitors security. The EF
also presents measures to mitigate adverse environmental impacts and provides
practical steps to include such measure in the design of projects under the
referred subcomponents. In this way, project design for all activities with
possible adverse environmental impact will include a well defined
Environmental Management Plan (EMP). The steps to prepare an EPM to mitigate
the possible negative environmental impacts of some economic initiatives
- 7 -



include: (i) screen every subproject under the referred subcomponents for
environmental impact; (ii) include impact mitigation measures in the design
and implementation of the subprojects whenever necessary, by providing
specialized consultants to the design teams; (iii) consult with stakeholders
on whether the impact mitigation measures can and will be implemented; and
(iv) include in the monitoring and evaluation system the monitoring of
compliance with the proposed mitigation.
Social and Indigenous Peoples Issues:
A comprehensive social assessment and consultation process were carried out
in the five PAs in the project and their surrounding areas of influence to
identify main social issues and possible impacts arising from the project.
Restrictions in access to natural resources. Peru has adopted a policy
principle based on coexistence of people within protected areas, therefore,
resettlement is not envisioned to take place under the project. Instead, the
project aims at preserving biodiversity without hindering legitimate
aspirations of people living in those areas and it expects to have a positive
impact in their livelihood by promoting a better management of natural
resources. However, in exceptional cases, as in areas zoned for strict
conservation, there might be the need for limiting access to resources. To
address the possible impact from this restriction, the project's social
strategy comprises a Process Framework to operate under the following
principles: (i) any restrictions on access to resources will be jointly
defined with the affected communities during the preparation of the PA's
management plans; (ii) participation mechanisms will ensure these communities
to be actively involved in decision-making of the process; and (iii)
sustainable alternatives will be developed to provide affected people with
revenue-generating activities with a positive impact on both biodiversity and
people's income, to substitute damaging practices.
Involvement of Indigenous Peoples. In four of the five protected areas in the
project there are several ethnic groups that preserve some of their cultural
traditions in spite of the pressures of migration, cultural deterioration,
and urban growth. Most of them live in poverty or extreme poverty
conditions, dedicated to agriculture activities and natural resources
exploitation. In the Andean area, the Quechua, Ayamra and Collahua groups
still preserve their language and some traditional practices in the use of
natural resources.   However, they are fully integrated to market practices
and culture.  In the Amazon area, the main indigenous groups are the Ese'eja
and some Quechua- Collahua groups who have migrated towards tropical areas
seeking land.  Demographic growth of these groups and changes in their
consumption patterns have intensified in the last years the pressure over
natural resources. Under the project, a specific strategy has been designed
to protect indigenous peoples rights and ensure that they benefit from the
project by supporting sustainable activities rooted in their traditional
natural resources management and strengthening community organizations.
Land Tenure Issues. The five protected areas in the project have officially
registered and defined boundaries. However, with the exception of Tambopata
and Bahuaja Sonene, PAs face some kind of legal rights problems over land.
In Huascaran, three private fishing firms claims rights in the PA; in the
remaining PA there is a mix of unsolved conflicts among small land owners,
- 8 -



private owners and indigenous communities; some have legal tittles while
others are illegally occupying PA lands. Though there are several land
claims, the actual number of families living within the PA is limited.
Private Management Concessions. The project proposes to promote private
involvement in protected area management through concessions. This proposal
has been perceived by some communities as a "privatization" of protected
areas that might affect their rights. This alternative might also have a
negative impact on the relationships between INRENA and the communities,
which have been usually complicated. To address this issue, concessionary
selection will be an open and clear process. Selection criteria will include
to have local roots, regional experience and to incorporate a participatory
approach in operations. The establishment of local management committees, as
PA regulations foresee, will ensure community participation in management
operations and will allow for social monitoring and control.
The project's social strategy incorporates in an integrated manner, different
instruments to address above-described social issues. Specifically: (i) a
Process Framework in regard to natural resources use restrictions; (ii) an
Indigenous Peoples Development Framework to ensure indigenous peoples
benefiting from the project; and (iii) a participation promotion to guarantee
stakeholders involvement an adequate operation of the proposed PA Management
Committees.
The project has been prepared under a participatory approach comprising a
beneficiary assessment involving population in and around the five protected
areas in the project; this exercise helped to identify their expectations and
fears towards the project. Additionally, the project team met with local
NGOs and representatives of surrounding communities. Overall, more than 500
people were contacted through various consultation mechanisms such as: 261
participants in local consultation meetings; 189 persons in focal groups (for
public, private and social sectors); 74 surveys on Environmental Management
and Institutional Development Experiences; and 66 key informants in Depth
Interviews. With the results of these processes, initial protected areas
management plans were prepared and further consulted through regional
workshops. Simultaneously, alternatives to address identified main social
and environmental threats were discussed and agreed with main stakeholders.
This participatory process will continue during preparation of PA Master
Management Plans involving main stakeholders as the Peruvian legal framework
establishes.
Program Objective Categories: Environment and Natural resources Management
GEF Focal Area is Biodiversity.
GEF Operational Programs:   OP2 (Coastal, Marine, and Freshwater Ecosystems
OP3 (Forest Ecosystems) and OP4 (Mountain Ecosystems)
This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be
necessarily included in the final project.
Contact Point:
Pierre Werbrouck,
The World Bank, Washington DC.
Tel. 202-4730745 Fax 202-5223540
E-mail: pwerbrouck@worldbank.org
9



The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
August 30, 2002.
- 10 -



