Document of
The World Bank
Report No: ICRO001849
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
(TF-51285)
ON A
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 11 MILLION
(US$14.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
PERUVIAN NATIONAL TRUST FUND FOR PROTECTED AREAS-PROFONANPE
FOR A
PARTICIPATORY MANAGEMENT OF PROTECTED AREAS PROJECT
June 21, 2011
Sustainable Development Department
Bolivia, Chile, Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela Country Management Unit
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN REGION


CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 20, 2011)
Currency Unit = New Soles
One Peruvian Sol = 0.36 US$
US$ 1.00 = 2.76 Soles
FISCAL YEAR
1 January-December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDER              Asociaci6n para la Investigaci6n y Desarrollo Integral
(Association for Research and Integrated Development)
ANP                Area Natural Protegidas (Natural Protected Area)
BP                 Bosque de Protecci6n (Protected Forest)
CA                 Contrato de Administraci6n (Administration Contract)
CANPRODEM          Camara Nacional de la Producci6n y el Emprendimiento (National
Chamber of Production and Development
CBD                Convenio sobre Diversidad Biol6gica (Convention on
Biodiversity)
CG                 Comite de Gestion de Areas Protegida (Management
Committee of Protected Area)
CIMA               Centro de Conservaci6n, Investigacion y Manejo de Areas
Naturales (Center for the Conservation, Research and Management
of Protected Areas)
CNCCG              Consejo Nacional de Coordinaci6n de los Comites de Gesti6n
(National Council for the Coordination of Management
Committees)
CONADIB            Comisi6n Nacional de Diversidad Biol6gica (National
Commission for Biodiversity)
CTL                Comite Tenico Local (Local Technical Committee)
DESCO              Centro de Estudios y Promoci6n del Desarrollo (Center for
Development Studies and Promotion)
DL                 Decreto de Ley (Decree Law)
DRIS               Desarrollo Rural Sustentable (Sustainable Rural Development)
DS                 Decreto Supremo (Supreme Decree)
CONAM              Consejo Nacional del Ambiente (National Environmental Council)
CONADIB            Consejo Nacional de Diversidad Biol6gica (National Council on
Biodiversity)
FONDAM             Fondo de la Americas (Fund for the Americas)
GEF                Global Environment Facility


GPAN               Proyecto Gesti6n Participativa de Areas Naturales Protegidas
(Project for the Participatory Management of Protected Natural
Areas)
IANP               Intendencia de Areas Naturales Protegidas (Protected Natural
Areas Administration Bureau)
IDB                Inter-American Development Bank
INRENA             Instituto Nacional de Recursos Naturales (National Institute of
Natural Resources)
ISDS               Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet
KfW                Kreditanstaltflir Wiederaujbau (German Financial Cooperation
Agency)
LTC                Comits Tecnicos Locales (Local Technical Committees)
MAG                Ministerio de Agricultura (Ministry of Agriculture)
MEDA               Mennonite Economic Development Associates Subsidiary Peru
MINAM              Ministerio del Ambiente (Ministry of Environment)
MIS                Management Information System
M&E                Monitoring and Evaluation
ONG                Nongovernmental Organizations
PAD                Project Appraisal Document
PAES               Programa de Actividades Econ6micas Sostenibles (Program of
Sustainable Economic Activities)
PAN                Programa Protecci6n de Areas Naturales (Natural Areas
Protection Program)
PIMA               Proyecto Participaci6n de las Comunidades Nativas en el Manejo
de las Areas Naturales Protegidas de la Amazonia Peruana
(Indigenous Management of Protected Areas in the Amazon
Project)
PN                 Parque Nacional (National Park)
PNBS               Parque Nacional Bahuaja Sonene (Bahuaja Sonene National Park)
PNH                Parque Nacional Huascarain (Huascardn National Park)
PROFONANPE         Fondo de Promoci6n de las Areas Naturales Protegidas del Peru
(Peruvian National Trust Fund for Protected Areas)
PRONANP            Proyecto Fortalecimiento de la Conservaci6n de la Biodiversidad
a traves del Programa Nacional de Areas Protegidas
(Strengthening of Biodiversity Conservation through the National
Program of Protected Areas Project)
RNTAMB             Reserva Nacional Tambopata (Tambopata National Reserve)
RNSAB              Reserva Nacional Salinas y Aguada Blanca (Salinas and Aguada
Blanca National Reserve)
SERNANP            Servicio Nacional de Areas Naturales Protegidas (National
Service for Protected Natural Areas)
SNLMT              Santuario Nacional Los Manglares de Tumbes (Los Manglares de
Tumbes National Sanctuary)
SN                 Santuario Nacional (National Sanctuary)
SINANPE            Sistema Nacional de Areas Naturales Protegidas (National System
of Protected Natural Areas)


UGEL                Unidad de Gesti6n Educativa Local (Local Educational
Management Unit)
WB                  World Bank
Vice President:          Pamela Cox
Sector Director:         Laura Tuck
Country Director:        Laura Frigenti
Sector Manager:          Karin Erika Kemper
Project Team Leader:     Gabriela Arcos
ICR Team Leader:         Gabriela Arcos


PERU
PARTICIPATORY MANAGEMENT OF PROTECTED AREAS
CONTENTS
Data Sheet
A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
H. Restructuring
I. Disbursement Graph
1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design................ 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ..................... 7
3. Assessment of Outcomes         ...............................    ......... 15
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.    ....................  ..... 22
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance   ................     ........ 25
6. Lessons Learned................................................... 28
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners..... 30
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing                     ................................. 31
Annex 2. Outputs by Component................................          ..... 33
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis    ............................... 45
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes......... 48
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results          ................................. 50
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results.........    ................ 51
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ....    ..... 53
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders  .  .......... 54
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents      .......................... ..... 55


A. Basic Information
Participatory
Country:             Perfi               Project Name:        Management of
Protected Areas Project
Project ID:          P068250              L/C/TF Number(s):   TF-51285
ICR Date:            05/09/2011           ICR Type:           Core ICR
Lending Instrument:  SIL                 Borrower:            PROFONANPE
Original Total
USD 14.8M            Disbursed Amount:    USD 14.8M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:
Environmental Category: B                 Global Focal Area: B
Implementing Agencies: Fund for the Promotion of Peru's Protected Natural Areas-
PROFONANPE
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: KfW, Government of PerO' and Government of
Finland.
B. Key Dates
Revised / Actual
Process           Date           Process       Original Date
Date(s)
Concept Review:    03/22/2001    Effectiveness:      04/15/2003      04/18/2003
Appraisal:          11/11/2002   Restructuring(s):                   04/29/2011
Approval:          03/13/2003    Mid-term Review:                    10/15/2007
Closing:            10/14/2009       12/31/2010
C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome       Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                        Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                    Satisfactory
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank                Ratings            Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:    Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory


Quality of Supervision:   Satisfactory   Implemenmmng               Satisfactory
Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                             Overall Borrower
Performance:                             Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
Implementation                         QAG Assessments
Indicators                               Rating
Performance                               (if any)
Potential Problem Project                Quality at Entry
No                                    Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                    (QEA):
Problem Project at any                   Quality of
No                                    None
time (Yes/No):                            Supervision (QSA):
GEO rating before
Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status
D. Sector and Theme Codes
Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                       10                10
Forestry                                                40               40
Other social services                                   45               45
Sub-national Government administration                   5                5
Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Biodiversity                                             25              25
Environmental policies and institutions                  24              24
Gender                                                   13              13
Participation and civil engagement                       25              25
Rural non-farm income generation                         13               13
E. Bank Staff
Positions                  At ICR                      At Approval
Vice President        Pamela Cox                    David De Ferranti
Country Director      Laura Frigenti                Marcelo Giugale
Sector Director       Laura Tuck                     John Redwood
Sector Manager        Karin Erika Kemper            Abel Mejia
Project Team Leader   Gabriela Arcos                Pierre Werbrouck
ICR Team Leader       Gabriela Arcos
ICR Primary Author    Gabriela Arcos


1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal
1.     Peru is classified as one of seventeen mega-diverse countries. It leads the world
in numbers of butterflies, orchids, and endemic species and accounts for 460 mammal
and 1,736 bird species, 10 and 19 percent of the world's total, respectively. Also, Peru is
considered one of five world centers of origin of cultivated plants and has an immense
natural germplasm resource of useful wild species. Peru's economic productivity is
directly linked to this natural wealth: 99 percent of fisheries depend on wild hydro-
biological resources, 95 percent of livestock grazes on wild native grasslands, 99 percent
of forestry activities rely on native forests, and 65 percent of agricultural production
revolves around native genetic resources.  This wealth is increasingly at risk due to
unsustainable human activities including deforestation, soil erosion, water pollution,
illegal trafficking of wildlife and plant species, and land use changes and expansion of
the agricultural frontier. Unsustainable mining and oil exploitation practices are among
the major contributers to the loss of biodiversity.
2.     At the time of appraisal, Peru had established key elements of the institutional,
legal, and policy architecture for conserving its biodiversity assets. A centerpiece of the
institutional framework was the National System of Protected Natural Areas (Sistema
Nacional de Areas Naturales Protegidas, SINANPE), the objective of which was to
conserve representative samples of the country's biodiversity by creating and managing
protected areas. In the decade prior to appraisal, SINANPE had added 14 new protected
areas covering 10 million hectares, or approximately 18% of the national territory. The
Peruvian National Trust Fund for Protected Areas (Fondo de Promocion de las Areas
Naturales Protegidas del Peru, PROFONANPE) was created in 2003 with GEF support to
provide financing to SINANPE. Policy was based on the principle of coexistence of
people within the protected natural areas (Areas Naturales Protegidas, ANPs) and also
aimed at guaranteeing increased environmental, social, and economic benefits for society
as a whole. One strategic aspect of the policy was to increase the private sector and civil
society role in administering conservation through participation in SINANPE's
management, including participation in deliberations of the SINANPE coordination
council, the development of specific Master Plans for the ANPs, and in the ANPs'
Management Committees (Comites de Gestion de Areas Protegidas, CGs). Policy also
envisioned establishment of private conservation areas.
3.     At appraisal, four factors were constraining effective biodiversity conservation
within this framework: i) The public sector lacked capacity to design and implement
policies and to work with civil society and the private sector on biodiversity
conservation; ii) Due to limited fiscal resources and no effective self-financing
mechanisms, Peru was depending on international donors and NGOs for financing its
1


Protected Natural Areas (ANPs) and was spending less than US$50 per km2 to finance
biodiversity, compared with US$130 in Brazil and US$420 in Mexico; iii) Civil society
support for biodiversity conservation was weak as, according to a national survey in
1997, only 17 percent of the population had a good understanding of environmental
issues, and iv) Inadequate management information systems limited institutional capacity
to make informed decisions for management of ANPs.
4.    At appraisal, a number of related activities were under way. The World Bank was
supporting four complementary GEF projects: (i) the Indigenous Management of
Protected Areas in the Amazon Project - PIMA; (ii) the Participatory Conservation and
Sustainable Development with Indigenous Communities in Vilcabamba medium-sized
project (MSP); (iii) the Collaborative Management for the Conservation and Sustainable
Development of the Northwest Biosphere Reserve Project (MSP); and (iv) the
Biodiversity Conservation and Community Natural Resource Management Project in the
Nanay River Basin (MSP). German Technical Cooperation was also financing several
activities in SINANPE under the Natural Areas Protection Program Project (PAN)
implemented by PROFONANPE, including a US$6.81 million debt-for-nature swap for
the Morona Pastaza Watershed ANP.
1.2 Original Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators
5.    As stated on page 2 of the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), the Global
Environment Objective (GEO) was to contribute to the conservation of biodiversity of
global importance in Peru. The Project Development Objectives (PDOs) were: (i) to
ensure biodiversity conservation by increasing the involvement of civil society
institutions and the private sector in the planning and sustainable management of at least
five of the ANPs of SINANPE and by creating at least one additional ANP during Project
implementation; and (ii) to obtain sustainablity for the financing of recurrent costs in
SINANPE.
6.    The key performance indicators to monitor Project performance as stated on
page 2 of the PAD were: i) Increased management effectiveness in project ANPs; ii)
Improved degree of biodiversity conservation in Project ANPs; iii) Increased
participation of women in planning, managing, monitoring and evaluating Project ANPs;
iv) Increased stakeholder participation in the management of Project ANPs; v) Increased
capacity to finance SINANPE recurrent costs with local resources; and vi) Participation
of indigenous people in ANP conservation programs.
1.3 Revised GEO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification
7.    The GEO, PDOs, and key performance indicators were not modified.
2


1.4 Main Beneficiaries
8.     The main direct Project beneficiaries were expected to be the persons living inside
ANPs and their buffer zones, including hunters, gatherers, and farmers. They would
benefit from the Project's support for environmentally sustainable, biodiversity-friendly,
and sustainable and economically attractive alternatives to their current damaging
production practices. Local communities and other interested parties would also benefit
from training and skills development. Society as a whole was also expected to benefit
from the conservation of plant and animal species and of genetic diversity.
1.5 Original Components
9.     The Project had three components: (i) participatory management of ANPs, (ii)
institutional development, and (iii) ANP financing, project administration, monitoring
and evaluation, and information dissemination. Total Project cost was US$32.84 million,
of which a GEF grant financed US$14.8 million.
10.   Project Component 1: Participatory Protected Area Management (US$18.23
million; 55.5 percent of total Project cost. US$7.14 million from GEF; US$3.65 million
from joint Netherlands financing; and US$4.31 million from German parallel financing).
11.   Objective. As stated in the PAD (page 7), the objective of this component was to
allow civil society organizations and local community and private sector organizations to
participate actively in decision-making processes and management of the ANPs and
share in the benefits resulting from the ANP sustainable use.
12.   Outcomes. The outcomes of this component were expected to be: (i) preparation
of two Master Plans and updating of four Master Plans and preparation and
implementation of several Resource Management Plans; (ii) studies and ANP-specific
data baselines to support management and M&E activities; (iii) fully functioning CGs in
each participating ANP; (iv) Administration Contracts executed with civil society,
private non-profit, and/or community entities for management services in three ANPs; (v)
completion of basic infrastructure and satisfaction of equipment and staff requirements to
ensure adequate conservation; and (vi) reduced threats to biodiversity and promotion of
environmentally and socially sustainable economic activities in the participating ANPs
and buffer zones. (See PAD, page 7.)
13.   Activities. To achieve these outcomes, this component supported and financed: i)
Participatory preparation and updating of ANP Master and Resource Management Plans.
This included: analysis of causes and threats of biodiversity loss, social studies,
inventories of natural resources, demarcation of ANP boundaries, operational research,
3


establishment of administrative rules and regulations, preparation of the sectoral plan,
etc.; ii) Implementation of the ANP Master and Resource Management Plans. This
included financing for infrastructure and equipment and operating costs through
Administration Contracts (ACs) with the nonprofit private sector for ANP management
services; and iii) Financial support and technical assistance for 30 conservation and
sustainable use programs in ANPs and for 100 small-scale sustainable economic
activities in ANPs and buffer zones under the Program for Sustainable Economic
Activities (Programa de Actividades Economicas Sostenibles, PAES)
14.   Project Component 2: Institutional Development (US$5.74 million; 17.5
percent of total Project cost. US$3.19 million from GEF; US$0.59 million from joint
Netherlands financing; US$1.71 million from German parallel financing).
15.   Objective.  The key objective of this component was to consolidate the
administration of ANPs by: (i) increasing the capacity of the National Institute for
Natural  Resources  (Instituto  Nacional  de  Recursos  Naturales,  INRENA),
PROFONANPE, and CGs, to administer and manage ANPs in participation with civil
society and the private sector; (ii) strengthening local civil society organizations' capacity
to support Project objectives; (iii) inducing an environmental behavioral change through
increased conservation awareness; and (iv) supporting an enhanced decision-making
process by national administrators, stakeholders and civil society organizations through
better and updated information on ANP management and biodiversity. (See PAD, page
8.)
16.   Outcomes. The expected outcomes of this component were: (i) increased
organizational capacity of INRENA, PROFONANPE, and CGs to manage and administer
ANPs in participation with civil society and the private sector; (ii) local civil society
organizations equipped to support Project objectives; (iii) an environmental behavioral
change through increased conservation awareness; and (iv) enhanced decision-making
process by national administrators, stakeholders and civil society organizations through
better and updated information on ANP management and biodiversity. (PAD, page 8)
17.   Activities. To achieve these outcomes, this component supported and financed:
i) Staff training and technical assistance for INRENA and PROFONANPE; ii)
development of capacities for CGs and civil society institutions and organizations located
near the Project ANPs; iii) development and implementation of a public awareness
program based on biodiversity conservation, including mass media campaigns, websites,
and school materials; and iv) design and implementation of a Management Information
System (MIS) for SINANPE.
4


18.   Project Component 3: ANP Financing, Administration, Monitoring and
Evaluation and Information Dissemination (US$8.86 million; 27 percent of total
Project cost. US$4.50 million from GEF; US$0.21 million from joint Netherlands
financing; US$1.57 million from KfW parallel financing; US$2.5 million from Finland's
contribution to PROFONANPE's grant fund; and US$0.5 million from PROFONANPE
to the Endowment Fund provided from its own, separate fund raising activities.
19.   Objective. The objectives of this component were to increase PROFONANPE's
Endowment Fund, design and implement a financing strategy for SINANPE, manage and
monitor the Project, and disseminate information on the Project's progress and
achievements. (PAD, page 8.)
20.   Outcomes. The expected outcomes of this component were: (i) a US$6 million
increase in PROFONANPE's Endowment Fund; (ii) increased private sector
contributions to recurring costs in Project-supported ANPs; (iii) an updated and operating
Monitoring and Evaluation System (M&E System) to provide timely reports to
PROFONANPE; (iv) improved institutional capacity for financial management of the
ANPs; (v) enhanced relations with national, regional, and local civil society and private
sector; and (vi) dissemination to other ANPs in SINANPE and abroad of relevant
experience and "lessons learned," particularly those associated with promoting increased
private sector financial inputs and innovative resource generating experiences. (PAD,
pages 8-9.)
21.   Activities. To achieve these outcomes, the Project financed five subcomponents:
i) US$6 million increase the Endowment Fund (US$3 million from GEF, US$2.5 million
from Finland and US$500,000 from PROFONANPE); ii) design and implementation of a
financial strategy for SINANPE; iii) project implementation; iv) design and
implementation of a Monitoring and Evaluation System; and v) design and
implementation of a strategy to disseminate information on lessons learned, using reports
and workshops.
1.6 Revised Components
22.   The components were not revised. However, there were two changes with regard
to the scope considered in the PAD, as summarized in the following table:
5


Table 1: Changes in Project Scope
Aspect               Revision                   Reasons                 Approval
Cofinancing by    Cofinancing Agreement     In October 2003, the Royal  In May 2006,
the Government    with KfW of Germany,      Netherlands Embassy         PROFONANPE and
of the Netherlands  through a Joint Action Plan  informed PROFONANPE that  KfW signed an
for US$4.45       between the PAN and the   the US$4.45 million intended  agreement for the
million           Project for US$4.38       for the Project would instead  execution of the
million.                  be allocated directly to the  PAN II Project, to
PAES.                       cover the activities
originally to be
financed by the
Netherlands.
Targets of the    30 programs for the       INRENA, the Bank, and       April 2005
PAES              conservation and          PROFONANPE agreed that      supervision mission.
(Component 1,     sustainable use of resources  100 were too many, due to
Subcomponent      and 100 small-scale       weak local capacities and the
1.3)              sustainable economic     limited availability of Project
activities in ANPs and    resources for this component,
buffer zones were reduced  and that it would be more
to 65 sustainable economic  effective to focus technical
projects.                 support on a smaller number
of activities that could be
adequately financed and well
supervised with a view to
replicating them.
1.7 Other significant changes
23.     The Project had three formal amendments of the Grant Agreement:
Table 2: Grant Agreement Amendments
Approval Date                                    Objective
June 2003                 Eliminate the requirement to contract an agency to carry out part A3 of the
Project (PAES), to establish that contracting under Category 4A
(Administration Contracts) would take place through QCBS, and to
reallocate the grant proceeds among the different expenditure categories.
November 2009              Reallocate the grant proceeds and extend the original Project closing date
to December 31, 2010, because PROFONANPE needed additional time to
complete the implementation period of the protected areas Administration
Contracts.
April 2011                 Restructuring to carry out a final reallocation of grant proceeds. The
reallocation was necessary to cover all the expenditures under the
Administration Contrcacts and other commitments that were processed
before the closing date and to reflect the actual use of funds. The total
amount reallocated was approximately 1.12 % of the total grant amount.
24.     Other significant changes are detailed in the following table:
6


Table 3: Other Significant Changes
Aspect                  Revision                     Reasons            Approval
Intervention in    Project activities were restricted  In 2006, due to severe local  Midterm
Huascar6in National  in this ANP to completion of  conflicts that could not be  Review
Park (PNH)         those already initiated. The  addressed in the short-term,  Mission.
number of ANPs for which the  IANP issued Departmental
Project would support         Resolution (Resoluci6n
Administration Contracts was  Jefatural) N' 101-2006-
reduced from five to four.    INRENA, excluding PNH
from areas subject to the
establishment of
Administration Contracts.
Therefore, intervention was
restricted to completing the
activities already initiated.
Implementation in  The system was not implemented.  The PIMA monitoring system  Midterm
the Project of the  Instead, a baseline of key   did not meet the Project's  Review
biological         conservation objectives was   technical requirements.     Mission.
monitoring system  prepared, drawing on secondary
developed by the   sources, and responsibility for
World Bank PIMA    M&E was included in the
Project.           Administration Contracts.
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
25.    The Project was highly relevant in the context of Peru's legal and overall policy
framework for biodiversity conservation. Its arrangements for indigenous peoples, local
communities, and other stakeholder participation in ANP management were designed to
operationalize the co-management mechanisms established in the Protected Areas Law.
The components were intended to respond to each of the four constraints to effective
biodiversity conservation within Peru's institutional, legal, and policy framework by: (i)
strengthening public sector capacity to design and implement ANP management and
biodiversity conservation policies and to work with civil society and the private sector in
implementing those policies; (ii) putting PROFONANPE on a sounder financial footing
and identifying self-financing mechanisms to compensate for constrained fiscal
resources; (iii) building civil society understanding of environmental issues and support
for sustainable ANP management and biodiversity conservation, in part through the
provision of technical and financial support for sustainable economic alternatives to
destructive production practices; and (iv) beginning to fill the data and information gaps
that were impeding informed decision making about management of the ANPs.
26.    Design of the arrangements for including indigenous peoples, local communities,
and civil society and the private sector in ANP management was innovative and the
central element in the strategy to achieve Project objectives. It built on the experiences
7


with participatory approaches in the GEF and other donor-supported projects that were
on-going at the time of appraisal (see paragraph 4). Complementing this, prior
consultations with over 500 people from various national and local institutions and
organizations were held with a view to identifying expectations and the social and
institutional issues that could affect Project implementation.
27.    An Environmental Framework and a Process Framework were devised to ensure
compliance with Bank safeguards policies, particularly as they applied to restrictions on
indigenous peoples' traditional rights of access to and use of natural resources and the
design and selection of environmentally sustainable and culturally compatible economic
alternatives. The Process Framework comprised an Indigenous Peoples Plan, a Gender
Strategy, and a strategy for promoting public participation. These frameworks laid out
the criteria and procedures for screening, implementation, monitoring and evaluating the
PAES projects, in coordination with local populations and organizations.
28.    The implementation arrangements were sound. They comprised:
*  PROFONANPE as the grant recipient, given its experience operating a trust fund, and
the principal executing agency with a small technical team for Project
implementation, including acting as a fiduciary agent to handle procurement and
contracting of consultants, works contractors, and Administration Contractors, and
financial management for all aspects of the Project, including the PAES projects;
*  INRENA as the Government agency responsible for the administration of SINANPE
and for technical aspects of Project implementation, including preparing terms of
reference for and ensuring quality of studies, monitoring technical implementation of
the contracts related to ANPs, ensuring compliance with bank safeguards, and
carrying out institutional strengthening activities, including those to build CGs'
capacities;
*  Project Consultative Committee as a permanent forum for analysis and decision
making on Project activities and for joint monitoring of its progress and results;
*  the ANPs' CGs as the social and institutional platform for supporting Project
implementation;
*  the Administration Bureaus as the ANPs' technical units;
*  private organizations as the executors of the Administration Contracts; and
"  local grass-roots organizations as implementers of the PAES projects.
8


29.    Finally, the PAD considered a wide range of institutional capacity, stakeholder,
technical, and financial risks, rating several of them as "S" or "H." Mitigating measures
were identified for each.
30.    QAG gave the Project a QAE rating of Satisfactory.
31.    With hindsight, however, there were some important design weaknesses - areas
where more in-depth appraisal might have led to a more accurate assessment of project
readiness and risks and helped to smooth Project implementation:
*  Creation of a new ANP (Morona Pastaza) should not have been included as part of
the PDOs, as this was to be funded by KfW, rather than by the Project.
*  Despite the consultations during the preparation phase, the extent of stakeholder,
including local, opposition to the Administration Contracts - which were perceived as
a privatization of the ANPs - was underestimated.
*  The estimate that one year would be required to execute the Administration Contracts
misjudged the extent of likely local opposition and did not consider the time required
to complete certain prior conditions for their preparation and execution, including a
regulatory up-date. In the event, the Contracts were not signed until the third year of
Project implementation and, as they had a three-year term, a Project closing date
extensi6n was required.
*  The Project's expenditure categories did    not include one to finance the
Administration Contracts. During implementation, a new expenditure category had to
be created by packaging a set of diverse activities to be assigned to the Contractors.
*  The estimated time required to develop Master Plans for conservation and sustainable
use of ANPs did not take fully into account the extent of technical weaknesses of the
Administration Bureaus and their traditional focus on surveillance and control
activities, nor the capacity weaknesses of the CGs and their marginalization at Project
start.
*  The estimated time required to start up the PAES projects did not factor in the need to
constitute the intended beneficiary organizations formally.
*  Initial Project design did not provide for a differentiated communication strategy at
the national, regional, and local levels to promote transparency, information sharing,
and ultimately the engagement of all institutions, community groups, NGOs, and
other stakeholders in a mutually trusting manner. This had to be added.
*  The M&E design was weak. On the biological monitoring, the Project was meant to
adopt the PIMA's Project system, which proved inadequate for accurately reporting
on the achievements of participatory ANP and biodiversity conservation
management. A methodology was developed for use under the Administration
Contracts to improve the conservation status of key species. A complementary
methodology was developed to be applied directly by the project technical team, to
9


obtain information from Project's beneficiaries and other stakeholders to assess their
participation.
* The PDOs were not always consistently stated in the PAD and the PDO outcome
indicators were, in fact, largely to be assessed by reference to achievement of the
component output indicators. These matters are discussed below in Section 3,
Assessment of Outcomes.
*      The design of the Endowment Fund specified that it should be used solely to
finance recurring costs of ANPs; it did not include the promotion and maintainance of
future participatory innovations in ANP management.
2.2 Implementation
32.    The Project launched its operations on April 15, 2003, and completed them on
December 31, 2010, following a 13-1/2 month extension of the initial closing date for
fulfillment of the co-financing commitments of the Administration Contracts. The entire
GEF grant amount, US$14.8 million, was disbursed.
33.    The Project design strengths described above were all success factors, including
particularly its central innovation, the participatory features. Other important success
factors were: (i) PROFONANPE's commitment to the Project in the face of initial public
resistence to the Administrative Contracts concept and despite changes in leadership and
key personnel at official institutions; and (ii) the collaborative relationship between the
Bank, PROFONANPE and INRENA, which served to facilitate resolution of issues that
arose during Project implementation.
34.    During Project implementation there were delays in three key processes: i)
implementing the Administration Contracts; ii) agreeing on programmatic proposals for
the conservation and development of ANPs; and (iii) starting up the projects under the
PAES. The causes of these delays are described below. The Bank's actions during
supervision to help resolve them are discussed in Section 5.1(b), Quality of Supervision.
35.    A number of factors contributed to the delay in establishing the Administration
Contracts:
Resistence to the Administration Contract approach. Managers and personnel of the
Administrative Bureaus of the ANPs felt that management of ANPs was a State
function and feared that involvement of the private entities through the
Administration Contracts would lead to a loss of jobs. The CGs, stakeholders with
particular interests in the ANPs, and even the general public saw the Contracts as a
covert mechanism to privatize the ANPs, restricting their access and diverting their
traditional usufructory benefits. In the Huascaran National Park, local resistance
from illegal tourism operators and others was particularly strong and the ensuing
10


conflicts led INRENA, PROFONANPE, and the Bank to agree to drop efforts there to
apply the participatory Administration Contract approach.
*  Capacity of private non-profit institutions. These same stakeholders doubted that
private non-profit institutions would have the capacity to administer and manage the
ANPs effectively. And, indeed, initially only two of the eleven NGOs identified at
appraisal as potential candidates for Administrative Contracts actually presented
proposals during the bidding processes.
*  Regulatory framework and other prior conditions. It took 18 months to adapt the
regulatory framework to permit use of external donor finance for the Administrative
Contracts.
*  Design of the Contracts themselves - scope of work, rights and responsibilities of the
parties, institutional and coordination arrangements, financing mechanisms, etc. -
also proved time-consuming.
36.    The development of programmatic proposals for the conservation       and
development of ANPs required coordination between the Administrative Bureaus and the
CGs.   The Bureaus were technically weak and viewed management in terms of
surveillance and control. The CGs formally existed but were marginalized, without
channels for coordinating with the Bureaus or an effective operational role in guiding
their activities. They also lacked good relations with the local communities.
37.    The subcomponent on sustainable economic activities envisioned a direct flow of
resources to community-level beneficiary organizations. This required the organizations
to be constituted legally, including its registration at the corresponding governmental
agency and the presentation of the organization's statutes and regulations, which none
was at the time of Project approval. It took approximately 18 months to complete this
formal requirement and begin the flow of funds.
Other factors
38.    Some other factors also hindered implementation of the Project as it was
originally designed:
* As indicated under the design weaknesses, initial Project design did not provide for a
differentiated communication strategy at the national, regional, and local levels to
promote transparency, information sharing, and ultimately the engagement of all
institutions, community groups, NGOs, and other stakeholders in a mutually trusting
manner. This had to be improved and added.
11


*  The technical team improved the Project's training activities. Originally it was limited
to training on specific aspects of ANP management to key staff from IANP and
PROFONANPE. It was complemented with forums and mechanisms established to
promote dialogue, knowledge sharing, and involvement of new stakeholders who
would bring additional skills to ANP management.
*  Local conflicts in the area of Huascaran National Park led to the decision to remove it
from the list of ANPs eligible for management and conservation under an
Administration Contract. Although this reduced the number of ANPs with Project-
supported Administration Contracts from five to four, it did not have any effect on the
achievement of the Project's outcomes.
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
39.   The PAD established key performance indicators for the PDOs and GEO and also
identified outcomes for each of the Project components. These were described in the
main text and summarized, somewhat differently in some cases, in Annex 1, the Project
Design Summary. Annex 1 also specified the sources of data to be used for Project
M&E. These included, inter alia, the GEF program M&E system; the INRENA
biodiversity M&E system (the PIMA system); reports from the SINANPE MIS and ANP
guards; INRENA and NGO gender-specific annual reports and score cards; scientific
studies and annual bio-physical M&E reports; and household surveys by the National
Institute for Economic Studies and other public surveys. The PAD did not, however,
have a detailed description of the arrangements, roles, and responsibilities for collecting
and aggregating the information from these sources to provide an overview of project
performance, except to note that PROFONANPE would recruit an M&E specialist to lead
an M&E team.
40.   Although not specified as such in the PAD, the PIMA system was intended to be
the key instrument for monitoring and evaluating the Project's impact on biodiversity
conservation and protection. This system, however, proved inadequate as its indicators
were not suited to the technical and scientific requirements of the Project. The most
relevant constraints of this system were: i) the procedure to identify key species for
monitoring was not clearly linked to the ANPs manster plans conservation priorities; ii)
there were no procedures to develop the baseline to asses status of conservation; and iii)
the design did not allowed a long-term moinitoring. As a result, two other instruments for
Project M&E were developed during implementation. Because of the reliability of these
instruments and the quality of their M&E, an external evaluation of the Project at closing
was not deemed necessary:
12


*  Participatory M&E mechanisms. Innovative instruments, called "radars", developed
jointly by the Administrative Bureaus and CGs were used to monitor and evaluate
processes and activities to strengthen the Bureaus and CGs, involve local stakeholders
in management, coordinate with regional and local governments, and resolve
conflicts. Evaluation findings were used for planning and decision making.
*  M&E through the Administration Contracts.       The Contractors designed and
incorporated M&E systems as an integral part of the results-oriented management
approach for each of the three broad objectives of the ANP Master Plans: (i)
biodiversity conservation; (ii) sustainable natural resources use; and (iii) financial
sustainability of ANPs. Review and approval by the Administration Bureaus and
CGs of their respective ANPs' quarterly reports on processes and annual reports on
results helped to assure the quality of the information, as did the participation of
PROFONANPE in the financial and technical aspects. In addition, the Contractors
established working arrangements with some 15 national and foreign universities,
assembling a contingent of over 100 people to help develop the indicators and system
for M&E of the Project's biodiversity impacts. This cooperation, including its
financing, is assured over the 20-year span of the Administration Contracts.
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safeguards
41.    The Project was appraised under Category B procedures, given that its objective
was to enhance biodiversity protection and conservation using a participatory, socially
sensitive, and culturally appropriate approach. Two subcomponents, however, would
clearly require careful design and implementation to identify and mitigate any potential
environmental and social problems: (i) subcomponent 1.2, implementation of
participatory management plans, which would entail construction of small infrastructure
works and could lead to restrictions on indigenous and other peoples' traditional access;
and (ii) subcomponent 1.3, which would support the PAES activities. For these reasons,
the PAD and the December 19, 2002, Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (ISDS) both
stated that the Project triggered Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01), Indigenous
Peoples (OP/BP 4.10), and Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12).     There were,
however, discrepancies regarding other safeguards.  The PAD stated that Forestry
(OP/BP 4.36) was also triggered. The ISDS, however, listed Natural Habitats (OP/BP
4.04) among the safeguards triggered in a table on page 3, but not Forestry, whereas in its
text it suggested that both Forestry and Natural Habitats were triggered (paragraph
II.D.1a, page 3).
13


42.   To manage safeguards compliance, Environmental and Social Assessments were
conducted and an Environmental Framework and a Social Strategy were developed.
Consistent with INRENA's policies and procedures as well as Bank safeguard policies,
the Environmental Framework provided for: (i) screening of activities in the ANPs and
the sustainable economic activities; (ii) inclusion, where necessary, of mitigation
measures in the design of those activities; (iii) consultations with stakeholders on the
adequacy of the measures and their implementation; and (iv) monitoring and evaluation
of implementation. The Social Strategy consisted of a Process Framework focusing on
mitigating the possible impacts of restrictions on access to or use of natural resources; (ii)
Indigenous Peoples Development Plans for the five ANPs to ensure participation and
equitable sharing of benefits; (iii) a Gender Strategy to achieve equity in participation and
distribution of benefits and support for strengthening women's organizations; (iv) and a
Public Participation Promotion Plan to raise public awareness of environmental issues
and strengthen civil society and private non-profit organizations' capacity to participate.
43.   Project implementation complied satisfactorily with environmental and social
safeguards, including those for which there was some uncertainty as to their having been
triggered. Applying the Environmental Framework, infrastructure development projects
in the ANPs were small and, along with other activities - e.g., ecotourism - were
screened for environmental impacts throughout implementation. No such impacts arose
that could not be satisfactorily mitigated. As stakeholders became comfortable with the
approach and as mutual trust emerged based on dialogue, communications, and
cooperation, participation of local communities increased. Increased participation was
evident in updates of the ANP Master Plans, the formalization of preexisting rights to
access and use of natural resources, and in the PAES projects which were prepared,
presented, and implemented directly by the people and their organizations and which
yielded direct economic benefits to them. Indigenous Peoples Development Plans
(IPDPs) were prepared and annual plans with the communities were agreed to implement
them. Approximately 35 percent of the beneficiaries of the PAES projects and the
activities carried out under the Administration Contracts were indigenous peoples,
particularly in the Salinas de Aguada Blanca and Tambopata Reserves. Although the
Gender Strategy was not implemented as designed, gender participation was monitored
throughout implementation. Approximately 20 percent of the PAES projects targeted
women and women made up about 50 percent of CG members.
Procurement
44.   PROFONANPE's procurement compliance was rated Highly Satisfactory. Their
procurement processes, and contract administration were of highest quality, reliability,
timeliness, and transparent. PROFONANPE successfully implemented an Action Plan
that responded to recommendations from the Bank's five ex post procurement reviews
14


and Supervision Mission Aide Memoires. No instances of fraud or corruption were
identified by Project closing.
45.   PROFONANPE's management of procurement processes were strengthened
during Project implementation, including its supervision of the Administration
Contractors' execution  of their procurement responsibilities.  The non-profit
organizations were selected following QCBS procedures (using an adjusted Request for
Proposals) and signed management service agreements, which included the responsibility
of the NGOs to contract works, goods and services and also the responsibility to find
additional resources. Under these contracts, PROFONANPE was responsible for ensuring
procurement compliance.
Financial Management
46.   PROFONANPE established and maintained adequate FM        arrangements to
support Project implementation. It developed the expertise to control transfer of funds to
the ANPs effectively, an inherent FM risk that had been rated Modest at Project
appraisal. All audit reports received to date, including the final audit (submitted on April
30, 2010), were submitted on time and were unqualified. PROFONANPE facilitated
smooth closing of the Project and its FM performance at Project closing was rated
Satisfactory.
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
47.   PRONANP, the follow-on Bank-supported operation which began in November
2010 and which is cofinanced by KfW, is scaling up the Project's successful approach to
strengthen biodiversity protection and conservation by increasing participation of civil
society and the private sector in the management of ANPs. Private non-profit
organizations have already submitted six new bids for Administration Contracts for
periods of 20 years and four have already been signed. PRONANP also makes use of a
PAES component to integrate management of different types of protected areas and,
thereby, develop ecological corridors. The Central Selva Project, which is being
implemented with KfW finance, is also using a PAES approach. All in all, activities are
under way to extend the Project's approach to approximately 15 additional ANPs, thus
enhancing its impact on the entirety of SINANPE.
3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
48.   The Project's design and objectives remain relevant to Peru's priorities, policies,
and strategies for sustainable development. Since Project approval, the government has
15


continued to strengthen the legal and regulatory framework for biodiversity protection
and conservation. Important milestones in this regard include the creation of the Ministry
of Environment (MINAM) in May 2008 and the National Service for Protected Natural
Areas (Servicio Nacional de Areas Naturales Protegidas, SERNANP), which replaced
IANP as the agency in charge of directing and establishing technical and administrative
criteria for the management of ANPs. Other significant advances include enactment of
the Biodiversity Law (Ley sobre la Conservacion y Aprovechamiento de la Diversidad
Biologica, Ley No. 26839) and the Protected Areas Law (Ley de Areas Naturales
Protegidas, Ley No.26834), approved in 1997. Later on, the National System of
Environmental Management (Ley Marco del Sistema Nacional de Gesti6n Ambiental No.
28545) and the General Law of the Environment (Ley General del Ambiente No. 28611),
were approved in June 2004 and October 2005.
49.   The Project's outcomes have contributed to the results envisioned in the 2006-
2011 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Peru (Report No. 37913-PE), which
includes improved management of biodiversity conservation under the pillar of "making
growth sustainable." The forthcoming CPS is expected to maintain an emphasis on this
important objective.
3.2 Achievement of Global Environmental Objectives
50.   The Project was largely successful in achieving its broad objectives, at both the
GEO and PDO level. Civil society institutions and private sector non-profit organizations
have become an integral part of processes to plan, implement, monitor, and evaluate the
ANP Master Plans, the annual operating plans of the Administration Contracts, and the
PAES activities that are intended to replace practices that are, in some cases, illegal and,
in all cases, damaging to the continued provision of the global, regional, and local
benefits of Peru's rich biodiversity resources. The Administration Contracts have
brought to bear substantial scientific knowledge, experience, and specialized expertise, as
well as financing. Management of the Project ANPs has improved and, complemented
by the additional incentives and opportunities that the economically sustainable activities
provide, threats to biodiversity conservation are being reduced. The capacity to sustain
the recurring costs of SINANPE has also been enhanced, thanks to contributions to
PROFONANPE from GEF and other donors, the resources that the Administration
Contractors have brought, the additional revenues that improved management of the
ANPs is generating, and the continued good performance of PROFONANPE's asset
portfolio.  These developments are, without a doubt, contributing to the GEO,
conservation of biodiversity of global importance.
51.   This said, a rigorous comparison of actual Project outcomes with those expected
at the time of Project approval is difficult. While the main text of the PAD had six key
16


performance indicators (see page 2), Annex 1, the Project Design Summary, added a
seventh (see page 33). Moreover, the key performance indicators for the GEO and PDO
were largely subjective and the PAD did not provide quantified baselines and targets.
The intention at appraisal seems to have been to use the targets for the component outputs
as proxies for the GEO and PDO indicators. Thus, while the Project has achieved
important outcomes, as is discussed below, the PAD did not establish a clear assessment
framework for each performance indicator.
52.    The following table summarizes the status of the Project's key indicators:
Table 4: Peru Participatory Management of Protected Areas Project
Key Performance Indicators and Outcomes
Objectives 1        Corresponding     Corresponding      Status of Corresponding
Key Performance      Component          Component Outputs
Indicators 2     Output Targets             at ICR
at Project
Approval 3
GEO
To contribute to the    Key performance
conservation of indicators L.a-1.f
biodiversity of global  and 2.a below also
importance.             apply to the GEO.
PDOs
1. To ensure biodiversity  a.Increased     a(i) 2 new and 4  a(i) 2 new and 4 updated ANP
conservation by         management         updated ANP       management plans.
increasing the          effectiveness in   management plans.
involvement of civil    Project ANPs.      a(ii) 5 CGs in    a(ii) 5 CGs in operation in
society institutions and                   operation in Project  Project APNs.
the private sector in                      APNs.
planning and sustainable                   a(iii) 3 ANPs     a(iii) 3 Administration
management of at least                     administered by   Contracts with private non-
five ANPs, and one ANP                     private non-profit  profit organizations were
to be created during                       organizations by  executed between 2006 and
Project Implementation.                    December 2004.    2010, involving 4 ANPs. The
Contractors employ 60
professionals in biological
monitoring, sustainable
agriculture, water resources
management, and surveillance
planning and have access to
additional expertise through
nearly 40 agreements with
From PAD page 2 except where otherwise indicated.
2 From PAD page 2 except where otherwise indicated.
3 From PAD Annex 1, pages 3 3-3 5.
4e PAD Annex 1, page 33.
17


scientific, academic and other
institutions.
b. Improved         b(i) 30 programs in  b(i) 62 small-scale sustainable
degree of           5 ANPs              economic activity projects
biodiversity       implemented to       implemented in 5 ANPs. An
conservation in     reduce biodiversity  external evaluation concluded
Project ANPs.      threats.            that 94% of them had achieved
b(ii) 100 small-    a satisfactory level in terms of
scale sustainable   compliance with project
economic activity   targets, involvement in
projects            conservation efforts,
implemented in 5    participation and
ANPs and buffer     sustainability.
zones.
Most of these projects are wree
still underway with other
resources and linked to larger
scale initiatives.
c. Reduced
number of non-                          c(i) The three Administration
sustainable                             Contractors supported by the
development                             Project are implementing
activities in ANPs                      systems for regular monitoring
and buffer zones.                       and evaluation of the status of
25 biological resources as
stipulated in the Contracts.
This guides their priority
setting and decision making.
Contractors have also
strengthened surveillance and
control systems, in which
some 300 registered
stakeholders participate as
community rangers. Illegal
hunting has dropped to
negligible levels with the
capture of the violators. The
illegal extraction of plant
species of value for water
resource management has also
d. Increased        d(i) Of the 30      declined. See also b(i).
participation of    programs in 5
women in            ANPs implemented    d(i) Women make up 37% of
planning,          to reduce            beneficiaries of the 62 small-
managing,           biodiversity threats,  scale sustainable economic
monitoring, and     10% target women,    activity projects implemented
evaluating Project                      in 5 ANPs. d(ii) Women make
ANPs.                                   up 30% of the members of the
CGs for Project ANPs.
e. Increased        e(i) See a(ii), a(iii);
stakeholder         c(i); d(i), d(ii); and
participation in    f(i).               e(i) See a(ii), a(iii); b(i), c(i);
the management                          d(i), d(ii); and f(i).
of Project ANPs.
e(ii) Processes to develop ANP
18


Master Plans were
f. Participation of  f(i)              participatory.
Indigenous People
in ANP                                 f(i) Approximately 30% of the
conservation                           57 grass roots organizations,
programs.                              NGOs, and small agricultural
cooperatives that were
involved in formulating and
implementing the sustainable
economic activities in the
buffer zones were indigenous.
Indigenous peoples make up
25% of the beneficiaries of
these projects and of the
member of the CGs for Project
ANPs.
2. To obtain              a. Increased       a(i) Increased     a(i) By Project closing,
sustainability for the    capacity to        revenue in each    Contractors were collecting
financing of recurrent    finance SINANPE    Project ANP to     approximately US$1.2 million
costs in SINANPE.         recurrent costs    finance recurrent  in annual revenues from
with local         costs.             tourism and other resource use
resources.                             permit and licensing fees. This
is equal to 50% of the total
permit and licensing revenues
of SINANPE in 2009.
a(ii) Increase in  a(ii) PRONANPE Endowment
PROFONANPE         Fund increased by US$6
Endowment Fund     million.
by US$5 million in
PY1 and US$1       a(iii) The 3 Project-supported
million by PY3.    Administration Contractors
a(iii) Capture of  contributed US$10 million to
US$3 million in    fund management and
additional funds   activities in 4 ANPs during the
over life of Project.  Project. The PAES program
leveraged additional resources
from regional governments
and international cooperation
totalling US $ 15 million.
a(iv) Additional   a(iv) The Project, together
funding            with the KfW-supported PAN
mechanisms         Project, supported
implemented.       development and
implementation of 8 pilot
financial sustainability
projects, including in 4 ANPs
outside of the Project area of
influence. The pilots aimed at
developing agro-forestry,
reforestation, and other
resource management systems
with the participation of local
populations. SERNANP is
supervising implementation in
19


coordination with the
Administrative Bureaus,
Administration Contractors,
and regional and provincial
governments.
53.    To complement the picture of Project outcomes in Table 4 above, Table in Annex
2B of biological monitoring indicators helps illustrate the impact that the Project has had
on biodiversity protection and conservation at the four ANPs supported by the Project,
the Salinas and Aguada Blanca National Reserve, Los Manglares de Tumbes National
Sanctuary, Tambopata National Reserve, and Bahuaja Sonene National Park.
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
54.    The overall rating of the Project is Satisfactory.
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
55.    The new management approaches for ANPs that the Project supported provided
large scope for voice and participation of a wide range of stakeholders, including
community, women's, and indigenous peoples' organizations, regional and local
government agencies, other public sector entities, and private organizations and
businesses. At Project start, of 182 stakeholders identified in 5 ANPs, only 23 percent
indicated that they had a positive relationship with the relevant Administrative Bureau.
CGs existed in four out of the five ANPs, but their members and presidents believed they
could not actively participate in decision making or management. Local populations
generally reported conflictive relationships the the Bureaus. By Project close, 178
stakeholders in 4 ANPs had assumed new or larger roles with respect to matters such as
development and implementation of management plans, rehabilitation of degraded areas,
biological monitoring, research, environmental education, and identification and
implementation of sustainable economic activities.
56.    It is estimated that the PAES activities supported by the Project mobilized and
provided concrete benefits to about 26,000 persons. The activities with greatest impact
were projects in agroforestry (33 percent), ecotourism (14 percent), pasture management
(10 percent), South American camelid management (8 percent), and apiculture (8
percent). The 865 families participating in the agroforestry projects benefited from
training in the establishment of agroforestry systems (coffee, cacao, and fruits) and the
20


provision of nurseries to produce tree seedlings. In the area of ecotourism, 304 families
benefited from 8 projects that strengthened their capacity to provide services, including
small investments in infrastructure and equipment to develop tourism circuits.
57.   As indicated above in the discussion of safeguards implementation, women and
indigenous peoples groups, benefited from opportunities to participate in the design,
implementation, and monitoring of ANP management plans and the sustainable economic
activities.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
58.   The Project helped strengthen institutions at the national, regional, and local
levels, and in the private non-profit sector:
*  National. SERNANP, established in 2008 as the public agency responsable for
defining and overseeing the technical and administrative framework for managing the
ANPs, has been strengthened by the demonstrated effectiveness of the participatory
management approach supported by the Project and is rolling out the approach across
the entirety of SINANPE. In doing so, it has developed mechanisms to improve
coordination and information sharing among the CGs. One of these is the National
Council for the Coordination of Protected Areas Management Committees (Consejo
Nacional de Coordinacion de Comites de Gestion, CNCCG). As the CGs now
include over 1,000 stakeholders, CNCCG is one of Peru's broadest institutional
platforms and serves as one of the principal drivers of participatory ANP management
and biodiversity conservation and protection.  Administration Contracts have
provided SERNANP with an instrument not only to access private sector expertise,
but also to leverage new sources of finance to support recurring costs in SINANPE
and improved ANP management.
*  Regional and Local.   Peru has moved to decentralize to regional and local
governments the responsibility to deliver a wide range of public services, including
those relating to environmental management. As the Natural Resources Management
Bureaus of the regional governments are still building capacity, the participatory
approach to management of ANPs and the use of Administration Contracts have
provided to them an important instrument for fulfilling their mandate.
*  Private Sector. The Project has helped to expand the private sector constituency for
biodiversity protection and conservation. None of the organizations that has taken
Administration Contracts was among the conservation-oriented institutions that have
traditionally been present in Peru.  One of the principal concerns that the
Administration Contractors voiced was about their capacity to fulfill their
21


commitment to provide financing, as they had previously been dependent on donor
finance, largely for short-term projects. Due, however, to the experience that they
acquired in implementing the Contracts, they gained a higher profile and were able to
widen their network of institutional contacts. As a result, they were willing to extend
their commitment under the Administration Contracts from 5-7 to up to 20 years.
This has had a spill-over effect on other non-profits that are now seeking
Administration Contracts, as they too are proposing a 20-year contractual term.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts. Not applicable
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
59.   SERNANP staff, ANP Administrators, Presidents of CGs, and Administration
Contractors, were asked bout their view on the principal contributions of the Project. See
details in Annex 5. In addition, the same stakeholders participated on several workshops
in the four Project-supported ANPs to assess Project activities and results. See details in
Annex 6.
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
60.   The risk to the Project's development outcome is rated Low to Negligible.
61.   As indicated in Section 2.5, Post-completion Operation/Next Phase, the Project's
successful approach is already being scaled up with the intention to extend it to
approximately 15 additional ANPs. Six new private non-profit organizations have
already submitted bids for Administration Contracts for periods of 20 years and four have
already been signed.
62.   Other factors are supporting this extension and will also contribute to reduce the
risk to the Project's development outcome:
*  As noted above, the Administration Contractors supported by the Project have also
requested to extend their Contracts, including their own financial commitments, from
the initial period of 5 to 7 years to up to 20 years. The CGs and SERNANP have
approved these requests.
*  CNCCG, whose establishment and operation the Project supported, has taken on the
role of promoting at the national level the development of participatory management
and use of Administration Contracts.
22


*  Related to this, to reinforce the participatory approach and promote integrated
management of different types of protected areas, SERNANP has incorporated and is
financing the participation of the CGs in the national strategic and operational
planning process for the ANPs, a process that previously had included only the ANP
Administrators.  It has also mandated annual meetings with Administration
Contractors and presidents of the CGs regarding the Contractors' annual operating
plans and their respective responsibilities.
*  The Local Education Management Units (Unidades de Gestion Educativa Local,
UGELs) in the Project areas are receiving support from regional governments and
donors to continue education programs developed with Project support regarding the
environmental importance of the ANPs and biodiversity conservation and protection.
The Administrative Bureaus and Administration Contractors are maintaining
educators on their staff to provide technical assistance to the UGELs to help
strengthen program content and teachers' skills. The programs are spreading beyond
the Project's area of influence.
*  Local communities are continuing the sustainable economic activities initiated with
Project financing and, in many cases, these PAES projects are receiving finance from
local sources, including municipalities for their extension. The formalization of the
beneficiary organizations, which was required for them to receive Project resources,
has empowered them to interact with a range of other programs and sources of
finance. SERNANP sees PAES as a valuable instrument and, as indicated in Section
2.5, similar programs are being incorporated in other biodiversity conservation and
protection projects.
63.    Two risks to the sustainability of the Project's development outcomes deserve
particular attention. The first is the financial sustainability of the approach and the
second is the challenge that construction of the Transoceanic Highway will create to the
sustainability of the ANPs.
Financial sustainability
64.    At the time the Project was appraised, Peru depended on international donor
institutions and non-governmental organizations for funds to finance the ANPs' recurring
costs and promote biodiversity conservation.    This situation has not changed
fundamentally, as is suggested by the fact that the Peruvian authorities requested (and
obtained) World Bank and KfW financing for new projects to scale up the approach.
The Administration Contractors also rely in large part on external grants to meet their
financial commitments. It should be recognized that a major shift in the priorities of
donors and other sources of external grant funding could call into question the financial
23


sustainability of the Project approach. The following factors, however, mitigate this risk
and point towards improving prospects for sustaining SINANPE's annual recurring costs,
which were estimated at appraisal to be approximately US$9.5 million.
65.   Private sector contributions. First, the Project leveraged US$10 million in
funding from private sector entities for the first five to seven years of the Administration
Contracts for the four ANPs that the Project supported. Private sector entities are
increasingly confident of their ability to mobilize the resources to fulfill the obligations of
an Administration Contract. As indicated above, this is evidenced by the six new
requests for Contracts with a 20-year term, which entails a financial commitment of $15
million for their first five to seven years and by the requests of the Contractors supported
by the Project to extend their existing Contracts up to 20 years. Contributing to this
confidence, no doubt, is the regulatory framework for the Contracts, which provides that
all financial resources that the Contractors generate from tourism permits, natural
resource use license fees, and other ANP goods and services are to be used to finance
Contract costs rather than to flow into the national Treasury.
66.    Second, the Project supported preparation of a ten-year financial plan for
SINANPE, approved by Presidential Resolution No 130 in July 2009 and being
implemented.
67.    Third, PROFONANPE's own capital has increased by US$6 million that GEF and
the Government of Finland provided during Project implementation. Its capital stood at
approximately US$21.6 million at Project appraisal, including the US$5.4 million
Endowment Fund established by the first GEF Project. At Project close,
PROFONANPE's capital stood at US$29 million, including the now US$11.4 million
Endowment Fund. PROFONANPE continues to manage its capital well. From the
inception of the Endowment Fund in August 2003, the portfolio had produced US$1.4
million by Project close to finance recurrent costs of SINANPE.
68.    Finally, municipal, local, and regional governments are providing an increasing
amount of funding to support biodiversity conservation and protection activities in the
ANPs and buffer zones, either to the Administration Contractors or directly to the
beneficiary organizations involved in the PAES projects. During the implementation of
the Project, the PAES program leveraged additional funds from regional governments
and international cooperation, contributing with approximately US$15 million.
Transoceanic Highway
69.    The construction of the Transoceanic Highway from Brazil, through Bolivia and
Peru, could potentially affect biodiversity conservation and protection in the ANPs. The
24


monitoring systems developed under the Administration Contracts and the direct
involvement in them of no less than 57 local organizations, as well as the strengthened
capacities of the PAMCs should help to identify the impacts and develop mitigation
measures. Nonetheless, an assessment of the social and environmental impacts of the
highway is urgently required to ensure that the biodiversity conservation and protection
gains that the ANPs have achieved are not overwhelmed by the scale of the project. This
might be directly financed by SERNANP or through the Administration Contracts, to
clearly identify the social and environmental impacts and establish a mitigation plan.
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
70.   Quality at entry had a number of strengths and weaknesses (see Section 2.1
above). The greatest strength was the design of the participatory arrangements which
were the central element in the entire protected areas strategy and the foundation on
which improved outcomes in biodiversity conservation have been built. Other strengths
included the relevance of the Project to Peru's legal and overall policy framework for
biodiversity conservation, its potential contributions to CPS outcomes, the frameworks
and strategies developed to ensure safeguards compliance, the selection of
PROFONANPE to lead Project implementation, and the consideration of a wide range of
risks. Weaknesses included an inadequate assessment of stakeholder resistence to the
idea of Administration Contracts and the time required to execute the Administration
Contracts, develop Master Plans for ANP management, and constitute the organizations
to benefit from the PAES projects; the lack of a differentiated communications strategy;
arrangements for M&E that were ill-suited to the needs of the Project; and shortcomings
in the indicators for measuring Project outcomes.  Balancing these strengths and
weaknesses, the Bank's performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated Moderately
Satisfactory.
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
71.   Section 2.2 outlines a number of factors that hindered implementation,
particularly with respect to establishing the Adminstration Contracts, developing
programmatic proposals for ANP management and conservation, and starting up the
sustainable economic activities. Bank supervision missions worked closely with
PROFONANPE and INRENA to address these difficulties. In particular:
25


*  The Bank worked with PROFONANPE to strengthen the Project's communication
strategy. This was critical to increasing transparency and information sharing and to
building the atmosphere of trust and confidence among stakeholders that was
necessary to develop a common view of the benefits of biodiversity conservation and
of the importance of ensuring that local stakeholders could share those benefits.
*  Other efforts to build institutional and social support for the Administration Contracts
and ensure that the participatory arrangements would function effectively included:
(i) promoting dialogue between the ANP Administration Bureaus and corresponding
CGs; (ii) facilitating involvement of CGs and regional government representatives in
committees to select Administration Contractors; and (iii) encouraging broad
stakeholder participation in development of the terms of reference for Administration
Contracts, the Contractors' annual work programs, and the identification, design, and
execution of the sustainable economic activities.
*  The Project facilitated  the completion   of the specific regulation   for the
Administration Contracts stemming from the Protected Areas Law and supported the
establishment of the Administration Contracts unit within IANP, providing a
consultant to follow up on its implementation. It also helped to identify and expand
the number of institutions that could potentially be Administration Contractors, to
encourage their interest, and to revise the Project procurement arrangements so as to
facilate the contracting process.
*  The Bank also engaged with the Administration Bureaus, Administration Contractors,
CGs, PROFONANPE, and other local stakeholders to create the conditions for
agreeing on the detailed Master Plans for management of the ANPs. These efforts
included supporting the development of instruments including the "radars," for
monitoring and evaluating the Project's participatory processes and the PAES to
ensure on-going coordination with local stakeholders.
*  In addition to facilitating the development of the "radars" for social monitoring, the
Bank supported PROFONANPE and the Administration Contractors in developing an
alternative to the PTMA system for biodiversity monitoring. In this regard, it assisted
in the analysis of alternative methodologies and brought in experiences from other
countries in the region.
*  Procurement   and   financial  management    missions   served  to  strengthen
PROFONANPE's performance. In particular, based on recommendations from
procurement missions and ex post procurement reviews, an action plan was
developed which PROFONANPE implemented to improve its procedures.
26


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
72.    The Project was, and remains, relevant to Peru's objectives and strategies for
achieving social and environmentally sustainable development. The Project's
arrangements for the inclusion and participation of a wide range of stakeholders in ANP
management were highly innovative. They served to build consensus, resolve conflicts,
and leverage skills and financing. As such, they were the central and essential element in
the strategy to achieve the Project's objectives of strengthened, sustainable management
of Peru's rich biodiversity. Close supervision supported resolution of design weaknesses
and issues that arose during Project implementation.
5.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
73.    A positive aspect of the Government's performance was its on-going effort to
strengthen the legal, regulatory, and institutional framework for biodiversity protection
and conservation, thus improving the overall context for Project implementation. As
previously mentioned, however, there were delays with regard to key processes that were
under the Government's responsibility: i) regulatory reform to permit use of external
donor finance for the Administration Contracts; ii) establishment in coordination with the
Administration Bureaus and CGs of consistent, in-depth Master Plans for the
conservation and development of ANPs; and (iii) formally constituting the beneficiary
organizations for the sustainable economic activities. During the Project's preparation
phase, the Government could have anticipated or at least identified all the administrative
steps to be taken in order to execute the Administration Contracts and to enable local
organizations to participate in the PAES program, as to include them as specific Project
activities under Component 1.
(b) Implementing Agency's or Agencies' Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
74.    PROFONANPE was highly committed to the Project and collaborated well with
the Bank and other partners. Although Administration Contracts are contemplated under
the Protected Areas Law as a management mechanism, the approach had never been
implemented before. PROFONANPE's skilled technical staff successfully developed the
necessary legal and institutional arrangements and led efforts to ensure coordination with
SERNANP and other institutions in order to pilot the innovative approach successfully.
27


PROFONANPE competently executed its responsibilities for procurement and financial
management and provided timely reporting in line with Project requirements.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
75.    The overall Borrower performance was satisfactory taking into consideration the
Government's continued progress in strengthening the legal, regulatory, and institutional
framework for biodiversity conservation and PROFONANPE's performance as described
above. These actions contributed to the effectiveness of the participatory processes and
the Administration Contracts and the achievement of the Project objectives.
6. Lessons Learned
76.    Project implementation provided lessons regarding four broad topics:    (i)
implementation of innovations; (ii) participatory approaches; (iii) the Administration
Contract approach; and (iv) project management and launch. The importance of
communications and transparency is a theme that runs throughout.
Implementation of innovations
*  Successful implementation of innovations requires several ingredients: (i) a legal,
regulatory, and/or clear policy mandate; (ii) a champion with sufficient strength,
standing, expertise, conviction, and permanence; and (iii) social and institutional
support foundations.
*  Careful stakeholder analysis is required to identify those that are likely to oppose the
innovation. Communications, forums for dialogue, and other inclusive processes are
required to build the transparency and trust necessary to overcome their resistance. A
social and institutional framework, in which the parties see themselves as peers and
partners, rather than as in a hierarchical relationship, is critical. Full buy-in may
require more time than the project implementation period. Conflict and grievance
resolution mechanisms are required to ease tensions that will arise along the way.
*  Innovations should be piloted in more than one area. Although this adds a layer of
complexity, it will test the innovation in a variety of circumstances. Attempting to
finetune the criteria and select a pilot that appears to have the best conditions risks
failure of the test, as unforeseen circumstances may arise that cannot be resolved.
Participatory processes
* The importance of communications in establishing the transparency and trust needed
for effective participation of a range of diverse stakeholders has already been
mentioned. Communications must be tailored to address local interests and concerns.
28


A communications strategy should be conceived of broadly, going beyond
dissemination of information to promoting forums, processes, mechanisms, and
instruments for inclusion.
The willingness of local populations and communities to become involved in
conservation tasks is enormous. Participatory management will progress and succeed
to the extent that there is shared information and analysis and the parties perceive the
distribution of costs and benefits as equitable. Economic interests may be more
powerful than environmental awareness as a motivation for participation. Thus
environmental awareness raising programs will not be enough to achieve effective
participation.
Administration Contract approach
*  A  long-term  results-oriented management approach, such as the Administration
Contract instrument, may more effectively promote efficiency than the more
traditional project-specific implementation contract.  The requirement for the
contractor to make a financial commitment also promotes efficiency. It is important,
however, to allow the financial commitment to be fulfilled progressively in order not
to discriminate against smaller partners that may have less short-term financial
capacity.
*  In recent years, SINANPE has been unable to use all of the donor resources available
to it for investments in biodiversity conservation. Administration Contracts have
proved an effective tool for expanding capacity to make good use of available
resources.
*  The success of an Administration Contract with a private institution and its
sustainability as a management mechanism requires the parties to shift from the short-
term perspective of the more typical project-specific management arrangements to the
perspective of long-term program implementation. These are complex matters that
may not easily be anticipated and planned for and will take some time to address.
*  Administration Contracts can serve as a vehicle for partnering with for-profit private
sector enterprises, further increasing absorptive capacity, broadening and deepening
the pool of available expertise. This is already happening in Peru, although caution is
required in order not to inflame concerns about "privatization" of SINANPE.
Project management and launch
* Establishing a stable core team in the project implementing agency is particularly
important when a high degree of rotation of senior officials within the agency is
likely. The team must be convinced of the importance of the project's objectives and
the suitability of its strategy. It must be well placed and have the authority and
control of processes necessary to discharge its responsibilities.  In addition to
29


technical expertise, it is vital that it have the capacity to manage and to coordinate
diverse actors, functions which cannot be delegated to consultants without creating
risks to project continuity.
* It should not be assumed that the Borrower agencies that participated in project
preparation and are to be involved in its implementation will have a clear, much less
common, view of the objectives, strategy, and activities of the project, particularly as
the preparation phase may be lengthy and there may be rotation of key staff during it.
Project launch to promote a common understanding and buy-in is, therefore, critical.
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies. See summary of comments in Annex 7.
(b) Cofinanciers. See summary comments submitted by KfW and the National Service
of Protected Areas (SERNANP) in Annex 8.
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not applicable.
30


Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
Appraisal    Actual / Latest
Percentage of
Components                         Estimate (USD     Estimate
millions)   (USD millions)
Total Baseline Cost                                           32.84         36.87       112%
1 Participatory Protected Area Management                       18.23         19.51        107%
1.1 Preparation of Master and Management Plans                    2.59          0.58         23%
1.2 Participatory Plan Implementation                             8.15         17.27        212%
1.3 Sustainable Economic Activities in ANPs and Buffer Zones      7.49          1.66         22%
2 Institutional Development                                      5.74          4.93         86%
2.1 Training and TA INRENA /PROFONANPE                             2.47          2.33        95%
2.2 Capacity Building of Civil Society                             0.99          1.39       140%
2.3 Public Awareness Program                                       1.52          1.05        69%
2.4 SINANPE-based MIS                                              0.76         0.15         20%
3 Project Administration, M&E and Info Dissemination.            8.87         12.43        140%
3.1 Increase of Endowment Fund                                     6.00          6.00       100%
3.2 Financing Strategy for SINANPE                                0.30          0.25         85%
3.3 Project Implementation and Monitoring and Evaluation          2.45          5.75        235%
3.4 Information Dissemination                                     0.12          0.22        184%
Operating expenses SINANPE                                                  0.20          0%
Total Project Cost                                           33.187        37.124        73%
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)                            0.347         0.254         73%
Total Financing Required                                    33.187        37.124       112 %
(b) Financing
Appraisal Actual/Latest
Type of     Estimate     Estimate  Percentage of
Cofinancing     (USD        (USD       Appraisal
millions)    millions)
Borrower                                          2.96       3.16 (*)     107.00
Global Environment Facility (GEF)                14.80         14.8       100.00
FINLAND, Govt. of (Except for Min.                2.50        2.50        100.00
for Foreign Affairs)
GERMANY: KREDITANSTALT                            6.58        5.58         84.80
FUR WIEDERAUFBAU (KFW)
NETHERLANDS: Min. of Foreign                      4.44        2.05         46.17
Affairs / Min. of Dev. Coop. (**)
Local Farmer Organizations                        0.53        0.53        100.00
Non-Government Organization                       1.00         8.25       825.00
(NGO) of Borrowing Country
31


) Includes $ 0.5 million, corresponding to the revenues of the Finland endowment. (**) Replaced by KFW
32


Annex 2A. Outputs by Component
a) GEO Indicators
Global Objective: Contribute to the conservation of biodiversity of global importance in
Perd.
Original Target   Formally     Actual Value
Values (from     Revised       Achieved at
approval        Target      Completion or
documents)       Values      Target Years
Indicator 1:  Increased management effectiveness in project ANPs
INRENA has                   INRENA has
increased its                increased its
Value         INRENA's managementmagentaaeet
(quantitative or capacity is weak in the  effe.en bynefe               en   t
.ulttv)   Prjc'     NS           effectiveness by             effectiveness by the
the closing of the           closing of the
Project.                     Project.
Date achieved 04/12/2004             10/26/2009                   10/26/2009
100% achieved. ANPs effectiveness was increased through: i) improved financing
Comments      from national and international sources; ii) Administration Contracts: 60
(incl. %      professionals incorporated to the ANP's teams ; biodiversity research and
achievement)  monitoring and improved control and surveillance; iii) increased participation and
involvement of local stakeholders through the CGs and PAES program.
Indicator 2:  Reduced number of non-sustainable development activities in the ANP
buffer zones
62 projects (PAES
No activities to reduce or 130 programs and         program) were
Value         mitigate non-sustainable activities to reduce       developed in ANPs
(quantitative or development activities  threats to               and buffer zones
Qualitative)  have been developed in  biodiversity to be          aimed at mitigating
the Project's ANPs    implemented                   threats to
biodiversity.
Date achieved 04/12/2004            10/26/2009                    10/26/2009
Comments      100% achieved. Non-sustainable development activities were substantially
(incl. %
ac.      t   reduced in buffer zones of Project's ANPs.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :  Improved degree of biodiversity conservation in Project's ANPs
No less than 20
No specific programs and Improved degree            species are under
Value         activities are underway in of biodiversity         improved
(quantitative or Project's ANPs to  conservation in               management and
Qualitative)  improve biodiversity  Project's ANPs                monitored under the
conservation                                        Administration
Contracts
Date achieved 04/12/2004            10/26/2009                    10/26/2010
Comments      The Administration Contracts included the recovery and management of 20 key
(incl. %      species and ecosystems, through baseline studies on conservation, identification
achievement)  of main threats, design and implementation of specific conservation actions,
33


establishment of conservation impact indicators and monitoring of impacts.
Indicator 4 :  Increased stakeholder participation in project ANPs.
25 local civil
society                       57 local civil society
organizations are             organizations are
able to formulate             able to formulate
No local civil society  and conduct
Value         organizations are      conservation                   condut
(quantitative or involved in conservation programs and            conration
Qualitative)  activities in the Project's small-scale             scale sustainable
ANPs.                  sustainable                  economic activities
economic.
.cnoi .in buffer zones.
activities in buffer
zones.
Date achieved 06/21//2004            10/26/2009                    10/26/2009
Target surpassed.The Project was able to involve 57 civil society organizations in
the formulation and implementation of sustainable economic activities in the
Comments      buffer zones. Of these, 36 are grassroots organizations, 12 are NGOs, and 9 are
(incl. %      small agricultural producers' cooperatives. A total of 178 stakeholders in 4 ANPs
achievement)  have assumed commitments associated with the planning and management of
ANPs.
Indicator 5 :  Increased women's participation in the management of ANPs.
Increased6,267 women
woncres                     participated in
women's
Women are not directly                              conservation
 involved in conservation                                activities in the
(quantitative or activities in the Project's management of        Project's ANPs,
Qualitative)                         ANPs though the              representing 37% of
ANPs.                   G   n   AS
the total participants
and beneficianes.
Date achieved  04/12/2004            10/26/2009                    10/26/2009
100% achieved. The Project did not develop the gender strategy as originally
Coe. nt      planned. Given the identified difficulties for its implementation, the Project team
ae.     n    opted for a different approach. Participation was secured through the planning
process of the CGs and PAES.
Indicator 6 :  Participation of Indigenous Peoples in ANPs conservation programs.
Increased                     4,217 Indigenous
Indigenous                    Peoples participated
Value         Indigenous peoples are  Peoples                     in conservation
.     not directly involved in  participation in the      activities in the
Quanitative  conservation activities in management of            Project's ANPs,
the Project's ANPs.    ANPs though the              representing 25% of
CGs and PAES.                 the total participants
and beneficiaries.
Date achieved 04/19/2004             10/26/2009                    10/26/2009
Comments      Indigenous Peoples participation was also a key aspect in Project
34


(incl. %      implementation. The Indigenous Peoples Plan developed during the preparation
achievement)  phase was incorporated to the PAES Operational Plan and to the Administration
Contracts.
Indicator 7 :  Increased revenue in each protected area to finance recurrent costs.
The revenue to
Value         Budgetary allocations to targeted ANPs               PROFONANPE's
.     targeted ANPs is very  increased through            endowment was
Quanitative   low and do not cover   the Project to               increased to US $ 6
Qualitative)                                                      milion
basic recurrent costs.  secure financing of         million.
recurrent costs.
Date achieved 04/12/2004             08/10/2006                   08/10/2006
100% achieved. Contributions by the World Bank and the Government of Finland
increased PROFONANPE's asset funds by US$6 million. To date, this portfolio
has achieved yields of US$1.4 million that have been used to finance.
the recurrent costs of the SINANPE.
Comments
(incl. %      The Project has directly leveraged US$10 million from private sector entities for
achievement)  the management of the four ANPs under its scope. These contributions have
mainly been achieved through the Administration Contract financing model,
under which executors have committed US$10 million in financing for the first
phase (five to seven years).
b) Ouput Indicators
Indicator       Baseline      Original     Formally    Actual Value Achieved at
Value     Target Values    Revised      Completion or Target
(from     Target Values          Years
approval
documents)
Component 1: Participatory Protected Areas Management
Output Indicator # 2 new and 4 updated master plans for Natural Protected Areas
1
Value              0            6                           5
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved      04/12/2004   06/12/2009                  06/12/2009
Comments           Master plans were updated for Los Manglares de Tumbes National
(incl. %           Sanctuary, Salinas and Aguada Blanca National Reserve, and Huascardn
achievement)       National Park, and to the final preparation of the master plans of
Tambopata National Reserve and Bahuaja Sonene National Park.
Output Indicator # 5 Natural Protected Areas CGs in operation.
2
Value               0           5                           5
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
35


Date achieved     |04/12/2004  10/26/2009                  10/26/2009
Comments           100% achieved. The CGs of the five ANPs have been strengthened; this
(incl. %           included the creation of the Bahuaja Sonene National Park Committee.
achievement)
Output Indicator # 3 ANPs administered by private non-profit organizations
3
Value              0              3                          3
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved      04/12/2004     10/26/2009                 12/30/2010
Comments           100% achieved. Three Administration Contracts with private organizations
(incl. %           were implemented, involving four of the ANPs under the scope of the
achievement)       Project. The co-financing provided by the Project for the first phase of
these contracts totaled US$3.2 million, with a contribution by the executors
of US$8.7 million, which during the course of implementation increased to
US$10 million, representing a leverage of 3 to 1.
Output Indicator # 50% of PA management activities contracted out to private sector in
4                  the three remaining ANPs by December 2004
Value              0              3                          1
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved      04/12/2004     10/26/2009                 12/30/2010
Comments           Partially achieved under the Project. One Administration Contract was
(incl. %           implemented in another ANP targeted by the Project. The fifth ANP was
achievement)      the Huascaran National Park, which was eliminated as eligible for this type
of co-management mechanisms as per the Government's decision. The
sixth ANP (Morona Pastaza) was to be created under the KfW PAN
project, although all the necessary steps were undertaken, it was not
formally established by the closing of the Project. Approximately 10
Administration Contracts are currently under a bidding process and/or
awarded in other ANPs due to the successful experience under the Project.
Output      100 small scale activities implemented in 5 ANPs over 6 years, of which at
Indicators # least 10% will target women initiatives and 30 programs in 5 ANPs
5 and 6     implemented to reduce biodiversity threats.
Value        0         130                        62
(quantitative
or
Qualitative)
Date        04/17/2004 10/26/2009                 10/26/2009
achieved
Comments    PROFONANPE and the Bank agreed that the proposed number was too high, due
(incl. %    to the existing local cavacities and to the Proiect's limited availability of resources
36


achievement) for this component. It was considered that it was going to be more efficient to
focus on preparing and supervising a smaller number of activities that would be
technically sound, will receive more financing and have a stronger potential for
replicability. 62 projects (PAES program) were developed in ANPs and buffer
zones aimed at mitigating threats to biodiversity.
Component 2: Institutional Strengthening
INRENA, GDPA (IANP) and PROFONANPE staff trained over the life of the
Output      project.
Indicator #
7
Value       Limited       Increased                   250 INRENA and ANPs staff
(quantitative capacity at  INRENA's                  with improved skills to manage
or          INRENA for    institutional              ANPs through participatory
Qualitative) planning,    capacity for               mechanisms.
monitoring    planning,
and           monitoring and
participatory  participatory
management    management of
of ANPs       ANPs
Date        04/21/2004    10/26/2009                  10/26/2009
achieved
Comments    100 % achieved. INRENA and protected areas staff has improved participatory
(incl. %    management skills through: i) implementation of a system to manage and monitor
achievement) Administration Contracts with private organizations; ii) development of the
Strategic Plan 2006-2010; iii) establishment of the CGs.
Output      INRENA reduces average response time.
Indicator #
8
Value       Limited capacity at INRENA internal                  INRENA has
(quantitative INRENA to       monitoring and                     reduced average
or          monitor          reporting system                    response time from
Qualitative) administrative   operating                          60 to 15 days on
procedures                                           overall
administrative
procedures.
Date        04/21/2004         10/26/2009                         10/26/2009
achieved
Comments    100 % achieved.Management Information System designed and operating. Better
(inc. %     decision-making process is in place, thanks to updated and reliable information.
achievement) The system contains a set of modules linked to administrative procedures.
Output      25 local civil society organizations receiving assistance from the Project.
Indicator #
9
Value       0                 25                                  57
(quantitative
or
37


Qualitative)
Date        04/21/2004         10/26/2009                         10/26/2009
achieved
Comments    Target surpassed. 57 local organizations (NGOs and grass root organizations) are
(incl. %    able to formulate and conduct conservation programs and sustainable economic
achievement) activities at a small scale in ANPs buffer zones.
Output      Gender concerns are taken into account in all training programs
Indicator #
10
Value       Women do      Women fully                     Women fully involved in
(quantitative not       involved in                      planning and conservation
or          participate in planning and                  activities of ANPs.
Qualitative) planning and conservation
conservation  activities of
activities of  ANPs.
ANPs.
Date        04/21/2004    10/26/2009                      10/26/2009
achieved
Comments    100% achieved. Women actively participated in CGs and in the implementation of
(incl. %    the PAES Program; therefore, they also participated in the training process.
achievement)
Output      PAMCs (CGs) recommendations are being implemented by PY3 and
Indicator #  measured.
11
Value        CGs were not   CGs are fully              CGs are fully involved in ANPs
(quantitative conformed or  involved in               planning and implementation of
or          operational in  ANPs planning             Project's activities
Qualitative) the Project's  and
targeted ANPs. implementation
of Project's
activities
Date        04/21/2004      10/26/2009                 10/26/2009
achieved
Comments    100% achieved. CGs actively participated in the planning process of ANPs and
(incl. %    supervised the implementation of the PAES programs and the Administration
achievement) Contracts.
Output        Public awareness strategy implemented by Project Year 3 and publication
Indicator # 12 of experiences.
Value         No awareness           Local                      Local awareness and
(quantitative or campaigns developed  awareness and            education campaigns
Qualitative)  for protected areas.  education                  implemented
campaigns
implemented
Date achieved  04/21/2004            08/21/2008                 08/21/2008
38


Comments      100% achieved. The campaigns have involved the financing of a permanent
(incl. %      communications specialist among INRENA, leading the implementation of the
achievement)  ANPs communication strategy over three years, aligned with the key planning
and participatory processes supported in the ANPs. Increased awareness and
participation is evidenced through the substantial increase of local organization
directly involved in s management, from proximately 12 originally registered, to
57. Several publications have been produced to disseminate the results of the
PAES program and the Administration Contracts.
Output        Media campaigns implemented by the end of PY4.
Indicator # 13
Value         No media campaigns Media                      Media campaigns were
(quantitative or developed for the  campaigns               implemented as part of
Qualitative)  Project's targeted  implemented              the Project's
ANPs.              by the end of              communication strategy
PY 4
Date achieved  04/21/2004         08/10/2008                08/10/2008
Comments      100% achieved.The communications strategy helped to achieve information
(incl. %      coverage and feedback from over 25,000 people and nearly 300 institutions
achievement)  through educational sessions, periodic bulletins, websites and programs in the
local media.
Output        20,000 school age children to receive educational materials.
Indicator # 14
Value         0                 20,000                    25,000
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved  04/21/2004       08/10/2008                08/10/2008
Comments      100% achieved. The Project, through professionals who were incorporated in
(incl. %      ABs, helped the Ministry of Education's Local Educational Management Units
achievement)  to incorporate these subjects in the regular educational program, developing the
modules, materials and processes for teacher training and for the
institutionalization of these educational practices.
Output        Establishment of a MIS in PY3 and operating by the end of PY3
Indicator # 15
Value         No MIS for       MIS                        MIS for stakeholder
(quantitative or Project's targeted  developed           participation developed by
Qualitative)  ANPs.            and operation             PY3 and operation by PY3,
by PY3                    MIS for biological aspects
developed by PY5
Date achieved  04/21/2004       08/10/2007                08/10/2008
Comments      100% achieved. MIS to assess stakeholder participation was developed and
(incl. %      implemented by the Project technical team. Biological monitoring for species
achievement)  considered key for conservation was developed under the Administration
Contracts.
Output        Creation of a project website and 20,000 hits over the life of the project.
Indicator # 16
39


Value         No project website Project                  Project's website created
(quantitative or               website                   and being permanently
Qualitative)                   created                   updated.
Date achieved  04/21/2004       08/10/2008                08/10/2008
Comments      100% achieved. Project's website contains detailed information on the Project's
(incl. %      activities and results. Approximately 25,000 hits were registered during the life
achievement)  of the Project.
Component 3: Financing, Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation of ANPs and
Dissemination of Information.
Output          Increase of PROFONANPE endowment fund by US $ 5 million by PY 1
Indicator # 17  and US $ Imillion by PY2.
Value           3 million     6 million                6 million
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved  104/21/2004    08/10/2006               08/10/2006
Comments        100% achieved. PROFONANPE's asset funds increased to US$6 million,
(incl. %        resulting from contributions by the World Bank and the Government of
achievement)    Finland. To date, this portfolio has achieved yields of US$1.4 million that
have been used to finance the recurrent costs of the SINANPE.
Output          Capture of US $ 3 million in additional funds over the life of the project.
Indicator # 18
Value           0             3 million                10 million
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved  104/21/2004     10/26/2009              10/26/2009
Comments        100 % achieved. The Project has directly leveraged US$10 million from
(incl. %        private sector entities for the management of the four ANPs under its scope.
achievement)    These contributions have mainly been achieved through the Administration
Contract financing model, under which executors have committed US$10
million in financing for the first phase (five to seven years).
Output          Additional funding mechanisms implemented.
Indicator # 19
Value           SINANPE        10 year                 10 year Financial Plan for
(quantitative or  lacks a long-  Financial            SERNANP completed and
Qualitative)   term financial  Plan for               proved.
plan          SERNANP
completed
and proved.
Date achieved  104/12/2004     10/26/2009              07/10/2009
Comments        100% achieved. The SINANPE's Financial Plan provides the foundation for
(incl. %        the financial sustainability of SINANPE. It was proved by SERNANP in July
achievement)    2009 through Presidential Resolution No 130 and was subsequently published.
40


Annex 2B: Biodiversity Protection and Conservation Impact
ANP           Identified Threats      Indicators   :=    Progress Made on Indicators
Salinas y Aguada    Soil and vegetation  1,000 hectares of   Intervention in 1,056 hectares
Blanca National     degradation due to  pastures for domestic  (106% of target). This has
Reserve             overgrazing and     camelids improve     included coordination with
introduction of     from very poor to     organizations and authorities,
exotic grasses.     good condition.       studies, management plan,
installation of fences on 171
hectares, fertilization of 675
hectares, construction of 23 pools
of water, 11 micro-dams, 92 km of
rustic irrigation canals, 21 km. of
water filtration ditches. In
addition, the formation and
assistance of conservation
committees, the support and
formalization of irrigation
committees, training in pasture
management with communities, a
program for genetic improvement
and control and surveillance.
Salinas y Aguada    Deforestation, soil  Improve the condition  15 hectares reforested. This has
Blanca National     and vegetation      of Chachani's queiua  included the completion of
Reserve             degradation.       patches, reflected in  studies, the development of
the increase in the   propagation technologies, the
biological diversity  construction of 6 fences to exclude
and wealth of species.  herbivores, the proposal for the
management plan, direct seeding
and densification of 30 hectares,
and control and surveillance.
Salinas y Aguada    Heavy loss of      Increase the          3 22.7% increase in the
Blanca National     vicufias populations  population density of  population of wild vicufias
Reserve             due to ilegal      wild vicufias by 17%,    (2,874 to 3387), 34% in semi-
hunting and weak    of the population in    captivity (from 1,550 to 2,077)
control and         semi-captivity by       and 35.1% increase in fiber
surveillance        40%, and the volume     production (from 176.51 kg to
of fiber production by  238.5 kg). This has included
60%.                    coordination with organizations
and authorities, studies,
management plan, population
censuses, implementation of
genetic improvement models,
strengthening of vicu ea
management committees,
control and surveillance.
3 Illegal hunting of vicufias
eradicated.
Los Manglares de    Deforestation due to  To recover at least 50  24.94 hectares planted, with
Tumbes National     land use conversion  hectares of mangrove  seedlings established in 16.65
Sanctuary                              forest in recovery    hectares (33% of objective). This
zones according to the  has implied studies, the
41


ecosystem's original  installation of a nursery,
composition, and to   adjustment efforts, direct seeding,
maintain current plant  and the establishment of a
cover in the rest of the  management agreement with an
ANP.                  extractors' association to recover
the mangrove.
Los Manglares de    Over-exploitation of  Increase in the      3 Completion of the process of
Tumbes National     marine resources     population of the       registering extractors. Start-up
Sanctuary                               principal hydro-         of issuance of registration
biological resources     certificates for extractors
of economic              authorized to enter the ANP.
importance in the     3 Completion of "Environental
SNLMT.                   Baseline of Los Manglares de
Tumbes National Sanctuary"
and the specific
"Complementary Baseline
Study" for fish, langostinos and
concha pata de burro
(mangrove cockle, Anadara
grandis).
9 Design of in situ management
strategy (controlled extraction)
of red crabs (conchas negras)
for purposes of sustainable
extraction.
9 Design of aquaculture for
conchas negras (Anadara
tuberculosa and/or Anadara
similis) for sustainable
management of this resource.
9 Establishment of management
agreements with extractors'
associations (productive chains
for langostinos and
reforestation in SNLMT),
AEXAPROH Los Tumpis
(tourism in SNLMT),
ASEPROHI San Pedro-
ASEXTRHI (improvement of
infrastructure to facilitate
tourism for SNLMT).
9 Conversion of unsustainable
practices to authorized fishing
modalities, by means of an
incentives program.
Control and surveillance.
Tambopata           Loss of biodiversity  ANPs have become     9 Adjustment of procedures for
National Reserve-   due to illegal      sites for research of    granting research permits
Bahuaja    Sonene   logging and          global importance,      (manual).
National Park       hunting.             bringing together
42


large-scale           3 Granting by Administrative
investigations          Bureaus of 19 research permits
associated with        in 2009 (27% increase with
ecological and          respect to the previous year).
environmental issues    The number of institutions
of global importance    conducting research in this area
as well as the use of   has increased from 11 to 16.
their potential,      3 Six new research projects on
contributing
significantly to the     e   ma botany,
ANPs' financial         environmentic         og
sustainability.antinsevAin
3 Database on research in the
area.
 Proposal for research
monitoring, under review by the
Administrative Bureau.
 Progress in studying demand
for research.
 Updated proposal for the
research plan, to be validated in
2010.
 Progress in the implementation
of the virtual system on
research (administered by the
FOR group of Germany).
3 Formation of Consultative
Council for the promotion of
research in the area.
Tambopata          Loss of biodiversity  Priority actions    9 REDD project design for the
National Reserve-  due to illegal      dealing with            area: socioeconomic studies,
Bahuaj a   Sonene  logging and         biological monitoring   quantification of stored carbon
National Park      hunting.            and research within     stocks, and initial proposal for
the RNTAMB-PNBS         the modeling deforestation.
Water               are financed by means  Final document expected by
contamination due   of a payment for       first quarter of 2010.
to mining activities  environmental      9 Process of reaching agreement
services mechanism,     with Management Committees
to obtain support and respect
for agreements on the
sustainability of the REDD
scheme with local stakeholders.
n  Finalization of participatory
rural diagnostics to fine-tune
the REDD strategy.
c Preparation of outlines of
sustainable projects for the
buffer zone of the RNTAMB
and PNBS.
ofr                     Agreements with miners in the
43


buffer zone of the RNTAMB
and PNBS for the
implementation of immediate
efforts to recover zones
degraded by informal mining.
44


Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
At Appraisal
77.   Total Project cost was US$32.81 million, divided into: (i) Participatory Protected
Area Management (US$18.20 million); (ii) Institutional Strengthening (US$5.75
million); and (iii) ANP Financing, Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation
and Information Dissemination and the Endowment Fund (US$8.86 million). Financial
resources to fund this Project were to come from: the GOP (US$1.88 million); GEF
(US$14.83 million); the Government of the Netherlands (US$4.45 million); the
Government of Germany, KfW (US$6.58 million); Finland (US$2.5 million); beneficiary
contributions (US$0.60 million) and PROFONANPE (US$1.08 million). Local NGOs
will contribute US$1.0 million.
78.   Overall there a positive fiscal impact was expected. GOP was to contribute
US$1.88 million that would come from the INRENA budget during the six-year life of
the Project; at the same time, GOP would receive taxes from oil and mining activities and
to be channeled to SINANPE through the Regional Governments for about US$2.1
million. SINANPE was to receive grant funding from GEF, Germany, the Netherlands,
and Finland to cover investment and recurrent costs, which otherwise INRENA would
not be able to fund. The additional endowment fund would provide US$250,000 per year
to finance recurrent costs in the SINANPE system. The establishment of management
service contracts in at least three ANPs would also reduce the need for increased
financing from the Treasury. The implementation of the financing strategy was expected
to identify new sources of revenue.
79.   A conservative estimate of 6 percent return on the funds obtained through debt
swaps and administered by PROFONANPE would produce a revenue stream of
approximately US$2 million, which over the planning period would accumulate to
approximately US$14 million. This would increase to US$2.8 million if other sources of
public funds were included and remained at recent levels. This contrasted with an average
annual demand (based on the demand analysis) of approximately US$9.5 million, or a
short fall of US$6.7 million, annually. This implied that the funding for much of the
system would remain dependent on less stable foreign sources of funding for the
foreseeable future.
At Project Closing
80.   The main outcomes at Project's closing are: i) Trust fund increased by US$6
million and operating appropriately for PROFONANPE; ii) Greater private sector
contributions allocated to at least two ANPs (an additional US$ 10 million raised); iii)
45


Long-term financing strategy resulting in the financial sustainability of SINANPE; iv)
Additional financing mechanisms for ANPs implemented; and v) The adoption of
relevant strategies stemming from this Project by other ANPs included in the SINANPE.
a) Trust fund increased to US$11 million and operating appropriately for
PROFONANPE
81.   PROFONANPE's asset funds increased from US$5 million to US$11 million,
resulting from contributions by the World Bank and the Government of Finland. The
portfolio began in August 2003 with a World Bank contribution of US$3.0 million. To
date, this portfolio has achieved yields of US$1.7 million5 that have been used to finance
the recurring costs of SINANPE. The accumulated revenue over the last five years (2006-
20 10) increased to 52%.
b) Greater private sector contributions allocated to at least two ANPs (an
additional US$3 million raised)
82.   The Project has directly leveraged US$10 million for the management of the four
ANPs under its scope. These contributions have mainly been achieved through the
Administration Contract financing model, under which executors have committed US$10
million in financing for the first phase (five to seven years). The approved extension of
these contracts for up to 20 years will represent another US$15 million for the
management of these ANPs.
83.   The Project's financing plan by the closing is indicated in the following table:
Source of Financing          Amount (US Dollar)
GEF                                           14,800,000.00
Government of Finland                          3,000,000.00
ANPs Trust Fund Revenues                       3,426,240.00
KfW                                            2,054,000.00
ONGs through Administration Contracts          8,246,702.00
PAES Beneficiaries                              522,594.10
Morona Project                                 5,579,488.58
PROFONANPE                                      908,270.00
SERNANP                                        1,754,553.20
Leveraged through PAES (regional
Governments and international cooperation)
15,059,132.00
TOTAL                                         55,350,979.88
c) Long-term financing strategy that results in SINANPE's financial sustainability
5 Source: report on GPAN portfolio yields, 2010. PROFONANPE.
46


84.   With the support of the Project and the PAN Projects, SINANPE's 2010-2019
Financial Plan was concluded. It was approved by SERNANP in July 2009 through
Presidential Resolution No 130 and was subsequently published. This document provides
different management models for ANPs management. It analyzes SINANPE's financial
status and of sources of financing, and proposes three future scenarios over the next ten
years. Finally, it proposes the objectives to be achieved, the roles and responsibilities by
the different actors, and a scorecard showing the plan's indicators.
d) Additional financing mechanisms implemented
85.   The Project, together with the PAN Project, and in coordination with the
Administrative Bureaus of 9 ANPs, promoted the formulation, management and
implementation of 11 medium-scale projects totaling US$14 million, financed by
regional and local governments, international cooperation and private entities, to mitigate
threats, expand benefits to local populations, strengthen management systems, and
articulate new stakeholders. Each of these projects will benefit an average of 1,000
families.
e) The adoption of relevant strategies stemming from this Project by other ANPs
included in SINANPE and in other national systems
86.   Following the implementation of Administration Contracts by the Project, three
other contracts have been requested by private organizations (Yanachaga Chemill&n
National Park, San Matias-San Carlos Protected Forest, and Cordillera Azul National
Park) and additional four are under a bidding process or awarded (PN Cerros de Amote
National Park, El Angolo Hunting Preserve, Pui-Pui Protected Forest, and Pampa
Hermosa National Sanctuary). With these, it is expected that at least 10 Administration
Contracts will be in operation in the system by the end of 2011.
47


Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
(a) Task Team members
Responsibility!
Names                      Title             Unit         sposili
Specialty
Lending
Pierre Werbrouck         Lead Agricultural Economist  LCSER  TTL
Supervision/ICR
Renin Poveda             Senior Environmental Specialist      TTL
Keisgner De Jesus Alfaro  Senior Procurement Specialist LCSPT  Procurement Specialist
Angie D. Alva            E T Temporary              LCSSD     Team Assistant
Gabriela Arcos           Environmental Specialist   LCSEN     TTL and Env.
Safeguards Specialist
. Financial Management
Nicolas Drossos          Consultant                 LCSFM     Specialst
Specialist
Nelly Ikeda              Financial Management Analyst LCSFM   Analyst
Analyst
.          Manager, Financial                  Financial Management
Patricia Mc Kenzie        MaaeeN ~T.AFMMage
Management                          Manager
Isabella Micali Drossos  Sr Counsel                 LEGLA     Country Lawyer
Francisco Rodriguez      Procurement Specialist     LCSPT     Procurement Specialist
Luis M. Schwarz          Senior Finance Officer     CTRFC     Financial Management
manager
Team/Operations
Andrea Semaan            Consultant                 LCSEN       Tant
Assistant
Claudia Sobrevila        Sr Environmental Spec.     ENV       Biodiversity Specialist
Evelyn Villatoro         Senior Procurement Specialist EPR    Procurement Specialist
o              .r   .                         Social Safeguartds
Alonso Zarzar Casis       Sr Socil Scientist       LCSSO     Spcals
Specialist
(b) Staff Time and Cost
Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                             USD Thousands (including
travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY00                                     3                       18.75
FYO1                                     6                      135.86
FY02                                     4                       41.92
FY03                                     5                      104.68
FY04                                     3                        0.94
FY05                                     0                        0.00
FY06                                     0                        0.00
FY07                                     0                        0.00
FY08                                     0                        0.00
Total:           21                      302.15
Supervision/ICR
48


FY00                                 0                      0.00
FYO1                                 0                      0.00
FY02                                 0                      0.00
FY03                                 1                      6.09
FY04                                 4                     31.10
FY05                                 5                     68.94
FY06                                 5                     57.35
FY07                                 6                     75.68
FY08                                 4                     44.97
FY09                                 2                      4.00
FY10                                 0                      0.00
Total:         25                    288.13
49


Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
87.   A summary of answers to the questionnaire given to a group of Project
counterparts is included here; they were asked what the principal contribution of the
GPAN Project was. The most important aspects include:
*  Its innovative nature: "I think breaking obsolete schemes and innovating (in
management) are the main virtues of the Project (Julio Bustamante, President,
PAMC, SNLMT).
*  The Project's role in the development of a participatory management model for
ANPs: "The Project's principal contribution is that it demonstrated the large number
of stakeholders with whom to relate the management of an area and the enormous
cumulative capacities to directly influence their destiny; at the same time, it
demonstrated in practice (through work to organize CGs, to promote local initiatives
through the PAES, to attract skills for management through Administration
Contracts, etc.) that better management ofprotected natural areas is not a problem of
the lack of resources or capacities to implement actions but rather a problem of
resources and capacities to manage interests regarding them, through true
participatory management (Rudy Valdivia, Technical Coordinator, SERNANP).
*  Its role in the implementation of Administration Contracts: "Having designed a
model to link ANPs with private institutions (such as NGOs), to merge efforts and
commitments which, since they are common ones, have often been attempted to fulfill
separately. This model has risked impulse financing in order to achieve results-based
management" (Jaime Nalvarte, Manager, CA RNTAMB-PNBS - AIDER).
*  Its role in supporting and monitoring the processes and stakeholders involved:
"The GPAN team has at all times been supportive of MEDA, seeking solutions to
gaps existing in the Administration Contract model and supporting the resolution of
problems that we have encountered during implementation (Sonia Dominguez,
Manager, MEDA).
*  Its Project's management approach: "A key contribution of the Project was
teamwork and its true commitment in monitoring the processes, all in the context of
an intervention strategy based on possible change scenarios, anticipating variables
and generating a sort of strategy for contingencies. In addition, the Project's
personnel were small but sufficient, with complementary expertise and capacities.
This breaks down the myth that a failure in SINANPE is the lack of more personnel;
the key issues are skills and commitment" (Johanna Garay, CA legal specialist,
SERNANP).
50


Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
88.    During the last year of Project implementation, several workshops with
stakeholders of four protected areas were developed. Main participants were the
administrators of ANPs, representatives of the CGs, executors of Administration
Contracts and approximately 70 members of local communities, grass roots organizations
and public and private organizations. The main objective of these workshops was to
assess the Project's activities and results.
Salinas y Aguada Blanca National Reserve
89.    An important change was observed towards the increased social and institutional
support to the management. In 2004, approximately 10 institutions were actively
involved, while in 2009, a total of 40 public and private organizations had specific roles
and actions in management. The most important change is observed in the significantly
increased participation of local communities and organizations, which are landowners
within the territory of the ANP. These communities are also members of the CG,
currently involved in decision-making.
90.    The assessment indicates that this change is mainly related to the actions executed
under the Project, being the following the most relevant: i) providing initial financing for
technical assistance to AB and CG staff and representatives of local communities, to be
capable of establishing coordination mechanisms for planning and decision making; ii)
implementing the PAES program as a mechanism to involve local communities in
conservation activities to reduce threats to biodiversity and generate revenues; and iii)
implementing the Administration Contract to recover habitats and secure the sustainable
management of natural resources through the direct involvement of local communities.
Manglares de Tumbes National Sanctuary
91.    The main conflict to deal with in this ANP was the use of costal marine resources.
The Project financed the preparation of the management plan for the use of natural
resources, in consultation with the AB, the CG and the users associations. The
management plan provided the guidance to develop economic sustainable activities in the
buffer zones to reduce the existing threats due to over exploitation, converting local users
into the most important allies for conservation.
92.    The administration contract developed in this strengthened even more the local
alliances, through the signing of management agreements to establish more specific
51


commitments and responsibilities around the use of natural resources, including
surveillance, fishing permits and other control mechanisms. These activities have given
place to the incorporation of new actors to the management of this ANP, approximately
30 organizations are actively participating and currently represented in the CG. Some of
these organizations, like the shrimp farms companies, are financing important activities
like water quality control in mangroves.
Tambopata National Reserve
93.    In 2004, at the initial stage of implementation, only 9 institutions were involved in
the management of this ANP. The assessment indicates that no less than 73 organizations
are currently involved, most of them are land owners that participated through the
implementation of the PAES program, the CG or both. The open dialogue leaded by the
ANP's Director, facilitated the discussion of issues key to management and conservation
of biodiversity. The CG provided with the space to start changing the perception by local
stakeholders and assign them with specific responsibilities in the implementation of
conservation activities. The ongoing administration contract is not only developing a
conservation program, but it is also supporting the continued operation of the CG.
Bahuaja Sonene National Park
94.    As in the other ANPs, the establishment of the CG became the most important
scenario to develop the social and institutional support to the management of this ANP,
with 47 organizations currently involved. The most active organizations are the coffee
and cocoa producers, who own territories in the boundaries of the Park.
95.    The activities developed under the projects through the PAES program, together
with agroforestry projects financed through the regional governments, have allowed the
articulation and coordination among 1,500 small farmers and producers, improving the
productivity of their parcels and substantially strengthening the surveillance activities in
the buffer zones of the Park.
52


Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR (from PROFONANPE's Closing Report
dated March 30, 2011).
96.   The project achieved its development objectives, demonstrating that increased
participation by institutions from the civil society and the private sector, constitutes an
effective strategy for securing their financial sustainability and for making significant
progress in conserving biodiversity.
97.   At the start of the project, the ANPs had rather weak management structures, with
few staff and very low budgets (annual resources allocated by the Public Treasury and
sources of cooperation, year 2004: RNSAB US$5,907, RNTAMB US$32,387, PNH
US$84,374, SNLMT US$27,405, PNBS US$69,479). The management of ANPs was not
very conducive to participation. This led to a management approach isolated from the
surrounding area, with a high level of conflict with local populations.
Main Results achieved
*  A total number of 178 stakeholders in 4 ANPs, have assumed new commitments
associated with the development of conservation-related activities, These include 82
communities and local organizations, 31 public sector entities, 28 regional and local
government agencies, and 37 private organizations and businesses.
*  The CGs have been strengthened as a key mechanism for participatory management.
In the 4 targeted ANPs, planning, monitoring and evaluation efforts are now
conducted jointly with the CGs.
*  Three Administration Contracts with nonprofit private institutions, involving four
ANPs, were implemented. The Project provided financing for the first phase US$3.2
million, the executors contributed with US$8.7 million, which increased to US$10
million throughout implementation.
*  The Administration contracts have contributed to improve research and knowledge on
the status of biodiversity, increase financing on a sustainable basis, increase the
participation of local stakeholders, carry out biological on a regular basis and improve
ANPs control and surveillance systems.
*  PROFONANPE's asset funds increased by US$6 million as a result of contributions
by the World Bank and the Government of Finland.
*  Through these mechanisms, the GPAN project, working jointly with PROFONANPE
and SERNANP, has contributed to taking steps and achieving decisive progress in the
financing of ANPs and the financial sustainability of the system. It has been possible
to leverage or generate a total of US$41 million in short-term financing (five to seven
years) for the management of 13 APs and their buffer zones. Equally important,
however, is the fact that, in addition to the US$3 million trust fund, the bases of long-
term financial sustainability have been established for nine of them, which has a
significant effect on reducing the system's financial gap.
53


Annex 8. Summary of Comments of KFW and the National Service of Protected
Areas
98.   KfW* summary of letter dated June 8, 2011. The Project's main contributions to
the improved management of ANP are:
*  Participatory Management. This is a fundamental aspect of success in the
management of ANPs in Peru. The Project contributed to the strengthening of the
CGs, allowing its members to get involved in ANPs decision-making processes;
*  Sustainability. It has been demostrated that a sustainable use of natural resources with
local beneficiaries, contributes to reduce threats to ANPs. The Administration
Contracts so far have also demonstrated to support sustainable management and we
hope that this mechanism consolidates over the coming years;
*  Financial Sustainability. This process has been possible due to strategic alliances
with regional and local actors. The Financial Strategy was a joint effort with the PAN
Project financed by KfW and has served as a framework to develop a portfolio of new
projects, bringing additional financing to ANPs;
*  Territorial Development Approach. During the implementation of the program, the
ANP management approach has changed form a centralized scheme to a more
integrated and territorial approach. It has been recognized that ANPs are not isolated
from the surrounding territory, they do provide local and national services and
benefits;
* Communication actions. The communications campaigns developed by the Project
have substantially helped to integrate local actors to the planning activities of ANPs.
99. National Service of Protected Areas, summary of letter dated May 27, 2011. The
Project contributed to the following aspects:
*  The establishment of a joint workprogram with regional governments to support the
management of ANPs located within their territories and their active participation in
the CGs;
*  Strengthening of ANP management with the support of local actors and the private
sector through the establishment of the Administration Contracts;
*  Implementation of the PAES program provided conservation incentives to local
communities in the buffer zones of the ANPs, while improving their livelihoods;
*  The SINANPE's Financial Strategic Plan has become one of the most important
planning tools for ANPs, through the identification of financing resources and the
development of financing plans for ANPs;
*  The communication strategy was critical to involve local stakeholders in the planning
and management of ANPs and overall local support to conservation has substantially
increased.
54


Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
1. Project Appraisal Document, Report No. 25074-PE, dated February 20, 2003
2. Project Grant Agreement dated April 1, 2003
3. PROFONANPE's Project Final Report Dated March 30, 2011
4. Mission Aide Memoires
5. Project Status Completion Reports
6. Report on Lessons Learned from the Implementation of the Economic Sustainable
Activities Program, PROFONANPE, December 2010
7. Report on Lessons Learned from the Implementation of the Administration
Contracts, PROFONANPE, December 2010
55


MAP
56


IBRD 33465R
8W                      **            75oW                                  70 W
0                                                                                        I
ECUADOR                    / Arcada            COLOMBIA
Puerto Curaray 6  9*   e
Ma cle
Tumbes   /Ic,j
7j
TUMBES                              0luts
TUMBE                                                              CabalIcochaO
To
To1a   o           ' a  (                LORE TO                                           BRAZIL
T a     .         Ayar Manco
Sullana.
5S      PlURA      5J     0          Mo,non                 o"s
Piura
Chacha             Yurimaguas    Tamanco
Schcachapoyas                   /,"-bTa.dnc
Tarapoto
LAM                          SAN
YEQUE (hiclayoo             S    I -                                              PERU
Cajamarca M,,T*'b
\ Cruzero
.do Sul
Trujilo                  San1a
LA LIBERTAD               Lucia           uca pa *
Nevada Sihuas 
Hueosc'arana.
Chimbote (6768 ty A
ANCASH           TingoMaria
uara        HUANUCO                         .
Nevado        Hu6nuco-                                                    10o
effigA                      UCAYALI
Goyllarisquizga  PA SCO o1
PACIFIC           Huacho  Say6n    Pas   Sa               Atalaya
LIMA       La      /    -7-
OCEAN       CALLAO                   roya JU  IN                        MADRE
~DE DIOS
Ca Huancayo         a
a         Puerto
Ayna    CUSC 0     Sintuya     Maldonado
1100  I200  I  300 Kiometrs      Huancavelica.       Quillabamba
0       100      200 M30  iles                                     .Gsc
I  I   I                      UAi'CA-Ayacucho         a conti    naui     Athr
100sco                                              Abancay      A Nudo    %Or
Ica                        v / Io t     PUN
IGA(6384m) PUNO r-'                            e~r
I7 AT o son
Buenaventura
Puguio
PERU                           Caballas  Nazca         Alca     CAloma                        1
San Juan                A Nevada       Julicau    Coabuwo
o   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                    c0   _
0   REGION CAPITALS                           Antiquipa   AREQ UIPA              Puno   Tca
@   NATIONAL CAPITAL                                  Ataco       AreuPpaa
RIVERS Desaguadero.
RIVERS/
MAIN ROADS                                                 Molln   Moquega
RAILROADS                                               MOUEGUA            TAC
REGION BOUNDARIES                                                                                A
Tacna * *Visviri..
- - -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                       * Bel6
75,W                           To lquique CHILE l
NOVEMBER 2006


