FILE                               RESTRICTED
Report No.  PTR-99a
Tl port is fat ofcal u only by '  anku Group aud peilcly authoized opuzations
or peam  It my not bh publided, quoted or citd wIthout Bank Group authoriztion. The
Dek Group does noptae z*pon*   the racaacy ao amplteneu i the rcport.
INTrRNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
MAIQUETIA INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT PROJECT
VENEZUELA
January 4, 1972
Transportation Projects Department



Fiscal Year = Calendar Year
Currency Equivalents
b.5 Bolivares (I) = T2s$1 .00
trate up to .December 23, 1971
and used in this report)
Crrent,rate  hX,0
Units
Units are in the Metric System
Length
Kilometers (kin)   1,0 = 0.6214 miles
Meters (m)         1.0 = 3.281 feet
Centimeters (cm)  1.0   0.3937 inches
Area
Hectare (ha)   2  1.0 = 2.471 acre.
Square Iteter (m2) 1.0 = 1.196 sq yd
Volume
Liter (1t)         1.0 = 0.21998 imperial gallons
1.0 = 0.26418 U.S. gallons
Weight
Kilogram (kg)      1.0 = 2.2046 pounds
Abbreviations
CONAHOTU - National Tourism Corporation
FAA  - Federal Aviation Administration (U.S.)
IATA - International Air Transport Association
ICAO - International Givil Aviation Organization
ILS - Instrument Landing System
MOP  - Ministry of Public Works
VASI - Visual Approach Slooe Indicator
VOR  - Very High Frequency dmni Directional
Radio Range



VNEZUH,lA
AI'PIPAISAL OF VAIBQUETIA INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ............................... .                           i
1.    INTRODUCTION  ......................................                           1
2.    BACKGROUND  ........................................                           3
A.   General  .......................................                         3
B.   The Transportation Sector  .....................                         3
C. The Role of Air Transport in
Venezuelan Development  .......................                        4
D.   Tourism  .......................................                         5
3.    MAIQUETIA INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT  ...................                           6
A.   Existing Site  .................................                         6
B.   Operating Standards  ...........................                         6
C.   Organization  ..................................                         7
D.   Present Airport Traffic  .......................                         9
E.   Passenger and Cargo Forecasts  ....                 .............       10
F.   Aircraft Operations  ...........................                        11
4.    THE PROJECT  .......................................                          12
A.   The  Investment Program  ........................                       12
B.   Description of the Project  ....................                        12
C.   Design and Engineering  ........................                        13
D.   Environment  ...................................                        13
E.   Cost Estimates  ......... .......................                       14
F.   Procurement  ...................................                        15
G. Disbursement ..........   15
5.    ECONOMIC EVALUATION  ...............................                          17
This report has been prepared by Mtessrs. Douglas (Aviation Engineer),
Bostrom and Singh (Economists) and Cheryan (Financial Analyst).



Table of Contents Continued.
Page No.
6.  FINANCIAL EVALUATION ..............................      20
A.    Introduction   ..................................  20
B.  User Charges and Financial Objectives .........     21
C. Financing Plan .................                     22
D.  Financial Projections of the Authority ........     23
7.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....   .........   25
ANNEXES
1. Definitions and Descriptions of Navigational Aids
2. Basis for Economic Evaluation
3. Assumptions Used in Financial Projections
4. Schedule of User Charges
TABLES
1. Historic Passenger Data
2. Historic Aircraft Operations Data
3. Air Traffic Projections
4. Capital Investment Program
5. Detailed Cost Estimate
6. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
7. Income Statement
8. Cash Flow
9. Balance Sheets
CHART
1. Organization Chart - Civil Aeronautics Board
MAPS
1. Major Airports in Venezuela
2. Maiquetia International Airport - Layout of Facilities



VENEZUELA
APPRAISAL OF MAIQUETIA INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT PROJECT
SUlr£ARY ANI) CONiCLUSIONS
i.        The Government of Venezuela is planning tthe reconstruction and
expansion of the MIaiquetia International Airport, which serves the capital
citv of Caracas, with a view to improving safety of aircraft operation and
increasing capacity to serve existing and future traffic.
ii.       Air transport in Venezuela plays an important role for both inter-
national trade and domestic economic development.  The Mlaiquetia Interna-
tional Airport is the focus of commercial aviation activitv in Venezuela
accouniting for 94% of the country's internationial passenger traffic and near-
ly one-half of the total domestic passenger traffic.
iii.      The project is part of a master plan for the development of Mtai-
quetia Airport prepared for the Government by its consultants. Because of
the different status of engineering and economic work on its various ele-
ments, ttie construction work will be executed in two parts: the construction
of a ru;r:av, taxiway and associated work (Part I)  and tile construction of a
terminal building complex and related facilities (Part II).
iv.       The proposed loan of US$17.0 million equivalent would cover 87%
of the estimated US$19.5 million foreign exchange costs of the project for
runwav development (Part I), the total cost of whiicih is estimated at US$54.5
million equivalent.  Thie loan would be made to the Government, and the funds
for the project will be controlled anid disbursed by the Mlinistry of Public
Work,;s.  There will he a separate Project Agreement between the Bank and the
nk,wY cretLeod airport authiority.  Trte Government would provide tlie local
curronc%v co: t as well as thiat part of the foreign cost not covered by the
v.         Thle plhysical condition of the existing runway is satisfactory.
Llowever, the runway does not meet the safety standards for the operation of
the current generation of jet aircraft, as it is not possible to install an
instrument landing system (ILS) due to terrain obstructions.  To eliminate
this safety hazard, it is necessary to construct a new runway with a dif-
ferent orientation.
vi.       The proposed project includes the construction of a new 3,500 m
runway and parallel taxiway, complete with lighting and an instrument land-
ing svstem (IlS). In addition to its different orientation to avoid thie ter-
rain obstructions at the end of the existing runway, the new runway will
be longer to permit departure of flighits with longer stage lengths.  The
construction of the air terminal building complex (Part II), will require



- ii -
further economic and technical studies before it can be adequately evaluated.
vii.       The cost estimates for the project are based on preliminary en-
gineering studies performed by consultants as part of the airport masttr
plan development.  Detailed engineering is now being undertaken by the
Ministry of Public Works (MOP) with thie help of consultants.
viii.      The execution of tuie project will be tue responlsibility of ,lOt'
assisted by local consultants and witih the advice of experienced airport
consultants at all stages of planning, design and construction.  About `,5.
of tihe contracts will be awarded on ttie basis of international competitivTo
bidding.
ix.        Sonie of the initial site preparation anid provisional works (api
proximately US$5 million equivaletnt with a foreign exchange. c-ompotnent (t
US$2.5 million) will not be finaniced from the loan. A large eirth movL;;
contract was awarded in August 1971.  Work is progressing on thius contrilct
and it is recommended that tiie foreign exchange component of tLie work .i1:u
prior to the signing of the loan, estimated at US$1 million, be financed
retroactively.  It is also recommended that the foreign exchange costs of
engineering incurred before the signing of the loan and subsequent to 1 Jarn-
uary 1971, estimated at US$O00,000 be financed retroactively.
x.         The Maiquetia Airport Authority was created by Congress in August
1971 as an autonomous agency to manage the operations of the expanded airr'ort.
Funds are nrovided in the project for the engagement of management and.f ac-
counting consultants who will be required to assist the new authority in
its initial operations.
xi.        The financial responsibilities for the development of tiue MaiquetiaI
Airport will be shared between thle Government and tne Authority.  The (Govern-
ment will service the debt it incurs for the construction of Part T and Part
II of the airport expansion program. The Authoritv will, lhowever, account tor
the investments in the airport and all transactions relating to its operation.
With the Governmenit servicing directly the debt incurred for t,oe airport, tiLe
Authority will generate cash in excess of its own requirements and will transfer
such excess cash to the (,overnment as a return on its investmnent.
xii.       The airport's income is derived from user charges whlich produce
a satisfactory rate of return for the present level of investment but would
not, at their present level, adequately cover future costs. A decision oni
the level and structure of the various components of these charges is to be
made when definitive plans for the proposed new terminal building complex
are available.  New user charges satisfactory to the Banki are to be establish-
ed by M4arch 31, 1974 on the basis of recommendations oy consultants wiho will
study the appropriate level and structure of user charges not only with re-
ference to the financial needs of the airport but particularly taking into
account the need to ensure that a sufficient proportion of total economic
benefits resulting from the airport investments would be retained hv the
Venezuelan economy.



- iii -
xiii.     The project will produce benefits in the form of improved safety
in handling the traffic at the airport, which is expected to increase sub-
stantially. It will enable the continuing unrestricted use by jet aircraft
and avoid penalties in the form of passenger time loss and increased air-
craft operating cost which would result from restrictions on jet aircraft
operations.  The benefits would result in an estimated economic return of
17% over the 20-year economic life of the project.
xiv.      The project is suitable for a loan to the Government of US$17.0
million equivalent. A term of 15 years including a grace period of 3-1/2
years corresponding to the disbursement period will be appropriate.






VENEZUELA
APPRAISAL OF MAIQUETIA INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Venezuela has requested the Bank to assist in
financing the development of the Maiquetia International Airport near Caracas.
The cost of the project is estimated at US$54.5 million; the proposed Bank
loan would cover US$17.0 million of the estimated foreign exchange component
of US$19.5 million.
1.02      The Government will be the borrower.  The funds will be controlled
and disbursed by the Ministry of Public Works. The airport will be operated
by the Maiquetia International Airport Authority which was created in August
1971 by an act of the Venezuelan Congress as an autonomous institute attached
to the Ministry of Communications. The Bank will enter into a Project Agree-
ment with the Authority to secure adequate covenants concerning the manage-
ment, operations and performance of the Authority.
1.03      In 1968, the Government of Venezuela commissioned a joint venture
of the U.S. consultants, Tippetts-Abbett-McCarthy-Stratton (TAMS) and the
Venezuelan consultants, Perez Guerra Ingenieros, to prepare a master plan for
the future development of the Maiquetia International Airport. The consul-
tant's report, completed in 1970, recommends a substantial development of
the existing airport site to meet the requirements of future traffic. The
principal proposals include the construction of a new runway together with
new passenger terminal buildings for international and domestic traffic, air
cargo buildings and various related works.
1.04      This master plan report was accepted by the Government and used
as the basis for a loan application to the Bank. The recommended works are
estimated to cost Bs 492 million (US$109 million equivalent).
1.05      In the meantime the Government completed a provisional terminal
building in January 1971 for arriving international passengers. The impact
of this US$5 million investment on the timing of the proposed new terminal
buildings had not been adequately evaluated. At the time of appraisal of
the project, more up-to-date traffic statistics had become available and the
Bank suggested to the Government that, in order to ensure achieving the op-
timum size and composition of the project, some portions of the master plan
would need to be reviewed and further economic and engineering studies done -
particularly with respect to the forecasts of domestic traffic, the size
and configuration of the proposed terminal buildings, and the timing of
their construction.
1.06      Rather than delay the entire construction program while these
studies were being done it was agreed with the Government to split the



- 2 -
program into two parts. Part I would be the construction of the new fully
equipped runway, taxiway and associated works; Part II the terminal area
development, including passenger terminal buildings, aircraft parking apron,
cargo buildings and various related works.
1.07      This appraisal report is concerned with Part I, the runway construc-
tion project. Further economic and technical studies will be required before
the air terminal building complex can be adequately evaluated.
1.08      Previous Bank lending in the Transportation sector has been limi-
ted to three loans (306 VE, 390 VE, 616 VE) totalling US$95 million to help
finance road construction. Disbursements have been slow owing to inclement
weather and delays in acquiring right of way and in presenting claims for
reimbursement. The possibility of financing a metropolitan rapid transit
system for the city of Caracas is under active consideration by the Bank.
1.09      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Venezuela in December 1970. Mr. A. Douglas, aviation engineer of
the Bank, headed the appraisal mission assisted by Bank retained consultants,
Messrs. G. Grundig (economist) and T. Wellings (financial analyst), and
Mr. P. Ragetly (Bank economist). The report was written by Messrs. Douglas,
Bostrom and Singh (Bank economists) and Cheryan (Bank financial analyst).



-3-
2. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      The Republic of Venezuela, withi an area of 912,000 km2 is larger
than Texas and twice the size of Spain. It hias a coastline of nearly 3,000
kmi facing the Caribbean Sea. Thie country's population is about 10 million,
which has been growing rapidly at an average rate of 3.4% p.a. over the
last ten years. The rate of growth is expected to decline only marginally,
perhaps to 3.2%7 p.a., over tihe next five years.
2.02      The petroleum industry is the mainstay of the Venezuelan economy.
Its exports, over the last three decades, have been the main cause of the
swift economic expansion that has taken place, giving Venezuela by 1969 a
per capita GDP of some US$1,100, the highest in Latin America.
2.03      The key region in the economic development of Venezuela has been
the north central coast from Lake 11aracaibo across the littoral to Cumana in
the east. The main concentration has occurred within the core of this belt,
in the area comprising the Capital district and the adjoining small states of
Aragua, Carabobo and Miranda, where 75%O of all industrial employment and a
third of the total population is located.
B. The Transportation Sector
&.u4      The concentration of population and economic activity in the north
central region, where topography makes rail and water transport difficult
and expensive, and uncommonly low gasoline retail prices, have led to roads
providing the principal means of internal movement in Venezuela. Tihe country
now has a well-developed network of about 40,000 km of roads, some 18,000 km
of which are paved, on whiclh approximately 90% of Venezuela's passenger traf-
fic ;nd 702; of its freighlt traffic are carried.  Whereas, duiring the last ten
icr.;,  tlh road networkl has ieen extended by 40,%, the length of paved roads
:ias bLCLI more thaiin doubled.  About 790,00u veiiicles, 70% of tnem passenger
cars, use this network.
'.05      Venezuela has only one short railway line in operation, which runs
from Barquisimeto to Puerto Cabello, carrying mainly bulk clhemicals, and
thiere are currently no plans to extend tihe railway system. The three major
Venezuelan seaports have adequate capacity to meet anticipated demands for
some years ahead, except for Puerto Cabello where the required expansion is
now being undertaken. The Orinoco and its tributaries provide Venezuela
witii 20,000 km of navigable rivers, and deep-draft shipping channels are
maintained in the lower Orinoco River for iron ore and other bulk carriers
engaged in international trade and in Lake ELaracaibo for oil tankers.  Only
a small volume, however, of domestic traffic is carried by coastal and in-
land shipping.  The predominance of hiighways in the internal surface trans-
port system and the minor role of railways, coastal shipping and inland
waterways have spared Venezuela from any serious problems of intermodal
transport coordination.



- 4 -
2.06      Venezuela has had the advantages of a reasonably well-developed
air transport system. Of its 64 airports, Maiquetia, which handles 9J4%
of the country's international and nearly half of the domestic passenger
traffic, is by far the most important. International air services are
provided by VIASA, the Venezuelan carrier, and about a dozen foreign airlines.
Venezuela has two domestic airlines which jointly operate an unduplicated
internal route network of 11,700 km.
C. The Role of Air Transport in Venezuelan Development
2.07      Although the contribution that the presence of a reasonably well
developed and efficient air transport system has made to Venezuelan develop-
ment cannot be measured in quantitative terms, its role in providing for the
swift passage of people and goods, both internally and internationally, has
unquestionably been an important factor in the country's economic growth.
Its major impact so far has been on business travel. In 1969, the Venezuel-
an air transport system ranked fourth in South America in terms of the number
of passenger movements.
2.08      A survey of air passengers on domestic routes in 1970 revealed that
over 58% of internal air trips were made for business or official reasons,
that 67% of passengers travelled alone and that 63% of passengers had incomes
of more than US$6,660. Very nearly 63% of the passengers surveyed claimed to
make at least one air trip per month within Venezuela.  These figures collec-
tively do indicate the substantial extent to which business travellers within
Venezuela rely upon air transport. The Venezuelan air transport system also
carries some 40,000 tons of freight, much of whicl-h is beef from the southern
part of the country.
2.09      Turning to international travel, except for excursionists, most of
whom are cruise passengers spending a few hours in Caracas, and for a small
flow of visitors arriving by road from neighbouring Colombia, the great
majority of foreign visitors to Venezuela arrive by air. The number of
foreign visitors spending more than 48 hours in Venezuela increased at an
annual average rate of 22.5% between 1961 and 1969. Provisional figures for
1970 show a rise of nearly 38%, with the total of such visitors now standing
at just under 150,000.  This remarkable growth over the last decade was due
mainly to an increasing number of business visitors who, with visitors mak-
ing trips for family reasons, account for an estimated 75% of total foreign
visitors. In 1969, more than half of these foreign visitors came from the
USA, just over 21% from Europe and 14% from Latin America, with the bulk of
the European visitors coming from Germany, the Netherlands and the United
Kingdom, which are also the most important European countries in terms of
trade and investment in Venezuela.
2.10      Business travel by air is increasingly becoming an almost essential
prerequisite of all major flows of international trade in goods and services,
and it is generally recognized that an efficient air transport system acts
as an important lubricant to international trade. The Venezuelan economy,
with commodity exports amounting to a quarter of its GDP and with nearly hialf



- 5 -
of its imports in capital goods, is very largely dependent upon international
trade. Its total exports and imports are expected to grow by an average 3%
and 4.4? respectively over the next five years. Venezuela lias attracted a
substantial number of large international firms which play an increasingly
important role in economic growth.  These firms depend heavily on air trans-
port for their operations.
D. Tourism
2.11       The slow growtl? of the petroleum sector in the late sixties and
the view that, even on favorable assumptions, the rate of increase in petro-
leum productiou is unlikely to exceed 2 to 3% annually over the next five
years have led the Venezuelan authorities to seek alternative sources of
growtih and of foreign exchange earnings.  Some further diversification of
the economy will be required to maintain a GDP growth rate of at least 5%
annuallv. Alternative sources of growth in Venezuela are, however, re-
stricted.  The rising manufacturing sector has so far concentrated on im-
nort substitution and tne domestic market, and industrial exports now ac-
couvnt for less than 1% of export earnings. The most immediate prospects
for the expansion of exports center on steel and petro-chemicals but both
of these are highly capital intensive.
2'.12'     ITn contrast to thiese, Venezuela's tourisum  potential, which is
largely untarped, offers a promising line of (levelopment as a source of in-
come, foreign exchange earnings and employment.  The Venezuelan authorities
tiave recognise(i this and have established a new public institution, the Cor-
:)oracion Nacional de Turismo (CONAHIOTU), to be responsible for developing
tourism. It is in thie course of producing an integrated tourist develop-
ment program as an importanit part of the national development plan.
2.13      Veniezuela can offer tourisLs a variety of attractions including
a favorahle climate, outstanding beachies, exotic vegetation and a sophis-
titated metropolis in Caracas.  Geographic and economic considerations,
.iid mariket trends, suggost that the tlniited States will be thie prinmary market
tor holiday tourtsm  in Veneztuela.  There are indicatioiis that the Caribbean
i dalJMs such as thie I;nimamas, Bermuda and Puerto Rico are avproaching satura-
tion and in these circumstances Venezuela could well increase its share oF
thet US 'ssun and sands' holiday market.
2.14      This, briefly, is tlhe rationale behind the proposed tourist develop-
MeTnt of thle 93 km Los Caracas - Iliguerote coastal area ',hicch combines unspoil-
ed beaches witih proximity to Caracas atnd the Mtaiquetia Airport, and which
is tlhe subject of a UTNID  study to be commenced shortly.  Venezuelans at
present spend some US$134 million abroad whereas only US$46 million is spent
¾Dy foreign visitors in Venezuela, and of these only about a quarter are part
of the holiday market.  The exploitation of Venezuela's tourist potential
could reverse this imbalance. It will, lhowever, require investments in
facilities such1 as beac.i hotels and complementary services, and investments
in infrastructure of which the proposed expansion of the :laiquetia Airport
would be an important part.



3.  MAIQULTIA INTLIRNATIONAL AIRPORT
A. Existing Site
3.01      The Maiquetia Airport is on the Caribbein coast about 25 kri fror'
Caracas, the major city it serves.  The existing 3,000 m runway was built
in stages and is in relatively good condition.  It has an east-west orienta-
tion and wind conditions are such that this orientation is satisfactorv at
all times without the necessity of a cross wind runway.
3.02      Approaches to the airport are constrained by the coastal mouut.jiil'..
There are hills on the western approach to tlhu runway whlich prevent a
straight-in approach and make it iipossible to install anl instrumlent land--
ing system (ILS).  It is necessary to construct a new runway on a slightly
different orientation to pernit thie installation of ILS aild meet the inter-
nationally accepted technical operating, and safety standards for large jet
aircraft. The proposed project provides for this new fully equipped runway.
3.03      On weekends there is some congestion of the Caracas-,aiquetia
limited access toll highway due to high volun.e recreation traffic to and
from the coast. Apart from thiese weekend peaks, it is expected that the
capacity of this highway would be adequate until some time between 1980 and
1985. Additional hi-!hway capacity between Caracas and the coast will then
be required and means for providing it are under study by the Government.
During negotiations, the Government confirmed that the necessary planning
measures would be taken.
B. Operating Standards
3.04      The existing runway does not have the required visual and elec-
tronic landing aids required to meet international safety standards. Wnile,
due to the prevailing wind direction, about 90% of the landings are made
from the west, these safety aicds cannot be installed on the runway for land-
ings from that direction because of the terrain obstructions in its approach
path.
3.05      It has long been the policy of many airports serving large air
carrier aircraft to provide visual and electronic aids to establish lateral
and vertical guidance, thus minimizinig the probability of uindershoot or over-
shoot during landings. Before jet aircraft were introduced, the lack of
such aids generally did not pose a major problem because aircraft response
times after application of power were short, and aircraft speeds were rel-
atively low. Thus the aircraft could make close-in turns and adjust their
position with comparative ease. This is not true of faster aircraft re-
quiring longer glidepath approaches to runways.
3.06      For this reason the necessity for an instrument landing system
(ILS) and visual approach slope indicators (VASI) Iia.i been recognized and



- 7 -
recommended by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) and the
United States Federal Aviation Agency (FAA). 1/
C. Organization
3.07      The airport is managed by the Civil Aeronautics Board of the Min-
istry of Communications which is responsible for operating airports in Vene-
zuela (see Chart I). Coordination between the various divisions of the Min-
istry at the airport, with their Headquarters units and with the other
MIinistries which provide services at the airport has been ineffective. Be-
cause of diffused responsibilities and lack of a strong management, the level
of service at the airport as well as planning and financial management have
been deficient.
3.08      The Government has recognized the difficulty of making a major
investment in the airport under these circumstances and has created the
Maiquetia Airport Authority (the Authority) as a means of improving the
organization and strengthening the management of the airport.
3.09      A law creating this airport authority was enacted in August 1971.
The Government has established a transition period until 31 December 1971,
during which period the new Authority will be organized and staffed and
assume its new responsibilities. During this transition period the functions
now being performed by various Ministries and agencies will be taken over
by the Authority.
I/   The existing ICAO criteria call for VASI for visual vertical guidance,
and for ILS for electronic lateral and vertical guidance when "... the
climatic and traffic conditions and the type of aircraft using the run-
way are such that safe, regular, efficient and economic operation would
be affected by their hbsence".  In addition, the International Air Trans-
port Association (IATA) has recently drafted a new policy which states
in part: "ILS shall be installed and maintained in operation on all run-
ways regularly used by international air services", i.e. irrespective of
climatic and traffic conditions. For turbine powered aircraft, ILS is
considered to be the required aid in order to provide lateral and verti-
cal alignment with the runway in use. This situation would become even
more important in the future as the average aircraft size grows and fre-
quency of operations increases. This has been recognized by the U.S.
FAA which recently changed its criteria to specifically exclude the
climatic condition from the required justifying criteria. In its Na-
tional Aviation System policy it states, "Precise vertical and lateral
guidance is required at all airports served by air carrier turbojet
aircraft to minimize the probability of undershoot and overshoot."
It goes on to state that all air carrier jet airports will be equipped
with ILS.



3.10      The airport authority named "Aeropuerto Internacional de Maiquetia"
(Maiquetia International Airport) will be attached to the Ministry of Com-
munications as an "Autonomous Institute". It will be managed and adminis-
tered by an Administrative Council as its highest authority.  The Chairman
of the Administrative Council will be the Director General, who will be ap-
pointed by the President of the Republic.  In addition, there will be a
deputy Director General and three others, of which two are to be appointed
by the President of the Republic.
3.11      The Administrative Council will have powers to a) establish gen-
eral policy and plans for operations and development, b) fix user charges,
c) decide public credit arrangements and d) perforn other functions as
stipulated in the By-laws, which are still to be developed.  The first
three of these itenms are subject to the approval of the Minister of ('OIIUU(I-
nications.  Agreement was reached during negotiations that the t3y-law:,
would be submitted to the Bank for review and comment prior to their t'lnaCt-
went, and that they would be in force by 30 June 1972.
3.12      The Director General will have the responsibility and authority
to administer the operations and business of the Authority, to hire and fire
staff subject to the approval of the Administrative Council, to supervise
and coordinate the work of the various Government agencies and departments
operating at the airport and to supervise and control air safety services.
3.13      Little financial information is available on the operation of the
Maiquetia International Airport, and such information as is available is
unreliable and insufficient to assess the financial status of the airports'
operations. It was therefore necessary to use broad assumptions on the val-
ues of existing assets and liabilities and the financial results of the op-
erations for the years 1968 through 1971 to reconstruct the accounts and es-
tablish a basis for financial projections. (See income statement and balance
sheets in Table 7 and 9).
3.14      When the Authority starts functioning in 1972, it will maintain
complete accounting records to reflect the investments in the airport and
all transactions relating to its operation on an accrual basis under a
commercial accounting system. Agreement on this point was reached during
negotiations. The Authority will also maintain a cost accounting system
that will relate user charges to cost/profit centers and enable it to take
pricing decisions with the full knowledge of costs. It will be necessary,
therefore, for the Authority to employ management and accounting consultants
to recommend and implement the most suitable organization, financial policies,
commercial and cost accounting and management information systems. General
agreement on draft terms of reference embodying the objectives and scope of
work of the above consultancy services, and agreement on the appointment of
management and accounting consultants acceptable to the Bank by June 30, 1972
were reached during negotiations.



-9-
3.15      Although the Ministry of Finance would designate a Financial
Commissioner of the Authority under the articles of its constitution, it
would be essential to obtain an independent analysis and verification of
the Authority's accounts by a professional firm of public accountants as
external auditors, particularly in view of the introduction of commercial
and cost accounting principles and systems. Agreement that external auditors
acceptable to the Bank would be appointed by March 31, 1972, was reached
during negotations.
3.16      Agreement was reached during negotiations that an inventory and
valuation of all existing properties and facilities at the airport would be
prepared and submitted to the Bank by April 30, 1972, and that the existing
properties and facilities would be transferred to the Authority by June 30,
1972. Agreement was also reached during negotiations that the Government
would take measures satisfactory to the Bank to ensure that the properties
and facilities constructed and installed at the airport under the proposed
project would be transferred to the Authority not later than three months
after completion of the project.
D. Present Airport Traffic
3.17       The Maiquetia International Airport has historically been the focus
of commercial aviation activity in Venezuela. It now handles about 94% of
the countrv's international passenger traffic and nearly one half of the to-
tal domestic passenger traffic. During the past six years, international and
domestic passenger traffic has increased at an average annual rate of 15% and
8Z respectively, although during the past few years lower rates were regis-
tered. In 1970, total passenger traffic at Maiquetia amounted to some
1,400,000 passengers. Out of this, 620,000 passengers were international
while the remaining 780,000 were domestic passengers.  (See Table 1.)
3.18       In 1969, there were 50,291 scheduled and nonscheduled aircraft
operations at the airport, 18,946 of which were classified as international
while the remaining 31,345 were domestic.  Of the international operations,
71% or 13,465 were scheduled and 29% or 5,481 nonscheduled operations. (See
Table 2.) While the number of aircraft operations at Maiquetia increased at
an average rate of 4.2% annually during the period 1963-69, the number for
1969 was actually below that of the previous year. This decrease reflects
both a cutback in domestic operations and an increase in the average size
of the aircraft.
3.19       The Maiquetia Airport is served by some 12 international airlines,
with direct flights to about 40 foreign cities. Its importance in the region
may be seen by comparing its annual volumes of traffic of 50,000 aircraft
movements and 1.4 million passengers to the about 18,000 movements and 429,000
passengers at Barbados, the 17,800 movements and 407,000 passengers at Curacao,
and the 127,000 movements and 4.5 million passengers at San Juan, Puerto Rico.



- 10 -
E. Passenger and. Cargo Forecasts
3.20      The forecast for international passenger traffic is based on past
air traffic trends, forecasts prepared by various international air carriers
and projected growth in air traffic demand in Venezuela and its major pas-
senger-generating countries. The generally favorable prospects for economic
growth in Venezuela, and the continuous growth of foreign visitor arrivals,
particularly tourists from the United States, were also taken into consid-
eration.
3.21      For domestic passenger traffic projections, an approach involving
identification of the traffic growth factors developed in a domestic passeni-
ger demand model and application of the estimate of growtlh of Venezuela's
GDP to the model was used. Domestic air passenger volume is niot expected
to develop as rapidly as international passenger volume, partly because of
recent extensive investments in new and improved highways between principal
population centers.  A recent downturn in the petroleum industry has had a
similar impact on domestic passenger volume, but this situation is expected
to improve in the near future.
3.22      The number of international passengers is projected to grow by 9%
p.a. between 1975-85 and by 12% between 1985-95, and the number of domestic
passengers by 4% p.a. in the 20 year period 1975-95. The main features of
the growth of passenger traffic are given below. Further details are given
in Table 3.
1975        1985            1995
International Passengers        935,000    2,365,000      7,300,000
Domestic Passengers             937,500    1,370,000      2,125,000
Transit Passengers              153,500      390,000      1,200,000
(international)
Total Passengers              2,026,000    4,125,000    10,625,000
Passenger Movements
in Peak Hours                     995        2,195          6,295
3.23      International air cargo, which amounted to some 33,400 m-ton in
1969, has been increasing at an average annual rate of 13% since 1963. Traf-
fic with North American markets, which accounted for some 80% of total ship-
ments, has been growing at a rate of 12 to 13% annually. The remainder was
about evenly distributed between other countries in South America, Central
America, the Caribbean Islands and Europe. The commodity shipments by air



- 11 -
on the South American and European routes have grown at 22-25% annually, as
a result of the opening of new air cargo routes and services, increased con-
sumer and industrial demand and marketing efforts by major international
carriers.
3.24      By 1975, the annual volume of air freight for Maiquetia is pro-
jected at 67,800 m-tons, of which 57,900 will be international and the re-
maining 9,900 domestic. By 1995, total annual air cargo is expected to be
625,400 m-tons, of which 610,000 will be international and 15,400 domestic.
(See Table 3).
F. Aircraft Operations
3.25      The total projection for all types of aircraft operations for 1975
is 62,660, increasing to 86,100 in 1985 and 125,900 in 1995. (See Table
below.) Peak hour aircraft operations are expected to increase from 18 in
1975 to 24 in 1985 and 35 in 1995.
Projected Aircraft Operations, Maiguetia Airport 1975-1995
1975          1985         1995
Passenger Operations
International                   17,000        31,450       55,500
Domestic                        26,800        27,100       32,200
All Cargo Operations
International                    2,240         4,280        5,840
Domestic                         1,520         1,080           860
General Aviation                    7,680        10,140        11,900
Private Aircraft                    7,420        12,050        19,600
Total                        62,660         86,100      125,900



- 12 -
4. THE PROJECT
A.   The Investment Program
4.01      The investment program of the airport authority for 1971 through
1975 consists of the reconstruction and expansion of the existing Maiquetia
Airport at a cost of US$109 million. It includes the construction of a new
runway and taxiway and related works (Part I) which are to be carried out
under this project and are estimated to cost US$54.5 million. The construc-
tion of the air terminal complex including international and domestic passen-
ger buildings, cargo buildings and administration building (Part II) will
be carried out under a proposed second project. The phasing of this invest-
ment program by years is given in Table 4.
B.   Description of the Project
4.02      The project consists of the construction at Maiquetia International
Airport of (a) a new paved runway 3,500 m x 45 m with parallel and connecting
taxiways complete with lighting, (b) runway approach lighting, (c) navaids
including an instrument landing system (ILS), (d) road, utility and drainage
diversion works and (e) provisional freight terminal and improvements to
existing terminal building. In addition, the project includes the detailed
design of the air terminal complex to be built as Part II and the services
of management consultants to assist in setting up the new authority.
4.03      The runway will be paved mostly with asphaltic concrete while the
ends of the runway and most of the taxiway will be paved with cement con-
crete. The new runway will be at a slight angle to the existing runway and
located to the north and west of it. The existing runway would be used for
aircraft take-offs and the proposed new runway would be used for both land-
ings and take-offs. The taxiway system will provide for aircraft circula-
tion between the new runway, the existing terminal area and the proposed new
terminal area to be constructed.
4.04      The master plan for the ultimate development of the site provides
for the construction of a second new runway parallel to the proposed new
runway.  In this configuration the existing runway would be eliminated and
the area occupied by it would be used for aircraft maintenance operations,
air cargo and some general aviation activities.
4.05      A new control tower is required for the operation of the project
as the location of the existing tower would not be suitable for the visual
control of aircraft on the west end of the new runway. The location of the
tower between the existing and proposed runways was confirmed by the Govern-
ment during negotiations. It is a condition of loan effectiveness that the
Government complete a technical feasibility study satisfactory to the Bank
relating to the siting and operation of the control tower and the method of
assuring adequate control of the airport ground traffic.



- 13 -
4.06      A very substantial volume of earthworks (about 14 million m ) is
necessary for the construction of the runway and taxiway, and additional
property needs to be acquired. The removal and relocation of the existing
radar, non directional beacon (NDB) and very high frequency omnidirectional
radio range (VOR) installations will also be necessary.
4.07      The construction of the new runway and the introduction of an
instrument landing system (ILS) will require the revision of aircraft
operating procedures in the vicinity of the airport. It will be necessary
for the Government to obtain technical assistance from a competent and ex-
perienced civil aviation agency to develop and implement such procedures.
Agreement on this point was reached during negotiations.
C. Design and Engineering
4.08      The Government has assigned the responsibility for management of
project execution to the Mtinistry of Public Works (MOP).  HOP has retained
the U.S. consulting firm TAMS to assist in the planning and design of the
project. It was agreed during negotiations that a similar arrangement will
be negotiated for the supervision of the construction work. The arrangements
provide for maximum participation by local consultants and MOP staff in the
development of the project, while still ensuring that the necessary expert
advice in the planning, design and management of the project is obtained
from experienced airport consultants.
4.09      The taxiway layout, which was discussed during negotiations, will
be subject to further study and will be confirmed during the design process.
4.10      Airport design will be in accordance with internationally accepted
standards and practices.
D.  Environment
4.11      Detailed studies of the impact of the runway construction on the
airport etivironment have been made by the coiisultants to assist the authori-
ties in the future planniing of residenitial and commercial areas around the
airport and in particular to minimize noise problems. The project will re-
quire the relocation of approximately 1,000 homes, a large proportion of
which belong to squatters. The Government proposes to compensate the persons
affected so that they can provide their own alternative accommodation. In
addition 300 low cost homes will be built and made available on a rental bas-
is. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that adequate compensation
would be given and that suitable areas for housing for the squatters would be
made available so that the hardship relating to location, jobs and transporta-
tion is minimized.
4.12      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government
would take measures satisfactory to the Bank to ensure that there will be
enacted and enter into effect (i) not later than July 31, 1972, a zoning



- 14 -
ordinance, satisfactory to the Bank, to control the development of obstruc-
tions in the vicinity of the airport and (ii) not later than July 31, 1973
land use planning controls satisfactory to the Bank, to ensure that property
development in the vicinity of the airport would be compatible with the long
range use of the airport.
4.13      Assurances were also obtained during negotiations that the Govern-
ment would take measures satisfactory to the Bank to ensure that the current
freeze on property development in the area adjacent to the airport would not
be lifted before the zoning ordinance and land use planning controls are in
effect.
E.   Cost Estimates
4.14      The project is estimated to cost the equivalent of US$54.5 million.
The proposed loan of US$17.0 million would cover 87X of the estimated foreign
exchange costs of about US$19.5 million. A summary of the costs is given be-
low and detailed cost estimates are shown in Table 5.
Bolivares (000)                    US$ (000)         % of
Local   Foreign  Total       Local   Foreign    Total Total
Land                     50,000    -      50,000    11,111       -       11,111  20.4
Runway and taxiway
construction includ-
ing lighting, navi-
gation aids and
associated works         72,000 63,000  135,000    16,000  14,000    30,000  55.0
Design                   16,050  4,950   21,000       3,567   1,100       4,667   8.6
Supervision               5,600  2,400    8,000       1,244      534      1,778   3.2
Subtotal          143,650 70,350  214,000    31,922  15,634    47,556  87.2
Contingencies
Physical           10,800  9,400   20,200        2,400   2,089      4,489   8.2
Price               2,400  6,600    9,000          533   1,467      2,000   3.7
Management consultant
fees                      675  1,575    2,250         150       350        500   0.9
Total             157,525 87,925  245,450    35,005  19,540    54.545 100.0
4.15      The cost of the road and utility diversions, improvements to the
existing terminal building and a provisional freight terminal will not be
financed from the loan. The elimination of these items reduces the loan



- 15 -
requirements to US$17.0 million. The Government would provide the local
currency costs as well as that part of the foreign cost not covered by the
loan.
4.16      The above figures are based on the consultant's (TAMS) master plan
estimates, recently updated and pro-rated to cover the runway portion of the
master plan. They are considered reasonable. The estimated cost for land
includes funds for the expropriation of land and for compensation to squat-
ters. Land in the littoral is generally scarce and thus the value is fairly
high. The unusually high cost of the earthworks for the runway and taxiway,
estimated at about $11 million, is due to the rough terrain which necessi-
tates large cuts and fills. A phvsical contingency of 15% has been used
for the runway construction and is considered adequate. Escalation of con-
struction costs has been estimated at 2% p.a. for the local component and
6% p.a. for the foreign component during the construction period. This is
based on a fairly stable local construction cost index and on the assumption
that imported materials and equipment would be from countries with a higher
rate of inflation.
F. Procurement
4.17      Construction and procurement contracts will be awarded under inter-
national competitive bidding following the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement"
with the exception of certain site preparation and provisional works (see
para. 4.15) which will not be financed by the proposed loan. It is expected
that the project will attract the keen interest of both international and
local contractors.
4.18      An earthmoving contract has already been let.  It is the intention
of the Government to have separate contracts for (a) paving, and (b) lighting
and navaids.
G.  Disbursement
4.1'      DIsbursement of loan funds will be made to finance the foreign ex-
change elements of construction and consultant's services.  These disburse-
ments are expected to take place over a three and a half year period from
April 1972 to June 1975. Disbursements will be made on the following basis:
a.  45% of expenditures for civil works contracts which represents
the estimated foreign exchange component thereof;
b.  100% of the CIF landed cost of imported equipment exclusive
of any customs duties;
c.  100% of the foreign expenditures for consultant services.



- 16 -
4.20      The estimated schedule of disbursements is shown in Table 6.  It is
recommended that the foreign exchange costs of engineering design services,
performed after 1 January 1971 and before the signing of the loan should be
financed retroactively. These costs are estimated to be less than US$600,000.
4.21      The Government has awarded an earthmoving contract in August 1971,
on the basis of international competitive bidding, and some payments on this
contract will probably be made before the signing of the loan. This could
involve a foreign exchange element of up to US$1 million. It is recommended
that foreign exchange costs up to that amount incurred before the signing of
the loan be financed retroactively.



- 17 -
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
5.01      Geographic and economic factors make air transport the main form
of passenger travel between Venezuela on the one hand and its principal
trading partners and tourist generating areas on the other. The project
would make an important contribution to the development of Venezuela by
improving the main gateway to Venezuela for most international passengers.
The bulk of these are at present business travellers whose activities help
make Venezuela the important international trading nation that it is.
5.02      Maiquetia Airport not only serves the growing metropolis of
Caracas, which is the focus of economic activity in the country, but it
is also the only international airport in the small core region surround-
ing Caracas which contains three quarters of Venezuela's industrial employ-
ment. Maiquetia is, moreover, the nucleus of a reasonably well developed
domestic network of air routes connecting the principal population centers
and the remote parts of the country to their capital city and to each other.
The development of Maiquetia will support moves towards a more diversified
economy by providing an important element of the framework required for the
expansion of the tourist industry in Venezuela.
5.03      The project is considered urgent, not because of any very immediate
lack of capacity on the existing runway but because, without it, international-
ly recognized safety standards for airports serving turbo-jet aircraft cannot
be met. The technical reasons for this were provided in Chapter 3. Amongst
the major airports of the world, Maiquetia is almost unique in not meeting
these standards. 1/  The new runway is thus required to comply with safety
standards, and the primary economic question to be considered is whether
the increase in safety warrants the considerable expenditure involved.
5.04      One possible approach to this question might have been to compare
the project cost with the cost of the accidents likely to occur if the air-
port was used without complying with the recommended safety standards. Such
an approach is impractical in the field of aviation because of the impossi-
bility of establishing, on a statistical basis, the relationship between
the probability of serious accidents and specific types of safety improve-
ments, particularly for an individual airport.  Aircraft accidents occur so
rarely, even under adverse operating conditions as those found in Maiquetia,
that they do not provide a basis for an adequate causal analysis of the mul-
titude of possible factors contributing to them.  During the period 1959-68
1/   Of all international airports in the world handling over half a million
passengers a year only six are not equipped with an ILS system. However,
four of these six airports are supported by an alternate, equipped with
ILS, which serves the same area. (Buenos Aires, San Paulo, Santiago and
Palma de Mallorca). Wellington, New Zealand and Maiquetia, Venezuela are
the only major single airport systems without ILS.



- 18 -
the worldwide serious accident rate 1/ for passenger jet aircraft for public
transport operations was 1.2 per million take-offs and landings. The fatal-
ity rate for the same period was about 1 per million passengers. Given such
low accident rates, irrespective of the speculative nature of accident val-
uation, it is not possible to evaluate a project reliably on the basis of ac-
cident prevention. There is, thus, no objective basis for challenging the
judgement of international aviation agencies on the requirement for the re-
commended standards. These safety standards were therefore accepted.
5.05      It is, however, also important to determine whether the proposed
project is the least cost means by which Venezuela could meet these accept-
ed safety standards. The two basic means, other than the proposed project,
of achieving them are (a) the construction of a new safe international air-
port in the vicinity of Caracas or (b) the restriction of Maiquetia to the
types of aircraft that can safely use it, i.e. propeller aircraft, to link
Caracas and its neighboring area with other existing international airports
which meet the safety standards. Alternative (a) has been ruled out as being
considerably more costly than the proposed project. In order to assess al-
ternative (b) an examination of the existing international airports in the
Caribbean region and the pattern of air routes in this region was under-
taken. This examination revealed that if Maiquetia were closed to jet air-
craft, the most efficient manner of serving the international air transport
needs of the Caracas region would be by providing shuttle propeller aircraft
services at Maiquetia to connect it with the international jet air transport
network at Willemstad, Curacao, at San Juan, Puerto Rico, and at Port of
Spain, Trinidad. An existing international airport in Venezuela which it
might be possible to use as a jet connection point, Maracaibo, is some 512 km
west of Caracas and traffic on the western segment of air routes coming from
or going to Caracas could clearly more advantageously use Curacao which is
280 km away. It would, thus, be technically possible to use other existing
international airports to serve the Caracas region. Such a solution however
would clearly be commercially unacceptable. Moreover, it would impose a
cost on the Venezuelan economy. In the first instance this cost consists
of the additional operating costs of providing the propeller aircraft
services to connect Maiquetia with the international jet air transport net-
work and the corresponding additional time it would take people to travel
to and from Maiquetia. More fundamentally, such a pattern of travel would
reduce the growth of traffic, with adverse consequences on the development
of Venezuela in general and in particular the key region of Caracas. It
has not been possible to estimate this reduction in traffic. But the loss
in terms of additional aircraft operating costs and additional passenger time
costs valued as described in Annex 2, would in themselves, in comparison with
the proposed project costs, show a rate of return of about 17%. This rate of
1/   The term 'serious accidents' is used in aviation statistics to describe
potentially fatal accidents whether or not a fatality actually occurred.



- 19 -
return calculation ignores the losses to Venezuela arising from the sup-
pression of traffic which is likely to take place without the project. It
therefore probably underestimates the benefits arising from choosing the
new runway at Maiquetia solution rather than any other alternative.



- 20 -
6. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A.   Introduction
6.01      As proposed by the Government, the financial responsibilities for
the development and operation of the Maiquetia Airport would be shared be-
tween the Government and the Authority as follows:
(a) Government
1.   Borrowing and servicing of all debt associated with
the construction of the expansion program viz. Part
I (runway complex) the subject of the proposed loan
and Part II (the planned terminal building complex).
The construction funds would be disbursed and con-
trolled by the Ministry of Public Works.
2.   Collection of the departure tax of Bs 83.00 (US$18.44)
per head. This tax is levied and collected at present
for the National Treasury from each person leaving the
country by air and sea, except those who have entered
the country on a tourist visa. (In effect it is paid
almost exclusively by Venezuelan residents who form
about half of the departing passengers at Maiquetia,
and in its present form cannot be considered as a
user charge.)
(b) Authority
1.   Collection of all revenues (other than departure tax)
and payment of all operating expenses.
2.   Payment of routine capital expenditures, if any, other
than Part I and Part II of the expansion program.
6.02      With the Government servicing directly the debt incurred for the
airport, the Authority itself would generate cash in excess of its own re-
quirements and it has been agreed during negotiations that such surplus cash
would revert to the Government. On the other hand, the Government would pro-
vide the necessary funds to finance future expansion.
6.03      Although it would have been desirable in principle to have the
Authority fully responsible for the financial management of both the expan-
sion program and operations of the airport, the Government proposal is ac-
ceptable. As mentioned in Chapter 3, the Authority will take over and cen-
tralize functions now being performed by various Ministries and agencies.
It will be responsible for establishing general policy and plans for opera-
tions and development, firing and hiring staff, supervising and coordinating



- 21 -
the work of the various government agencies and departments operating at the
airport, and for managing and operating the airport in an efficient and cost
conscious manner. In short, the organizational structure proposed by the
Government is consistent with the objective (normally associated with auton-
omous agencies) of financial discipline and close control over costs. The
proposed division of financial responsibilities does, however, make it some-
what more difficult than in the case of full financial autonomy, to estab-
lish clearly defined financial objectives for the Authority and precise
criteria for setting the level and structure of user charges.
B.   User Charges and Financial Objectives
6.04      Large investments in infrastructure are often required to serve
the expanding aviation industry. The direct beneficiaries of these invest-
ments are airlines and their passengers who generally belong to the upper
income groups. Furthermore, many of these beneficiaries are foreigners.
It is important to ensure that the country making the infrastructure invest-
ment obtains sufficient economic benefits from it. The most direct way of
obtaining such benefits is through charges to the users and, because of the
low elasticity of demand of airport services to user charges, this is usually
feasible. The Bank has therefore proposed to the Government that all users
should pay for the services received at the airport. The Government is op-
posed to imposing a departure tax on tourists on the grounds that it would
be detrimental to its policy of encouraging the development of the tourist
sector. No evidence has been put forward by the Government to support its
contention that such a charge would dampen demand and the experience of
other airports suggests that a departure tax, at a reasonable level, would
not be a deterrent to the growth of tourism. A decision on the level and
structure of user charges can, however, best be made when the definitive
plans regarding the size, timing and cost of the terminal building complex
are available, which is expected before the end of 1972. It has therefore
been agreed during negotiations that the consultants referred to in para.
3.14 will, by September 30, 1973, make recommendations on the level and
structure of user charges taking into account the desirability of ensuring
that:
(i)  charges paid by all users, whether collected by the
Borrower or the Authority, will be sufficient to cover
the cost of providing the airport services, the service
of all debt incurred for the airport and an appropriate
contribution to the cost of further expansion of the air-
port; and
(ii)  a sufficient proportion of total economic benefits result-
ing from the airport investments are retained in the
Venezuelan economy.
Upon complection of this study, the consultants' recommendations would be
reviewed by the Government, the Authority and the Bank and a user charges



- 22 -
system for the airport satisfactory to the Bank would be established before
March 31, 1974, i.e. before the new runway and the new terminal building
complex are in operation.
C.   Financing Plan
6.05      Table 8 shows a forecast of the funds required and the sources
of such funds for Part I and Part II of the expansion program, based on
very tentative cost estimates for Part II and tentative assumptions on its
financing. The proposed project (Part I) itself is estimated to cost about
Bs 245.5 million (US$54.5 million equivalent); debt service during the pe-
riod in which disbursements take place (1971-75) would bring the total fi-
nancial requirements for Part I to Bs 301.2 million, to be financed as
follows:
Bs million    US$ million    %
(equivalent)
Government contributions:
Proposed project (Part I)                    119.0           26.4       40
Debt service (Part I)                        55.7            12.4       18
174.7          38.8        58
Borrowings:
Proposed IBRD loan                            76.5           17.0       25
Local                                        50.0            11.1       17
126.5          28.1        42
Total sources                                 301.2            66.9      100
6.06      Law No. 29316 of September 11, 1970 authorizes the Government to
spend a total of Bs 345.8 million for both Part I and Part II of the expan-
sion program; this falls short of the current cost estimate of Bs 492.4 mil-
lion for the whole program, and therefore further Congressional appropriation
will be required to enable the Government to complete Part II. With regard
to the proposed project, confirmation was obtained during negotiations that
the law as it now stands does not preclude the Government from appropriating
an amount corresponding to the present project cost estimates, and agreement
was reached during negotiations that in any event the Government would pro-
vide funds as needed to complete the project. The Government contribution
of Bs 174.7 million shown in the above table ts a gross amount; it is esti-
mated, however, that during the 1971-75 periocl the Government would receive
from the Authority itself cash surpluses amounting to about Bs 26 million,
and would collect directly from passengers subject to the departure tax a
total of about Bs 82 million.
6.07      Law No. 2029 of August 12, 1970 restricts the borrowing powers of
the Government to finance Part I and Part II of the program to an aggregate
amount of Bs 187 million, of which up to Bs 137 million (US$30.4 million)



- 23 -
may be borrowed from international lenders, and up to Bs 50 million may be
raised by the issue of bonds locally. The financing plan for the proposed
project is compatible with the provisions of the law (which, however, on
the basis of present cost estimates, would not give the Government suffi-
cient borrowing powers to finance Part II). Bonds have already been issued;
they bear interest at 7% and are repayable over 9 years. The proposed Bank
loan for the project would be repayable over 15 years, including a 3-1/2
year grace period.
D.   Financial Projections of the Authority
6.08      Projected income statements for the Authority up to 1976 are shown
in Table 7, which allocates revenues and expenses between the lending and
terminal areas. Details of the financial assumptions are given in Annex 3.
6.09      Operating revenues are based on the forecast traffic growth, the
planned expansion of the terminal building, and the user charges listed in
Annex 4. Pending the results of the review of the user charges system, no
major changes are envisaged at this stage, except for the introduction in
mid-1974 of a fuel fee of Bs 0.025 per gallon. The existing landing fee
of Bs 12.00 per ton for international flights will not be increased because
it is already high in comparison to other airports in the region; the do-
mestic landing fee of Bs 1.60 per ton is on the other hand very low, but
it is not envisaged at this stage to change it either, in view of the Gov-
ernment's desire to promote domestic aviation.
6.10      The projected operating and maintenance costs of the landing area
have been prepared by the Bank staff on the basis of past costs for the exist-
ing runway. Salaries and wages included in the terminal area costs are based
on the estimates of the Government's consultants. An increase in staff is
assumed to take place in stages in the years 1972 through 1975. Agreement
was reached during negotiations that the Authority would consult with the
Bank on its projected staffing level, with the understanding that the man-
agement and accounting consultants referred to in para. 3.14 would under-
take a study of the staffing requirements and that their findings would
form the basis for future decisions.
6.11      The projections show that the Authority will operate at a profit
in 1972 and 1973, with a rate of return on average net fixed assets in
service of 8%. Starting in 1974 the Authority will incur losses due to the
heavy impact of depreciation, particularly for the planned new terminal
building, and may not be able to break even until the early 80's when the
design capacity will be fully utilized. Actually, to the extent that the
projections are an adequate forecast of allocation of revenues and expenses
between the landing and terminal areas, it is clear that the Authority's
deficit is attributable solely to the terminal area; the estimated opera-
ting revenues for the terminal area are certainly not commensurate with the
size of the investment planned for the terminal building. Income from space



- 24 -
rentals and concessions in the new terminal building, which is assumed to
become operational in early 1975, are based on the recommendations of the
Government's consultants; and as discussed earlier in para. 6.04, the level
and structure of user charges would be reviewed and an appropriate user
charges system established early in 1974. In view of the fact that the
planned investment in the terminal building complex and/or any other de-
velopment will have an impact on the Authority's profitability, agreement
was obtained during negotiations that before undertaking or executing any
project or development for the expansion or improvement of the airport
(including Part II), the Government would consult with the Bank. Agreement
was also obtained during negotiations that the Authority would not incur
any capital expenditures in excess of Bs 1 million per annum during the
construction period of the project without the prior approval of the Bank.
6.12      In view of the uncertainties regarding the investment for the
terminal building and of the user charges system, the projections do not
provide a good basis for formulating a rate covenant with which the Author-
ity should comply in all future years. However, the forecasts for 1972 and
1973 indicate that the Authority could achieve a return of 8% on average net
fixed assets in service, provided that it exercises proper control over its
costs. During negotiations, agreement was obtained that the Authority and
the Government would take all necessary steps, including adjustments in
charges, to enable the Authority to earn a return of at least 6% in 1972,
and 8% in 1973, as an interim measure. The rate will be reviewed and new
rates satisfactory to the Bank would be established for 1974 and thereafter
on the basis of the results of the study of user charges referred to in
para. 6.04. These rates would be expected to increase progressively, but
the Bank would not require that they exceed 8%.
6.13      Balance sheet forecasts are given in Table 9.  As mentioned in
para. 6.02, the Authority will generate cash in excess of its own require-
ments even with the existing level of user charges and during negotiations
agreement was reached that the Authority would pay over to the Government
at the end of each year, by way of a return on the Government's investment,
all of its cash resources exceeding an amount sufficient to cover its budg-
eted cash expenditures for the ensuing half-year.
6.14      With the financial arrangements as proposed by the Government,
the Authority itself would not have any long-term debt and would obviously
have no problems in remaining financially viable. However, this would not
necessarily be the case if the Authority were to incur substantial debt in
the future. During negotiations, agreement was obtained that the Authority
would not, without prior approval of the Bank, incur long term debt if its
net cash generation is less than 1.5 times its maximum future debt service
requirements.



- 25 -
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations agreements were reached on the following
principal points.
a.   Review and comment by the Bank on the Airport Authority's
By-laws before their enactment by 30 June 1972 (para. 3.11).
b.   Maintenance by the Authority of complete accounting records
to reflect all transactions affecting airport operations
under a commercial accounting system (para. 3.14).
c.   Hiring of management and accounting consultants by the
Authority by 30 June 1972 on the basis of agreed terms of
reference (para. 3.14).
d.   Appointment of external auditors by 31 March 1972 (para. 3.15).
e.   Provision of technical assistance in the development of new
aircraft operating procedures for the airport (para. 4.07).
f.   Compensating displaced people adequately (para. 4.11).
g.   Taking of measures by the Gvoernment to ensure enactment
of a) an obstruction zoning ordinance by July 31, 1972
and b) land use planning controls by July 31, 1973 (para.
4.12).
h.   Establishment of a user charges system, satisfactory to
the Bank, by March 31, 1974 which would take into account
the desirability of ensuring that (a) charges paid by all
users, whether collected by the Borrower or the Authority,
will be sufficient to cover the cost of providing the air-
port services, the service of all debt incurred for the
airport and an appropriate contribution to the cost of
further expansion of the airport; and (b) a sufficient
proportion of total economic benefits resulting from the
airport investments are retained in the Venezuelan economy
(para. 6.04).
i.   Prior consultation by the Government with the Bank before
proceeding with any expansion program at the airport other
than the proposed project (para. 6.11).
J.   Limitation of the Authority's capital expenditures during
the project period to one million Bolivares per annum
(para. 6.11).



- 26 -
k.   Implementation by the Authority of all measures including
adjustmeot of user charges to achieve (a) an annual rate
of return of at leapt 6X in 1972 and 8% in 1973 and (b)
in 1974 and thereafter progressively increasing annual rates
of return satisfactory to the Bank but which shall not be
required to exceed 8% (para. 6.12).
1.   Handing over by the Authority to the Government at the
end of each year, all its cash resources exceeding an
amount to cover its budgeted cash expenditures for the
ensuing half-year (para. 6.13).
m.   Observance by the Authority of a debt limitation test
(para. 6.14).
7.02      It vill be a condition of effectiveness of the loan that the
Government will furnish to the Bank a technical feasibility report satis-
factory to the Bank relating to (a) the siting and operation of the control
tower included in the project and (b) the method of assuring adequate con-
trol of the airport ground traffic (para. 4.05).
7.03      It is recommended that the foreign exchange costs of design and
engineering services incurred after January 1, 1971 not exceeding US$600,000
should be financed retroactively. It is also recommended that the foreign
exchange costs of the initial earth moving contract incurred after September
1, 1971 not exceeding US$1,000,000 should be financed retroactively (paras.
4.20 and 4.21).
7.04      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$17.0 million for a term of 15 years including a 3-1/2 year grace
period.
January 4, 1972



ANNEX 1
Page 1
VENEZUELA
APPRAISAL OF MAIQUETIA INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT PROJECT
Definitions and Descriptions of Navigational Aids
Instrument Landing System - ILS
The ILS is an electronic system which defines the approach path
to a runway by means of radio transmissions to receivers in the aircraft.
The system is composed of a localizer, glide slope and marker beacons. The
localizer provides lateral guidance along the extended runway centerline.
The glide slope provides vertical guidance for a descending flight path at
angles normally between 2.0 and 3.0' with the horizontal. Marker beacons
provide a signal to indicate passage of an aircraft over designated points
along the flight path.
The outer marker location indicates the point at which the initial
approach altitude (level flight) intercepts the glide slope signal. The
middle marker is located at a distance corresponding to the 60 m (200-ft)
altitude on the glide slope. Such a system meets the requirements of a
Category I installation. For Category II installations an inner marker is
provided to indicate the 30 m (100-ft) altitude on the glide slope and there
are additional requirements for runway lighting and pilot training to enable
landing to be made in even lower weather minima.
Very High Frequency Omnidirectional Radio Range - VOR
The VOR is an electronic system which provides continuous bearing
information with coverage limited only by line of sight. It consists of a
radio transmitter installation transmitting a coded and directional signal
which identifies the station and provides azimuth information to the air-
craft. It can be used as an enroute aid to navigation between airports or
as a terminal landing aid at an airport.
Distance Measuring Equipment - DME
This is an electronic system which tells the pilot the distance
the aircraft is to or from a point, usually a VOR station. Combining this
with the VOR bearing information gives the pilot a means of accurate navi-
gation on or off the airways.
Visual Approach Slope Indicator - VASI
A visual approach slope indicator system is comprised of a number
of light units sited so as to appear to the pilot of an approaching aircraft
to be symmetrically disposed about the runway centerline in the form of two



ANNEX 1
Page 2
pairs of runway wing bars; one pair, nearest the threshold, being designated
as the downwind bars and the other pair, away from the threshold, as the up-
wind bars. The light units in each bar project a beam of light having a
white color in its upper part and a red color in its lower part. The units
are so arranged that the pilot of an approaching aircraft will see all the
wing bars as red when his aircraft is below the approach slope; as white
when the aircraft is above the approach slope; and the downwind bars as white
and the upwind bars as red when the aircraft is on the correct glide slope.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
VENEZUELA
APPRAISAL OF MAIQUETIA INTERNATIONAL AIRPOaT PROJECT
Basis for Economic Evaluation
1.        In order to provide a quantitative economic assessment of the
project, a comparison was made with the next best way of meeting the ac-
cepted jet airport safety standards. The second best alternative, which
involves closing Maiquetia to jets and using propeller aircraft to link
it with the international jet air transport network, is admittedly not a
realistic substitute for the proposed project. However, such a comparison
helps indicate in quantitative terms how much more costly it is to achieve
the safety standards by means other than the project. Three types of be-
nefits have been separately estimated: these are savings in aircraft fly-
ing time, savings in passenger time and reductions in ground delays.
2.        Two alternative estimates have been made of these quantifiable
benefits of the project. The first assumes that the benefits of the proj-
ect will increase with the growth of traffic over the twenty year life of
the project. The second assumes that benefits would increase only during
the first five years, after which they would remain constant for the re-
maining 15 years.  This second extremely conservative estimate of the bene-
fits was made to allow for the effects of conceivable changes in aviation
technology during the economic life of the project leading to new types of
aircraft, to the adoption of V/STOL systems or to more efficient air traffic
control procedures.
Savings in Aircraft Flying Time
3.        The types of aircraft that could safely operate from Maiquetia
in the absence of the project were identified and their operating charac-
teristics were examined. On the basis of this examination it was assumed
that the most probable aircraft fleet that could serve Maiquetia without
the project would consist of four engine piston and turbo-prop aircraft
for all international flights and the most recent types of twin-engine pro-
peller and turbo-prop aircraft for domestic flights initially, replaced by
four engine aircraft in later years.
4.        A comparison was then made between using the normal jet fleet
and the assumed propeller fleet to connect Maiquetia to the jet air route
network at three points, Willemstad in Curacao, Port-of-Spain in Trinidad
and San Juan in Puerto Rico. This revealed that the assumed propeller air-
craft fleet would require 12 additional minutes flying time on the 280 km
flight to Curacao, 26 additional minutes on the 608 km flight to Trinidad
and 38 minutes more on the 872 km flight to Puerto Rico. It was assumed
that all the traffic originating and terminating in the Caribbean region
or in the west coast of South America and 50% of the U.S. traffic would



ANNEX 2
Page 2
be routed through Curacao. The other half of the U.S. traffic was assumed
to travel via Puerto Rico. The North, Central and South Atlantic regional
traffic was assumed to be routed through Trinidad. A separate assessment
was made of using propeller aircraft on those domestic routes currently
served by jet aircraft. On the assumption that the distribution of the
forecast traffic would follow the existing distribution, it was estimated
that the overall time penalty of using the assumed propeller fleet would
amount to a weighted average of 20 minutes per flight.
5.        Assuming an annual average aircraft load factor of about 60%,
there would be 50 passengers per international flight. For domestic traffic,
it is assumed that an average aircraft capacity is 60 seats in 1975, increas-
ing to 80 seats by 1995 and the average annual load factor is assumed to be
60%. On this basis, the total number of turbo-prop aircraft operations to
handle the international passenger traffic between 1975 and 1995 is estimated
to range from 18,700 passenger operations in 1975 to 146,000 in 1995. The
number of domestic turbo-prop operations to replace turbo-jets would be
5,650 operations in 1975 and 10,500 operations in 1995. Operating costs per
hour per passenger are usually lower for jet aircraft than propeller aircraft.
To be conservative, this factor has not been taken into account in computing
benefits of the project.
6.        Aircraft operating costs are estimated on the basis of data as-
sembled by the United States Civil Aeronautics Board (August 1970). The
direct operating cost of flying operations per aircraft block hour in the
United States in 1969 range from some US$85-137 for twin-engine turbo-prop
and piston aircraft to US$195-225 for four engine aircraft. For the purpose
of this analysis an average cost per hour of US$130 for twin-engine and
US$200 for four-engine aircraft has been assumed as most representative.
After making an adjustment for the increased size of domestic aircraft
throughout the forecast period, the weighted average cost per hour for an
all-propeller aircraft fleet for Maiquetia International Airport was com-
puted. For 1975 the average hourly cost is estimated at US$186, and by
the year 1995 it would rise to US$200. The weighted average cost of 20
minutes of additional flying time by propeller aircraft is therefore esti-
mated at around US$62 for the year 1975 increasing to around US$67 in 1995.
On these bases an additional cost of aircraft operations due to the restric-
tion to be placed against jet aircraft at the Maiquetia Airport is estimated
to be US$1.8 million in 1975, rising to around US$10.9 million in 1995.
Savings in Passenger Time
7.        The average value of air traveler's time has been estimated for
international and domestic passengers on the basis of assumed average income
levels for different classes of travelers. The hourly rate has been esti-
mated at US$5.47 for international air travelers and US$4.70 for domestic
passengers, or an overall average of about US$5 for all passengers. This
has been applied to the average 20 minutes additional flying time for all



ANNEX 2
Page 3
passengers presently on jets. An average of an additional 40 minutes of
connecting time which is required for all international flights was applied
to those passengers (about 2/3 of the total) who will connect to another
flight at Curacao, Port-of-Spain or San Juan. The same hourly value has
also been applied for time loss by passengers because of aircraft delays
or due to increased taxiing distance on the ground at Maiquetia.
Reductions in Ground Delays
8.        The practical capacity of the airport with one runway is esti-
mated to be some 40 aircraft operations per hour with the projected fleet
mix of turbo-jet and propeller aircraft. With an all-propeller type air-
craft fleet, the practical capacity with one runway would be around 50
hourly operations. With the proposed new runway the practical hourly
capacity would be some 63 operations. With two runways, delay costs are
minimal throughout the forecast period, but without the second runway,
delay costs, although small initially, increase rapidly as a function of
traffic growth reaching some US$1.6 million by 1995. This saving in air-
craft ground delays has to be set against an increase in taxiing time as
the new runway is further away from the terminal building complex. The
net effect of the delay savings for passengers and aircraft and the addi-
tional cost of taxiing will be a net annual cost of the project of US$0.3
million in 1975. This will change to net benefits by 1990, reaching the
level of US$2.8 million by 1995.
Economic Costs of the Prolect
9.        Part of the land costs, the design costs and the management
consultants fees relate to Part II of the Maiquetia investment program
and these costs as well as the price contingencies have been deducted
from the project cost leaving an economic capital cost of US$45 million
to be weighed against the project benefits. In addition to this, the
project will give rise to some social and environmental costs which are
not included in the project cost estimate. These costs arise because
the project will necessitate the relocation of some existing land uses
and because the new runway will inflict aircraft noise on some developed
areas.
10.       Relocation Costs  The implementations of the project will neces-
sitate the relocation of a leper colony, a pipe factory and a reformatory
school which are located on the proposed airfield. The Ministry of Public
Works (MOP) has estimated that these three establishments could be relocated
at estimated costs of Bs 10 million, Bs 3 million and Bs 0.5 million respec-
tively, giving rise to total relocation costs of US$3 million.
11.       Noise Costs  The new realigned runway would introduce aircraft
noise into areas which were previously free from it. Two small residential
areas (parts of "Urbanization Playa Grande" and "Urbanization Atlantica")
will be severely affected by noise. It has conservatively been assumed that



ANNEX 2
Page 4
the noise would merely inhibit increases in land values in these areas for
the first 10 years of the project period. Assuming that land prices, in the
absence of the project, would rise at 8% per annum, the losses in land values
attributable to the noise are estimated at a discounted 1975 value of Bs 12.2
million (US$2.7 million).
12.       Aircraft noise would also necessitate the insulation of some
residential and other property. The MOP has estimated that 600 residen-
tial houses (200 of which are low cost homes), three schools and three
hospitals would require insulation against noise. The cost of such in-
sulation has been assessed at Bs 9 million (US$2 million).
Project Return
13.       For the calculation of the project return, as compared with the
next best alternative the social and environmental costs amounting to US$7.7
million have been added to the economic capital costs of the project. On
the basis of these total costs and the benefits discussed above, the return
of the project is 17% if the benefits are assumed to increase over the full
projected life of the investment. If the benefits of the project are assumed
to remain constant after 1980 for the reasons described in para. 2 above, the
return is 13%. The first year return is 12% if only the direct capital costs
are considered, but is 11% if the social and environmental costs are also in-
cluded. Most of the benefits of this project would be received directly
by the Venezuelan economy. It is estimated that 30% of the total quanti-
fied benefits would accrue directly to Venezuelan residents in the form of
time savings to them, and that a further 10% of the total benefits would
accrue directly to Venezuelan airlines. Moreover, Venezuela would obtain
additional revenue from foreign airlines at the airport amounting to 20%
of the estimated project benefits. The rest of the benefits would accrue
initially to the international community but one would expect this in the
long term to lead to Venezuela obtaining benefits of a similar order of
magnitude in the form of increased trade, additional spending by foreigners
in Venezuela and more foreign investment in Venezuela. In the more immediate
future, however, the level of user charges at the airport will be studied by
consultants as pointed out in para. 3.14. Their recommendations could lead
to changes in the user charges and perhaps to an increase in the proportion
of the economic benefits that would directly accrue to Venezuela.
Sensitivity Tests
14.       Using the increasing benefit stream, a 15% increase in the
estimated construction cost of the project, and a delaying of all benefits
by one year would reduce the economic return from 17% to 15%. If benefits
are decreased by 25%, either by a 25% lower traffic forecast or by a 25%
reduction in the unit benefits, the economic return is 14%. If the value
of benefits is increased by 25%, the economic return is 19%. Alternatively,
using the stream in which benefits are assumed constant after 1980, the
above three tests show rates of return of 11%, 10% and 16%, respectively.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
VENEZUELA
APPRAISAL OF MAIQUETIA INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT PROJECT
Assumptions Used in Financial Projections
1.        The period during which disbursements take place is assumed to be
1971 through 1975 for Part I project with the new runway facilities becoming
operational in mid-1974. The projected construction period for Part II is
assumed to be 1973 through 1975 with the new terminal building complex be-
coming operational early in 1975.
2.        Interest and commitment charges during the construction period
and interest thereafter are treated as current non-operating expenses and
included in the income statement.
3.        The proposed Bank loan for Part I would bear interest at 7-1/4%
p.a. and would be repayable over 15 years, including a 3-1/2 year grace
period. The projected borrowing for Part II is on the same terms as for
Part I. The local bond issue bears interest at 7% and is repayable over
9 years.
4.        The Government's contribution to the construction costs of Part I
and Part II are treated as equity in the Authority's accounts.
5.        Annual depreciation of fixed assets is calculated on the straight
line basis, and the following rates apply:
Land           None
Buildings       5%
Runways         5%
Equipment       10%
6.        The cost of management and accounting consultants' services is
assumed to be Bs 2,300,000. This is treated as a deferred charge and
written off in ten equal installments starting in 1975.
7.        Annual salary increases are calculated at 5% of prior year's
payroll costs.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
8.        The average annual increases of other expenses are as follows:
Runway operating and
maintenance costs       5%
Supplies                  10%
Service contracts         5%
Utilities                 10%
9.        The accounts receivable are calculated on the basis that one
month's operating revenues for a given year would be outstanding as at the
end of the year.
10.       The accounts payable and accruals are calculated on the basis that
one month's cash operating expenses excluding salaries and wages for a given
year would remain unsettled as at the end of the year.
11.       Other income shown under the terminal area in the amount of Bs 2.18
million p.a. from 1975 onwards include Bs 1.25 million p.a. generated by the
existing terminal buildings being used as a cargo facility and/or for aviation
oriented purposes, and Bs 930,000 p.a. from general aviation activities and
land leases.
12.       The Authority will retain cash balances at year end at a level of
half of the following year's cash operating expenses, with any excess cash
generation reverting to the Government.



VENEZUELA
APPRAISAL OF MAIQ'JETIA INTERNATIONAL AIWORT P)1JECT
Schedule of User Charges
Fees Formling
Basis of
Fee Suggested                Financial
Source of Revenue                 Existing Fee                By Consultant                Projections
Landing Fee:
International
-Pax Cargo                     Bs 10/11T(D)/Bs 12/1MT(N)   Bs 12,/MT                   Bs 12,/MT
Private Tourism                                          Bs 1 20/Opn.                 Bs 120/Opn.
National
Pax Cargo                    Bs 1.30*hT (D)Ss 1.60RT(N)   Bs 3/MT                     Bs 1.60/MT
Private Tourism
Fuel Fees                                                     Bs .01/Gal.                  Bs 0.025!/Gal.
Pax Teininal Facilities
Gate Positions                                          1/ Bs 735/LM/year               Bs 735/LM/year
Departure Tax                  Bs 83/Dep.non-tourist Pax  Bs 10/Dep. Pax
Airline Prime Space            Bs 1 25/SM/year             Bs 240/SM/year               Bs 240/SM/year
Baggage Storage Rooms          Bs 1 25/SM/year             Bs 1 OO/SM/year              Bs 1 20/SM/year
Concession & Rental Space      Bs 1 25/SM/year             Bs 240/SM/year               Bs 240/SK/year
+ % gross revenues          + % gross revenues
Goverment Agencies                                         Bs 50/S4/year
Car Pental                                                 10% gross revenues           10% gross revenues
Public Parking                 Bs 40/SM/year               90% gross revenues           Bs 8/day,/car .parking space
Legend:
MT = Metric Ton           Dep. non-tourist Pax = Departing Passenger not holding tourist visa
Opn.= Operation                               SH- = Square Meter
Gal.= Gallon                                   D = Day
LM = Linear IMeter                            N - Night
1 / Goes to the Government, excludes touarists






TABLES 1 & 2
VENEZUELA
APPRAISAL OF MAIQUETIA INTEPNATIONAL AIRPORT PROJECT
TABLE 1
HISTORIC PASSENGER DATA
Maiquetia International Airport
1963 - 1970 (thousands)
Year                             International                      Domestic
1963                                 235                              443
1 964                                290                              506
1965                                 337                              576
1966                                 398                              655
1967                                 464                              713
1 968                                551                              735
1969                                 573                              745
1970                                 620                              785
TABLE 2
HISTORIC AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS DATA
Maiquetia International Airport
1963 - 1969
Year                            International              Domsatic      Total
Scheduled     Non-scheduled
1963                        9046            1827            28,341       39,214
1964                        9370            2321            29,104       40,795
1965                        9968            2970            31,805       44.,743
1966                      10,741            3524            34,531       48,726
1967                      11 ,923           4131            32,387       48,441
1968                      12,783           5507             32,242       50,532
1 969                     1 3,465          5481             31,345       50,291
August 27, 1971






ViIEZtJEA
APPRAISAL OF I4AIQUETIA INTETUiATIONAL AIRPORT PROJECT
AIR TRAFFIC PROJECTIONS
Maiquetia International Airport
1975-1995
1975         1980            1985           1990          1995
1. Annual Passengersa                        1,872,000    2,600,000    3,735,000    5,900,000    9,425,COO
International                             935,000   1,465,000    2,365,000    4,200,000    7,300,COO
Dom8etic                                  937,000   1,135,000    1,370,000    1,700,000    2,1125,COO
Transitg (international)                  153,500       242,500         390,000        695,000    1,200,COO
2. Anrnual Aircraft Operations                   62,660         72,380         86,100        108,060       125,00
Air Carrier                                                                 -,
International Passenger                 17,000         23,500         31,450         44,700         55,500
Donestic Passenger                      26,800         26,200         27,100         30,900         32,200
International Freight                    2,2_40         3,130          4,280          5,010          5,4L40
Domestic Freight                         1,520          1,180 IP1,080                    900            860
General dAviation                           7,680          8,900         10,140         11,200         11,500
Turismod                   -7,4t20                         9,470         12,050         15,350         19,600
3. Averagc Number of Passengers per Flight         43.7           52.3           63.8           78.0          107.5
te
4. Peak-Hour Passepger Hovements                     955         1,430          2,195          3,733          6,295
International                                  750         1,175          1,895          3,360          5,£30
342           414            500            621            776
5. Peak-Hour Scheduled Air Carrier Operations
International                                                  11             15             21             26.
Domes tic
9             9             10             11             11
6. Peak-Hour Total Aircraft Operations
18           .20             24             30 .           35
7. Annual Air Freight (metric tons)              61,80o       124,900         246,500       388,300        625,400
International                              57,900        115,000        235,000        375,000       610,CUO  X
Dom.estic                                    9,900G        9,900         11,500         13,300         15,4t00
a. Totals exclude transit passengers.
b. Transit passengers averaged approxi.mately 25% of total international passenger movements.  Each transit
passenger accounts for one deplAnenent and one erplanement (two movements).
c.  Include3 official government aviation, agricultural aviation, and search and rescue activity. d. Turismo includes
all private aviation.  e. TotaTh do not add, because domestic and international peak hours do not coincide.
f. Yaclh tran it paaoenger coznted twice. P.. rritual 3c,.
August 27, 1971






TABLE 5
VENEZUELA
APPRAISAL OF MAIQUETIA INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimate
Bolivares (000)                  US$ (000)
Local   Foreign   Total      Local    Foreign    Total
LAND                                50,000     -      50,000     11 ,111      -       11,111
CONSTRUCTION WORKS
Rerouting of Las Pailas Canal    6,200    2,700    8,900       1,378       600      1,978
Clearing, Major Earthworks,
Fencing                          24,500   25,500   50,000      5,445    5,666      11,111
Grading, Paving, Drainage       17,700   12,500   30,200       3,933    2,778       6,711
Lighting Electrical Distribution 3,000    5,200    8,200          667    1,156      1,823
Provisional Freight Terminal      3,100    2,100    5,200         689      467      1,156
Nav&idss,
Communications                    2,100    4,800    6,900        467    1,066       1,533
Terminal Complex Improvements    2,000       600    2,600        444       133        577
Relocation of Utilities           4,100     2,300   6,400        911       511      1,422
Relocation Catia La MarHighway  6,400       4,800  11,200      1,422    1,067       2,489
Access Road to Playa Grande         900       700   1,600        200       156        356
Control Tower                    2,000      1,800   3,800        444       400        844
72,000    63,000 135,000     16,000   14,000      30,000
DESIGN (including runway and        16,050     4,950  21,000       3,567    1,100 D4,667
tenminal comtplex)
SUPERVISION                          5,6oo     2,400   8,000      1,244       534      1,778
CONTINGENCIES
Physical                        10,800      9,400  20,200      2,400    2,089       4,489
Price                             2,400    6,600   9,000         533    1,467       2,000
MANAGEMENT CONSULTANT FEES             675     1,575   2,250         150      350        500
TOTAL             157,525    87,925 245,450      35,005   19,540     54,545
December 22, 1971



TABLE 6
VENEZUELA
Appraisal of Maiguetia International Airport Project
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Years                                Cumulative Disbursements
Quarter                                         at end of Quarter
___( (US$ 000)
1971/72
June 30, 1972                                             4, 000
1 972/73
September 30, 1972                                        5,500
December 31, 1972                                         7,000
March 31, 1973                                            8,500
June 30, 1973                                            10,000
1973/74
September 30, 1973                                       11,500
December 31, 1973                                        13,000
March 31, 1974                                           14 ,500
June 30, 1974                                            15,400
1 974/75
September 30, 1974                                       15,800
December 31, 1974                                        16, 200
March 31, 1975                                           16,,6oo
June 30, 1975                                            17,000
December 22, 3971



VENEZUELA
APPRAISAL OF MAIQUETIA INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT PROJECT
Coiprative Incoe Statexent of the S5aisuetia Airport Authority
Expressed in Thousands of Bolivares (Br)
Exchange rate: Bs 1.00 - US$0.22
US$1.00 - Bs 4.50
For Year Ended or                                                                       Reconstructed                                                                           Fo  ^at
Ending December 31.                                                1968           1969            1970           1971                 1972            1973           1974            1975           1976
LANDING AREA
operating Revenues
Landing fees - international                                     8,258          9,380          10,440         11.520               12,600          13,920         15,240          16,800         17,640
- donestic                                           258             277            318             370                  429            498             578            670             672
- private tourisn                                   -               -              -               -                   -               -               -               282             295
Fuel fee                                                          -              -              -               -                    -               -             1,000           2.500          3,000
Total                                                       S.516           9.657         10.758          ll.890               13.029         14.41S         21681S           20.252         21.607
Oper-ting Expanses
062 costs - existing runway                                      1,385          1,600           1,680          1,764                1,852           1,945          2,042           2,144          2,251
- new ru-way                                                                          -                                   -               -              1,000          2,100           2.205
Depreciation                                                     1.400          1.400          1.400           1.400                1.400          1.400           6,440          11,480         11,4.80
Total                                                        2.785          3.000          3.080           3.164                3,252          3.345           9,482          15,724         15,936
Net income                                                  5,731           6,657          7,678           8,726                9.777         11.073           7.336           4,528          5,671
TERMINAL AREA
11
Operating Revenues
Space rentals - gate positions                                                                                                                                                       660             700
- airline prime                                                                                                                                                     1,400           1,600
- baggage handl ing                                                                                                                                                   600             660
--concessions                                                                                                                                                       1,SOO           2,000
Car rental concessions                                                                                                                                                               560             600
Public parking                                                                                                                                                                     3,200          3,500
Other                                                                                                                                                                              2.180          2.180
Total                                                        1,326          1.381          1.500           3.100                3.300           3.500          3.700          10.400         11.240
Operating Expenses
Salaries and wages                                               1,636          1.521           1,600          1,650                3.500           5,000          7,000           9,000          9,450
Supplies                                                           100            11o             121            133                  146             161            177             225             248
Service contracts                                                  297            297             300            800                  840             880            920           1,000          1,050
Utilities                                                        1,063          1,255           1.300          1.700                1,800           1,900          2,000           2,500           2,750
Consultanc.y f..                                                  -             2.925           2,925                                -               -                               230             230
Depreciation                                                       875            875             875          2.000                2.000           2.000          2.000          17,835         17,835
Total                                                        3,971          6,983           7.121          6.283                8,286           9.941         12.097          30,790          31,563
Net income                                                  (2,645)        (5,602)         (5,621)        (3.1831              (4.986)         (6.441)        (8.3971        (20.390)        (20,323)
TOTAL NET INCOME                                                   3.086          1.055           2.057          5,543                4.791           4,632          (1,061)       (15,862)        (14,652)
INTERNALLY GENERATED FUNDS                                         5,361          3,330           4,332          8,943                8,191           8,032          7,379          13,683          14,893
LESS: INCREASE IN WORtIWG CAPITAL - EXCLUDIW; CASH                   630              70             90             190                 970             110             170            740             140       i;
4,731          3,260          4.242           8,753                7,221           7,922          7,209          12,943         14,753
SURPLUS CASH TO GOVERNb'ET                                         4,731          3,260           4,242          8.753                2,221           5,922          6,209          11,943          13,753
CASH POSITION                                                                                                                        53000            7,000           8.000          9,000          10.000
1/ Details for yearn 1968-1974 nvt availablc.
December 24, 1971



VENEZUELA
APPRAISAL OF MAIQUETIA INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT PROJECT
Projected Cash Flow - Part I and Part II
Expressed in Thousands of Bolivares (Bs)
Exchange rate! Bs 1.00 - US$0.22
US$1.00 . Bs 4,50
For Year Ending
December 31.                                    1971            1972           1973             1974            1975            1976
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Borrowings:
Part I project:
Local bond issue                            50,000
Proposed IBRD loan                            -             31,500         27,000           14,400           3,600            -
Part II project:
Projected borrowing                                           - -          21X150           38.250             900            -
Total borrowings                       50.000          31.500         48.130            52,650           4,500            -
Government Contributions:
Part I project                                24,000          41,000         43,700            5,700           4,600            -
Part II project                                                 - -          69,050          114,050           3,500
Debt service                                   3,546           6.054         14,098           18.544          22.073          27.038
Total Government contributions        27,546          47,054        126,848          138.294           30.173          27.038
TOTAL SOURCES                         77,546          78,554        174.998          190.944           34.673          27.038
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Capi tal Expendi tures:
Part I project                                74,000          72,500         70,700           20,100           8,200
Part II project                                 -               -            90.200          152.300           4,400
Total capital expenditures            74,000          72.500        160.900          172.400          12.600
Debt Service:
Part I project-
Repayment of local bonds - principal           937           1,250          6,234            7,896           7,896           7,896
Interest on local bonds                      2,609          3,402          3,226             2,703           2,150           1,599
Repayment of IBRD loan - principal                   -                       -                               2,183           4,613
Interest on IBED loan                        -              1.402          3.499            4,844            5,488           5,306
Subtotal                                 3,546            6 054         12,959           15,443           17,717          19,414
Part II project:
Repayment of projected borrowing- principal .                -                       -                -                      3,308
Interest on projected borrowing                                             1.139            3.101           4.356 4_316
Subtotal                                                   -             1.139             3.101           4.356           7.624
Total debt service                     3,546           6,054         14.098           18.544          22.073           27.038
TOTAL APPLICATION                     77,546          78,554        174.998          190,944           34,673          27.038
SURPLUS CASH FROM AIRPORT/AUTHORITY              8,753           2,221          5,922            6,209          11,943          13,753       L
DEPARTURE TAX INCOME - Bs 83/- per              13,944          14,525         16,434           17,596          19,339          21,165
passenger
Dece-ber 24, 1971



V E ±i E Z U E L A
APPRAISAL OF MAIQUlhJIA IB1!ERfAiTIO0AL AIRPOR1' PROJECT
Comparative Balance Sheet of the Maiauetia Airport Authority
Expressed in thousands of bolivares (Bs)
Exchange rate: Be 1.00 = US$0.22
UStl.OO = Bs 4.50
Reconstructed                                       Forecast
As at December 31,                    1968       1969       1970        1971       1972       193        1974       1          1976
ASSE'iS
CURREaRl ASSEtS
Cash                                                                             5,000      7,000      8,000      9,000     10,000
Accounts receivable                   820        920      1,020       1,250      1,360      1,490      1,710      2,550      2,740
Inventory-stores                       50         50         50         100        100        100        150        200        200
Sub-total                          870        970      1,070       1,350      6,460      8,590      9,860     11,750     12,940
FIXED ASSErS
Land                                9,000      9,000      9,000       9,000      9,000      9,000     59,000     59,000     59,000
Runways                            12,000     12,000     12,000      12,000     12,000     12,000    172,000    172,000    172,000
Buildings                          13,500     13,500     13,500      36,OO0     36,ooo     36,000     36,000    228,900    228,900
Equipment                          10, 000    10,000     10,000      10 000     10,000     10.000     30,800     92,700     92,700
Sub-total                       414,00     44.500     44,500     67,000      67,000     67.0oo    297,800    552,600    552,600
Less: Accumulated Depreciation:
Runways                               600      1,200      1,800       2,400      3,000      3,600      8,200     16,800      25,400
buildings                             675      1,350       2,025      3,825      5,625      7,1425     9,225     16,170      *7,615
Equipment                           1,000      2,000       3,000      4,000      5,000      0O00       8.040     17,310     26 580
Sub-total                       _25        _4,5Q        ,825     10,225      13.625     17,025     25,465     50,280     79,595
Bet fixed assets                     1425  _329-9$°-365                                                            5 _56,775  3  02320    473.005
DEFERRED CLARiGS
Management & accounting consultancy                                       -          -          -       2.300      2.070      1.840
iT0iAL ASSE1S                  -43,095     40,920     3S,745      SR 125    59,835      58.565    28495    516,.140 
LLAbILITI3S A9 i,Ul')
CuRREI- LIAnILI'IES
Accounts payable and accruals          240        270         280        370        390        410        510        660         710
wOvERiu,,Eidz'S  iU±LjLl
investment                         44,500    44,500       44,500    67,000      56,875     56,875    289,975    549,275    549,275
Earned Surplus/(deficit)            3.086      4,141       6,198     11.741      4.791      9,423    8.362        f7500)   £222)
Sub-total                       47,586     48,641     50,698     78,741      61,666     66,298    298,337    541,775    527,123
Less: Surplus cash to Governsment  _4.731      7,991     12.233      20,986      2,221      8.143     14.352     26.295     40.048
Sub-total                      -42.8S5 5   40,650     38.1465     57,755     S9.445     58.1S5    283,985    515.480    487,075
TIO0'AL LIABILITIES AllD EQCIiY    43,095     40,920      38,745     58,125     59,835     58,565    284,495    516,140    487,785
December 24, 1971






VEEZUELA
APPRAISAL OF MAIOUETIA INTERRiTIONAL AIRpORT PROJECT
Organization Chart
Civil Ae..... tica Bo-d
(Direcc-in de Aeronautica CiviL - DAC)
DEPUTY  rECTOR S(E)i
-         |A NAL TECFNICAI |
| SERTIAT                                                                     A      ~   IrlTT   NAAION
Airworthines   nd                                      r  AirtprtS             F3etfDaer eatiat.                        Ssronatic ADrsIys                                 Civil A-ronautics
rerEtions  Division                                       SAnivitn               Technical Coaultant _                      Divian                                       Insttuction Ceater
and LiscsanssithIGAO
Ais  Tr ffic C                    a                 Technical                     h               Airpot Openatidei   and d                               Radio Erginee.in          Air Troffi  and        |Ina lEvaioiT                    AcadeDic
Centrot C                     arpint               Dr D  -.eartent    J         a                     De-atptmnt                              D oietaame D  t  Re artaat                  ra Ctl D  t.ten
rcononira    |          rchives  and         1 Engiort    |             Air Recirtion   |            rpertin                          S  I ir      l       Tn""ellrioe                     -  IAirporre Cor || SI  t-s  and                Air Srhooi
section                Corestiondn                  Section               Department                Section       fe4ninancr                                 Section                  Section              E Xqipnt Section                 Section
|St-tistcics       |      rBudget Control    |      Maictnanc              Aiation Medicine    |lein adMechanical and                                   |    M|eintenante               |Central        I      P ernannel and     l          cPeoeeoaahool 
Saccian      |      |       tSection   |     |      Sectiond Deportent                            Scildini  rmi                    Slantriral                Seetien                   Tawer                 SecaPonad  a                     Sentio
Payments and  |           Ipation  |            Search and Resme.                                        Airpot Ploneing             Stoage                 Approach Control        Co-Dninstiens               A istretive
Accomnts Sectia               Section              .Dpartmeet                                                Depart.ent                Sactin                    Sectio  Planning Dept.                         adS acatiti
Danti- an
Approch
pPrimary Control ol                 | Airport FiPe Service                                                      Prajacta               Aer,np  tical                                  |   Vrqnnnrp              lSRntanne
Ralaliors Section                         or Darrsmnt                                                           B ection               InePromen               |BRotCntrol |             Registratorng  S|ta
JRn Sante ControSetn
Snatian
1Pereennel and                            Dentmmereto                                                         Pians and              Cetptlatton,
j Check Poysoect                  l                      l                                               |Drawin^w Section        C|annd Dification|tC r                                   o    i
SectionpetonCno                                                                                                                                                                   |TrlcmDuniciatlons
S..t-                                                                                                                             S .aiti-            |  Regtion
procurement nnd                                                                                                                      International
Supo-ieO section                                                                                                                      hot  Dffine
Snepeetion                                                                                                                                                        la|rnuiconiP       Secpasil"tion Sero
S Ornica                                                                                                
Area RNo  I |   Arco N. 2        Ares N. 3         Ar-o No. 4       Area No.  5       Aren No.                             St|.|  i
Bnli-ar          d  A o
r   B         fI   D    P    0                 Li T           S 






73 W                      71W                       4w                        67-W                      6bW                        6rw                        61W
ARUBA (Hol.) 
>  <      aCURACAO(Hol)
17N             <                                                                                                                    U <R   9    >BIRE(Hot)  LOCATIN  OF AIRPORTS
f   /    _   </   ~~~PUNTO FilO<                 4
Cl T!ITC ,  MARGARITA ISLAND                             OOBAGO
a    /   < /                              u                 E    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O0C1TNPlyl0Pr0l0T00flFF0U1OOP
tRAIL\                               t0rW                       07'W         =0-iW%                                    6 VW     \                                      ,
,%                                                                                              42           - -O D NTRA5\-A,R    
I1N     t /  5 .                                                     BERNANO  MA fUDATBLIAR  
!-                     /CUMAN
MAHIU     ZAK                         BACHAGIMES                                                                              MATU 
47 ,:. L AROTPRVDNG                                                             SCEUD FNERNANDO I                                   ONLSRICE
<  eia,7sAlv gex     _       >       _      -t                                        ]             *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ OTHER AIRPORTS             hN
JANUAgy17






I_                                                                   CARIBBEAN
eAYA  GRAN                                                                                    SEA
.-9011BOUNDARY OF LAND TO 3E ACQUIRED                      -|
/ ~~~~~~~~~3500 M  x45 M                                                                     /K  r,.  
ROAD DIVERSION
0   200   400   600  800  10c00o'o
0   200   400   600  800  1000            l]I] PROPOSED PROJECT                              6                       VENEZUELA
-, 'FUTURE DEVELOPMENT                       k       MAIQUETIA   INTERNATIONAL   AIRPORT
LAYOUT OF FACILITIES
JANUARY 1972                                                                                                                                                                      I8D 3612i



