Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19070
I:MPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
DOMESTIC ENERGY RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3500-PAK)
March 2, 1999
Energy Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
Appraisal Year 1992 = US$ 1.0  Rs 24.84
Intervening Year 1995 = US$ 1.0 = Rs. 30.85
Completion Year 1998  US$ 1.0 = Rs. 46.00
GOP AND PETROLEUM SECTOR ENTITIES FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July I - June 30
MEASURES AND EOUIVALENTS
I barrel(bbl)                     =      0.1343 metric ton (MT)
I metric ton of oil               =      7.4 bbis
-      41.2 MCF
1160 liters
MBBL                              =       I thousand barrels
MCF                                       I I thousand cubic feet
MMCF                              =       I million cubic feet
BCF                               =       I billion cubic feet
TCF                               =       I trillion cubic feet
MMCFD                             =       I million cubic feet per day
BTU                                       I 1 British Thermal Unit
0.2520 Kilo Calories (Kcal)
MMBTU                                     I 1 million BTU
M3
I cubic meter (35.3147 cubic feet)
TOE                                       I 1 ton of oil equivalent (0.9091 tons of refined petroleum)
1068.4m3 of natural gas (1.333 tons of coal)
MTOE                                      I I million tons of oil equivalent
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADB                                          Asian Development Bank
BOPD                                         Barrels of oil per day
DC                                           Direct Contracting
DGG                                          Directorate General for Gas
DGNRER                                       Directorate General, New and Renewable Energy Resources
DGO                                          Directorate General for Oil
DGPC                                         Directorate General for Petroleum Concessions
E&P                                          Exploration and Production
ERR                                          Economic Rate of Retum
EIA                                          Environmental Impact Assessment
GOP                                          Govemment of Pakistan
HDIP                                         Hydrocarbon Development Institute of Pakistan
HSD                                          High Speed Diesel
ICB                                          Intemational Competitive Bidding
IDB                                          Islamic Development Bank
IDC                                          Interest During Construction
IUCN                                         Intemational Union for Conservation and Natural Resources
LASMO                                        LASMO Oil Company
LPG                                          Liquefied Petroleum Gas
MIS                                          Management Information System
MOP                                          Ministry of Production
MWP                                          Ministry of Water and Power
OGDC                                         Oil and Gas Development Corporation
PC-I                                         Project Concept Document (GOP)
PGCL                                         Pirkoh Gas Company Ltd.
PSO                                          Pakistan State Oil Limited
ROCE                                         Returm on Capital Employed
SCADA                                        Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition System
SNGPL                                        Sui Northem Gas Pipelines Ltd.
SSGC                                         Sui Southem Gas Company
USAID                                        United States Agency for Intemational Development
UTP                                          Union Texas Pakistan Incorporated
Vice President       Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director     Sadiq Ahmed
Sector Manager       Alastair McKechnie
Task Manager         Rashid Aziz



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CONTENTS
PREFACE  .....................i
EVALUATION SUIMMARY ....................                                           ii
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Identity                             .1
B.  Evaluation of Objectives                        .1
C.  Achievement of Objectives                        .4
D.  Major Factors Affecting the Project                  .6
E.  Project Sustainability                         .8
F.  Performance of Bank and Cofinanciers                  .8
G. Borrower Performance                            .9
H. Assessment of Outcome .10
I. Future Operation .10
J. Key Lessons Learned .10
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1    Summary of Assessment .11
Table 2    Related Bank Loans/Credits .12
Table 3   Project Timetable .13
Table 4       Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual.   14
Table 5       Key Indicators for Project Implementation        .15
Table 6       Key Indicators for Project Operation .16
Table 7    Studies Included in Project .17
Table 8A  Project CostS .18
Table 8B  Project Financing .18
Table 9    Economic Costs and Benefits .19
Table 10   Status of Legal Covenants .21
Table 11      Compliance with Operation Manual Statements .23
Table 12    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .23
Table 13   Bank Resources: Missions .24
APPENDICES
A.    Mission's Aide-Memoire (with Operation Plan) ....................................... 25
B.    Borrower's Evaluation .......................................        33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
Domestic Energy Resources Development Project
(Loan 3500-PAK)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Domestic Energy Resources
Development Project, for which Loan 3500-PAK in the amount of US$ 180 million was approved on June 30,
1992, declared effective on June 28, 1993. The Loan was closed on June 30, 1998, compared with June 30,
1996, as originally planned. About US$29 million was canceled from the Loan during implementation, as
those funds were not required by the Government or the Implementing Agencies. Final disbursement took
place on November 12, 1998, at which time a balance of about US$1.69 million was canceled. Co-financing
for the Project was provided by Islamic Development Bank, United States Agency for International
Development, and private joint venture partners namely LASMO Oil Company and Union Texas Pakistan
Limited.
The ICR was prepared by Rashid Aziz, Islamabad Office (Task Leader) and Waqar Haider
(consultant), and reviewed by Messrs. Alastair McKechnie, Sector Manager, and Tjaarda Storm van Leeuwen,
Team Leader for Pakistan, Energy Sector Unit, South Asia Region. The Ministry of Petroleum and Natural
Resources, Oil and Gas Development Corporation and Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited provided their own
contributions, which are included as appendices to the ICR.
Preparation of this Report was begun during October 1998. It is based on material in the Project file.
The borrower contributed to the preparation of the report by contributing views reflected in the mission's aide-
memoire, preparing its own evaluation of the Project's preparation and execution experience, and by
commenting on the draft report.
4.    The generous assistance provided by officials of Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources, Oil
and Gas Development Corporation and Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited to the mission is gratefully
acknowledged.



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
Domestic Energy Resources Development Project
(Loan 3500-PAK)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.     Pakistan is endowed with substantial hydrocarbon resources, principally natural gas, but the exploitation of
gas resources has remained low. Oil & Gas Development Corporation (OGDC) was established in the public-sector
in 1961 to promote the exploration and development of the oil and gas resources in the country. OGDC prospected
for oil and gas through its own resources, as well as through forming joint ventures with private-sector petroleum
companies. The interest of private-sector companies in prospecting for oil and gas in Pakistan was revived through
an attractive package of incentives that were provided by the Government. To-date, OGDC has entered into a total
of 37 joint-venture agreements with international companies.
2.     OGDC's long-term effectiveness in attracting foreign investment in the sector had been hampered due to its
limited managerial and financial autonomy; and the inherent conflict of interest as OGDC acted as technical arm of
the government to evaluate the concession applications of private-sector companies.  Recognizing these
weaknesses, an institutional and financial restructuring program for OGDC was initiated in FY90, and a new
corporate direction and financial autonomy was granted.
Project Objectives
3.     The main objectives of the Project was to (a) accelerate the development of indigenous hydrocarbons,
utilizing private-sector resources to the maximum extent possible; (b) ensure that such indigenously developed
hydrocarbons reach the end-consumer in an efficient manner; (c) enhance the commercial orientation and
operational autonomy of the public-sector entities in the sub-sector to pave the way for a larger private-sector role;
and (d) strengthen the regulatory and policy making functions of governmental agencies in the sub-sector to
facilitate larger private investrnents.
4.     The Project components included: (a) the development of oil and gas fields under joint ventures with the
private sector, namely (i) Qadirpur Gas Field (OGDC-Premier Joint Venture); (ii) Kadanwari Gas Field (OGDC-
Lasmo Joint Venture); and (iii) Badin Block Concession (UTP - GOP Joint Venture); (b) construction of: (i)
Dhodak Condensate Plant; (ii) Dhodak-Kot Addu gas pipeline; (iii) pipelines and compressors to utilize Qadirpur
gas; and (iv) installation of a Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) System; (c) implementation of
measures to mitigate the environmental impact of physical activities; (d) corporate restructuring of OGDC; (e)
institutional strengthening of MPNR including measures to implement the new Petroleum Policy; and (f) technical
assistance for all the components.
5.     The Project was designed to support the implementation of the Government's energy sector strategy, which
called for a rationalization of energy investments, restraining demand growth while mobilizing additional resources
for the sector through pricing and other demand management measures, and mobilizing additional financial and
technical resources from the private sector, while irnproving the technical and financial perfornance and enhancing
the operational autonomy of the public sector entities.
6.     The total cost of the Project was estimated at Rs.13.3 billion (US$541.6 million equivalent) including
physical and price contingencies and taxes and duties. Direct and indirect foreign exchange costs were estimated at
US$303.0 million (56 percent of total project cost). A large share of the financing (US$148.6 million - about 27



iii
percent of total project cost) was envisaged to be provided by the private sector joint venture partners, mostly in
foreign exchange to meet most of the financial commitments of joint venture partners in the concession agreement.
The Bank loan of US$180 million covered about 33 percent of total cost relating primarily to field development, gas
pipeline construction and technical assistance components of the Project. The remaining cost was envisaged to be
financed through Government of Pakistan (GOP), OGDC and SNGPL resources (about 36 percent), and Islamic
Development Bank and other conmmercial sources (about 4 percent).
Implementation Experience and Results
7.     The objectives of the Project have been achieved. Specifically, the objectives and assessment of the
outcomes of the Project are as follows:
*  Obiective: Accelerate the development of indigenous hydrocarbons, utilizing private sector resources
to the maximum extent possible
*  Outcome: Against an appraisal target of about 340 MMCFD, the Project has achieved an
enhancement in domestic gas supplies of about 300 MMCFD, with and ultimate potential of over 400
MMCFD once Phase II of the development of Qadirpur field is completed. The Qadirpur, Kadanwari
and Badin fields were developed through joint ventures with the private sector, and the private sector
has contributed close to 50 percent of the additional financing required for these investments.
*  Obiective: Ensure that such indigenously developed hydrocarbons reach the end consumers in an
efficient manner
* Outcome: Investments financed through the Bank Loan were subject to the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines, which ensures international competitive bidding for equipment and works. In addition, the
operators of two of the fields (Kadanwari and Badin) are foreign private oil and gas companies, whose
operations are driven by efficiency and competitiveness considerations.
*  Objective: Enhance the commercial orientation and operational autonomy of the public sector entities
in the sub-sector to pave the way for a larger private sector role
*  Outcome: During the tenor of this Project there was a significant tumaround in OGDC's operational
performance - from operational losses accumulating to over Rs 2 billion by FY90, to annual profits
(after tax) of over Rs 6 billion in FY97. This improvement resulted largely from administrative and
organizational changes introduced over the past few years and from a shift in OGDC's focus from
exploration activities towards enhancing oil and gas supplies from existing and discovered fields.
*  Obiective: Strengthen the regulatory and policy making functions of government agencies in the sub-
sector to facilitate larger private investments.
*  Outcome: The Project supported GOP's efforts to implement the 1994 Petroleum Policy, which was
received very favorably by the industry, and led to a significant increase in the number of concession
awards, discoveries, and investments in the sector.
8.     The development plan for Qadirpur field called for the drilling of nine additional wells, and for the
installation of surface production facilities to enable the production in two steps of 200 MMCFD by June 1994.
The field has been producing an average of 198.7 MMCFD since September 1995, with peak production of 235
MMCFD, even though an ultimate production capacity of about 340 MMCFD is envisaged due to confirmation of a
larger reservoir. Reservoir studies last updated in February 1998, are planned to be further updated by end-1998.
While the original plan called for phased development, field development was undertaken successfully in one go,
and contracts were awarded in accordance with Bank guidelines. Initial gas production was delayed by about
eighteen months primarily due to severe flooding in 1994, and some problems encountered in the commissioning of
production facilities.



iv
Development of the Kadanwari field entailed the drilling of seven wells to produce 100 MMCFD of gas for 10
years, from a recoverable reserve base of about 573 BCF. The reservoir engineering study, carried out in-house by
the Operator (LASMO), was accepted by the Bank as basis for the development of the field. However, the target
level of gas production (100 MMCFD) was only partially achieved (production currently averages 75 MMCFD),
and field development experienced substantial delays and cost over-runs due to large reservoir uncertainty and
process limitations.
9.     Badin Block Joint Venture plans comprised the drilling of 11 development wells, and implementing a
program for maintaining the oil production at about 23,000 BPD from existing fields, and increasing the production
of gas to about 175 MMCFD from the concession area. Loan allocation was only partially utilized due to lack of
familiarity with Bank procedures by the private-sector party (UTP). During the past two years, the production of oil
and gas from this field has averaged 25500 BOPD and 153 MMCFD, respectively, broadly in line with the appraisal
targets.
10.    Dhodak Condensate Plant was constructed by OGDC by utilizing other financing, and Dhodak-Kot Addu
Pipeline was constructed by SNGPL under this loan. Similarly, the pipeline and compressors to utilize Qadirpur
Gas was also constructed under the loan; however, installation of SCADA was transferred to be imnplemented under
another loan.
11.    Under the institutional strengthening and environmental conservation, plans for mitigation of
environmental impact of field development were drawn, which have been implemented to a large extent. Some
initial steps on corporate restructuring of OGDC have been taken, and the foundations for launching a
comprehensive reform program have been laid. The institutional strengthening of MPNR, and its technical
directorates, was also undertaken and some tangible progress in the form of facilitation of exploration and
development activity has been made.
Sustainability
13.    Ex-post rate of return calculations carried out by the mission indicate an Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
of 31 percent, against an appraisal estimate of 55 percent. These ERR calculations were done on the same
assumptions as at appraisal. The lower ex-post return reflects largely the delays in implementation, since the reality
was that costs were incurred at an earlier date, while benefits started accruing much later. Despite these delays, the
ERR is substantially higher than the opportunity cost of capital, which confirms the viability of additional
investments in the oil and gas sector. Sustainability of the operation of the assets created under the Project is also
assured, since there is a large and rapidly growing market for oil and gas within the country.
Summarv of Findings
14.    The Project outcome can be termed as satisfactory, even though there were substantial delays in the
achievement of different objectives. The institutional reform components of the Project were also not fully
completed. However, a good basis has been created for launching a major restructuring program of the oil and gas
sectors in general, and OGDC in particular, leading to its eventual divestment as per government's policy.
Future Operations
15.    The ICR mission discussed with MPNR, OGDC and SNGPL a number of measures, which would
contribute to the early completion and sustained operation of the assets created under this Project. The major
measures are:
(a)    undertaking of technical action, or expeditious completion of activities to ensure sustained and
efficient operation of the assets created under the Project, including (i) reservoir analysis for
Kadanwari; (ii) finalization of arrangements for processing of Miano gas at Kadanwari field; (iii)



v
plant corrosion study and an independent audit at Qadirpur field; (iv) measures to address H2S
problem at Qadirpur; (v) sufficient provisions for spares for Qadirpur Production Facilities by
OGDC; and (vi) monitoring and compliance of environmental guidelines at fields; and
(b)    institutional arrangements, whereby OGDC could operate as a corporatised entity, Technical
Support Services (TSS) separated, Business Planning and separate accounting initiated, and other
structural reform measures adopted.
Key Lessons Learned
16.    A key lesson from this Project is that investments in petroleum development need to adequately account for
the uncertainties of hydrocarbon reserves, and possible variations in production levels. Wherever possible,
operator's reservoir estimates should be re-confirmed through independent studies, and field-tested technology
should be adopted on future Projects. Such independent assessments under this Project could have alerted the
owners to the potential for reserve shortfalls at an earlier stage, and may have prompted some savings in the
investments. It is also important that the targets/schedules for field development provide adequate time for
completion of individual components. Commitment of the Govemment on institutional reform measures should be
ensured through a number of quantitative and verifiable steps, all through the Project cycle.
17.    The Project experience also highlights the need for establishing clear linkages between field development
and investments in down-stream facilities. Another major lesson is the lack of familiarity (especially of private'
sector executing agencies) with Bank procurement guidelines. Strengthening the procurement capacities of
implementing agencies, as well as preparation of realistic procurement plans needs to be further reinforced. The
procedures for land acquisition, and for obtaining right of ways etc., from different govenmment authorities, which
impinge upon the timely completion of projects, need to be further streamlined. Also, procurement activities should
not be initiated prior to the completion of land acquisition. Finally, long-term institutional measures need to be
taken by the govenmment for the development and facilitation of construction industry, especially pipeline
construction, so that competent and qualified contracting finms are available in the country to undertake similar
Projects in future.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
Domestic Energy Resources Development Project
(Loan 3500-PAK)
PART I - Project Implementation Assessment
A.    Project Identity
Project Name:        Domestic Energy Resources Development Project
Loan No.:            3500-PAK
RVP Unit:            South Asia
Country:             Pakistan
Sector:              Energy
Sub-sector:          Oil and Gas
1.     Background. Pakistan is endowed with substantial hydrocarbon resources, principally natural gas, but the
exploitation of these resources has remained below optimal levels. Oil & Gas Development Corporation (OGDC)
was established in the public-sector in 1961 to promote the exploration and development of the oil and gas
resources in the country.
2.     OGDC prospected for oil and gas through its own resources, as well as through forming joint ventures with
private-sector petroleum companies. In response to the energy shocks of the 1970s, the Government of Pakistan
(GOP) provided additional incentives to attract private investment in gas exploration. These incentives were
received favorably by the private sector, and to-date, OGDC has entered into a total of 37 joint-venture agreements
with international companies.
3.     Despite these success, OGDC's effectiveness in the long-run in attracting foreign investments had been
hampered by: (a) its desire to maximize the use of its own physical and technical resources, rather than acting as the
facilitator for foreign investments; (b) the inherent conflict of interest as OGDC acted as a technical ann of the
government to evaluate private-sector concession applications; and (c) the weak financial position of OGDC,
requiring government support, which jeopardized its institutional autonomy and corporate accountability.
Recognizing these weaknesses, an institutional and financial restructuring program was initiated in FY90, a new
corporate direction and financial autonomy was granted, and OGDC's role as the technical services arm of the
Government was discontinued.
B.    Evaluation of Obiectives
4.     Project Objectives. The main objectives of the Project was to (a) accelerate the development of
indigenous hydrocarbons, utilizing private-sector resources to the maximum extent possible; (b) ensure that such
indigenously developed hydrocarbons reach the end-consumer in an efficient manner; (c) enhance the commercial
orientation and operational autonomy of the public-sector entities in the sub-sector to pave the way for a larger
private-sector role; and (d) strengthen the regulatory and policy making functions of governmental agencies in the
sub-sector to facilitate larger private investments.
5.     Project Description. The Project consisted of the following components:
(a)    development of oil and gas fields under joint ventures with the private sector, namely (i) Qadirpur
Gas Field (OGDC-Premier Joint Venture); (ii) Kadanwari Gas Field (OGDC- LASMO Joint
Venture); and (iii) Badin Block Concessions (UTP - GOP Joint Venture);



2
(b)    construction of: (i) Dhodak Condensate Plant; (ii) Dhodak-Kot Addu gas pipeline; (iii) pipelines
and compressors to utilize Qadirpur gas; and (iv) installation of a Supervisory Control and Data
Acquisition (SCADA) System;
(c)    implementation of measures to rmitigate the environmental impact of (a) and (b) above;
(d)    corporate restructuring of OGDC;
(e)    institutional strengthening of the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources (MPNR) including
measures to implement the 1991 Petroleum Policy; and
(f)   technical assistance for (a) to (e) above.
6.     The detailed description of the above Project components is as follows:
(a)    Field Development:
*  Qadirpur, a joint venture of OGDC, Prernier, Burmah Oil and Pakistan Petroleum Limnited (PPL),
with estimated reserves of 4 TCF, was to be developed by drilling nine additional wells and
installing surface production facilities, to enable production of 100 MMCFD of gas by June 1993,
and an additional 100 MMCFD (for a total of 200 MMCFD) by June 1994.
*  Kadanwari field, a joint venture between OGDC, LASMO (operator), Kuwait Foreign Petroleum
Exploration and Idemitsu was to be developed by drilling seven production wells to produce 100
MMCFD of gas.
r In Badin, where GOP had a 40 percent stake along with Union Texas Pakistan (UTP - operator)
and Occidental, the drilling of eleven production wells and other investmnents were envisaged to
maintain oil production at 23,000 BOPD, and increase gas production to 175 MMCFD.
(b)    Construction of Surface Production and Pipeline Facilities:
*  At Dhodak, a condensate processing facility, including LPG recovery and a topping plant was to
be installed, to produce 1450 BPD of gasoline, 680 BPD of kerosene, 185 BPD of diesel, 125
BPD of fuel oil, 115 tons of LPG, and 45 MMCFD of dehydrated gas.
*  Dhodak pipeline - an 84-km 16" pipeline was to transmit 45 MMCFD of gas from the field to the
Kot Addu power plant.
*  The Qadirpur - Sui pipeline involved construction of a 60-km 24" diameter spur line,
replacement of two 24 km sections of the existing 18" pipeline by heavier gauge line-pipe, and
installation of nine compressors (4000 BHP each) at three separate sites (Qadirpur-Bhong-Multan)
to enable transmission of 200 MMCFD of gas from Qadirpur field.
*  Telemetry and tele-control equipment installation on the expanded transmission pipelines, and
upgrading of existing SCADA facilities.
(c)    Environmental Impact Mitigation: The environmental mitigation component included measures
for: (i) protection of Qadirpur well-heads and production facilities during the seasonal flooding,
avoiding contamination of surface ground-water, and avoiding adverse impact upon wildlife
species in the Project area; (ii) minimizing dislocation and disruptions due to the Dhodak
condensate plant and pipeline, which was in close proximity to a graveyard and other habitats; and
(iii) strengthening of environmental management capabilities of OGDC.
(d)    Corporate Restructuring of OGDC:
*  Separation of Exploration and Production (E&P) and Technical Services Section (TSS) into
profitlcost centers, with independent management systems.
*  Establishment of a comprehensive Management Information System (MIS).
* Implementation of separate accounts, financial system, materials management, personnel,
perfornance monitoring, administration, operations, and corporate planning.
* Evaluation of options for the future role of TSS (including its divestment/privatization), and
imnplementation of the agreed recommendations.
* Establishment and operation of an Environmental Management Unit.



3
*  Recruitment of qualified professional staff for Finance and Internal Audit Departments and
consultants to assist in the design of a modem accounting system, and to prepare and maintain
accounts in accordance with the new system by July 1993.
*  Maintenance of insurance cover of all plants, machinery, pipelines and other facilities.
(e)    Institutional Strengthening of MPNR: This component involved technical assistance to MPNR and its
directorates. Specifically, it included: (i) formulation of guidelines for environmental and safety for
petroleum exploration and development activities; (ii) reviewing the findings of a USAID-funded study
on the capacity and organization of MPNR's Secretariat, technical directorates, and Hydrocarbon
Development Institute of Pakistan (HDIP); (iii) preparing an Action Plan to implement the study-
reconmnendations; and (iv) carrying out the action plan in accordance with the agreed time schedule.
7.     Sectoral Context: Since the mid-1980s, GOP's strategy for the sector aimed at: (a) rationalizing energy
investments through implementation of a Core Investment Program of investments that would assist in meeting the
growing energy demand at least cost; (b) restraining demand growth and mobilizing additional funding for the
sector through pricing, resource mobilization and demand management; and (c) drawing upon private sector
financial resources and expertise for increased energy production, while improving the efficiency and autonomy of
public sector institutions. The Bank supported this strategy through two sector loans - the Energy Sector Loan
(Loan 2552-PAK), approved in FY85, and successfully completed by 1989 (Project Perfor-mance Audit Report No.
8726, dated June 12, 1990); and the Second Energy Sector Loan (Loan 3107-PAK and Loan 3107-1-PAK),
approved in FY89 and successfully completed in FY95 (Implementation Completion Report No. 15412, dated
March 15, 1996). The current Project was designed to support the above strategy in all three areas. Specifically,
rationalization of OGDC's investment program, to reduce the focus on exploration for additional resources and
accelerate the development of existing and discovered fields, was a key feature of the Project. Agreements on
financial perfornance criteria for OGDC were designed to ensure adequate resources for new investments, while
improving its access to capital markets. Finally, a major share of the investments under the Project were to be
implemented by private operators (in addition, substantial financial resources were to be provided by the private
sector) and the Project included a comprehensive institutional and financial restructuring program for further
improving OGDC's operational perfornance.
8.     Proiect Cost and Financing Plan: The total cost of the Project was estimated at Rs.13.3 billion (US$541.6
miillion equivalent) including physical and price contingencies of about US$83.9 million, and taxes and duties of
about US$118.8 million, but excluding interest during construction (IDC) of about US$10.2 million. Direct and
indirect foreign exchange costs were estimated at US$303.0 rmillion (56 percent of total Project cost), and physical
contingencies were taken as 10 percent of the base costs, while price contingencies were taken as 8 percemt of base
cost plus physical contingencies. A large share of the financing (US$148.6 million -- about 27 percent of total
Project cost) was to be provided by the private sector joint venture partners. This financing was mostly to be in
foreign exchange, to meet the financial commitments of the partners in their respective concession agreements. The
Bank loan of US$180 million (33 percent of the total cost) covered about 59 percent of foreign exchange costs for
the field development, gas pipeline construction and technical assistance components of the Project. The remaining
cost was to be financed through GOP, OGDC and SNGPL resources (about 36 percent), and Islamic Development
Bank and other sources (4 percent).
9.     Preparation of the Project was initiated through an Identification Mission in June/July 1990. The
environmental review mission took place in November 1990, in which environmental issues of Qadirpur and
Dhodak fields were reviewed and agreements reached on the mitigation measures to be adopted under the Project.
The Project was appraised in March 1991, and agreement was reached on specific issues, the overall scope, and
detailed description of the main components. Bank financing for the Project at this stage was envisaged at US$100
million. Negotiations were held in Washington in December 1991, after the Government, OGDC and SNGPL had
complied with the pre-conditions. Subsequent to negotiations, the Bank Loan was increased to US$180 million.
The Project was approved by the Bank's Board on June 30, 1992,. and the Legal Documents were signed on
October 1, 1992. There were delays in effectiveness, due to delays in fulfillment of the agreed conditions
(particularly regarding the selection of a firm to develop and implement a Management Information System for



4
OGDC), and the Loan was declared effective on June 28, 1993, after two extensions in the target date for
effectiveness.
10.    The original Loan Closing Date was June 30, 1996. However, in view of the force majeure situation
experienced by OGDC due to heavy flooding at the Qadirpur field (when one of the wells -- Q4, which was one of
the best producing wells - was severely damaged, and emergency measures had to be adopted to recover and plug
the well) the Closing Date was extended by the Bank to June 30, 1997. Subsequently, in order to provide additional
time and support for completing the corporate restructuring of OGDC, the Closing Date for only the OGDC
components was extended (at GOP and OGDC's request) to June 30, 1998. About US$31 million was cancelled
from the Loan, including US$2.38 million in 1993, because OGDC decided to finance the MIS component from its
own sources; about US$27 million in early 1997 and 1998 at the request of GOP, since GOP and the entities did not
require these funds; and the balance (about US$1.69 million) was cancelled in November 1998 after all withdrawal
applications which had been submitted by the executing agencies had been processed by the Bank.
C.    Achievement of Obiectives
II.    The overall objectives of the Project have been largely achieved.  Specifically, the objectives and
assessment of the outcomes of the Project are as follows:
*  Obiective: Accelerate the development of indigenous hydrocarbons, utilizing private sector resources
to the maximum extent possible.
•  Outcome: Against an appraisal target of about 340 MMCFD, the Project has achieved an
enhancement in domestic gas supplies of about 300 MMCFD, with and ultimate potential of over 400
MMCFD once Phase II of the development of Qadirpur field is completed. The Qadirpur, Kadanwari
and Badin fields were developed through joint ventures with the private sector, and the private sector
has contributed close to 50 percent of the additional financing required for these investments.
*  Obiective: Ensure that such indigenously developed hydrocarbons reach the end consumers in an
efficient manner.
* Outcome: Investments financed through the Bank Loan were subject to the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines, which ensures international competitive bidding for equipment and works. In addition, the
operators of two of the fields (Kadanwari and Badin) are foreign private oil and gas companies, whose
operations are driven by efficiency and competitiveness considerations.
*  Obiective: Enhance the commercial orientation and operational autonomy of the public sector entities
in the sub-sector to pave the way for a larger private sector role.
* Outcome: During the tenor of this Project there was a significant turnaround in OGDC's operational
perfornance - from operational losses accumulating to over Rs. 2 billion by FY90, to annual profits
(after tax) of over Rs 6 billion in FY97. This improvement resulted largely from administrative and
organizational changes introduced over the past few years and from a shift in OGDC's focus from
exploration activities towards enhancing oil and gas supplies from existing and discovered fields.
*  Obiective: Strengthen the regulatory and policy making functions of government agencies in the sub-
sector to facilitate larger private investments.
*  Outcome: The Project supported GOP's efforts to implement the 1994 Petroleum Policy, which was
received very favorably by the industry, and led to a significant increase in the number of concession
awards, discoveries, and investments in the sector.
12.    Oadirpur Gas Field: The field has been producing an average of 198.7 MMCFD since September 1995,
with peak production of 235 MMCFD. The reservoir study which was carried out by international consultants has
confirmed a larger reservoir, with an ultimate production capacity of about 340 MMCFD. While the original plan
called for phased development, OGDC considered it expedient to develop the field in one go, and this has been
successfully achieved. The award of the initial contract was done efficiently and in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Initial gas production was delayed by about eighteen months primarily due to severe flooding in 1994,



5
and some problems encountered in the commissioning of production facilities. Qadirpur Reservoir Simulation
Model for Sui Main Limestone (SML) reservoir was updated in February 1998, with inclusion of data from new
wells and history match, and these results are planned to be further updated by December 1998.
13.    Kadanwari Gas Field: The reservoir engineering study, carried out in-house by the Operator (Lasmo), was
accepted by the Bank as basis for the development of the field. However, the target level of gas production (100
MMCFD) was only partially achieved (production currently averages 75 MMCFD), and field development
experienced substantial delays and cost over-runs due to large reservoir uncertainty and process limitations. Cost
over-runs were experienced as the original estimates were first deemed under-estimated, and then revised to cater
for the 'envisaged' upside potential of the reservoir. However, on account of the reservoir failure, an inter-
connection with the nearby Miano gas field is being considered to utilize the excess production capacity at
Kadanwari.
14.    Badin Block Joint Venture: Development plans envisaged a steady and sustained oil, and enhanced gas
production starting FY93. An amount of US$36 million was allocated, but the Bank loan was only utilized to the
extent of about US$8.97 Million for the development wells, gas compression facilities, and for other general
Projects. During the past two years the production of oil and gas has averaged 25500 BOPD and 153 MMCFD
respectively, broadly in line with the appraisal targets. The major cause for under-utilization of this loan component
was attributed to the fact that the Operator (UTP) was not fully consulted at the time of negotiation of the loan.
However, Bank missions had visited UTP in 1992, and had discussed the proposal for Bank funding of GOP's
shares of the cost of the Badin development program, both at UTP's office in Pakistan as well as its Head Office. It
is felt that loan under-utilization was in fact due to UTP's lack of familiarity with Bank's procurement procedures.
15.    Dhodak Condensate Plant, and Dhodak-Kot Addu Pipeline: OGDC had lined up financing from the
Islamic Development Bank (IDB) in 1989 for the construction of Dhodak Condensate Plant, but since it did not
cover the full scope of work, the Bank was also approached in 1991 for part-financing of this component.
However, because of certain mutually exclusive clauses in the IDB and World Bank procurement documents, Bank
financing could not be made available in any significant terms, and was not expected to be utilized for the plant.
The processing plant was completed in August 1994, and the field put on production in December 1994 (late by one
year), with financing from OGDC's own resources ($38 million), the Islamic Development Bank (US$17.7 million)
and other sources (US$3.7 million). Production is currently around 450 MT of white products, 44 MMCFD of gas,
and 200 MT of LPG, broadly in line with the appraisal targets. Construction of the Dhodak-Kot Addu pipeline was
also completed in 1994, to deliver 45 MMCFD of dry gas, by the time the plant came into operation.
16.    Pipeline and Compressors to utilize Qadirpur Gas: The spur pipeline and compressors were envisaged to
be installed in the SNGPL system to transmit 200 MMCFD of Qadirpur gas to the main Sui-Multan gas trunk-line.
Cost estimates for steel line-pipe were prepared by SNGPL on the basis of costs observed in 1992 (about US$
700/MT), and since an escalating cost trend had been observed, along with possible higher financial charges, a unit
cost of US$850/MT was used in developing the costs for this component. However, actual line pipe costs were
substantially lower, and SNGPL was able to put up a larger capacity system (340 MMCFD) and a compressor
station at Bhong, to cater for future increases in gas production from the Qadirpur field. The reduced line pipe costs
resulted in savings of about US$25 rnillion. The pipeline was commissioned in September 1995, jointly with the
commissioning of the production facilities. However, because of liquidity problems of OGDC, phase-Il
development of the Qadirpur field has not been initiated as yet, resulting in 140 MMCFD of spare pipeline capacity.
17.    Supervisorv Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA): Transmnission SCADA was initially included as a
component of this Project, and an amount of US$ 10.5 million was allocated. In September 1993, the Bank and
GOP/SNGPL agreed to fund this component through the Corporate Restructuring and System Expansion Project
(Loan 3252-PAK), since that Project was financing the expansion of SNGPL's transmission infrastructure, and it
was deemed appropriate to install the SCADA system only after the bulk of infrastructure expansion was
completed; and the amount for this component was re-allocated. The consultancy contract for Transmission
SCADA was awarded in April 1997, and the supply contract in March 1998. Untill June 30, 1998, supplies worth
US$6.8 rmillion had been shipped by the supplier.



6
18.    Mitigation of Environmental Impact: OGDC, SNGPL, UTP, and LASMO have undertaken comprehensive
steps to mitigate the environmental impacts of their operations. MPNR and DGPC have also taken steps to
institutionalize environmental measures to mitigate adverse consequences. Some of the principal achievements are
as follows:
(a)    DGPC has issued the environmental and safety guidelines, which are being implemented;
(b)    entities under MPNR, and intemational oil/gas companies (including Lasmo and UTP) have followed
adequate environmental assessment and compliance measures in their operations;
(c)    OGDC has established Environmental Protection and Safety Departnent (EPSD) which has:
(d)    completed a program for strengthening its own environmental management capabilities;
(e)    enhanced field-level environmental monitoring and protection activities;
(f)    carried out the following environmental protection measures at Qadirpur field:
(i)    H2S and other emissions monitoring;
(ii)   construction of a bund/100-meter buffer zone to protect production facilities; and
(iii)   carried out an independent study, through the International Union for Conservation and Nature
(IUCN), to ascertain the habitat of the Indus Dolphin, which concluded that there was no
direct evidence that the field area impinged on the habitat in any way.
19.    Corporate Restructuring of OGDC: Preliminary re-organization of OGDC, and its incorporation as a
public-limited company, separation of Technical Support Services (TSS) and Exploration and Production (E&P)
units, institution of commercial practices in TSS and E&P, and development of a comprehensive MIS supporting
this separation of TSS and E&P has been completed. These actions provide a basis for further restructuring of
OGDC as envisaged under the Project, leading to its eventual divestment as per government policy. Administrative
and organizational changes introduced over the past several years have resulted in a significant turnaround in
OGDC's operational performance. Perhaps the most obvious indicator of this turnaround is profitability -- prior to
FY89, OGDC had accumulated losses of over Rs 2 billion; subsequently, its after-tax profits have risen from Rs 424
million in FY90 to Rs 6144 million in FY97. Not only was it able to offset the losses accumulated over 25 years
within a short period of 3-4 years, by now it has also accumulated a cash balance of about Rs 5 billion. The
improved profitability has resulted from a major change in OGDC's corporate philosophy and orientation, from a
major focus on exploration activities towards enhancing oil/gas production from existing and discovered fields. As
a result, oil production has more than doubled over the past decade, while gas production is more than four times
the level achieved in FY90.
20.   Institutional Strengthening of MPNR and the Directorate General for Petroleum Concessions (DGPC:
Major steps have been taken by GOP in the past few years, for the implementation of the 1991 Petroleum Policy.
Specifically, streamlining the process for award of concessions has been effective, and lead to a significant increase
in the number of awards (69 exploration licenses), discoveries (28 in total including 17 gas discoveries) and
investments in the sector (Rs. 62 billion) since March 1994. Other measures which contributed to the effectiveness
of DGPC include: (a) announcement of the offshore exploration policy based on production sharing agreement; (b)
development of upstream environmental and safety guidelines; (c) establishment of a comprehensive data base; and
(d) development of model concession agreements and standard award procedures. However, sufficient progress
was not achieved in the induction of professionals into DGPC. While DGPC identified candidates for those
positions, and complied with all requirements, additional professionals could not be hired because of government
bans on recruitment; the existing staff were trained, to strengthen the professional capabilities of DGPC.
D.    Maior Factors Affecting the Proiect
21.    Project Design and qualitv at entrv: Implementation of the Project was delayed, both on the completion of
the physical components and on institutional strengthening and reform. On the physical components, adequate time
does not appear to have been provided for completing the investments. The development plans for Qadirpur and
Kadanwari fields called for commercial operations in under two years, which was ambitious. Since some other
components (pipelines, compression, SCADA, etc.) were dependent upon field development, slippages in the
former caused delays in their implementation as well. On corporatisation and institutional reforms, adequate
attention was not given to the available capacities, and the catalysts of change were not clearly identified.



7
Consequently, while a number of administrative steps were undertaken, studies completed by consultants, and
computer-based systems developed, these were not adequately intemalized by all institutions.
22.    Consultation on Project Design: A key objective of the Project was to foster private-sector investments in
the development of oil and gas resources. While typical Bank Projects involve funding for public-sector
investmnents, this Loan was to be used largely through private sector operators for meeting the GOP's and OGDC's
commitments in joint ventures. The Bank made substantial efforts to communicate with the private sector partners,
and include their priorities and views in the design of the Project. However, given the concerns expressed by the
operators for Kadanwari and Badin, further strengthening of this process could lead to improved Project designs,
and facilitate implementation.
23.    Abandonment of Qadirpur Well No. 4: Well No. 4 at Qadirpur, which was located in the flood plain, was
damaged and submerged by one of the channels (Nagwah Creek) of the Indus river, when the channel extensively
eroded its southern bank and changed course southward during the very high monsoon flood of 1994. M/s Alert
Disaster were engaged for accessing the well and safely abandoning it. Work started in February 1996 and
completed in May 1996. Since the well was damaged beyond repair, it was plugged and abandoned safely on May
26, 1996. However, since this well was a very good producer, its abandonment had a major impact on field
development and production targets.
24.    QadirMur Surface Production Facilities: A number of problems were encountered in commissioning the
production facilities: (a) membrane technology employed at the production facilities caused a number of difficulties
due to presence of higher hydrocarbons and liquids in the gas, which was not originally foreseen; (b) there were
contractual difficulties, the contractor went bankrupt; receivership proceedings were initiated, and OGDC did not
formally take-over the production facilities; (c) there were delays in the finalization of Gas Supply Agreement
(GSA) with SNGPL; and (d) presence of H2S in the gas was detected after 8-9 months of production, possibly due
to well draw-down, resulting in potential corrosion problems. Field commissioning was delayed by about eighteen
months on account of these problems, which are being addressed.
25.    Kadanwari Field Reserve Failure: Kadanwari field was discovered in 1989 after the drilling of Kl well,
and the field was subsequently appraised with additional wells K2 (Gorwar-1), K3 and K4. These wells showed
that the main gas reservoir was highly productive in thin sands within lower goru formation. The reservoir study
was prepared by the operator, and development was undertaken on the basis of 1.244 TCF of gas in place and 0.867
TCF of recoverable reserves. However, following the drilling of K-8, and disappointing results on some other
wells, it became apparent that recoverable reserves had been over-estimated. These have now been down-graded to
a (current) working estimate (0.167 TCF). The Bank has discussed with M/s Lasmo the reasons for this drastic
change in estimates, and was informed that the original reserve estimate was developed on the basis of the initial
seismic mapping. Acquisition of additional uphole data, re-processing of the original data, and the results of
development drilling led to a re-interpretation of the top reservoir horizon. The viability of investments incurred at
the field has as a result been adversely affected, as all facilities were designed and constructed on the basis of higher
recoverable reserves, with a production plateau of 150 MMCFD. The actual outcome of investments at this field
highlights the need for more rigorous interpretation of available data before a final decision on investments is taken;
as it is, investments of about US$ 100 million at this field are presently yielding very nominal returns to the owners.
26.    Utilization of excess processing capacity with Miano gas: The Miano field (located in Khairpur, about 75
km from Kadanwari) is a joint venture of OMV of Austria, Hardy Oil of UK, PPL and OGDC. While stand-alone
field development is possible, in view of the excess processing capacity at Kadanwari, a tie-in pipeline is planned,
to process Miano gas at Kadanwari for delivery to SSGC. Commercial arrangements and agreements are now being
worked out, and production of Miano field and processing at Kadanwari is expected during the year 1999-2000.
Although the tie-in of the two fields would overcome the excess-capacity problem, this has delayed the full
utilization of the facilities installed at Kadanwari.
27.    Kadanwari Processing Plant: Soon after conunissioning, heavy hydrocarbons were discovered in the feed
gas. These heavy hydrocarbons impaired the membrane separation process and reduced the plant feed capacity to
100 MMCF in recycle mode, with the processing efficiency reducing from 78 percent to 70 percent. A number of



8
problems in the commissioning and operation of the recycle compressor were also encountered: (a) late delivery of
the unit; and (b) major repairs in late 1996. These difficulties also had an adverse impact upon the field
development program.
28.    Revised Design of Oadirpur-Bhong Pipeline Proiect: The original design called for linking the field with
the existing pipeline system at Guddu through a 45 mile, 24" pipeline (along with a compressor station of 16000
BHP) to transmit 200 MMCFD of gas. Subsequently, OGDC confirmed the availability of an additional 140
MMCFD of gas from this field. This necessitated a re-design of the transmission pipeline including compression
and other facilities.
29.    Other Factors affecting Pipeline Construction: A number of other factors affected pipeline construction
activities: (a) construction was originally expected to be carried out by outside contractors, but due to the non-
availability of competent parties, the works were carried out by SNGPL's in-house crews, which also had
commitments for other construction activities; (b) delays were encountered in procurement of HR coil for the
manufacture of 30" linepipe; (c) land acquisition and permissions for crossing of railway tracks, irrigation channels,
roads, and highway falling along the right of way were delayed; and (d) there was a security threat as the pipeline
passed through some high risk areas in Sindh.
30.    Financing the Program:  The cost and financing plans were affected by changes in the scope of the
physical components. Qadirpur field was to be developed in two phases, the first phase to deliver 200 MMCFD,
and a second phase (to be financed through intemal resources) to increase production to 340 MMCFD. Capacity of
the pipeline was also increased to handle the larger volume. While a higher capacity pipeline was constructed,
fnancing for phase two of field development has to be lined up. Large outstanding receivables, due to non-payment
by SNGPL and other entities, is cited by OGDC as the principal reason for not undertaking the phase-II
development of Qadirpur up to now.
31.    Procurement Activities: Procurements based on Bank Guidelines caused difficulties to the implementing
agencies, except OGDC, often resulting in delays. The ICR mission reviewed a number of cases, and concludes
that procurement delays were largely due to a lack of familiarity with Bank Guidelines. The average time for
submission of bid evaluation reports was 4-5 months, and Bank clearance took 2-3 months on average. While this
average is distorted somewhat by the long time required for Bank clearances on the Qadirpur surface facilities
contract (amounting to about US$100 million), this is an area where further streamlining of the Bank's internal
processing procedures appears to be essential. Changes in the formats of Bank procurement documents also caused
some confusion; Bank's insistence on ICB (as against single-source procurement) also caused delays in some
procurements. Experience during the last year of the Project (when procurements were handled from the Islamabad
Office) was somewhat more positive, the dialogue with OGDC on procurement issues was more expeditious, and a
large number of procurement contracts were cleared and the equipment delivered to OGDC.
E.    Proiect Sustainabilitv
32.    Economic Returns: Ex-post rate of return calculations carried out by the mission indicate an Economic
Rate of Retum (ERR) of 31 percent, against an appraisal estimate of 55 percent. These ERR calculations were
done on the same assumptions as at appraisal.  The lower ex-post return reflects largely the delays in
implementation, since the reality was that costs were incurred at an earlier date, while benefits started accruing
much later. Despite these delays, the ERR is substantially higher than the opportunity cost of capital, which
confirms the viability of additional investments in the oil and gas sector. Sustainability of the assets created under
the Project is also assured, since there is a large and expanding market for oil and gas within the country.
F.     Performance of Bank and Cofinanciers
33.    The Project reflected the keen desire of the government to use Bank financing as a catalyst for stimulating
the development of indigenous hydrocarbon resources. This objective was fully shared by the co-financiers and
private-sector operators. Review of Bank documents indicates that the Project was carefully conceived to meet the
objectives of long-term development. Other issues such as institutional restructuring, corporate development and



9
environmental protection and safety were also incorporated in the overall design. However, some of the physical
targets were ambitious, and institutional capacity to undertake the Project on a fast-track basis did not appear to
have been adequately assessed.
34.    Procurement of Compressors by SNGPL: Approval was sought from the Bank for procuring compressors
on a single-source basis, which was incorporated in the legal documents, and was formally conveyed by the Bank in
March, 1992. Based on this approval, SNGPL prepared bidding documents, received and evaluated a bid, which
were sent to the Bank in February 1993. However, the Bank refused to approve funding for this procurement, since
it was a single-source procurement. SNGPL stressed to the Bank a number of times that the basis for single-source
procurement had been approved by the Bank; also there were a number of advantages to SNGPL in not going for
ICB - SNGPL's past experience with compressors supplied by this particular manufacturer, the in-house capacity
for maintenance of those compressors which had been built up over time, the long lead time for a new tender, etc.
SNGPL also pointed out that the unit price for this procurement was lower than some recent ICB tenders. However,
the Bank did not accept these justifications. Eventually, the company purchased four compressors through suppliers
credit, which reached the site in February 1995. Tender for the remaining five units were advertised, and two units
were received in December 1995, and three units in March 1996. Since suppliers credit was availed for 4
compressors, about US$7.5 million could not be utilized by SNGPL.
35.    Delays in Extensions of Closing Date: The original Closing Date (June 30, 1996) was first extended by the
Bank on June 27, 1996. As many suppliers did not ship the materials till the extension was actually approved,
further delays were encountered. Moreover, the executing agencies incurred additional costs for extending Letters
of Credit. The ICR mission was also informed of delays in the receipt of special comnitment from the World Bank,
which have taken 34 weeks on an average.
G.    Borrower Performance
36.    Physical comonrents: MPNR, OGDC and SNGPL and the private sector operators executed the Project
components diligently, even though there were considerable delays in implementation.  For the physical
components, these were largely due to unforeseen events i.e. reserves failure, changes in the composition of gas,
severe flooding, etc. However, the downgrading of reserves at Kadanwari from 0.867 to 0.167 TCF, was
compensated by larger gas reserves at the Qadirpur field, and the total proven/recoverable reserve addition was 4.4
TCF against the SAR estimate of 4.867 TCF. Use of membrane technology instead of conventional dehydration
plants for gas processing also encountered many teething problems. Most of these factors were outside the direct
control of the Government and the executing agencies.
37.    Financial performance of OGDC:  OGDC's financial perfornance improved significantly during the
implementation of the Project. Specifically, after-tax profits rose significantly between FY90-97; the return on
capital employed was 23.5 percent in FY97 compared to the target of 15 percent. These financial performance
criteria were designed to sustain the improvements in OGDC's financial health. OGDC achieved those financial
performance criteria, and future Projections indicate that it is likely to achieve, and in fact substantially exceed,
those targets. However, since late 1996 OGDC's major customers (SNGPL and the refineries) started building up
substantial arrears for gas and oil purchased from OGDC. The resulting cash crunch was met through additional
borrowings by OGDC; also, OGDC has not been able to generate the resources for implementation of the Phase II
program, for additional gas production from the Qadirpur field, as yet.
38.   Institutional and Restructurinz components: While the groundwork for a comprehensive restructuring of
OGDC has been completed, ownership of this program has been diluted due to frequent changes in the top
management of OGDC. Similarly, the institutional strengthening of DGPC could have been much more beneficial
had there been no exogenous constraints on staffing and recruitments.
39.    OGDC Environmental Management Unit (EMU): A comprehensive consultancy and training program was
envisaged, to support the EMU unit in OGDC. The selected firm was unable to field the personnel identified in its
bid due to various factors, including the delay in finalizing the contract. This indicates a need for strengthening



10
OGDC's management of consultant contracts. Similarly, the services of ten Management Trainees were terminated
after 8 months of training, largely as a cost cutting measure.
H.    Assessment of Outcome
40.    The Project outcome can be termed as satisfactory, even though there were substantial delays in the
achievement of some objectives. Some of the institutional reform targets were partially achieved. However, during
the Project tenure, there has been a significant improvement in the organizational performance, project management
capabilities, and profitability of the oil and gas sector in general, and OGDC in particular. For these reasons, it is
concluded that the Project objectives were largely achieved.
I.     Future Operation
41.    The ICR mission discussed with MPNR, OGDC and SNGPL a number of measures, which would
contribute to the early completion and sustained operation of the assets created under this Project. Details of these
measures are given in the mnission's Aide Memoire and the Operational Plan (Annex-A).
J.     Key Lessons Learned
42.    A key lesson of this Project is that investments in petroleum development need to adequately account for
the uncertainties of hydrocarbon reserves, and possible variations in production levels. The Operator's reservoir
estimates should be re-confirmed through independent assessments by intemational reservoir engineering firmns.
While such independent assessment(s) may not have ultimately affected the outcomes of this Project, these could
have provided early warning signals regarding the potential for reserve shortfalls (e.g. at the Kadanwari field) which
could have prompted a more rigorous evaluation of the existing data, before the investment decisions were taken.
Similarly, field-tested technology should be adopted on future Projects, to avoid the problems encountered with the
membrane technology (which had not been widely adopted by the industry at that time) at Qadirpur and Kadanwari.
It is also important to develop realistic timetables/schedules for field development and other activities.
43.    While institutional reform of OGDC was a key objective under this Project, privatization of the company --
as an ultirnate objective - was not discussed during preparation and appraisal. In hindsight it may have been
appropriate for both the Government and the Bank to review this issue a bit earlier in the Project processing cycle,
so that the ultimate goals and targets of the reform program could be clearly defined up front.
44.    Other Lessons:
*  The Project experience highlights the need for establishing clear linkages between field development and
investments in down-stream facilities (pipeline segments, compression, etc). To the extent possible, field
development plans should be revised in coordination with entities undertaking the downstream investments,
to avoid potential bottlenecks or surplus capacities in those facilities.
*  Another finding of this ICR is the lack of familiarity of private sector executing agencies with the Bank's
procurement guidelines. The Bank needs to strengthen its efforts to communicate the requirements of those
guidelines to a wider audience. Also, the Bank may need to re-evaluate whether its guidelines are
appropriate for joint venture Projects, which is one of the standard industry practice intemationally in the
oil and gas sector. Also, procurement experience under this Project highlights the need for more realistic
and upstream procurement planning, both by the Bank and the executing agencies.
* The procedures for land acquisition, and for obtaining right of ways etc. from different government
authorities, which impinge upon the timely completion of the Projects, need to be further streamlined.
*  Lastiy, long-term institutional measures need to be taken by the government for the development and
facilitation of construction industry, especially pipeline construction, so that competent and qualified
contracting firns are available in the country to undertake similar Projects in future. Without the growth of
such construction firns in the private-sector, there would be an undue burden on the in-house construction
crews of SNGPL, which would inevitably result in delays on different Projects.



Domestic Energy Resources Development Project
(Loan 3500-PAK)
Part II - Statistical Tables



11
PAKISTAN: DOMESTIC ENERGY RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3500-PAK)
Table-1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial       Partial         Negligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies                       0               O                 0                 1
Sector Policies                      /               0                 0                 O
Financial Objectives                 a                /                0                 0
Institutional Development            0                                 0                 0
Physical Objectives                   /              0                 0                 0
Poverty Reduction                    0               0                 0                 /
Gender Issues                        0               0                 O                 /
Other Social Objectives              00                                0                 /
Environmental Objectives             /               0                 0                 0
Public Sector Management             0                /                0                 0
Private Sector Development           00                                0 o
Otiher (Public-Private               /               0                 0                 0
Partnership)
B. Project Sustainability              Likely                  Unlikelv                  Uncertain
(1)                       (/)                        (/)
0                       0                          /
C. Bank Performance                     satisfactor           Satisfactory                Deficient
(1)                      (1)                       (1)
Identification                      0                         0                         /
Preparation Assistance              O                        1                           0
Appraisal                           0                         /                         0
Supervision                         0                         /                         0
Hinl
D. Borrower Perfornance            Satisfactorv               Satisfactorv                Deficient
(1)                      (1)                       (1)
Preparation                         /                         0                         0
Inplementation                      0                         /                         0
Covenant Compliance                 0                                                   0
Operation (if applicable)           0                         /                         0
Hi2lv                                              Hi,v
E. Assessment of Outcome               Satisfactory   Satisfactorv   Unsatisfactory     unsatisfactorv
()              ()               ()                ()
0                /                 0                 0



12
PAKISTAN: DOMESTIC ENERGY RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3500-PAK)
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Credit/Loan No. & Title     Purpose                          Year of       Status     Comments
Approval
A. Preceding Operations
Loan 2552-PAK               Finance GOP program for policy       1985      Closed      Successfully
Energy Sector Loan          reform and institutional                      (12/31/88)   completed.
development during 6h Five Year
Plan (FY83-88)
B. Following Operations                                         None
C. Related Loans
Loan 3107-PAK               Finance GOP program for policy    1989/1991   Closed       Completed. ICR dated
2nd Energy Sector Loan      reform and institutional                      (12/31/94)   March 15, 1996
development during 7' Five Year
Plan (FY89-93)
Loan 2842-PAK               To inprove operational efficiency at  1987     Closed      Completed. ICR dated
Refinery Energy conservation   NRL by reducing energy                      (06/30/96)   June 17, 1997
& Modernization Project     consumption, increasing crude
processing capacity, and modifying
the output mix to better match
product demand.
Loan 3252-PAK               Finance program for SNGOP         1990/1991   Closed       Completed. ICR being
Corporate Restructuring &   restructuring/privatization and                (06/30/98)   prepared.
System Expansion Project    expansion of its transmission and
distribution network. Under the
Project, SNGPL constructed a
pipeline between Multan and Kot
Addu for supply of natural gas to the
power stations.
Loan 2982-PAK               Assist GOP in mobilizing private     1988      Closed      Implementation of
Private Sector Energy       sector financing for energy                    (11/30/98)   private sector projects
Development Project (PSEDP-  investments and develop                                   was substantial during
I)                         institutional framework for                                 FY90-93; Hub Power
sustaining private sector                                  delayed during FY90-
investment/operation in the sector.                        93, but is now
completed. ICR under
preparation.
Loan 3812-PAK               To replenish PSEDF established       1994      Ongoing     Being implemented.
2nd Private Sector Energy   under Ln. 2982-PAK for financing
Development Project         private sector investments in energy
(PSEDP-II)                  and infrastructure projects



13
PAKISTAN: DOMESTIC ENERGY RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3500-PAK)
Table - 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                  Date Planned               Date actual/ latest estimates
Identification                                                       -              June 24-July 1990
Preparation                                                          -              June - July, 1990
Appraisal Mission                                                    -              March 3-28, 1991
Negotiations                                                         -              December 8-19, 1992
Board presentation                                                   -              30 June 1992
Signing of the Loan                                                  -              01 October 1992
Loan Effectiveness                                                   -              28 June 1993
Project Completion                                       31 December 1995           Substantially completed
Loan closing                                             30 June 1996               30 June 1998



14
PAKISTAN: DOMESTIC ENERGY RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3500-PAK)
Table - 4: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ Million)
Financial Year/        Appraisal       Actual          Actual as %                                    Cumulative
Ouarter                 Estimate       Disburs.        of estimate                        Aprpraisal         Actual
FY1993:
Sep 30, 1992                  8.00            0.00             0.00%                              8.00              0.00
Dec 31, 1992                  8.00            0.00             0.00%                             16.00              0.00
Mar31, 1993                  12.00            0.00             0.00%                             28.00              0.00
Jun 30, 1993                 15.00            0.00              0.00%                            43.00              0.00
FY1994:
Sep 30,1993                  15.00            0.00             0.00%                             58.00              0.00
Dec 31, 1993                 14.50            2.00             2.76%                             72.50              2.00
Mar31, 1994                  14.50            0.71             3.11%                             87.00              2.71
Jun 30,1994                  14.30            6.60              9.19%                           101.30              9.31
FY1995:
Sep 30, 1994                 11.20            7.08             14.57%                           112.50             16.39
Dec31, 1994                  11.20           17.18            27.14%                            123.70             33.57
Mar31, 1995                  10.00           20.17            40.19%                            133.70             53.74
Jun 30, 1995                  9.80           17.53            49.67%                            143.50             71.27
FY1996:
Sep 30, 1995                  7.00           15.50            57.65%                            150.50             86.77
Dec 31, 1995                  6.30            4.41            58.15%                            156.80             91.18
Mar 31, 1996                  6.30           21.57            69.13%                            163.10            112.75
Jun 30, 1996                  5.60            6.67            70.79%                            168.70            119.42
FY1997:
Sep 30,1996                   3.80            4.55            71.87%                            172.50            123.97
Dec 31, 1996                  3.00           -0.01            70.63%                            175.50            123.96
Mar 31, 1997                  2.70            3.08            71.29%                            178.20            127.04
Jun 30, 1997                  1.80           10.13            76.21%                            180.00            137.17
FY1998:
Sep 30, 1997                  0.00           -0.03            76.19%                            180.00            137.14
Dec 31, 1997                  0.00            5.29            79.13%                            180.00            142.43
Mar 31, 1998                  0.00            1.40            79.91%                            180.00            143.83
Jun 30, 1998                  0.00            3.41             81.80%                           180.00            147.24
FY1999:
Sep 30,1998                   0.00            0.61            82.14%                            180.00            147.85
Dec 31, 1998                  0.00            0.63            82.49%                            180.00            148.48
Total                       180.00           148.5
Date of last disbursement:        November 12,1998
Amount Cancelled:                 $31.3 Million



15
PAKISTAN: DOMESTIC ENERGY RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3500-PAK)
Table - 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation                           Unit    SAR          Revised   Actual       Remarks
Indicators/Sub Project Name                           Target    Target    Achieve-
ment
I. PHYSICAL ACCOMPLISHMENTS
A. Development of Qadirpur Field:                                            Done         In-house study completed.
Reserves Confirmation Study
Drilling of production wells              No.      9           9          9-          Delays due to flooding
Installation of Production Facilities     -        By 1994    By 1994    By 1997      Teething problems
Construction of 9ft high pads             -                               Done        To avoid flooding of wells
Coordination with the Sindh Wildlife Board  -                             Done        To protect wildlife
B. Development of Kadanwari Field:
Reserves Confirmation Study               -                               Done        Study Completed
Drilling of Production wells              No.      7           7          7           Delays due to reserve failure
Installation of Production Facilities     -        By 1994    By 1994    By 1998      Delays
C. Development of Badin Block Concessions:
Development drilling                       No.      11         11          11
D. Construction of Dhodak Condensate Plant:
Engineering, Env. Assessment & Const.     -        Plant Constructed
E. Dhodak-Kot Addu Gas Pipeline:
16 inch. dia Transmission Pipeline         Km      84         84          84
F. Qadirpur - Bhong Spur Line System:
24 inch. dia. Transmission Pipeline        km       60        60          60
Installation of 9x4000 BHP compressors     BHP    36000       36000       36000
G. Extension of SNGPL's Transmission
SCADA System:
Recruitment of consultant                 -        By 12/92   By 12/92    Done        Component financed
Telemetry/tele-control equipment          -        By 12/94   By 12/94    Done        through Corporate
Procurement and installation                       Being                              Restructuring & Systems
done                               Expansion Project (Ln.3252-
PAK)
II. CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING & INSTITUTIONAL STRENGHTENING
A. OGDC:
Reorganisation                                    Initial steps taken
Separation of Accounts                            Systems developed
Management Information System                     Being implemented
Financial Management Improvement                  Being undertaken
Establishment of Environmental Management Unit    Done
B. MPNR:
Need Assessment                                    Study completed
Implementation                                     Being undertaken



16
PAKISTAN: DOMESTIC ENERGY RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3500-PAK)
Table - 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Key Implementation                  | Unit        SAR       Revised   Actual      Remarks
Indicators/Sub-Project Name                       Target   Target   Achieve-
ment
1. PHYSICAL ACCOMPLISHMENTS
A. Qadirpur Field:
Production of natural gas         MMCFD    200          200       198         Average production (last 3 years)
B. Kadanwari Field:
Production of natural gas         MMCFD       100       100       75          Average production (last 3 years)
C. Badin Block Concessions:
Production of crude oil            BOPD        23000    23000    25500         Average production (last 2 years)
Production of natural gas          MMCFD       175       175       153         Average production (last 2 years)
Incremental oil production         BOPD                            1811        Average 1994-97
Incremental gas production         MMCFD                           117         Average 1994-97
D. Dhodak Condensate Plant
Production of:
Gasoline                          BPD          1450      1450
Kerosine                           BPD         680       680
Diesel                             BPD         185       185
Fuel Oil                           BPD         125       125
Condensate                         BPD         2500      2500      2480        Avg, production since Dec. 1994
LPG                                T/D         190       190       160         Avg. produciton since Dec. 1994
Dry Gas                            MMCFD    46           46        36          Avg. production since Dec. 1994
E. Dhodak-Kot Addu Gas Pipeline
Avg. Gas Transmission                 MMCFD    45           45        45
F. Qadirpur-Bhong Spur Line System:
Gas delivered at Bhong             MMCFD    200          200       198



17
PAKISTAN: DOMESTIC ENERGY RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3500-PAK)
Table - 7: Studies Included in the Project
Study                         Purpose as defined at               Status       Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
1. Technical Services options  To determine the future role of    Completed    No substantial impact as
study by M/s ADL.             OGDCL's technical services including             recommendations of the study
the option of privatizing these                  have not been implemented.
services.
2. Study on Strengthening of  To strengthen OGDCL's               Completed    Major rnilestone was adoption
EPSD by M/s ERM of U.K.       Environmental and Safety Department              of a Corporate Environmental
by developing in house capabilities in           Health & Safety Policy by
Environmental Management.                        OGDC. Study resulted in the
preparation of a number of
useful manuals and reports.
3.  Dhodak  Reservoir  and  To obtain a firm update of reserves of   Completed    Reserves at.Dhodak field were
Engineering Study by SSI      Dhodak field.                                    confirmed.
4. MIS                        To improve the Corporation's financial  Completed    MIS is fully operational.
management and enable the                        Separate on-line accounts are
maintenance of separate accounts for             now being maintained for the
the E&P and Technical Services                   E&P and Technical Services on
functions.                                       a monthly and yearly basis.
Regular Management Reports
are circulated.



18
PAKISTAN: DOMESTIC ENERGY RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3500-PAK)
Table - 8A: Project Costs
(US$ million)
Investment Costs                           Appraisal Estimates                   Actual/Latest Estimates
Local       Foreign       Total        Local        Foreign       Total
Cost       Exchange       Cost         Cost       Exchange        Cost
1. Badin Field Development                   30.6         78.4         109.0          0.0         30.0          30.0
2. Kadanwari Field Development               30.8          41.9         72.7          0.0         100.3        100.3
3. Dhodak Topping Plant                      26.3          20.8         47.1         15.2         49.9          65.1
4. Qadirpur Field Development                27.9          63.5         91.4         76.0         114.0        190.0
5. Dhodak Pipeline                           14.8           1.9         16.7          9.5           1.5         11.0
6. Qadirpur Pipeline                         62.7          37.7        100.4         27.8         35.0          62.8
7. SCADA System                               1.8           8.7         10.5          0.0           6.8          6.8
8. Technical Assistance                       0.8           9.1          9.9          0.0          0.8           0.8
Total Base Cost                             195.7         262.0        457.7        128.5        338.3         466.8
Physical Contingencies                       19.6          26.2         45.8
Price Contingencies                          23.3          14.8         38.1
Total Project Cost                          238.6        303.0         541.6
Interest during construction                  3.1           7.1         10.2
Total Cost                                  241.7         310.1        551.8        128.5        338.3         466.8
PAKISTAN: DOMESTIC ENERGY RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3500-PAK)
Table - 8B: Project Financing
(US$ million)
Source                                     Appraisal Estimates                   Actual/Latest Estimates
Local       Foreign       Total        Local        Foreign       Total
Cost       Exchange       Cost         Cost       Exchange        Cost
1. UTP and Partners                          23.9         54.2          78.1                                    30.0
2. Lasmo and Partners                        19.0          24.3         43.3                                   100.3
3. Premier and Partners                       8.6          18.6         27.2                                    85.6
4. Islamic Development Bank                   0.0          17.7         17.7                                    17.7
5. World Bank                                 0.0         180.0        180.0                                   148.5
6. USAID                                      0.0           1.7          1.7                                     0.0
7. GOP                                       15.0           0.0         15.0                                     3.7
8. SNGPL                                     96.8           3.9        100.7                                    37.3
9. OGDC                                      78.4           3.3         81.7                                    38.0
10. Commercial Sources                        0.0           6.4          6.4                                     5.7
Total                                       241.7         310.1        551.8                                   466.8



19
PAKISTAN: DOMESTIC ENERGY RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3500-PAK)
Table-9: Econonic Benefits and Costs
Costs              FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98   FY99   FYOO   FY01   FY02   FY03   Total
Economic Capital Cost:
Qadirpur               0.0  733.5  4916.2  1916.8 .. 671.5  357.5  294.6    19.3   42.4         8.8    0.0      0.0  8960.5
Kadanwari            163.5  459.3  4096.9  1491.6  262.5   676.7   594.7  788.3   156.7         0.0   23.1   267.4  8980.7
Dhodak                 0.0  641.5  1538.1      0.0  280.4  232.1    29.5        0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0  2721.5
Badin                348.4   302.9  563.8  545.9  1051.0       0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0  2812.1
Total                512.0  2137.2 11115.0  3954.3  2265.3  1266.2   918.8  807.6   199.1       8.8   23.1   267.4 23474.8
Econornic Op. Cost:
Qadirpur               0.0     0.0     0.0  229.0   230.0   276.0  280.0  280.0   285.0   300.0  .310.0   310.0 2500.0
Kadanwari              0.0     0.0     0.0  405.9   500.5   315.0   373.4   382.6   345.8   170.6  101.4    78.4  2673.6
Dhodak                 0.0     0.0     0.0  156.6   587.4   659.4   703.7   760.0   820.8   886.5  957.4  1034.0  6565.9
Badin                  0.0     0.0     0.0  917.0  1034.0  1162.0  1266.0  1383.0  1472.0  1630.0  1728.0  1831.0 12423.0
Total                  0.0     0.0     0.0  1708.5  2351.9  2412.4  2623.1  2805.7  2923.6  2987.1  3096.8  3253.4 24162.5
Total Costs  512.0  2137.2 11115.0  5662.8  4617.2  3678.7  3541.9  3613.3  3122.7  2995.9 3119.9  3520.8 47637.3
Benefits
Gas Revenues (Rs Mil):
Qadirpur                0       0        0       0     852   5468   6564   6052   6052    6052   6052    6052  43145
Kadanwari               0       0        0   1256   2158    1964   2156    1981    1409    1078    663          580  13246
Dhodak                  0       0        0    561    1117    1149    1261    1261    1261    1261   1261    1261   10396
Badin                   0       0        0    374    1072      733    1111    1650    1650    1650   1650    1650  11539
Total      0       0       0   2191    5200   9314   11092  10945  10373   10041   9627    9544  78325
Oil Revenues (Rs Mil):
Qadirpur                0        0       0       0       7      45      50      50      50       50     50       50    352
Kadanwari               0        0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0        0      0        0       0
Dhodak                  0       0        0     197     393     405    444    444    444    444    444           444   3659
Badin                   0       0        0    905    1706   2153    2352   2033    1528    1565   1570    1570  15381
Total      0       0       0   1102   2106   2603    2846   2527   2022   2059   2063    2063   19392
LPG Revenues (Rs Mil):
Qadirpur                0       0        0       0       0       0       0       0       0        0      0        0       0
Kadanwari               0       0        0       0       0       0       0       0       0        0      0        0       0
Dhodak                  0       0       0      103    205      210    231      231     231     231    231       231    1904
Badin                   0       0        0       0       0       0       0       0       0        0      0        0       0
Total      0       0       0     103    205       210     231    231      231     231    231       231    1904
Total Revenues:
Oil                     0       0        0    1102   2106   2603   2846   2527   2022   2059   2063    2063  19392
Gas                     0       0        0   2191    5200   9314   11092  10945   10373   10041   9627    9544  78325
LPG                     0       0        0     103    205      210     231     231     231     231    231       231    1904
Total Revenues      0       0       0   3396   7510   12127   14169  13703   12626  12331  11921   11838  99621
Net Benefits                                                                                                        IERR   NPV( 10%
Qadirpur                0    -733  -4916  -2146        -42    4880   6039   5803    5775   5793   5792    5792 35.56%           11327
Kadanwari            -164    -459   -4097    -642    1395      972    1187    811      907     907    539       235  5.79%       -644
Dhodak                  0    -641   -1538    704       847     873    1203    1176    1116   1050    979        902 35.35%       2489
Badin                -348    -303    -564    -184      693    1724   2197   2300    1706    1585   1491    1388 49.50%           4787
TotalNetBenefits   -512   -2137  -11115   -2267   2893    8449   10627  10090   9503   9335   8801    8317 31.30%             17959
Exchange Rate       24.78   25.95   30.08   33.00   35.00   38.89   46.10
(Rs/US$)



20
PAKISTAN: DOMESTIC ENERGY RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3500-PAK)
Table 9: Economic Benefits and Costs (Continued)
Assumption for Production and Border Prices
FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98   FY99   FY00   FY01   FY02   FY03
Gas Prod.(MMCF)
Qadirpur               0      0       0       0  11608  72390  79172  73000  73000  73000  73000  73000
Kadanwari              0      0       0  16800  29400  26000  26000  23900  17000  13000   8000   7000
Dhodak                 0      0       0   6480  13140 .13140  13140  13140  13140  13140  13140  13140
Badin                  0      0       0   5000  14600   9700  13400  19900  19900  19900  19900  19900
Total                  0      0       0  28280  68748 121230 131712 129940 123040 119040 114040 113040
Border Price-Gas (Rs/MCF)
Qadirpur (950       70.7   68.6   73.6   74.8   73.4   75.5   82.9   82.9   82.9   82.9   82.9   82.9
BTU)
Kadanwari (950      70.7   68.6   73.6   74.8   73.4   75.5   82.9   82.9   82.9   82.9   82.9   82.9
BTU)
Dhodak (1100        81.9   79.4   85.2   86.6   85.0   87.5   96.0   96.0   96.0   96.0   96.0   96.0
BTU)
Badin (950 BTU)     70.7   68.6   73.6   74.8   73.4   75.5   82.9   82.9   82.9   82.9   82.9   82.9
Oil Production (000 bbl)
Qadirpur               0      0       0       0     17    102    102    102    102    102    102    102
Kadanwari              0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0       0
Dhodak                 0      0       0    446    905    905    905    905    905    905    905    905
Badin                  0      0       0   2046   3927   4818   4795   4145   3115   3191   3200   3200
Total                  0      0       0   2492   4849   5825   5802   5152   4122   4198   4207   4207
Border Price-Oil (Rs/bbl)
Qadirpur           418.4  405.7  435.4  442.3  434.4  446.9  490.5  490.5  490.5  490.5  490.5  490.5
Kadanwari          418.4  405.7  435.4  442.3  434.4  446.9  490.5  490.5  490.5  490.5  490.5  490.5
Dhodak             418.4  405.7  435.4  442.3  434.4  446.9  490.5  490.5  490.5  490.5  490.5  490.5
Badin              418.4  405.7  435.4  442.3  434.4  446.9  490.5  490.5  490.5  490.5  490.5  490.5
LPG Production (Tons)
Qadirpur               0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0       0
Kadanwari              0      0       0       0      0       0      0       0       0      0       0       0
Dhodak                 0      0       0  28800  58400  58400  58400  58400  58400  58400  58400  58400
Badin                  0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0       0
Total                  0      0       0  28800  58400  58400  58400  58400  58400  58400  58400  58400
Border Price (Rs/ton)
Qadirpur          3374.1  3271.7  3511.4  3566.9  3502.9  3603.9  3955.6 3955.6  3955.6  3955.6  3955.6  3955.6
Kadanwari         3374.1  3271.7  3511.4  3566.9  3502.9  3603.9  3955.6  3955.6  3955.6  3955.6  3955.6  3955.6
Dhodak            3374.1  3271.7  3511.4 3566.9  3502.9  3603.9  3955.6  3955.6  3955.6  3955.6  3955.6  3955.6
Badin             3374.1  3271.7  3511.4  3566.9  3502.9  3603.9  3955.6  3955.6  3955.6  3955.6  3955.6  3955.6



21
PAKISTAN: DOMESTIC ENERGY RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3500-PAK)
Table - 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section   Covenant   Present           Original           Revised                         Description of Covenant                        Comments
Type      Status        Fulfillment       Fulfillment
Date              Date
Loan 3500    6.01(a)      10          C         June 28, 1993      May 17, 1993   OGDC and GOP to execute Subsidiary Loan Agreement (SLA)
6.01 e       12         C         June 28, 1993                      OGDC to select consultants for MIS/accounting system study.
6.01 (d)     13         C          June 28, 1993                     OGDCL to furnish report by international reservoir eng., firm on est.
of recoverable reserves at Qadirpur field.
6.01 (e)     2          C          June 28, 1993                     OGDC and SNGPL to enter into contracts for supply of gas from
Dhodak fields.
2          C                                           OGDCL and SNGPL to enter into contracts for supply of gas from
Qadirpur fields.
6.01 (f)     12         C          June 28, 1993                     OGDCL to appoint a Director for its Technical Services.
12         C                                            Legal Opinion on Project Agreement.
12         C                                            Legal Opinion on SLA.
OPA          2.08 (a)      I          C            Monthly                        Furnish statement of actual expenditure on Qadirpur and Kadanwari
JVs.
OPA          3.04 (a)     12          C        March 31, 1992                     Furnish draft Corporate Plan, including targets for next five years.
OPA          4.03 (a)      I         CD         Dec. 31, 1992                     Prepare and adopt detailed accounting system with assistance of
financial consultants.
OPA          4.03 (b)      I          C        March 31, 1993                     Prepare accounting procedures in accordance with 4.03 (a).
OPA          4.03 (c)      I          C          July 1, 1993                     Maintain accounts in accordance with new accounting system.
OPA           3.06        12          C       December 31, 1992                   Employ qualified professional staff for Finance and Internal Audit
Departments.
OPA           3.03        3           C         June 30, 1993                     Take out and maintain adequate insurance on OGDCL's plants,
machinery and pipelines.



22
Agreement  Section   Covenant   Present         Original          Revised                        Description of Covenant                     Comments
Type      Status       Fulfillment       Fulfillment
Date              Date
OPA         3.04 (b)     12         C       June 30, 1992 (and                 Furnish finalized Corp. Plan, along with approved budget.
annually thereafter)
OPA         2.06 (b)     6          C         Dec. 31, 1992                    Establish an Environmental Management Unit, with appropriate
staffing and facilities.
OPA         2.08 (b)     I          C        Dec. 31 of each                   Furnish annual certified financial statement and audit report.
OPA         4.01 (b)     I         CD      Dec. 31 of each year                Earn rate of return on capital employed of 15%, Acid test ratio of
1: 1, & Debt Service coverage of at least 1.5.
OPA         4.02 (a)     2          C      Dec. 31 of each year                Carry out study of options on future role of OGDCL's technical
services.
OPA         3.05 (a)     13        CD         June 30, 1994
OPA         3.05 (b)     13        CD         Sept. 30, 1994                   Review with Bank findings and recommendations of study on
options re technical services
OPA         3.05 (c)     13        CD         Dec. 31, 1994                    Formulate measures to implement recommnendations of study on
options.
OPA         2.06 (c)     12         C           July 1995                      Implement the Management Information System.
Kev:
Covenant type:                                                                                  Status
I = Accounts/audits                            8 = Indigenous people                           C = Covenant complied with
2 = Fin performance/rev gen from beneficiaries  9 = Monitoring, review and reporting            CD = Complied with delays
3 = Flow and util. of Project funds           10 = Proj. implementation not covered by 1-9     CP = Complied with partially
4 = Counterpart funding                       11 = Sectoral/cross-sectoral budget/alloc.       NC = Not complied with
5 = Mgmt aspects of proj/executing agency     12 = Sectoral/cross-sectoral policy/
regulatory/institutional action
6 = Environmental covenants                   13 = Other
7 = Involuntary resettlement



23
PAKISTAN: DOMESTIC ENERGY RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3500-PAK)
Table - 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title                   Comments on lack of compliance
All Bank policies complied with.
PAKISTAN: DOMESTIC ENERGY RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3500-PAK)
Table - 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of project cycle             Planned                  Revised                    Actual
Weeks    US$(OOO)   Weeks           US$(000)   Weeks    US$(000)
Preparation to appraisal                                                       58.7      536.7
Appraisal through Board                                                       58.5       176.6
Board through Effectiveness
Supervision                                                                   169.7      459.1
Completion                                                                     31.1       65.1
TOTAL                                                                         318.0      1237.5



24
PAKISTAN: DOMESTIC ENERGY RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3500-PAK)
Table - 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rati g
Stage of project cycle    Month/year     No. of   Days in   Specialized staff skills  Implementation   Development  Types of problems
persons    field         represented            status         objectives
Through Appraisal:
June-90            2         11      ENG
June 90            7         30      ENG, ECN, FA ENG,
November 90        7         16      ECN,FA
December 90        1         10      ENV
March 91           9         26      ENG, ENV, ECN, FA
Appraisal - Board       December 91        10        5       ENG, ENV, ECN, FA
Board - Effectiveness
Supervision:           December 92         4         12      ENG, ECN                     2                1        Outstanding effectiveness conditions
March 93           1         5       ENG                         n.a.             n.a.
December 93        1         8       ENG.                        n.a.
January 94         4         8       ENG; FA, ECN                 2                1         Higher costs at Kadanwari
June 95            I         4       ENG                         n.a.             n.a.
July 95            4         8       ENG; ECN; FA                 S               HS
._________________ January96       5         9       ENG, ECN, FA                 S               HS
November 96        4         9       ENG, ECN, FA                 S               HS         H2S gas at Qadirpur
April 97           4         1 I     ENG, ECN, FA                 S                S         Gas price adjustment
October 97         5         8       ENG, ENV, ECN, FA            S.               S         Gas price adjustment still not done
March 98           3         1 1     GNG, ECN, FA                 S                U         Separation/corporatisation of TSS
needs priority.
Completion             October 98          2         14      ECN, ENG
Legend:
n.a.    =        not applicable                             ECN      = Economist
I       =        satisfactory                               ENG    = Engineer
2       =        moderate problems                          FA       = Financial Analyst
S       =        satisfactory
HS      =        Highly Satisfactory
U       =        Unsatisfactory



Domestic Energy Resources Development Project
(Loan 3500-PAK)
APPENDIX - A: Aide Memoire



25
Domestic Energy Resources Development Project Loan
(Loan 3500-PAK)
Implementation Completion Report
Aide Memoire
1.    A World Bank mission comprising Messrs. Rashid Aziz (Bank Staff) and Waqar Haider (Consultant)
visited Pakistan during October 1, 1998 to October 12, 1998, to initiate preparation of the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) for the Domestic Energy Resources Development Project (Loan 3500-PAK). This
aide memoire presents the mission's findings, which would be confirmed through a post mission letter from
the Bank's management. The mission would like to record its appreciation for the courtesies and cooperation
extended by the Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Resources (MPNR), its Directorate General of Petroleum
Concessions (DGPC), Oil and Gas Development Corporation (OGDC), Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited
(SNGPL), Union Texas Pakistan (UTP) and Lasmo Oil Co. (LASMO).
2.    The ICR is an assessment of the experience gained under the Project, as regards design and
preparation; implementation, operation of the assets created, and institutional capability developed or
strengthened; Project's developmental capability impact and sustainability of the investments; and Borrower
and Bank performance. Lessons learnt during this process provide inputs for the preparation of future
Borrower and Bank Projects.
3.    The mission focused largely on: (a) compiling the information required for the ICR, and holding
initial discussions with the implementing agencies and MPNR; (b) assisting the implementing agencies in
preparing the background information required for the ICR; and (c) advising the Borrower on the preparation
of the Borrower's Evaluation, and agree on the timetable for preparation and submission to the Bank of the
Borrower's contribution to the ICR.
4.    The Mission agreed with MPNR and all the other beneficiary entities on a schedule of activities to
compile the ICR. It was decided that Joint Secretary (Development), MPNR would coordinate with all the
entities under its control, and facilitate the provision of information from UTP and LASMO, to ensure that a
single consolidated Borrower Evaluation is provided to the Bank. It was also agreed that the ICR would be
shared with the private-sector entities namely UTP and LASMO, and with the Islamic Development Bank.
The schedule of activities for the completion of ICR was agreed as follows:
=z> First draft of the ICR by the Bank         November 10, 1998
=' Borrower's contribution to ICR              November 25, 1998
=> Review by the Borrower/Co-financiers        November 30, 1998
=> Revision of ICR, to incorporate comments    December 1-10, 1998
=> Report production and distribution of ICR   December 10-31, 1998
A.    Project Appraisal
5.    Project Obiectives: The objectives of the Project were to: (a) accelerate the development of
indigenous hydrocarbons, utilizing private-sector resources to the maximum extent possible; (b) ensure that
such indigenously developed hydrocarbons reach the end-consumers in an efficient manner; (c) enhance the
commercial orientation and operational autonomy of the public-sector entities in the sub-sector to pave the
way for a larger private-sector role; and (d) strengthen the regulatory and policy-making functions of
governmental agencies in the sub-sector to facilitate larger private investments.



26
6.    Project Description: The Project included physical and institutional development components as
follows:
(a)    development of oil and gas fields under joint ventures with the private sector, namely (i)
Qadirpur Gas Field (OGDC - Premier Joint Venture); (ii) Kadanwari Gas Field (OGDC
LASMO Joint Venture); and (iii) Badin Block Concession (UTP - GOP Joint Venture);
(b)    construction of (i) the Dhodak Condensate Plant; (ii) Dhodak - Kot Addu gas pipeline; (iii)
pipelines and compressors to utilize Qadirpur gas; and (iv) installation of a Supervisory
Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system;
(c)   implementation of measures to mitigate the environmental impact of (a) and (b) above;
(d)    corporate restructuring of OGDC;
(e)   institutional strengthening of MPNR including measures to implement the Petroleum Policy;
and
(f)   technical assistance on all of the above components.
7.    Project Costs: The total cost of the Project was estimated at Rs. 13.3 billion in 1992 (US$ 541.6
million equivalent), including physic'al and price contingencies of about US$ 83.9 million, and taxes and
duties of about US$ 118.8 million, but excluding interest during construction (IDC) of about US$ 10.2
million. Direct and indirect foreign exchange costs were estimated at US$ 303.0 million, which accounted for
56% of the total Project cost. Price contingencies were based on assumptions regarding domestic inflation
between 6 - 8% and foreign inflation between 0.4 - 5.1% during different years of the Project.
8.    Proiect Financing: A large share of the financing (US$ 148.6 million -- about 27% of total Project
cost) was envisaged to be provided by the private sector joint venture partners. This financing was mostly to
be in foreign exchange to meet most of the financial commitments of joint venture partners in the concession
agreement. The Bank loan of US$ 180 million (33% of the total cost) covered about 59% of the foreign
exchange cost relating primarily to field development, gas pipeline construction and technical assistance
components of the Project. The remaining about 38% of the cost was envisaged to be financed through
Government of Pakistan (GOP), OGDC and SNGPL resources.
9.    The Project was approved by the Bank's Board on June 29, 1992, and the Legal Documents were
signed on October 1, 1992. There were delays in effectiveness of the Loan, due to delays in fulfillment of the
agreed conditions (particularly regarding the selection of a firm to develop and implement a Management
Information System for OGDC), and the Loan was declared effective on June 30, 1993, after two extensions
in the target date for effectiveness. The original Loan Closing Date was June 30, 1996. However, in view of
the force majeure situation experienced by OGDC due to heavy flooding at the Qadirpur field (when one of
the wells -- Q4, which was one of the best producing wells -- was severely damaged, and emergency measures
had to be adopted to recover and plug the well) the Closing Date was extended by the Bank to June 30, 1997.
Subsequently, in order to provide additional time and support for the completion of the corporate restructuring
of OGDC, the Closing Date for only the OGDC components was extended (at GOP and OGDC's request) to
June 30, 1998. About US$ 29 million was canceled from the Loan, including a cancellation of US$ 2.38
million in 1993, because OGDC decided to finance the MIS component from its own sources; and the balance
(about US$ 27 million) was canceled in early 1997 and 1998 at the request of GOP, since GOP and the
entities did not require these funds.



27
10.   Development Plans: Plans for the development of Qadirpur, Kadanwari, and Badin block fields were
developed by the joint-venture operators on the basis of exploration and appraisal activities completed, and
the reservoir studies undertaken. In case of Qadirpur and Kadanwari, there were specific conditions attached
with the disbursement of the loan which required OGDC and LASMO to confirm the reserves of these fields
as evaluated by an international firm of consultants, and also GOP had to submit plans for utilizing the gas to
be produced from these two fields. Similarly, for the field activities being implemented by OGDC,
Environmental Impact Assessments (EA) were prepared and approved by the Bank and the Government.
11.   Implementation Responsibilities and Completion: Implementation responsibilities were divided
among different entities as follows: (i) OGDC was responsible for the implementation of Qadirpur field
development, Dhodak condensate plant, and corporate restructuring components; (ii) LASMO was to
undertake Kadanwari field development; (iii) UTP was responsible for Badin Block; (iv) SNGPL was to
implement the implement the pipeline component as well as the SCADA system; and (v) MPNR was
responsible for the institutional strengthening component, and for implementation of the Petroleum Policy.
Since OGDC occupied a pivotal role in the entire Project, it established a Task Force comprising of a
Manager, drilling and work-over engineer, reservoir geologist, reservoir engineer, production engineer and
procurement specialist, to ensure that the completion schedule was fully adhered to. The Project was
expected to be completed by December 31, 1995, and the original Loan Closing Date was June 30, 1996.
B.    Project Implementation and Completion Status.
12.   Development of Oadirpur Gas Field: The development plan called for the drilling of nine additional
wells, and for the installation of surface production facilities to enable the production of 100 MMCFD by
June 1993, and an additional 100 MMCFD by June 1994, for a combined production of 200 MMCFD. This
has been achieved, and the field has been producing an average of 198.7 MMCFD since September 1995, with
a peak production of 235 MMCFD during the specified months. While the original plan called for phased
development, OGDC considered it expedient to develop the field in one go, and this has been successfully
achieved. The award of the initial contract was done efficiently and in accordance with the Bank guidelines.
The achievement of the end-objective was, however, delayed by about eighteen months due primarily to
unforeseen major flooding of some of the field-wells located in the river bed. The mission was informed that
while the field was commissioned since September 1995, a number of teething problems were also
encountered as follows, which have either been addressed or are being taken care of: (a) membrane
technology employed at the field surface production facilities caused a number of problems due to presence of
higher hydrocarbons and liquids in the gas, which was not originally catered for; (b) there were contractual
difficulties, and the contractor went bankrupt; receivership proceedings are currently underway, and OGDC
has not formally taken-over the production facilities yet; (c) there were delays in the finalization of Gas
Supply Agreement (GSA) with SNGPL; and (d) presence of H2S in the gas was detected after 8-9 months of
production, possibly due to well draw-down, resulting in potential corrosion problems and its mitigation.
13. Kadanwari Gas Field: Development of the field entailed the drilling of seven wells to produce 100
MMCFD of gas for 10 years, from a recoverable reserve base of about 573 BCF. Bank funding for this
component was contingent upon the reconfirmation of reserves by a reputable reservoir engineering firm.
Subsequently, at OGDC's request, the Bank accepted that reservoir engineering study (which was carried out
in-house by LASMO) provided adequate comfort about true level of reserves at Kadanwari. Major cost over-
runs have been experienced, and the original plans and cost estimates were revised three times: (a) original
costs were deemed under-estimated and escalated for the plant of 100 MMCFD capacity; (b) upside potential
of the reservoir was envisaged and a production of 152 MMCFD estimated, requiring a second cost revision
upwards; and (c) reservoir failure was experienced, and only an average of 75 MMCFD production was
actually obtained, requiring a re-think on the utilization of excess- capacity, and inter-connection with the
Miano gas field; this required a third cost revision. The target production levels have been partially achieved
(gas production currently averages about 75 MMCFD). Substantial delays have also been experienced,



28
principally because of large reservoir uncertainty, process limitations due to higher hydrocarbons and higher
temperature of gas, difficulties in the use of membrane technology, and procurement difficulties faced by TV
partners on account of lack of familiarity with the Bank procurement procedures.
14.   Badin Block Joint Venture: The plan comprised of drilling of 111 development wells, and
implementing a program for maintaining the oil production at about 23,000 BPD from existing fields, and
increasing the production of gas to about 175 MMCFD from the concession area. An amount of $36 million
was allocated, but the Bank loan was only utilized to the extent of about $8.97 Million for the development
wells, gas compression facilities, and for other general Projects. The mission was informed that the major
cause for the lack of utilization of this loan component was that the private-sector party (UTP) was not fully
consulted at the time of negotiation of the loan, with the result that effective use of this component could not
be made, and the stipulated targets could only be partially achieved. However, Bank missions had visited
UTP in 1992, and had discussed the proposal for Bank funding of GOP's shares of the cost of Badin Field
Development Program, both at UTP's office in Pakistan as well as its Head Office in US. The mission,
therefore, feels that (as in the case of Kadanwari joint venture), the procurement problems encountered in the
Badin joint venture also resulted from UTP's lack of familiarity with the Bank's procurement procedures.
During the past two years, the production of oil and gas from this field has averaged 25500 BOPD and 153
MMCFD, respectively, broadly in line with the appraisal targets.
15.   Dhodak Condensate Plant, and Dhodak-Kot Addu Pipeline:  A condensate processing plant
comprising: (a) a gas dehydration plant; (b) LPG recovery plant; (c) condensate stabilization unit; (d) surface
gathering facilities; and (e) a topping plant with associated facilities. Similarly, a 84 km, 16" diameter
pipeline was planned to be constructed from Dhodak to Kot Addu Power Plant to transmit 45 MMCFD of gas.
OGDC had lined up financing from the Islamic Development Bank (IDB) in 1989, but since it did not cover
the full scope of work, World Bank was also approached in 1991 for part-financing this Project under DERDP
loan. However, because of the presence of certain mutually exclusive clause' in the IDB and World Bank
procurement documents, the World Bank financing could not be made available in any significant terms, and
was not expected to be utilized for the plan. The processing plant was completed in August 1994, and the field
put in production in December 1994, with financing from OGDC's own resources ($38 Tnillion), the Islamic
Development Bank ($17.7 million) and other sources ($3.7 million). Production at the time of commissioning
of the Project was 450 MT of white products, 44 MMCFD of gas, and 200 MT of LPG.
16.   Pipeline and Compressors to utilize Oadirpur Gas, and installation of SCADA: The pipeline and
compressors were envisaged to be installed in the SNGPL system to transmit 200 MMCFD of Qadirpur gas to
the main Sui-Multan gas trunk-line. Line pipe estimates were based on the 1992 costs of US$ 700/MT, and
since an escalating cost trend was being observed along with possible higher financial charges, a unit cost of
US$ 850/MT was used in developing the overall costs for this component of the Project. However, the actual
line pipe costs turned out to be much lower than what was envisaged, and SNGPL used the available financing
to put up a larger capacity system (340 MMCFD) of pipeline and a compressor station at Bhong, to cater for
future increases from Qadirpur gas field instead of the originally planned 200 MMCFD. With the reduced
line pipe costs, savings of about $25 million were realised in this component of the Project. The pipeline was
commissioned in September 1995, to coincide with the commissioning of the field with production of 200
MMCFD of gas. However, because of liquidity problems of OGDC arising mainly due to non-payment of
dues by SNGPL and other oil and gas utility companies, plans for the development of phase-Il of Qadirpur
field had to be shelved, resulting in 140 MMCFD of spare pipeline capacity which is lying un-utilised. The
pipeline linking the Dhodak gas field to the SNGPL system was also completed in time. However, the Bank
and GOP/SNGPL agreed that the SCADA component would be funded through the SNGPL Corporate
Restructuring and System Expansion Project (Loan 3252-PAK).
17.   Mitigation of Environmental Impact: Environmental screening of the physical components of the
Project indicated potential adverse impacts, requiring careful management and mitigation. Information



29
provided by OGDC, UTP, Lasmo and SNGPL has indicated that measures to mitigate the environmental
impacts have been incorporated in the designs of the various facilities. The following major elements of this
Project component have been achieved: (a) Directorate General of Petroleum Concessions has issued the
environmental and safety guidelines, which are currently being implemented; (b) OGDC has established a
specialized Environmental Protection and Safety Department (EPSD); (c) SNGPL and other entities under
MPNR are also instituting environmental impact assessment and guidelines compliance measures; and (d) a
program for strengthening OGDC's environmental management capabilities (with assistance from
international consultants) was completed in 1998.
18.   Corporate Restructuring of OGDC and Institutional Strengthening of MPNR: The mission has held
detailed discussions with the officials of MPNR and OGDC, and was informed that following steps have
either been undertaken or fully completed: (a) OGDC has been restructured and incorporated as a public-
limited company; (b) Technical Support Services (TSS) and Exploration and Production (E&P) businesses
have been made independent and autonomous, and are now headed by their own Executive Directors (ED), (c)
a comprehensive Management Information System (MIS) has been developed and implemented; (d) OGDC's
balance sheet has been restructured, and commercial accounts have been produced for the last several years;
(e) inventory has been physically checked and evaluated; and (f) clean audit reports have been given by the
independent (statutory) auditors for the first time. The mission is of the view that while the above steps (such
as incorporation of OGDC as a limited company) have indeed been taken, the major objectives of a
restructured OGDC and the oil and gas sector still has to be realised. The decision-making process in OGDC
is largely centralized, and the necessary constitution and empowerment of the Board remains to be achieved.
Institutional strengthening of different segments of MPNR, notably its Directorate General of Petroleum
Concessions, has taken place; however, the restructuring and privatization of oil and gas entities still has to be
completed. Lack of sufficient progress in this area has a natural consequence on the ability of the government
to implement fully the Petroleum Policy, and attract further private-sector investments. The Operational Plan
(para 20) highlights the steps for MPNR and OGDC management, which would contribute to the further
institutional strengthening of the oil and gas sector.
19.   Institutional Strengthening of Directorate General of Petroleum Concessions: The mission has been
informed about some of the major policy measures undertaken by the government which resulted in the
rationalization of the earlier-announced Petroleum Policy. Specifically, streamlining of the process for award
of concessions has been very effective, and it has resulted in a significant increase in the number of awards
(69 exploration licenses), number of discoveries (28 in total including 17 gas discoveries) and government
investments in the oil and gas business (Rs. 62 billion) since March 1994. The mission has been provided
detailed quantitative data relating to different performance parameters before and after the rationalization of
Petroleum Policy, which would be analyzed in more detail in the ICR. Other policy measures which have
contributed to the institutional strengthening and effectiveness of Directorate General of Petroleum
Concessions (DGPC) were stated as follows: (a) announcement of the offshore exploration policy based on
production sharing agreement; (b) development and implementation of environmental and safety guidelines
for the petroleum industry; (c) establishment of data base management systems; and (d) development of model
concession agreements and standard award procedures. One area in which sufficient progress could not be
made related to the induction of professional manpower in the DGPC. While DGPC had identified candidates
for those positions, and complied with the necessary formalities, additional professionals could not be hired
because of the current government ban on recruitment; however, the existing manpower was trained to
strengthen the professional capabilities of DGPC.
20.   Operational Plan: The mission has discussed and agreed with GOP and the implementing agencies, an
Operational Plan (Annexure I) for the sustained and efficient operation of the assets installed under this
Project.



30
C.    Conclusions
21.   Overall Assessment: The overall assessment of the Project can be termed as mixed success. While
many of the physical targets were achieved, preliminary indications are that progress on the institutional and
policy components has been slow, and encountered shortfalls. A more detailed assessment of the completion
status, and underlying reasons for certain activities having not been completed would be provided in the ICR.
The conclusions regarding Project implementation and completion status are based on the information that is
currently available, and these would be refined and fmalized on the basis of additional analysis and data to be
compiled for the ICR. Similarly, the final Project cost and financing plan, as well as the economic evaluation
would be included in the ICR.



31
Domestic Energy Resources Development Project Loan
(Loan 3500-PAK)
Implementation Completion Report
OPERATIONAL PLAN
Item           Present Status and Future Plans                             Performance Indicators                                          Responsibility    Target Date
Completion of   Overall:                                                   Overall:
Project         I.  Different fields to achieve and maintain a sustained   I.  Production levels (a) Qadirpur = 200 MMCFD; (b) Kadanwari =    OGDC/Lasmo     Annual monitor-
Physical            production                                                 100 MMCFD; Badin Block = 175 MMCFD                          ED (E&P)          ing by Senior
Activities                                                                                                                                                   Management
2.  Reservoir analysis to determine the resource base at   2.  (a) Reservoir Analysis (Qadirpur, Dhodak) is shared with the  ED(E&P)         Dec. 31, 1998
Kadanwari is necessary for establishing the basis for present  Bank, and (b) a new analysis (Kadanwari) through a firm of  Lasmo/JV      Mar 31, 1999
and future sustained operations                            Intemational Consultants is completed                       Partner
3.  Processing of Miano gas at Kadanwari field to derive   3.  (a) Sign Gas Processing Agreement, and (b) complete physical  Kadanwari/      Mar 31, 1999
maximum benefit from the surface production facilities     requirements (pipeline from Miano to Kadanwari plant, etc.)  Miano 1V         Dec. 31, 1999
available at Kadanwari                                                                                                 Partners
Oadirpur Field:                                            Oadirpur Field:
4.  Plant Corrosion Study: At OODC's request, Pakistan Atomic   4. Following steps need to be taken:
Energy Commission (PAEC) has completed an inspection of   a)  Share report of PAEC with the Bank; implement recommendations  ED (E&P)    Dec. 31, 1998/
3rd/4th stage compressors and associated piping network's  on a continuous basis.                                                        Ongoing
corrosion status                                       b)  Consider an audit of the facilities through an int'l firm specializing   Proj. Manager  Mar 31, 1999
in audits of gas plant operations
5.  Measures to address H2S problem at Qadirpur for safe and  5. Following short-, medium- and long-term steps are needed:
viable operations:                                     a)  Short-term Measures: provisions for scavenger chemicals made,    ED (E&P)     Dec. 31, 1998
(a) Short-term                                         including resources to procure the chemicals                Dir (Finance)
(b) Medium- and Long-term                          b)  Medium- /Long-term: Develop/implement a process plan for the    Proj. Manager  Dec. 31, 1998/
removal of H2 S for 340 MMCFD, and share with the Bank                        Ongoing
Project         I .  OGDC makes sufficient provisions for spares for Qadirpur  I .  Adequate budget provision, and placement of orders for spares  OGDC Proc./Fin   Annually
Operation by        Production Facilities for smooth operations                                                                            Deptt.
different
Entities       2.  Plant processing capacity at Kadanwari restored to design  2.  Membrane Guard facilities to be installed                Kadanwari JV      Dec. 31, 1998
level                                                                                                                  Partners
3.  Process difficulties due to higher hydrocarbons/sulfur content  3.  Floating of inquiries with the process supplier, and agreement on    ED (E&P)  June 30, 1999
are resolved in consultation with plant supplier/process   process modifications
provider
4.  Environmental guidelines developed by different entities at    4.  Periodic checks, and inclusion of environment compliance  Mgr. (ESPIED);   Monthly;
fields are strictly adhered to, and compliance monitored   information in top management reports                       Sr. Management   Quarterly
to monitor



32
Project        Operation of OGDC as a corporatised entity ensured          Obtain certificate of Commencement of Business from CLA; have a  Sr. Management   Dec. 31, 1998
Operation                                                                  clear division of responsibilities between MPNR and OGDC Board;  /MPNR
Institutional                                                              reconstitute and empower the OGDC Board
Arrangements
Implementation of Restructuring of OGDC as per Consultant  Approved/agreed recommendations of ADL Report to be implemented   Sr. Management
Recommendations:                                           as follows:                                                     to provide
oversight
Technical Services:                                        Technical Services:
Full separation of Technical Services from OGDC            Administrative orders are to be issued                          Sr. Management   Mar 31, 1999
Development of Business Plans                              Develop TSS Business Plan in-house, using local consultants, if  ED (TSS)         Mar 31, 1999/
necessary, and use it for all medium- and long-term planning                      Ongoing
Initiation of separate accounting for Technical Services   Start using separate accounting reports for Technical Services  ED (TSS)          Mar 31, 1999/
Ongoing
Environmental Protection Services Department:              Environmental Protection Services Department:
Strengthening of the Environment Department under the Chairman  Adequate staffing of ESPIED                                Sr. Management   Mar 1, 1999
Monitoring of environmental activities by senior rnanagement
Include environmental compliance sections in all reports for top  ESPD            Dec. 1, 1998/
management, and for MPNR, and take remedial steps                                 Ongoing
Overal:
Full utilization of MIS                                    Overall:
All reports being currently produced through MIS should replace  Dir (Fin)        Mar 31, 1999/
reports being produced elsewhere                                                  Ongoing
Develop performance indicators for various activities using MIS data    Dir (Fin)  Mar 31, 1999/
Development of Corporate Plan for OGDC                                                                                                       Ongoing
Develop OGDC Corporate Plan in-house, using local consultants if  Mgr. Corp       Jun. 30, 1999/
necessary, and update it on a yearly basis                      Affairs           Yearly
Farm outs, and rationalization of exploration portfolio
Rationalize the exploration portfolio on a competitive basis    ED (E&P)/         On a continuous
In consultation with MPNR:                                                                                                 GM Exploration    basis
Strategic sale of TSS in the first instance, followed by other asset   In consultation with MPNR:
blocks                                                     Develop a plan for the strategic sale of TSS/other asset blocks  MPNR/            Mar 31, 1999
Divestment of non-core assets of OGDC                                                                                      Mgr. (Priv)
Develop plans to auction Aviation, OGTI, other businesses, in due  MPNRI          Mar 31, 1999
course                                                          Mgr. (Priv)
OGDC's receivables/cash shortfall position needs to be resolved
SNGPL/SSGC/PSO to pay: (a) all current receivables immediately; (b)  MPNR         Dec. 1, 1998
agree on a time-schedule for arrears



Domestic Energy Resources Development Project
(Loan 3500-PAK)
APPENDIX - B: Borrower's Evaluation



33
DOMESTIC ENERGY RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORTS
I.   DHODAK GAS PROJECT
A.    Evaluation of Obiectives
The country was facing an acute energy problem and import of oil was already straining Company's
foreign exchange resources. In an endeavour to solve this problem, efforts were made to tap all possible energy
resources available in the country. Fortunately, a large reserve of associated gas was discovered by the Oil & Gas
Development Corporation (OGDC) at the Dhodak condensate field. As advised by OGDC, the Dhodak gas
processing facilities were capable of supplying 45 MMCFD of pipeline quality gas at 500 PSIG and regular gas
production from this field was originally scheduled by year 1992. The purpose of the project was to make use of
associated gas being made available from Dhodak condensate field. The initial survey envisaged laying of 52 miles
16" dia pipeline between Dhodak and Kot Addu.
Heavy quantities of fumace/HSD oil, containing harmful impurities were being used at Kot Addu Station
for power generation which resulted in high operation and maintenance cost. Laying of pipeline exclusively for
supply of gas to Kot Addu Power Station was hence considered to be a viable project to contribute saving of foreign
exchange which was being spent in tenns of import of altemate fuel.
B.    Achievement of Obiectives
The initial survey envisaged laying of 52 miles 16" dia pipeline from Dhodak to Kot Addu in year 1992.
However, after executing the physical survey and detailed design the length of pipeline actually laid came out to be
48.8 miles. OGDC had earlier committed to supply gas in year 1992, however due to delay in integration of their
well head facilities and completion in gathering lines and dehydration plant the availability of gas was delayed until
September 1994.  The completion target of September 1994 was achieved well within revised date of
commencement of gas supply by OGDC. Since then the company is supplying 4045 MMCFD gas to Kot Addu
power station.
C.    Major Factors Affecting the Proiect
1.    Engagement of Contractor
The Project was originally planned to be laid by an outside contractor as our own in-house
construction crews were busy in laying 743 miles of pipelines under Project 6, Phase-II. However,
keeping in view the exigency of the project and non-availability of adequately qualified
contractors, this section of pipeline was laid by the Company's in-house construction crew which
was scheduled to lay its own part of Project 6, during the year 1994.
2.     Land Acquisition
Another impediment in timely execution of the Project was the obstruction experienced in land
acquisition and permissions for crossing of railway tracks, irrigation channels and road/highways
falling along the right of way. Above all obtaining the crossing permission for crossing of river
Indus as Taunsa barrage from irrigation authorities was quite a precarious job.
Things move slowly in the offices of commissioners, Deputy Commissioners, Board of Revenues
and other concerned departments of Federal and Provincial Governnents due to their
procrastinatory attitude and their pre-occupatioprs of their administrative and political matters.



34
3.     Manpower
Shortage of qualified and experienced executives/staff was a major constraint affecting the project
execution. Additional manpower consisting of 663 persons (78 executives and 585 subordinates)
approved by the Company's Board of Directors for the execution of Project 6, Phase-II, however,
hiring of approved staff was inordinately delayed. This section of pipeline was laid by our in-
house construction crew by squeezing the available staff simultaneously laying the pipelines under
Project 6, Phase-IH.
D.    Proiect Sustainabilitv
The expansion to SNGPL gas transmission network has allowed the Company to handle additional 45
MMCFD gas made available from Dhodak field. The improved operations and management skills of SNGPL staff
has enabled the Company to plan, design and execute any sizable project within its own capabilities and with
limited resources.
E.    Key Lessons Learned
1.    The Project experience highlights the importance of establishing procurement p land and schedule,
which is compatible with the overall project schedule. Due to delay in procurement of material,
especially valves and fittings the Company had to reschedule its construction activities to meet
completion targets.
2.    Non-availability of competent contractor within the country forced the Company to lay this project
departmentally, overboarding the already scheduled and in hand Project 6, Phase-Il.
IT.    OADIRPUR GAS PROJECT
A.    Evaluation of Obiectives
In the original PC1 for Qadirpur Project it was planned by SNGPL to link Quadirpur gas field with its
existing system at Guddu. Through a 45 miles long 24" dia pipeline along with a Compressor Station of 16,000
BHP installed rnidway between Qadirpur and Guddu. The entire 200 MMCFD gas was proposed to be transmitted
to Multan through the existing 18" diameter pipeline with the help of 800 BHP compression at Compressor Station
AC2 and 12,000 BHP compression at Compressor Station AC4. Qadirpur gas was to be delivered directly to the
Power Station at Kot Addu and a proposed fertilizer factory near Multan.
Revised Design
Subsequent to the above approval OGDC and its joint partners confirmed availability of 340 MMCFD gas
ex-Qadirpur as against 200 MMCFD estimated and advised earlier.
While considering the summary of February 1993 on the proposal for power plan, the cabinet commnittee on
energy inter alia directed the gas Company to ensure timely augmentation of pipeline capacities for utilization of
additional 100-140 MMCFD of gas from Qadirpur which was not known earlier.
As a result of this developriient the original design parameters which were based on 200 MMCFD gas ex-
Qadirpur field and 603 MMCFD gas inputs ex Sui, Pirkoh, Loti gas fields was no longer applicable. The enhanced
gas availability from the Qadirpur necessiated redesigning of the transmission pipeline including compression and
revision in the scope of work originally envisaged in Qadirpur gas project. Resultantly the revised scope of work
was designed to cater for 1050 MMCFD gas from all the Qadirpur, Sui, Pirkoh, Loti gas fields.



35
In order to inject the additional quantities made available ex-Qadipur it became imperative to revise the
scope of work of Project 6, Phase-lI from 643 miles to 743 miles and laying of 30"diameter line instead of 24" dia
lines as originally planned.
This not only necessitated laying of additional pipelines but also resulted in installation of a new 12,000
BHP compressor station at ACIX Bhong and revamping of existing compressor stations
B.    Achievement of Obiectives
Initial survey envisaged laying of 50 miles 30" diameter pipeline was reduced to 45 mniles in length after
physically survey and detailed design. The revised scope of work of laying 100 miles of additional looplines were
merged in Project 6, Phase-II while the scope of work of Qadirpur gas project was limited to laying of only 45 miles
30" dia pipeline and 12,000 BHP compression at ACIX. The project was rescheduled due to delay in supply of gas
by OGDC from year 1994 to year 1995. The implementation of project was however, completed in August 1995
according to the revised commitment by OGDC to initially supply 200 MMCFD gas.
C.    Maior Factors Affecting the Proiect
1.    The project was originally planned to be laid by an outside contractor as Company's own crews
were engaged in laying 743 miles of pipelines under Project 6, Phase-II. However, due to non-
availability of competent contractor the project was taken up by in-house construction crew.
2.     The change in gas delivery programmed of 200 MMCFD from December 1992 to September
1995, ex-Qadirpur field drastically affected the construction programmed originally envisaged in
the PC1.
3.     The Government of Pakistan took about 9 months to approve the revised PC1 for Qadirpur and
Project 6, Phase-IH. Revised PC1 for p6, phase-Il and Qadirpur Project, incorporating all the
requisites, was submitted to the Government of Pakistan in February 1994. The Government of
Pakistan approved the revised PC1 in October 1994.
4.     Delay in procurement of HR coil for manufacturing of 30" linepipe not only affected the schedules
for Project 6, Phase-LI but also resulted in usage of 30" linepipe made available for Project 6,
Phase-II, for in time completion of Qadirpur gas project.
5.     Another impediment in timely completion of project was obstructions in land acquisition and
obtaining permissions for crossing of railway tracks, irrigation channels, roads, highway falling
along the right of way. Due to procrastinatory and casual attitude of concemed officials and their
pre-occupations in their own administrative matters, resulted in inordinate delays in obtaining the
said perrmissions.
6.     As the pipeline route passed through troubled areas of Sind province, special security
arrangements had to be made through Pakistan Army Rangers. Armned guards were deputed on
payment basis to sifeguard the staff and equipment deployed on the project.
D.    Proiect Sustainabilitl
The project had measurable results in two broad areas, capital investment and management capability and
the system expansion of SNGPL. Transmission capacity of gas has increased from 650 MMCFD to 1050 MMCFD



36
after completion of both Project 6, Phase-II, and Qadirpur Gas project. Installation of 12,000 BHP compressor
station at ACIX Bhong has enabled the mixing of gas being transported from Sui, Pirkoh, Loti region with the
available gas from Qadirpur.
E.    Key Lessons Learnt
1.    The project experience has highlighted a comprehensive material procurement schedule, its
deliverability and installation compatible with the construction schedule on critical path method.
Most of the material used on Qadirpur gas project was utilised out of the material procured against
Project 6, Phase-lI, thus overboarding the priorities of laying the sections of pipelines scheduled
for Project 6, Phase-IH.
2.     Change in commitments made by OGDC regarding deliverability of gas ex-Qadirpur resulted in
frequent changes in construction schedules not only of Qadirpur gas project but for Project 6,
Phase-II as well.
3.     This section of pipeline was originally planned to be laid by an outside contractor, but due to
exigency of project, the section was laid by in-house crew in order to achieve the target completion
of August 1995.
4.    Inordinate delays in land acquisition and frequent shut down of work by the local land owners
specially in the troubled areas of Sind province affected the constructions activities.
However, inspite of all the above constraints the Company managed to complete the project as scheduled,
i.e. August 1995 in order to inject additional 200 MMCFD gas into its system as committed by OGDC.



37
Para. 30 (page 8) Line 5
The words "financing for Rhase two of field development has not been arranged as yet" be replaced by
"financing for phase two of field development has to be lined up".
Para. 31 (page 8
Lack of familiarity with Bank procurement guidelines is not applicable to OGDCL. This should be clearly
maintained in the ICR.
Para 32 (Page 8)
The Bank has acknowledged the positive Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of the Project, which in the
opinion of the Bank is higher than the opportunity cost of capital, despite delays.
Para. 38 (Page 9)
Achievement of financial ratios prescribed by the Bank has also been acknowledged by the Bank and it has
been stated that in future, OGDCL is likely to exceed targets set for various ratios.
Para.45 (Page 10) Line 3
The words "should be revised in coordination with entities" should be replaced with "should be shared with
entities".



38
OIL AND GAS DEVELOPMENT COMPANY LIMITED
BORROWER'S EVALUATION REPORT
1.    BORROWER'S ASSESSMENT
Proiect Implementation
Development of Oadirpur Gas Field: The Phase-i development plan called for the drilling of 09 wells and
for installation of surface production facilities to achieve the production of 200 MMSCFD annual average gas (Max
235 MMSCFD) by 23d September 1995. Phase-I annual average gas production level of 200 MMSCFD has been
achieved, as per schedule and the field is producing since September 1995. Although Phase-I facilities have been
completed mechanically but the Contractor could not demonstrate the 72 hours plant performance test as per EPC
contract. The EPC Contractor failed to rectify the problems and left the site without handing over the plant to
OGDCL. OGDCL has evaluated the worth of left over jobs and attempted to get the bank guarantee/performance
bond of the EPC Contractors encashed without success. The existing facilities comprising of membrane technology
were designed on the basis of sweet service, as the initial gas analysis did not indicate any trance of H2S in
Qadirpur Gas. Subsequently, after one year's production the presence of H2S in the gas has been observed, which
is posing a threat to the facilities specially permeate recycle section (stage 3rd and 4th of turbo compressors) and
related piping thereof. As an interim solution, the Qadirpur joint ventures have managed to reduce the level of H2S
by use of chemical H2S scavenger.
Qadirpur gas field is located in the active flood plain of River Indus which limits the working weather window of
only 7-8 months a year. During construction period of Phase I facilities at Qadirpur, OGDCL had to face abnormal
problems because of exceptional heavy rains and high floods during 1994. Resultantly one well was eroded
whereas another well became in accessible to connect. The workover operations on the already drilled wells were
also delayed considerably because of above problems. To meet the target date of gas supply to SNGPL, OGDCL
had to make extra ordinary arrangements for handing over the required completed wells to the EPC contractor.
In view of these difficulties, the drilling and completion of more than 8 gas wells and the construction of a 200
MMTSCFD capacity gas processing plant along with related gas gathering lines constituted a major field
development program, which in the bank's opinion was carried out in an exceptionally professional way and for
which the OGDCL project team is to be commended
Kadanwari Gas Field. Development of the field entailed the drilling of seven wells to produce 100 MMCFD of gas
for 10 years, from a recoverable reserve base of about 573 BCP. Bank lending for this component was contingent
upon the reconfirmation of reserves by a reputable reservoir engineering firm. The target production levels have
been partially achieved (gas production currently averages about 75 MMCFD). Substantial Delays have also been
experienced, principally because of large reservoir uncertainty, process limitations due to higher hydrocarbons and
higher temperature of gas and difficulties faced by JV partners on account of lack of farniliarity with Bank
procurement procedures.
Dhodak Condensate Plant. A condensate processing plant comprising: (a) a gas dehydration plant; (b) LPG
recovery plant; (c) condensate stabilization unit; (d) surface gathering facilities; and (e) a topping plant with
associated facilities. OGDC had lined up financing from the Islamic Development Bank (IDB) in 1989, but since it
did not cover the full scope of work, World Bank was also approached in 1991 for part financing of this project
under DERDP loan. However, because of the presence of certain mutually exclusive clause in the IDB and World
Bank procurement documents, the World Bank financing could not be made available and was not expected to be
utilized for the plant. The processing plant was completed in August 1994, and the field put on production in
December 1994, with financing from OGDC's own resources (US$38 million), the Islamic Development Bank
(US$17.7 million) and other sources (US$3.7 million). Production at the time of commissioning of the project was
450 MT of white products, 44 MMCFD of gas, and 200 MT of LPG.



39
Corporate Restructuring of OGDC: In order to achieve its objective of performing with the efficiency of an
international oil company it was felt that OGDC needs to institute a commercial orientation in its operations, i.e.
profit motivation and cost consciousness. Re-assignment of staff of E&P and TSS was undertaken and completed
by June 30, 1991 in order to complete the reorganization along functional lines. OGDC initiated the administrative
separation of the Technical Support and Services (TSS) from the E&P department in 1991, and a Director for the
Technical Services Department and a Director for the E&P were appointed in 1992. An independent contract was
awarded to international consultants for assessing and certifying the reserves of all of OGDC's fields. OGDC had
also initiated the process of appointing a financial advisor for determining the market value of OGDC's shares, and
preparing the optimal strategy for divestiture.
The corporate restructuring program agreed under the Project involved: (a) the separation of OGDC's technical
services functions from the core Exploration and Production (E&P) activities; (b) carrying out the Technical
Services Options Study; (c) the implementation of a comprehensive Management Information System (MIS); (d)
the establishment of a modem accural based accounting system; and (e) preparation of an annual Corporate Plan.
The following steps have been taken (a) OGDC has been restructured and incorporated as a public limited
company; (b) Technical Support Services (TSS) and Exploration and production (E&P) business have been made
independent and autonomous, and are now headed by their own Executive Directors (EDs); .(c) a comprehensive
MIS has been developed and implemented; (d) OGDC's balance sheet has been restructured, and commercial
accounts have been produced for the last several years; (e) inventory has been physically checked and evaluated;
and (f) clean audit reports have been given by the independent (statutory) auditors for the first time.
On the Corporate Restructuring of OGDC there has been essentially no significant development. This is partly due
to factors beyond the direct control of OGDC or the Government - including the court injunction on the previous
appointment of financial advisors for the privatization of OGDC. As a result, not only has the corporatization of
TSS (which was approved by the Cabinet in January 1997) remained un-implemented for over a year, but some
steps such as incorporation of OGDC as a limited company have been taken, while the major objectives of a
structured oil and gas sector still has to be realised. The decision making process is largely centralized, and the
empowerment of the Board remains to be achieved.
IMPLEMENTAON OF A MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM
The Bank was pleased to observe that implementation of the MIS and Accounting system, has been completed with
the assistance of international consultants and is now fully operational in OGDC. Separate, accounts are now being
maintained for the E&P and Technical Services on a monthly and yearly basis. The inter-company billing
procedure, as well as the basis for allocating the costs of corporate functions to individual cost centres, is included
in OGDC's Accounting Manual and has been approved by OGDC management.
The system also provides a basis for timely audit of OGDC's accounts and utilizes special software used by
international petroleum companies. This is a major achievement since it allows for: (i) the preparation of
decentralized accounts on a costlprofit centre basis for technical services and each field at the well level; (ii) the
introduction of inter-company transfer pricing and charge-backs for technical services utilized by the individual
fields; and (iii) the allocation of corporate function costs into the respective operating departments.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND SAFETY DEPARTMENT
As agreed under the project, OGDC established an Environmental Management Unit. The unit was later
redesignated as the EPSD, and reports to the Manager (Corporate Affairs). An experienced environmental
consulting firm, M/S ERM (Environmental Resources Management) of U.K., was recruited under the project to
assist in strengthening the EPSD and completed their assignment in 1998. The consultants helped to develop
EPSD's environmental protection and monitoring capability. This included design and implementation of data
bases, capability to perform environmental impact assessment studies (EIAs), environmental monitoring, and
designing of guidelines within OGDC for managing human resources and resettlement and rehabilitation policies in
accordance with guidelines from the GOP, World Bank.



40
Adoption of the Corporate Environmental, Health and Safety Policy (EHSP) by OGDC on 15 October 1997, was a
major milestone for the EPSD. OGDC management fully supports the overall objective of adopting improved
environmental management practices. The consultant's assignment has also resulted in the preparation of a number
of useful reports and manuals. Measures to mitigate environmental impact have been incorporated in the designs of
various facilities.
OPERATION EXPERIENCE
Gadirpur Development Project
The overall project implementation progressed satisfactorily and was on schedule. All components were on
schedule except for civil works where some delays had accumulated due to heavy rains during the summer months.
The drilling program encountered a number of difficulties. The most significant was the damage to well No. 4, orie
of the best producers at the field, during the heavy floods of 1994. In addition, there have been delays in the drilling
and work-over program and completion of wells, as a result of which, the tie-in of the number of wells required to
produce 200 MMCFD of gas was not expected to be completed by September 1995.
Another matter of concern was the need to locate the plug Qadirpur Well No. 4 which presented a serious threat of
blowout. When the project was designed, there was no indication of anything out of the ordinary in respect of the
well locations, including those within the flood plains, which reportedly are only 1 ft. below the highest flood levels
ever recorded. During the 1994 monsoon, very high floods passed through the field area disrupting most of the
development operations. The well, like most of the other wells, was drilled in the flood plains. It was located some
35 meters from the embankment and 200 meters from the creek of an active channel of the River Indus, which
passes through the field. In the first week of July 1994 at the beginning of the monsoon, the fields area in the flood
plains was inundated with the water level rising rapidly, completely submerging the entire wellhead of Well No. 4.
The problem associated with Well No. 4.
Another issue was the alarming concentration of H2S observed in the gas stream at Qadirpur field in mid 1996,
which posed a serious threat to the operational safety and integrity of the gas purification plant and to operating
personnel. OGDC also encountered a serious problem which could threaten OGDC's ability to continue gas
supplies to SNGPL, which was the continued and growing arrears in payment by SNGPL for gas purchased from
OGDC. As compared to about Rs. 2 billion receivable from SNGPL in November 1996, the arrears increased to
over Rs.9 billion by October 1998. Total overdue receivables against sales of oil and gas increased to Rs. 13.4
billion by October 1998.
The achievement of targets was delayed by about two years due to the following major reasons: (a) there were
contractual difficulties, and the contractor went bankrupt; OGDC still has not formally taken over the production
facilities; (b) there were a number of problems relating to wells in the flooding zone, requiring emergency
measures; (c) membrane technology employed at the field surface production facilities caused a number of
problems due to presence of higher hydrocarbons and liquids in the gas, which was not originally catered for; and
(d) presence of H2S in the gas resulting in corrosion problems.
FUTURE SUSTAINABILITY
The World Bank Mission ICR was assured that spares for the project are made available to meet emergency
requirements, though on a delayed mode. The mission asked for assurance that OGDC had the resources to run the
project. The mission was informed that due to financial constraints posed by the receivables crisis, funds were
made available on apiece-meal basis, for three months at a time for running plants, which were given priority.
Actual availability of funds is uncertain.



41
KADANWARI DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Kadanwari field came on stream in May 1995, with first gas sales of SSGC of about 80 MMCFD. However,
based on the results of the drilling program, total reserves at the field were re-calculated, and a plateau production
of about 120 MMCFD is now projected, below the original estimate of about 152 MMCFD. OGDC is carrying out
a revised rate of return analysis. The processing facility at the Kadanwari field was built on the basis of the original
estimates, and OGDC is considering the prospects for diverting gas from another field (Miano) to achieve better
utilization of the Kadanwari processing plant.
Both construction of the purification plant and drilling of the four new wells (K-5, K-6, K-7 and K-8) were
completed by May 1995. However, the drilling results were very disappointing with two (K-5 and K-8) of the four
new wells being dry. As a result of the eight wells drilled only four (K-1, K-3, K-6 and K-7) were put on
production by the end of May 1995 with a total production rate of about 115 MMCFD. Unfortunately this level of
production could not be sustained by the four wells. Except for K-7 the other 3 wells experienced an alarming
pressure drop, resulting in substantial production decline. The low level of gas sales, compared to production was
caused by poor efficiency of the gas purification process. The plant was declared inadequate for Kadanwari gas
field. The field's gas purification performance therefore is expected to remain low and operationally demanding.
All of these problems particularly the dismal drilling results and the well's pressure drop have called into question
the field's development scheme. LASMO also indicated that the drilling revealed deeper formations than expected
on the basis of the seismic work carried out. The field also appears to be more faulted than anticipated.
The target production levels have been partially achieved. Gas production currently averages about 75 MMcfd with
substantial delays, principally because of the following reasons: (a) there was large reservoir uncertainty resulting
in the scaling down of original estimates; (b) major cost variations were experienced because the original estimates
tuned out to be grossly under-estimated; (c) process limitations were faced in the use of membrane technology,
which did not adequately cater for the presence of higher hydrocarbons; and (d) procurement difficulties were faced
on account of lack of familiarity with the Bank procurement procedures by the joint venture partners.
2.  EVALUATION OF BORROWER'S OWN PERFORMANCE
In its Implementation Completion Report Aide Memoire, the Bank's overall assessment of the project has been
turned as "mixed success". The Bank's view is that while many of the physical targets were achieved, progress on
the institutional and policy components has not been satisfactory. Since 1989, OGDC has made significant progress
in achieving financial self-sufficiency as a result of changes in Corporate Policy which balanced high risk
exploration investments with accelerated development of discovered reserves of oil & gas. Such increased financial
self-sufficiency was achieved despite OGDC not receiving funds from GOP on a grant basis, but only on a limited
loan basis.
Delays/factors affecting achievement of obiectives
Overall the project proceeded well. The objectives of the project were not completely achieved because of delays in
the implementation of some project components due to "extraordinary events" as mentioned in one of the Bank's
Aide Memoires. In particular the development of the Qadirpur gas field was delayed due to technical problems
related to the unpredictable heavy seasonal flooding in September 1994 which damaged well No. 4 and caused
difficulties in the completion of Well No. 2. Delays were also caused due to the impeded construction of the gas
processing plant in 1995 due to financial difficulties of one of the contractors.
It is risky for projects in Pakistan to try experimental technology on a mass scale. In the case of Qadirpur Project,
membranes did not have expiry dates on them. Since Pakistan has limited trained or skilled manpower to handle
new technology, it is felt that we are better off sticking with tried and tested technology.



42
EVALUATION OF BANK PERFORMANCE
(a)    Effectiveness of the relationship among the Borrower, the Bank and cofinancers
Disbursement of the loan amount was effected smoothly. There were no cofinanciers under this loan.
No significant problems with World Bank were encountered during the disbursement tenure of the
loan.
(b)    Lessons learned
During procurement processing with the Bank, it was observed that no relaxation was given to
complete shipment beyond loan closing date. Although such cases were small in number yet not
availability of the funds from the loan proceeds have nullified the very purpose of the loan.
Small problems were faced like delayed comnmunication of Letters of Special Commitments (LOC) to
negotiating banks. This was due to despatch of LOCs by World Bank by ordinary mail. Regularly and
timely supply of disbursement advice and monthly disbursement accounts to OGDC were sometimes
interrupted. Cases for import of material were delayed due to late receipt of special commitrnent
letters. Since letters of Credit (LCs) become operative only on receipt of Special Commitment Letters
by the negotiating bank, procurement was consequently delayed. This issue needs to be reviewed by
the Bank.



