Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3500 PAK
          (Domestic Energy Resources Development Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                OIL AND GAS DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
                       Dated October 1, 1992
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3500 PAK
                      OGDC PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated October 1, 1992, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and OIL AND GAS
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (OGDC).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Islamic Republic of Pakistan (the Borrower) and the Bank,
the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to one hundred eighty million dollars
($180,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that OGDC agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
      (B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and OGDC, part of the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to OGDC
on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and
Page  2
      WHEREAS OGDC, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. OGDC declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A (1), (2) and (4) and B (1)
of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and
petroleum industry practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for said Parts of the Project.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for Parts A (1), (2) and (4) and B (1) of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. OGDC shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisi-
tion, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Parts
A (1), (2) and (4) and B (1) of the Project.
      Section 2.04. OGDC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the OGDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, OGDC shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving
the OGDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 2.05. (a) OGDC shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project,
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under
the OGDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Loan.
      (b)   OGDC shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
Parts A (1), (2) and (4) and B (1) of the Project, the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of Loan, or the performance by OGDC of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the OGDC Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
      Section 2.06. OGDC shall (a) ensure that the construction
of facilities under Part A (1), (2) and (4) of the Project shall be
undertaken in compliance with the measures recommended under the
EAR; (b) ensure, by December 31, 1992, the establishment and
operation, with appropriate structure, staffing and facilities of
the environmental management unit referred to in Part B (1) (ii) of
the Project; and (c) implement, by June 30, 1994, the management
information system, referred to in Part B (1) (i) of the Project.
      Section 2.07. OGDC shall prepare, in accordance with a format
satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank quarterly reports
on progress in the carrying out of Parts A (1), (2) and (4) and B
Page  3
(1) of the Project.
      Section 2.08. OGDC shall (a) furnish to the Bank for its
review and verification, as soon as available, each monthly
statement of actual expenses incurred under the Joint Operating
Agreements related to the Qadirpur Joint Venture and the Kadanwari
Joint Venture, prepared by the concerned Operator in support of
Operating Payment for the immediately preceding month, (b) furnish
to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation but in any event not
later than six months after the end of the fiscal year of the
concerned Operator, the annual audit report of expenditures billed
by such operator to the other partners in each of the above Joint
Ventures, such reports having been prepared or certified by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and (c) ensure that
representatives of the Bank shall have access to all technical
reports, records, data and facilities of the above Joint Ventures
related to the implementation of Parts A (1) and (2) of the Project,
the verification of Operating Payments or the assessment of the
financial position of the Joint Ventures.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of OGDC
      Section 3.01. OGDC shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
engineering and petroleum industry practices under the supervision
of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
      Section 3.02. OGDC shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, all in accordance
with sound engineering and management practices.
      Section 3.03. OGDC shall take out, by June 30, 1993, and
thereafter maintain with responsible insurers, insurance covering
all of OGDC's plants, machinery, pipelines and other facilities
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate petroleum practices.
      Section 3.04. OGDC shall (a) by March 31 of each year,
starting in the year 1992, prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its
review and comments, a draft corporate plan covering OGDC's
physical, financial and institutional targets for the following five
years, and (b) finalize said corporate plan, taking into account the
Bank's comments, and furnish the same to the Bank by June 30 of each
year, together with the budget approved by the Borrower for the
immediately following fiscal year of OGDC.
      Section 3.05. OGDC shall, in conjunction with the relevant
authorities of the Borrower: (a) carry out, by June 30, 1994, with
the assistance of consultants, a study of options with respect to
the future role of OGDC's technical services, including the option
of privatizing such services, (b) review with the Bank the findings
and recommendations of such study by September 30, 1994, and (c)
formulate, on the basis of such review, measures for the implementa-
tion of such recommendations, starting in December 31, 1994.
      Section 3.06. OGDC shall employ, in accordance with an action
plan agreed upon between the Bank and OGDC, by December 31, 1992,
qualified professional staff for OGDC's Finance Department and
Internal Audit Department.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) OGDC shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
      (b)   OGDC shall:
Page  4
            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial state-
                  ments (balance sheets, statements of income and
                  expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
                  year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year: (A) certified copies of its
                  financial statements for such year as so audited,
                  and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors
                  of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records, accounts and financial
                  statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
      Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
OGDC shall, beginning with the 1992 fiscal year, (i) earn a rate of
return at least equivalent to the higher of (A) 15% of its average
capital employed, or (B) the weighted average cost of its capital;
(ii) maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of
not less than 1.1; and (iii) ensure that OGDC's estimated net
revenues for any fiscal year shall be at least 1.5 times the
estimated maximum debt service requirements of OGDC for such fiscal
year on all debt of OGDC.
      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   The term "rate of return on capital employed"
                  means the ratio of net operating income after
                  taxes to OGDC's average capital employed.
           (ii)   The term "net operating income" means total
                  operating revenues less total operating expenses.
          (iii)   The term "total operating revenues" means the
                  revenues from all sources related to operations.
           (iv)   The term "total operating expenses" means all
                  expenses related to operations, including admin-
                  istration, adequate maintenance, taxes and pay-
                  ments in lieu of taxes and provision for depreci-
                  ation, but excluding interest and other charges
                  on debt.
            (v)   the term "average capital employed" means one
                  half of the sums of equity and long-term debt at
                  the beginning and at the end of each fiscal year.
           (vi)   The term "weighted average cost of capital" means
                  the weighted average of the sum of the cost of
                  OGDC's capital (assumed at 15% of the amount
                  thereof) plus the cost of OGDC's long-term debt.
          (vii)   The term "Equity" means the sum of the total
                  unimpaired paid-up capital, retained earnings and
                  reserves not allocated to cover specific
                  liability.
          (vii)   The term "long-term debt" means any indebtedness
                  maturing by its terms more than one year after
                  the date on which it is originally incurred.
           (ix)   The term "current assets" means cash and all
                  assets which could in the ordinary course of
                  business be converted into cash within twelve
                  months, including accounts receivable, marketable
Page  5
                  securities, and prepaid expenses properly charge-
                  able to operating expenses within the next fiscal
                  year, but excluding inventories.
            (x)   The term "current liabilities" means all liabili-
                  ties which will become due and payable or could
                  under circumstances then existing be called for
                  payment within twelve months, including accounts
                  payable, customer advances, debt service require-
                  ments, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and
                  dividends.
           (xi)   The term "debt service requirements" means the
                  aggregate amount of repayment (including sinking
                  fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
                  charges on, debt.
          (xii)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                  shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                  currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another
                  currency, such valuation shall be made on the
                  basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange
                  at which such other currency is, at the time of
                  such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of
                  servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such
                  rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange accept-
                  able to the Bank.
      Section 4.03. OGDC shall (a) prepare and adopt, by Decem-
ber 31, 1992 with the assistance of financial consultants, detailed
accounting system consistent with international accounting stan-
dards; (b) complete the preparation of its accounting procedures by
March 31, 1993; and (c) maintain its accounts in accordance with the
system referred to in (a) above, starting in July 1, 1993.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
      Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of OGDC thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank
shall promptly notify OGDC thereof.
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
Page  6
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                  197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      For OGDC:
            Oil and Gas Development Corporation
            X-14, Markaz F-8
            Islamabad, Pakistan
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  OILGASCORP                 5692 OGDC PK
                  Islamabad
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of OGDC, may be taken or executed by the
Chairman of OGDC or such other person or persons as the Chairman
shall designate in writing, and OGDC shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ D. Joseph Wood
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                        South Asia
                  OIL AND GAS DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
                  By /s/ Arshad Farooq
                                         Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
            Procurement and Consultants' Services under
           Parts A (1) and (2) and B (1) of the Project
Section I:  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
Page  7
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Pakistan may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Contracts for: (a) the supply of specialized equipment,
materials and spare parts and of specialized field services such as
well logging, testing and stimulation, and (b) the supply of
materials, equipment and spare parts estimated each to cost the
equivalent of not more than $500,000 may be awarded through limited
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and
comparison of bids invited from a list of at least three qualified
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with the
procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $250,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the equivalent of $3,000,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers from at least two
different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.    Items of equipment which the Bank agrees that they are
proprietary may be procured under contracts to be concluded with the
suppliers thereof on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank;
provided, however, that such items shall cost in the aggregate the
equivalent of not more than $2,000,000.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not subject to the
procurement arrangements referred to in paragraph 1 above and not
governed by the preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to the Loan
Agreement.
    (c)     The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan
Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II: Employment of Consultants under Part B (1) of the
Page  8
            Project
      In order to assist OGDC in the carrying out of Part B (1) of
the Project, OGDC shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
