Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17486-BA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY HOUSING REPAIR PROJECT
CREDIT 2902-BA
May 29, 1998
Infrastructure Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of March 3, 1998)
Currency Unit   =    Konvertible Marka
1KM     =    US$0.55
US$1    =    KMI.81
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
(not applicable, new currency introduced in 1998)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DTF   -  Dutch Trust Fund
EU   -  European Union
GTZ   -  Deutsche Gesellschaft fuer Teclnische Zusammenarbeit
HMME   -  Housing Maintenance and Management Enterprise
IBRD   -  Internatioiial Bank for Reconstniction and Developmenit
IDA   -  Intemational Developmenit Association
IFC   -  Intemnational Finanice Corporation
1MG   -  Intemational Management Group (EU)
KfW   -  Kreditanstalt fiuer Wiederautbai
NGO   -  Non-governmental Organization
PIU   -  Housing Project Implemenitation Unit. Federation of Bosnia and
Herzegovina
PMAU   -  Procurement Monitorinig and Audit Unit
PPF  -  Project Preparation Facilitv
SFOR   -  Stabilization Force (NATO)
SOE   -  Statemiienit of Expenditurcs
UNHCR   -  United Nations High Commliiissioner for Refugees
USAID   -  United States Agency for International Development
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA FISCAL YEAR
Januarv I to Decemiiber 3 I
Vice Prcsident: Johannies Linni. ECAVP
Counltry Director:  Clristiaan J. Poortirnani. ECC04
Sector Director:  Ricardo Halperin. ECSIN
Sector Leader: Margret Thalwitz, ECSIN
Respoinsible Staff  Michael Kochi (ECSPF/ECCBA). Sonia Hamminan (TWIJRD)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY HOUSING REPAIR PROJECT
CREDIT NO. 2902-BA
Contents
PREFACE .......                  ...................................................................I
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..........................................................................                                                 II
PART L  PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT ...........................................................................1
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives .........................................................................................I
B. Achiievemenit of Project Objectives ................................................................................................. 2
C. Implementation and Major Factors Affecting the Project .................                    .....................................4..4
D. Project Sustainability .          ................................................................................................6
E. Bank Perfonnance .              ................................................................................................7
F. Borrower Perfonnance .................................................................................................7
G. Assessment of Ouitcome .................................................................................................8
H. Future Operations .......................................          .........................................................8
I. Key Lessons Learnied .            ................................................................................................8
PART IL STATISTICAL TABLES ..........................................................................                                         10
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS.11
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS ...........................                                                                        ,  12
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE.13
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CIUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUJAL .13
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .13
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION .13
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT .14
TABLE 8A   PROJECT COSTS ............................................................                                                        14
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING ............................................................ 14
TABLE 9:   ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS ............................................................                                           15
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ............................................................ 15
TABLE  11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS ............................................................                          16
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS ............................................................ 16
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS ............................................................ 16
Appendixes:
A. Mission's Aide-Meinoire  ................................................ 17
B. Borrower Contribution to the ICR  ................................................ 20
C. Sources of Project Finaiicing ................................................ 32
D. Map: IBRD 29463
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY HOUSING REPAIR PROJECT (CREDIT NO. 2902-BA)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Emergency Housing Repair Project in
Bosnia and Herzegovina, for which Credit 2902-BA in the amount of SDR 10.5 million was approved on
July 30, 1996 and made effective on August 13, 1996.
The original and expected credit closing date is June 30, 1998. The credit was fully disbursed, the
last disbursement took place on March 16, 1998. Cofinancing and parallel financing for the project was
provided by the European Union, the Government of Germany, the Government of Italy, The Netherlands
Government, the Saudi Fund for Development, and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.
The ICR was prepared by Michael Koch, Private and Financial Sectors Development Unit, Europe
and Central Asia Region, and Sonia Hammam, Transportation, Water and Urban Development
Department. The ICR was reviewed by Margret Thalwitz, Sector Leader, Infrastructure Unit, Europe and
Central Asia Region, and cleared by Christiaan Poortman, Country Director, Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission in November 1997.
The ICR is based on the findings of an ICR mission which visited Bosnia and Herzegovina in February
1998 and on information obtained from the project files. The borrower contributed to preparation of the
ICR by furnishing its own assessment of project performance. A copy of the Aide-Memoire of the ICR
mission is attached as Appendix A. The draft ICR was sent to the borrower and cofinanciers for comments
on March 18, 1998, and comments received have been incorporated.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY HOUSING REPAIR PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 2902-BA)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The project was designed as an emergency recovery assistance operation and was prepared within
a few months of the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement. The project intended to assist in the urgent
repair of war damage to housing on the territory of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, one of the
two entities that constitute the State of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Project Objectives
2.    The principal project objectives, which were both relevant and realistic, were: (i) to carry out
urgent housing repairs to both publicly and privately owned housing; and (ii) to contribute to the
development of a framework to sustain the recovery and development of the housing sector through gradual
introduction of cost recovery of repair works.
3.    The project included the following components: (a) a pilot project in four municipalities to test the
Government's approach towards the repair of (i) common building elements of 10 apartment buildings in
Sarajevo, and (ii) 210 private houses located in other municipalities; (b) restoration of common areas
(stairs, entrances, external walls) and weather-proofing of building structures (repair of roofs, windows,
drainage gutters) of multi-story public housing in selected cities, benefiting up to 20,000 flats at an average
per-flat cost of up to US$2,500; and (c) institutional support and technical assistance.
4.     The project was designed in a modular manner, aiming to provide a vehicle for other donors to
channel their funding, while offering flexibility to adapt project size and scope to cofinancing available.
Due to the demonstration effect of private housing repairs under the pilot project, donors contributed
US$22.4 million for repairs managed by the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in the Ministry of Physical
Planning and Environment, leading to a new project component for private housing repairs. At the same
time, concerning public housing repairs, less donor cofinancing (US$9.0 million) than planned was
mobilized, reducing the size of this project component. However, due to lower average per-apartment costs
of public housing repairs, the actual number of benefiting flats matched projections made at appraisal.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    The project has surpassed its physical objectives. The pilot project succeeded in meeting its
objectives of testing the implementation approach, method of damage assessment, procurement methods,
building selection criteria and contracting procedures for both private and public housing repairs. Housing
units were identified in May 1996 and construction was completed by September 1996. A total of 215
private housing units and 10 public apartment buildings containing 150 units were repaired.



- iii -
6.     Public housing repairs were carried out in the expected quantity and on schedule, within a much
reduced component funding envelope of US$22.4 million, financed by IDA (US$13.4 million), the EU
(US$5.6 million), Italy (US$0.9 million) and UNHCR (US$2.5 million). This was possible due to lower
average unit costs of US$1,245 per flat as compared to appraisal estimates. A total of 767 apartment
buildings, located in 11 different municipalities and containing 19,360 flats, benefited from repairs under
this project component, affecting an estimated 80,000 residents. Repair works were critical to salvaging the
stock of damaged public housing, preventing further damage and deterioration and improving living
conditions of residents. While the majority of the buildings were inhabited despite the damage, an estimated
2,000 units that were unusable were restored as a result of repairs to roofs.
7.     Private housing repairs carried out were much beyond the intended original scope of the project.
Following the successful pilot phase, the PIU secured donor financing for private housing repairs from Italy
(US$2.8 million), the Saudi Fund for Development (US$18.6 million), and UJNHCR (US$0.8 million). This
led to the repair of 2,622 private houses, located in 16 Federation municipalities, affecting some 10,500
residents, at an average cost of US$7,954 per house. At least 80 percent of houses repaired represent new
incremental living space that was not habitable prior to the works.
8.     The project's sector and financial objective of introducing cost recovery on repair works for public
housing has been partially achieved. Cost recovery as envisaged at appraisal, through raising of rental
charges in benefiting public apartment buildings, has occurred in Sarajevo, the main project location, where
rents have been raised fivefold since the inception of the project. But rents have not been raised or even
charged in the other project municipalities, primarily due to the lack of existing organizations to collect
rents there. The Federation government, however, introduced a second, indirect level of cost recovery by
obliging the regional Cantons to enter into on-lending arrangements covering the value of IDA-financed
repair works benefiting the respective Canton. The institutional objective of establishing a functioning and
cost effective mechanism for the Government to implement emergency housing repair works has been fully
met.
9.    Major affecting the project have been as follows: (a) excellent local project management; (b) use of
streamlined competitive bidding procedures; (c) satisfactory local contractor performance; (d) strong donor
interest, including innovative joint Bank-donor financing arrangements with the European Union and
UNHCR, increasing the leverage of IDA resources; (e) social post-war factors, constraining the ability of
municipalities to raise or even charge rents on apartments located in buildings repaired under the project;
and (f) adequate project design and parameters, reaching a maximum number of beneficiaries by limiting
repairs to common elements only of public apartment buildings. However, this also reduced the potential
impact on directly promoting the return of refugees to their pre-war flats.
10.    Overall project sustainability is likely. Sustainability of the emergency project approach itself is
likely since it has proven to be an effective mechanism for implementing urgent housing repairs in a timely
and cost-effective manner. Sustainability of repairs can be assessed on two levels: (a) the quality of repair
works, which were of good workmanship, making their sustainability likely; and (b) the capacity of local
institutions to raise rents to a level where they can assure maintenance and operations of the buildings once
repairs are made. The latter measure of sustainability has been more uncertain to date since the project
operates in the context of a number of constraining factors: other essentially grant-financed donor and
NGO-managed programs; the weakness or non-existence of local institutions to charge rents and carry out
apartment building maintenance; and low household incomes and a constrained ability to pay rents.
Financial sustainability is likely given the introduction of on-lending agreements between the Cantons and
the Federal Ministry of Finance, covering the value of IDA-financed repairs.



- iv -
Bank and Borrower Performance, Assessment of Outcome
11.    Bank performnance was satisfactory. The straightforward design of the project has been sound and
the use of a pilot to test the contracting approach has allowed a quick start-up of the project. The Bank's
involvement and its introduction of simplified national competitive bidding procedures, as well as of
instruments for procurement, technical and financial monitoring and auditing, has raised donor confidence
in locally managed reconstruction projects and encouraged donor participation. The Bank headed the effort
to create an awareness among donors and the borrower of the need for cost recovery and sustainability of
housing repair projects. The management of project supervision through the Bank's Resident Mission in
Sarajevo has contributed to cost-effective and responsive interaction with the client.
12.    Borrower performance was satisfactory throughout project preparation and appraisal, and highly
satisfactory during implementation. Government commitment to the project was very high. The PIU quickly
mobilized to work with benefiting communities of both etlnic groups in the Federation of Bosnia and
Herzegovina. The PIU's efforts to introduce cost recovery at the municipal level through raising of rental
charges were substantial and successful in so far as respective agreements were signed. The PIU delivered
financial and project progress reports generally in a timely manner, compliance with credit covenants was
satisfactory.
13.    The project's outcome has been satisfactory. This emergency project surpassed its primary,
physical objectives, met its institutional objectives, and partially met its secondary, sector and financial
objectives. The achievement of the cost recovery objective has been partial since, to date, only Sarajevo
fully implemented its commitment to raise rental charges.
Future Operation and Lessons Learned
14.    The main future activity necessary is to monitor the timely repayment by Cantons of their share of
the IDA credit to the Federation budget in order to ensure cost recovery at this macro level. This role would
be either carried out directly by the Federation Ministry of Finance or delegated to a local commercial
bank. Monitoring of cost recovery at the local level would be the responsibility of the Federation Ministry
of Physical Planning and Environment.
15.    The lessons learned can be summarized as follows: (a) emergency projects should be of low
complexity. Contracting of housing repairs is more efficient than the bulk supply of building materials; (b)
the policy content of emergency projects should be limited to cost recovery objectives which need to be
brought in harmony with the social post-war context and with other donors active in the country, (c) in
parallel or shortly after emergency projects are established, economic sector work should be initiated; (d)
emergency projects should be of modular nature, allowing for continuous adjustments to project size and
scope; (f) highly qualified borrower personnel should be appointed already during project preparation; (g)
the project unit of the borrower should enjoy a large degree of autonomy in its day-to-day operations; (h)
continuos technical assistance should be built into emergency projects from preparation through the first
year of implementation; (i) delegation of project supervision to Bank staff located in a field office is
essential to ensure timely client service; (j) streamlined procurement guidelines and accelerated
disbursement procedures are important further ingredients for speedy implementation; (k) donor confidence
in emerging governmental project management units should be strengthened through special procurement
reviews as well as teclnical and financial audits.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY HOUSING REPAIR PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 2902-BA)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.    The project was designed as an emergency recovery assistance operation and was prepared within
a few months of the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement. The principal project objectives were: (i) to
carry out urgent housing repairs to both publicly and privately owned housing; and (ii) to contribute to the
development of a framework to sustain the recovery and development of the housing sector through gradual
introduction of cost recovery of repair works. The project was designed to assist in the repair of war
damage on the territory of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, one of the two entities that constitute
the State of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
2.     These project objectives were important and realistic in the post-war context of Bosnia and
Herzegovina. The need to quickly rehabilitate war-damaged housing property was and remains until today
the most critical precondition to enable refugee return from abroad and the return to their homes of
internally displaced persons. This pressing need is clearly recognized by the State and Federation
Governments, as well as by the donors contributing to the international reconstruction program for Bosnia
and Herzegovina. It was also a central theme of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategies (CAS) discussed
in 1996 and 1997.
3.     The project was small when viewed in the context of the country's war damage and reconstruction
needs in the housing sector, which are estimated at some US$5 billion. Given these large financing needs,
and in light of the fact that most donors are financing housing repairs on a grant basis during the initial
phase of reconstruction, the project's objective of introducing gradual cost recovery of repair works was
particularly well justified. Cost recovery would generate revolving funds and enable further housing repairs
and investments in the future. It would also allow for the reintroduction of maintenance of public apartment
buildings which had been inadequate already prior to the war and was abandoned entirely during the five
years of conflict.
4.     The project intended to use the following main components to address its objectives: (a) carrying
out of a pilot project in four municipalities to test the Government's approach towards the repair of (i)
common building elements of 10 apartment buildings in Sarajevo, and (ii) 210 private houses located in
other municipalities; (b) restoration of common areas (stairs, entrances, external walls) and weather-
proofing of building structures (repair of roofs, windows, drainage gutters) of multi-story public housing in
the cities of Sarajevo, Mostar, Kupres, Olovo and Gorazde, benefiting up to 20,000 flats at an average per-
flat cost of US$2,000 to 2,500 for lightly damaged and structurally sound buildings; and (c) institutional
support and technical assistance for the project implementation unit and to facilitate the preparation of
damage assessments and repair designs, and the supervision of repair works.
5.     As an emergency assistance operation, the project was designed in a modular manner, aiming to
provide a vehicle for other donors to channel their funding towards housing reconstruction, while offering
the flexibility to adapt total project size and scope to the donor cofinancing becoming available. Due to the



demonstration effect of private housing repairs under the pilot project, several donors contributed US$22.4
million equivalent (in addition to IDA financing of US$0.2 million) for repairs managed by the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) in the Ministry of Physical Planning and Environment, leading to a new project
component for private housing repairs. At the same time, concerning public housing repairs, less donor
cofinancing (US$9.0 million, in addition to IDA financing of US$13.4 million equivalent for this purpose)
than planned at appraisal (US$32.5 million of cofinancing) was mobilized during implementation, reducing
the size of this project component. However, due to lower actual average per-apartment costs of public
housing repairs than estimated at appraisal, the actual number of benefiting flats matched projections at
appraisal, as set out below.
6.     The project was straightforward in design but demanding to implement for the PIU given the need
to restore a maximum number of housing units to habitable conditions in the shortest possible period of
time. Delays caused by lack of available or able contractors in the immediate post-war environment, poor
workmanship of repairs, diversion of advance funds paid to contractors, and bottlenecks in project cash
flows through the PIU's access to the Special Account were risks identified at appraisal. None of these
were significant constraints during implementation towards the achievement of the project's physical
objectives. The cost recovery objective, in contrast, proved to be challenging to achieve for the PIU since it
depended on municipal housing maintenance organizations that are either not functional or remain to be
created after the war.
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
7.    While this emergency project had no specific macroeconomic objectives, it contributed
substantially to raise domestic employment and household incomes by generating an estimated 25,000 man-
months of temporary construction labor, and by creating a demand for domestic supply of building
materials contracted by the PIU. The project's sector and financial objective of gradually introducing cost
recovery on repair works for public housing has been partially achieved. Cost recovery as envisaged at
appraisal, through raising of rental charges in benefiting public apartment buildings, has occurred in
Sarajevo, the main project location, where rents have been raised fivefold since the inception of the project.
However, rents have not been raised or even charged in the other project municipalities, primarily due to
the lack of existing organizations to collect rents there. The Federation government, however, introduced a
second, indirect level of cost recovery by obliging the regional Cantons to enter into on-lending
arrangements covering the value of IDA-financed repair works benefiting the respective Canton.
Introduction of cost recovery on private housing repairs carried out through bilateral grants from
cofinancing donors has not been envisaged by these donors.
8.    The institutional objective of establishing a functioning and cost effective mechanism for the
Government to implement emergency housing repair works has been fully met. Coordination of the PIU
with regional and local authorities, as well with all major donors active in the sector, has been excellent.
The PIU has mobilized rapidly to manage a total of 333 civil works contracts within the implementation
period of one and a half years. The overhead cost of the PIU's institutional structure for project
management was 1.3 percent for direct operating expenditures and 3.2 percent for contract services of local
engineering consultants; this is a low cost when compared with other aid-funded programs in the country
financing similar types of housing repairs managed by expatriate experts or international NGOs, which are
observed to have overhead costs of between 5 and 20 percent.



-3 -
9.     The project has surpassed its physical objectives. The pilot project succeeded in meeting its
objectives of testing the implementation approach, method of damage assessment, procurement methods,
building selection criteria and contracting procedures for both private and public housing repairs. Housing
units were identified in May 1996 and construction was completed by September 1996, using advance
financing available under a Dutch Trust Fund of US$1.3 million. A total of 215 private housing units
located in Gornji Vakuf, Vitez and Olovo were repaired at an average per-unit cost of US$5,000. In
Sarajevo, ten apartment buildings containing a total of 150 units were repaired as well. The speed with
which the PIU was able to provide local authorities with information about program procedures led to the
identification of an additional pipeline of projects for public housing repair for which procurement could be
initiated prior to IDA credit effectiveness. Additional Dutch grant resources (US$1.7 million) and a PPF
(US$2 million) were secured to ensure that construction could commence and implementation of an
expanded program continue uninterrupted through the short construction season prior to the onset of winter
1996/97.
10.    Public housing repairs were carried out in practically the expected quantity and on schedule when
compared with plans at appraisal, within a much reduced total component funding envelope of US$22.4
million, financed by IDA (US$13.4 million for this component), the EU (US$5.6 million), Italy (US$0.9
million) and UNHCR (US$2.5 million). This was possible due to lower average unit costs of US$1,245 per
flat as compared to appraisal estimates of up to US$2,500 per flat. Lower unit costs were partly due to the
selection of buildings with lower per-flat costs of repairs, a reduced scope of works in some cases, as well
as gradually falling unit prices quoted by contractors as a consequence of simplified national competitive
bidding procedures applied by the PIU with resulting increased contractor competition and use of smaller
firms. Appraisal costs were based on estimates provided by larger contractors and costs in other donor
programs that did not apply the samne degree of competition. A total of 767 apartment buildings, located in
11 different municipalities and containing 19,360 flats, benefited from repairs under this project
component, affecting an estimated 80,000 residents. Repair works were critical to salvaging the stock of
damaged public housing, preventing further damage and deterioration and improving living conditions of
residents. While the majority of the buildings were inhabited despite the damage, an estimated 2,000 units
that were unusable were restored as a result of repairs to roofs.
11.    Private housing repairs carried out were much beyond the intended original scope of the project.
Following the successful pilot phase of the project, the PIU secured donor financing for private housing
repairs from Italy (US$2.8 million), the Saudi Fund for Development (US$18.6 million), and UNHCR
(US$0.8 million). This led to the repair of 2,622 private houses, located in 16 Federation municipalities,
affecting some 10,500 residents, at an average cost of US$7,954 per house. This average cost is among the
lowest observed for donor-funded programs in Bosnia, despite the inclusion of more than lightly-damaged
units under the program funded by the Saudi Fund for Development. At least 80 percent of houses repaired
represent new incremental living space that was not habitable prior to the works. The PIU managed to
organize these unforeseen private housing works within the original time horizon of the project, in addition
to public housing repairs. The specifications set under the pilot project for private housing repairs proved
adequate and were also applied by the PIU under this component, limiting repairs to weather and intruder-
proofing of living areas, operating sanitary facilities, means of heating, electrical installations, and
renovation of one living room/ kitchen, one bathroom, and up to two sleeping rooms. The specifications
were subsequently adopted by most other bilateral donors and NGOs engaged in private housing repairs
outside of the PIU mechanism.
12.   The project did not have specific poverty reduction or social objectives, although through its
creation of habitable conditions for retuming refugees and displaced persons, it has contributed to easing
social tensions in a post-conflict environment. The project had a limited but positive impact on private



- 4 -
sector development through contracting of repair works with local private small-scale contractors. It also
had a limited positive impact on public sector management through introduction of cost recovery.
13.   This emergency project has followed a least-cost approach to achieve its physical objectives. Unit
costs of housing repairs contracted by the PIU were among the lowest observed for similar donor programs
in Bosnia; PIU overheads were lower than for any other donor program. The cost of public housing repairs
fell short of appraisal estimates by 52 percent, without a significant reduction of scope of intended works.
C. Implementation and Major Factors Affecting the Project
14.   Project Appraisal and Organization. A Bank appraisal mission visited Bosnia and Herzegovina
in May 1996. The credit was negotiated in June 1996 and presented to the Board in July 1996 and signed
the same month. The responsibility for project implementation was entrusted to the PIU in the Ministry of
Physical Planning and Environment of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The PIU was in charge
of contracting consultants for preparation of damage assessments, final designs and bidding documents,
and for works supervision. The PIU carried out contractor prequalification, procurement of works and
services, verification and processing of payment requests from contractors, and interaction with
participating donors. Project municipalities were responsible for identifying target apartment buildings
according to criteria established at appraisal, and selecting and supervising local engineering consultants.
Municipal housing maintenance and management enterprises (such as Sarajevostan), if and where they
existed, were to raise and collect rental charges from tenants of public apartment buildings for the purpose
of cost recovery.
15.   Implementation indicators and project costs are shown in Tables 5 and 8A, respectively. Set out
below are major factors affecting the achievement of the project objectives.
16.   Project Management. The achievement of project objectives was greatly enhanced by early
appointment of the key staff of the PIU, at the time of project appraisal, a factor fully under Government
control. The high professional caliber of PIU staff, and the significant degree of operational independence
of the PIU from the Ministry of Physical Planning and Environment in day-to-day project management,
contributed to the cost-efficient and timely implementation of the project. The average length of processing
cycle for a civil works repair contract by the PIU, from project identification to works completion,
averaged 12 weeks for most works and 24 weeks for heavily damaged buildings or private houses located
in remote areas. With the initial assistance of expatriate experts financed by Bank Trust Funds and
subsequently by the German Government, project accounting records and financial management and
control systems were kept in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. Internal controls, responsibility and
accountability within the PIU were adequate.
17.    Procurement. Applying simplified competitive bidding procedures, the PIU re-introduced the
principle of competitive bidding and contracting into the local contracting industry. A review of the PIU's
procurement performance revealed that: 219 local contractors were pre-assessed by the PIU during the
project life; between 5 and 10 contractors were invited to bid on most contracts with a minimum of 3
invited contractors; on each package, a least 25 percent of invited contractors were out-of-town firms so as
to ensure competition on a regional and national level; on average, each pre-assessed contractor obtained
less than two contracts of the 333 works contracts entered into by the PIU, with a maximum of 6 contracts
for one contractor, suggesting a low concentration ratio. Competitive procurement of works resulted in a
gradual decrease of unit costs of works over the first 12 months of project implementation, contributing



-5-
partially to the achievement of the physical project targets for repairs of public apartment buildings despite
a lower-than-expected donor funding envelope for this component. PIU unit costs for repairs were
published and made available to other donors agencies, serving as a benchmark for works financed by other
donors in Bosnia.
18.    Contractor Performance. While only partially under government and PIU control, contractors
performed generally well which contributed significanutly to the achievement of physical project objectives.
An independent technical inspection of 119 apartment buildings repaired in Sarajevo was carried out in
April 1997 by engineers of the NATO Stabilization Force, upon request by and under terms of reference
drafted by the Bank. The inspection concluded that works performed were of consistently good
workmanship and remained within the guidelines of the agreed type of works. The error rate for minor
technical deficiencies was 3.1 percent; two buildings had leaking roofs after repairs, the contractors
corrected these errors subsequently. Despite the disruption of business activities after the war, within only 6
months of the end of hostilities, the PIU was able to mobilize a sufficient number of qualified contractors
which themselves faced little constraints in the availability of materials or labor. The relatively mild winters
of 1996/97 and 1997/98 allowed works to proceed through most of the winter season.
19.    Cofinancing Donors. Attracted by the efficient performance of the PIU, numerous donors joined
the project after IDA Board approval of the credit. Early availability of the Dutch Trust Fund to establish
the PIU and finance the pilot project was critical for timely project start-up. In total, IDA resources of
US$15 million equivalent were able to leverage some US$36 million in donor cofinancing, a high ratio even
by standards of emergency reconstruction projects in Bosnia. To secure EU cofinancing for public housing
repairs, an agreement was reached between the EU, IDA and the PIU that EU funds would finance 70
percent of repair works, representing the average value of materials and supplies, with the IDA credit
financing the cost balance representing construction labor. Under a cooperation agreement with UNHCR,
the PIU financed repairs to the interior of apartments using UNHCR resources while IDA funds were used
for exterior building repairs. UJNHCR selected the beneficiaries, favoring minority refugee returns and
projects located in so-called "Open Cities" that welcome the retuum of pre-war residents. Overall, the
availability of donor cofinancing was critical to achieve the large project scope. If and when donor
cofinancing became available, the PIU generally gave priority to the contracting and disbursement of such
funding over the use of IDA resources, with a view of attracting further donor cofinancing due to efficient
performance.
20.    Social, Security and Political Factors. Not being subject to government control, Bosnia's social
issues affected the ability of municipalities to raise or even charge rents on apartments located in buildings
repaired under the project. Poverty both among current residents and retuming refugees and internally
displaced persons, combined with uncertain tenancy rights and the lack of functioning housing management
institutions (outside of Sarajevo and Mostar) resulted in delays to achieve cost recovery objectives at the
municipal level. During 1996 until mid-1997, the post-war environment also caused personal security
issues for PIU staff when traveling to and from Gorazde, the Posavina area, and the majority Croat areas in
the southern Federation. International vehicle license plates provided by the German GTZ advisors, and
project staff IDs issued by the Bank's Resident Mission in Sarajevo to PIU officials alleviated some of
these security constraints. Political factors relating to the sharing of project benefits between the ethnic
groups within the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina did not delay project implementation due to a
proactive and integrative approach taken by the PIU to address this issue.
21.    Project Design and Parameters. The project was designed to reach a maximum number of
beneficiaries by limiting repairs to common elements only of public apartment buildings. A second
rationale for this choice was to avoid issues of contested tenancy and property rights on individual



-6 -
apartments in public housing. This choice greatly facilitated timely project implementation since the
verification of property rights was limited to entire apartment buildings. However, it also reduced the
potential impact of the project on directly promoting the return of refugees to their pre-war flats. Limiting
repairs to common elements of apartment buildings also meant, in some cases, that flats remained empty
until building owners or residents were able to mobilize the financial means to repair or renovate the
interior of apartments. Technical parameters for selecting buildings and specifying repair works, as set out
at appraisal, were adequate. The planned 18-month implementation period for this emergency project was
realistic; had donor cofinancing been available in its entirety by IDA Board approval, the project could
have been completed within a shorter period of time.
D. Project Sustainability
22.    There are three primary aspects of sustainability of this emergency operation: (i) overall
sustainability of the project approach; (ii) sustainability of the improvements made through repairs of the
housing stock; and (iii) financial sustainability through cost recovery on the credit-financed part of works.
Overall sustainability of the project approach as an emergency operation can be judged as likely. The
project approach and the PIU have proven themselves to be effective mechanisms for implementing urgent
housing repairs in a timely and cost-effective manner. They have made substantial contributions to local
job creation and the employment of the local engineering and contracting industry. The PIU has become an
important contributor to the overall number of housing repairs completed using donor financing in the
Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, accounting for about 20 percent of donor resources channeled into
the housing sector since the end of war. Significant new donor financing commitments will ensure the
operations of the PIU until end-1998 and beyond. Eventually, the PIU is expected to be integrated into the
Federal sector ministry, possibly dealing with public housing investments and building standards. Some
PIU staff are likely to enter the private sector as engineers and project management consultants.
23.    Sustainability of Repairs can be assessed on two levels: (a) the quality of repair works; and (b)
the capacity of local institutions to raise rents to a level where they can assure maintenance and operations
of the buildings once repairs are made. On the first count, the technical audits confirm that works were of
good workmanship, making their sustainability likely. The second measure of sustainability through
increased rents has been more uncertain to date. The project operates in the context of: other essentially
grant-financed donor and NGO-managed programs; the weakness or non-existence of local institutions to
charge rents and carry out apartment building maintenance; and low household incomes and a constrained
ability to pay rents. The project's overall focus on development of the housing sector through cost recovery
and institutional reform has not been reinforced by the donors active in the sector who provide the bulk of
financing (some US$400 million in total donor commitments through end- 1997, compared with a financing
share of IDA of US$15 million equivalent).
24.    The institutional framework for policy reform in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina is still
weak. However, the Government is beginning to tackle issues of overall housing refonn. It has focused
initially on legislation for housing privatization, while relegating the issues of management and maintenance
of apartment buildings to future Cantonal level legislation. It has also taken an active role in ensuring that
cost recovery in terms of repayments of the IDA credit are made the responsibility of Cantons (see next
paragraph). While this is commendable, it still leaves the issue of how the units are to be maintained
unanswered. Only in Sarajevo, which has the largest number of damaged units and repair programs, has
there been a continued effort to raise rents. Rents have increased from DM 0.06 per m2 at the time of credit
negotiations in June 1996 to DM 0.34 per m2 by February 1998, with plans to raise rents to DEM 1.0 per



m' by October 1998 which would bring rents up to pre-war levels. There has also been a concerted effort to
improve rent collections in Sarajevo, with collection rates reaching 60 percent despite a fivefold increase
since the inception of the project. In other, smaller project municipalities, despite PIU signature of
agreements with municipalities that stress raising of rents to adequate levels, rents have generally not been
increased nor are they in fact systematically collected. Rents in Mostar are about a fraction of rates in
Sarajevo at DM 0.13 per m2 while collection rates equal reportedly only 30 percent. No rental charges and
collection records were available from the other project municipalities.
25.    Financial Sustainability is likely given the introduction of on-lending agreements between the
Cantons and the Federal Ministry of Finance, covering the value of IDA-financed repair works benefiting
the respective Canton. The terms and conditions of these on-lending agreements mirror those of the IDA
credit. Cantons would generate the funding required from their budgetary revenues and may enter into
subsidiary credit agreements with specific project municipalities.
E. Bank Performance
26.    Bank perfonrance during preparation, appraisal and supervision was satisfactory. Despite a
compressed preparation and appraisal phase (February-May 1996), the straightforward design of the
project has been sound and the use of a pilot to test the contracting approach has allowed a quick start-up
of the project. The evaluation of the post-war capacity of the local contracting and building materials
industry during appraisal was realistic. The Bank took the lead in developing and demonstrating local
project implementation capacity in the housing sector to utilize and manage donor resources swiftly and
effectively. The Bank's involvement and its introduction of simplified national competitive bidding
procedures, as well as of instruments for procurement, technical and financial monitoring and auditing, has
raised donor confidence in locally managed reconstruction projects and encouraged donor participation.
The Bank's efforts in getting donors interested in the project were instrumental to securing cofinancing.
The Bank headed the effort to create an awareness among donors and the borrower of the need for cost
recovery and sustainability of housing repair projects. The management of project supervision through the
Bank's Resident Mission in Sarajevo has contributed to a cost-effective and responsive interaction with the
Borrower, allowing for the turnaround and clearance of bidding documents in a matter of days. Internal
reporting of project implementation progress was timely and complete.
F. Borrower Performance
27.    Borrower performance was satisfactory throughout project preparation and appraisal, and highly
satisfactory during implementation. Government commitment to the project was very high, resulting in the
early appointment of PIU staff of high caliber who worked with Bank staff during preparation and
appraisal. The PIU quickly mobilized to work with benefiting communities of both ethnic groups in the
Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Assisted by expatriate experts, it developed suitable procedures and
guidelines for building selection, damage assessment, identification of eligible works, procurement of
contracts and on-site monitoring of works, and was very effective in communicating these to local
engineering consultants and municipalities. The Federation Government has been supportive of the PIU as
a largely autonomous implementing agency, and there is full borrower ownership of the project. Physical
implementation speed and quality was impressive. The PIU's efforts to introduce cost recovery at the
municipal level through raising of rental charges were substantial and successful in so far as respective



- 8 -
agreements were signed. However, implementation of these agreements by municipalities and the owners of
public apartment buildings was deficient with the exception of Sarajevo. As a consequence, the Federation
government took the initiative to enter into on-lending agreements with the Cantons which are scheduled for
signature in early May 1998. The PIU delivered financial and project progress reports generally in a timely
manner; the end-1996 financial audits became available two months after the established deadline. On
balance, compliance with credit covenants and borrower commitments was satisfactory.
G. Assessment of Outcome
28.    The project's overall outcome has been satisfactory. This emergency project surpassed its primary,
physical objectives, met its institutional objectives, and partially met its secondary, sector and financial
objectives. The achievement of the cost recovery objective has been partial since, to date, only Sarajevo
fully implemented its commitment to raise rental charges. In retrospect, full achievement of this objective
would have required a more sustained Bank involvement in the sector with parallel sector work and
dialogue, or follow-on operations beyond the immediate emergency reconstruction phase focusing on
institutional and sector policy issues. At the stage of project preparation, this policy framework and related
dialogue were relegated to other donors and the Housing Sector Task Force chaired by the International
Management Group in Sarajevo.
H. Future Operations
29.    Given the emergency nature of the project and the kind of repair investments financed and
completed, a formal Operational Plan for the future of the project is not required. The main future activity
necessary is to monitor the timely repayment by Cantons of their share of the IDA credit to the Federation
budget in order to ensure cost recovery at this macro level. This role would be either carried out directly by
the Federation Ministry of Finance or delegated to a local commercial bank acting as an agent on behalf of
the Federation. Monitoring of cost recovery at the local level would be the responsibility of the Federation
Ministry of Physical Planning and Environment which would monitor apartment rents charged on public
apartment buildings throughout the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and evaluate to what extent
these rents cover the estimated full cost of building operation and maintenance. This Ministry would be in
charge to develop concepts for the establishment and strengthening of housing management and
maintenance organizations for the public housing stock.
I. Key Lessons Learned
30.    The lessons learned from this post-conflict emergency housing project can be sununarized as
follows:
* Emergency projects should be of low complexity, using a simple design to be verified through a pilot
phase. Contracting of housing repairs is more efficient than the bulk supply of building materials to
home owners and residents.



-9 -
*  Policy content of emergency projects should be limited to cost recovery objectives which need to be
brought in harmony with the social post-war context and with other donors active in the country. It is
unrealistic to expect full cost recovery in an environment where donor grant resources for similar
emergency activities dominate.
*  In parallel or shortly after emergency projects are established, economic sector work should be initiated
to develop a firmer understanding of the policy issues to be addressed beyond the immediate emergency
phase.
*  Emergency projects should be of modular nature, allowing for continuous adjustments to project size
and scope without jeopardizing the viability of any project-financed investment.
*  Highly qualified borrower personnel, subsequently to be responsible for project implementation, should
be appointed during project preparation and work as a teaun with Bank staff to prepare and appraise an
emergency project.
*  The project unit of the borrower should enjoy a large degree of autonomy from its line ministry in its
day-to-day operations, including direct access to Special Accounts, while being subject to independent
external audits.
*  Continuos technical assistance should be built into emergency projects from preparation through the
first year of implementation.
*  Delegation of project supervision to Bank staff located in a field office is essential to ensure timely
client service necessary for early project start-up, clearance of bidding documents, processing of
disbursement requests, and adjustments of the project to rapidly changing political and security
circumstances.
*  Streamlined procurement guidelines, using higher-than-standards thresholds, and accelerated
disbursement procedures are important further ingredients for speedy implementation.
* Donor confidence in emerging governmental project management units should be strengthened through
special procurement reviews as well as technical and financial audits.



- 10-
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:      Summary of Assessment
Table 2:      Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:      Project Timetable
Table 4:      Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:      Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:      Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:      Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:     Project Costs
Table 8B:     Project Financing
Table 9:      Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:     Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:     Bank Resources: Missions



- 11 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievetnent of Obiectives      Substaitial       Partial        Negligble       Not applicable
Macro Policies                      5               5                5
Sector Policies                     5               5
Financial Objectives                5                               L                 El
Institutional Development         [mx               =               E                 I
Physical Objectives                E3               0l                I 
Poverty Reduction                   5               5                0
Gender Issues                        I               I              L                [
Other Social Objectives              l             LI               [I]E
Environnental Objectives            5               5               C
Public Sector Management           U               E                E                 I]
Private Sector Development          Dl             El               EE                L
Other (specify)                     5              L                El
B. Project Sustainabilitv            Likely                   Unlikely                 Uncertain
(/)                       (/)                        )
Highlly
C. Bank Performance                satisfactory             Satisfactory               Deficient
(V)                     (/)                       (/)
Identification                      D
Preparation Assistance              0                                                  5
Appraisal                           5                        3 
Supervision                         .                      Ix                         a
(continued)



- 12 -
Highly
D. Borrower Performance            satisfactory            Satisfactory              Deficient
Preparation                       E                        E                        [
Implementation                                                                      Li
Covenant Compliance                OE
Operation (if applicable)                                  g
Highly                                           Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome          satisfactory    Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
(/)       ~~(Y')           (V')                )
lI                            El El
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title           Purpose             Year of approval              Status
Preceding operations
N/A
Following operations
Reconstruction          Multi-sector                    FY 1998           Project is in its first
Assistance Project      reconstruction project                            year of implementation
(Credit 30280-BA)       (including housing) for
Republika Srpska



- 13 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle             Date Planned          Date Actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)        02/96                  02/96
Preparation                                       02/96                  02/96
Appraisal                                         05/96                  05/96
Negotiations                                       06/96                 06/96
Board Presentation                                07/96                  07/96
Signing                                           08/96                  07/96
Effectiveness                                     09/96                  08/96
Project Completion                                 12/97                 02/98
Credit Closing                                    06/98             06/98 (expected)
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(Ul$ thousands equivalent)
FY97          FY98
Appraisal estimate             13,500         15,000
Actual .                       11,407         15,000
Actual as % of estimate          85            100
Date of final disbursement                   3/16/98
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Estimated                    Actual
L Key implementation indicators in SAR.
1. Benefiting flats (public housing)      20,000                      19,510
2. Repaired private houses               210 - 240                     2,837
3. Job creation (man months)              35,000                 25,000 (estimated)
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
No specific indicators have been established for Project Operation.



- 14 -
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Other than standard damage assessments required for the selection of buildings
and specification of repair works, no studies were included in the project.
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate            Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                   (US$ million)
Item                                Local   Foreign    Total        Local   Foreign   Total
costs    costs                  costs    costs
1. Pilot Project Works                  n/a      n/a      1.33         2.70     0.30      3.00
2. Emerg. Public Housing Repairs        n/a      n/a     46.87        20.16     2.24     22.40
3. Private Housing Repairs              n/a      n/a      0.00        20.24     2.25     22.49
4. Institutional Support                n/a      n/a       1.80        1.14     1.15      2.29
Total                                   n/a      n/a     50.00        44.24     5.94     50.18
Note: For repair works an average actual local cost share of 90 percent hias been assumed; for institutional support
the percentage used is 50 percent.
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate            Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                   (US$ million)
Item                                Local   Foreign    Total        Local   Foreign   Total
costs    costs                  costs    costs
1. IDA                                  n/a      n/a     15.00        12.52     1.71     14.23
2. European Union                       n/a      n/a      0.00         5.02     0.56      5.58
3. Government of Germany                n/a      n/a      0.70         0.23     0.24      0.47
4. Government of Italy                  n/a      n/a      0.00         3.46     0.43      3.89
5. Government of The Netherlands        n/a      n/a      3.50         2.85     0.44      3.29
6. Saudi Fund for Development           n/a      n/a      0.00        17.04     2.14     19.18
7. UNHCR                                n/a      n/a      0.00         3.12     0.42      3.54
8. Donors to be identified              n/a      n/a     30.80         0.00     0.00      0.00
Total                                  ii/a      n/a     50.00        44.24     5.94     50.18
Note: IDA funding of SDR 10.5 million was equal to about US$14.23 million in equivalent disbursements at the
end of the project taking into account exchange range fluctuations during the project. For repair works an average
actual local cost share of 90 percent has been assumtied; for instittutional support the percentage used is 50 percent.



- 15 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable for this emergency project. A least-cost approach has been followed.
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant Present   Original   Revised            Description of Covenanit            Comunents
Agreement   Section      Type    Status  Fulfillnent   Date
Date
Credit     Article IV,     I        CD     04/30/97             The Borrower shall: (i) have the project  End-1 996 audit
Section                NYD    04/30/98              records and accounts, includinig those for the report furnished to
4.01 (a),                                            Special Account, audited for each fiscal  IDA by 06/30/97.
(b)                                                 year, by indepenidenit auditors acceptable to   Auditors for end-
IDA, who shall be employed by October 31,  1997 audit report
1996; and (ii) fuinish to IDA, as sooII as    have been selected
available, but in any case no later than four  and contracted as of
(4) months after the end of the fiscal year,   January 1998.
the audit report.
Schedule       3         C                          No withdrawals shall be made in respect of
1, para 5.                                          expenditures for works procured under
contracts costing less than $30,000
equivalent, anld contracts costing more than
$ 1,000,000 equivalent.
Schedule       9         C      02/28/97            The Federation (PlU) shall prepare and   Permanent Bank
4, para 2.                                          fumish to IDA, by about February 28, 1997, communication &
(b) (ii)                                            a report integratinig the results of project  correspondence
tioniitorinig and evaluation activities  with the PIU on the
perfonred, setting out measures         project by the Res.
recommended to ensure efficient carrying    Mission in
out of the project and the achievement of the Sarajevo justified
objectives thereof during the period    to consider this
following this date.                    covenant as
complied with.
Schedule       9         C      03/31/97            The Federation (PIlJ) shall, by March 31,    The Bank's Res.
4, para 2.                                           1997, review with IDA the monitoring    Mission and the
(b) (iii)                                           report mentioned in the previous covenant   PIU were in
and shall take all measures required to  ongoing discussions
ensure the efficient completion of the  on the project.
project and the achievement of the project
objectives.
Schedule       3         C                          The Federation (PH.J) shall enter into   Done with some
4, para. 2                                          Subsidiary Agreement with each eligible    delays.
(d) (i)                                             municipality under tenns and conditions as
set out in the DCA, Schedule 4, para 2 (e).
1. =Accounts/audits                                8. = indigeiious people                Present Status:
2. = Financial perfonnance/reveniue generation from  9. = Monitoritng, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                   10. = Project implemenitationi not covered   C = covenant complied with
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds            by categories 1-9                   CD   complied with after delay
4. = Counterpart funding                           11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary  CP = complied with partially
5. = Management aspects of project/executing. agency  or other resource allocation        NC = not complied with
6. = Environmental covenants                       12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policyl
7. = Involuntary resettlement                         regulatory/institutionial action



- 16 -
Table II: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Basically, there was compliance with the applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                   Revised                     Actual
Stage of project cycle  Weeks   US$ '000         Weeks    US$ '000          Weeks    US$ '000
Preparation to appraisal         0          0           63.3        166.4         62.5         160.9
Appraisal                        0          0           18.0         52.0         24.6          58.9
Negotiations through             0          0            3.6          7.5          4.6           9.5
Board approval
Supervision                   64.0       129.0          20.0         36.5         34.4          91.5
Completion                     2.0         6.6           4.5         14.6          4.1          13.3
Total                 66.0       135.6         109.4        277.0         130.2        334.1
Note: Of the actual staff inputs, 23.0 weeks or US$55,900 are for Tnrst Funld-finianiced experts advising the PIU on
project implementationi; consequenitly, actual net Bank inptuts for supervisioni matcli the revised budget plan
figures.
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating      Types of
Stage of project cycle    Month/  No. of Days in  Specialization'    Implem.    Developin.  ProbleS3
Year  Persons  Field                      status      objectives
Through appraisal        02-05/96    4      60          U, E
Appraisal through Board   05-07/96    1      -           U
approval
Supervision I              12/96     3       16         F, U            S            S
Supervision II            04/97      3      9.5       F, T, U           S            S           D
Supervision III            11/97     2       6          F, T            S            S           F
Completion                02/98      2       11         F, U            S            S           F
I - Key to Specialized staff skills:  2 - Key to Perfonnance Ratings:  3 - Key to Types of Problems:
E=Civil Engineer                  S=Satisfactory                     D=Donor Cofiinancinig
F=Financial Economist                                                F=Financial (cost recovery)
T=Project Assistant
U=Urban Plainer



-17 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY HOUSING REPAIR PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 2902-BA)
APPENDIX A
MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.    A World Bank mission, consisting of Mr. Michael Koch and Ms. Sonia Hammam, visited Bosnia
and Herzegovina from February 2-12, 1998 to supervise the implementation progress under the Emergency
Housing Repair Project and gather information necessary to prepare the Implementation Completion
Report for the project. The mission extends its gratitude to the government officials of the Federation of
Bosnia and Herzegovina who supported the mission's work. The mission also met with donor partners
cofinancing this project. The conclusions of this Aide-Memoire are those of the mission only and subject to
confirmation by World Bank management.
2.    Project Implementation Status. All works financed under the IDA Credit, the Dutch Grant and
the Italian Grant have been completed. This is also the case for works carried out using parallel financing
provided by the European Commission and UNHCR. Works financed by the Saudi Fund for Development
are close to completion. Final payments to local contractors, under the IDA Credit and Italian Grant, are
expected to be carried out by end-March 1998. Comprehensive project completion documentation has been
provided to the mission. The mission assesses the overall quality and speed of project management and
implementation by the Housing PIU in the Federal Ministry of Physical Planning and Environment as
highly satisfactory. This view has been confirmed by the cofinancing donors consulted by the mission.
The Federal Minister of Physical Planning and Environment endorsed the highly positive assessment of the
project in discussions with the mission.
3.    Credit Closing. It has been envisaged to close the IDA Credit three months earlier than originally
planned, that is by March 31 rather than June 30, 1998, since works will have been completed. However,
the Housing PIU has requested to maintain the original Credit closing so as to be able to finance PIU
operating expenditures through end-June 1998 anid allow project documentation to be completed in its
entirety. The estimated final uncommitted balance of some US$60,000 under the IDA Credit, resulting
from cost savings and foreign exchange movements, would be used for that purpose. After that date, new
donor financing for further repair works would ensure financing of the PIU operations through the end of
1998. The mission agreed to the request to maintain the original Credit closing date, if indeed so required
to finance PIU operations through end-June 1998. Should other donor financing for PIU operations
become available prior to that date, the IDA Credit would close earlier.
4.    Project Impact. The project has benefited a larger number of flats and private housing units than
originally anticipated. Works quality has been consistently good and in line with the agreed project
parameters. In addition, the project had a major impact on introducing strict bidding procedures for
housing repair works in Bosnia and Herzegovina, reducing unit costs and disseminating cost benchmark
information to other implementing agencies. As a result, unit costs have been brought down and
competition for works has increased.



- 18 -
5.     Also, the project has delivered repair works in a very cost effective manner: First, the PIU's
overhead costs were low (less than 5 percent) when compared to those of other donor implementing
agencies (up to 20 percent); and second, unit costs of works procured by the PIU were among the lowest of
post-war housing reconstruction works carried out in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina using
external donor financing. Finally, the labor creation impact of the project has also been substantial, with
an estimated one staff-month of temporary labor created per US$2,000 of civil works, or some 25,000
staff-months of labor when accounting for all donor disbursements under the project.
6.     Sustainability. The mission discussed in detail the sustainability of the works carried out. In
physical terms, repair works have been of consistently high quality and will be lasting and sustainable, as
certified by an independent technical audit carried out by SFOR. Adequate apartment building
maintenance, especially after the completion of the upcoming housing privatization program, will however
remain a potential issue - as it has been prior to the war. Only in Sarajevo and Mostar are housing
maintenance and management companies operational, while they remain yet to be established at the other
project locations.
7.    In financial terms, project sustainability is aimed for through two avenues. First, credit agreements
have been prepared between the Federal Ministry and each of the six Cantons where the project has
financed works. These agreements which are ready for signature will link the financial obligations of
Cantons directly to the terms of the Subsidiary Finance Agreement entered into between the Federation of
BiH and the State of BiH. The agreements will ensure full cost recovery by the Federation budget of the
value of works financed. Signing of these agreements is expected over the coming weeks, with a deadline
of April 30, 1998. Cantons will generate the funding required through their budgetary revenues and may
enter into subsidiary credit agreements with specific municipalities.
8.     Second, project municipalities have committed themselves, in writing through agreements entered
into with the PIU, to raise rental rates of flats so as to cover the cost of building maintenance and routine
repairs. Much progress has been made in Sarajevo, the main project location, where rents have been raised
from 0.06 DM/m2 at the time of Credit negotiations (June 1996) to 0.34 DM/ml at the present time. The
plan is to raise rents further to 1.0 DM/m2 by October 1998 which would bring rents up to pre-war levels.
Moreover, rent collection rates in Sarajevo have now reached 60 percent despite the more than fivefold
increase in rates. Progress in other project municipalities to raise rental charges has been less pronounced
to date.
9.     The continued efforts by the Federation Government and IDA to introduce cost recovery on works
financed by the IDA Credit (US$15 million equivalent) must be seen in the context of other donors
providing grant-based assistance in the housing sector (total donor commitments for housing reconstruction
of about US$400 million since early 1996) with no cost recovery at all. A notable exception is the new
housing finance facility, financed by the EU and to be implemented by KfW, which will provide mortgage-
based loans to private home owners through the banking system. This program is expected to be
operational in the summer of 1998.
10.    Operational Plan. The mission discussed activities required in the future, after Credit closing, to
assess and ensure the project's continued impact. Given the emergency nature of the project and the nature
of the repair investments financed and completed, a formal Operational Plan will not be needed. The main
future activity required is to monitor credit repayments by the Cantons to the Federal budget in order to
ensure cost recovery. This role would either be carried out directly by the Federation Ministry of Finance,
or it might be delegated to a local bank acting on behalf of the Federation. The Ministry of Physical
Planning and Environment will monitor apartment rents charged on public apartment buildings throughout



- 19-
the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as part of its regular activities, and evaluate to what extent these
rents cover the estimated full cost of building operation and maintenance.
Il.   Until the end of 1998, the Housing PIU is expected to continue in its current function as
implementing agency for international donors, given recent new financing commitments by UNHCR and
Turkey and, possibly, the European Union. Beyond 1998, the PIU is expected to be eventually integrated
into the Federal sector ministry, possibly dealing, inter alia, with public housing investments and building
standards. Some PIU staff are likely to enter the private sector as engineers and project management
consultants.
12.   Final Evaluation Report. As the input of the Borrower into the ICR, the Housing PIU has
prepared its Final Evaluation Report which the mission has reviewed and commented on. The PIU has
committed to provide the revised report to the World Bank within on week's time.
Agreed Next Steps
(1)    PIU Housing to provide the Final Evaluation Report
(2)    Bank to prepare the draft ICR
(3)    Federation of BiH and cofinancing partners to comment on the draft ICR
(4)    World Bank to finalize the ICR
(5)    PIU to withdraw remaining IDA Credit balance and expense all funds
(6)    WB to close the IDA Credit



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY HOUSING REPAIR PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 2902-BA)
APPENDIX B
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
Prepared by the
Project Implementation Unit (PIU Housing)
of the Ministry of Physical Planning and Environment
of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina



-21 -
FINAL EVALUATION REPORT
ON IMPLEMENTATION OF THE
EMERGENCY HOUSING REPAIR PROJECT
OF THE HOUSING STOCK OF THE FEDERATION OF B&H
WORLD BANK CREDIT No. 2902-BA, ITALIAN GRANT TF No. 024082-BA
PART I - INTRODUCTION
A.    Background
Pre-war population of B&H was 4.4 million mostly settled in the country side and smaller towns and only
18% lived in urban areas. This population was accommodated in 1,295 million housing units - private
houses or apartments with approximately the same number of households. The four years of war had a
disastrous effect on the state of housing destruction of which has caused significant movements of the
population. Overall damage on housing in the Federation is estimated at USD 4 billion and repairs will
have to be done for several years. Priority programs therefore had to be focused on lightly damaged units
since by repairing these the best impact could have been achieved in a very short time and a lot was
achieved in the sense of return and reconstruction of communities.
Housing reconstruction strategy:
The report on emergency reconstruction of B&H prepared by the World Bank and the EU for the donor
community required USD 600 million for housing reconstruction over a period of three to four years. This
program was started in towns and settlements which were most heavily damaged and was focused on
lightly damaged buildings through which the fastest impact in accommodating people could be achieved.
During the second stage of the housing reconstruction, the focus will be on more heavily damaged buildings
which in fact need reconstruction rather than repair, and further benefits - in addition to reconstruction -
will result from employment generation which will enable revival of communities.
Emergency housing repair programs:
Need to immediately start with repair of lightly damaged buildings initiated many donor activities.
Coordination of the work was carried out by IMG. At first, activities were based on the supply of
construction materials anid, later on, labor costs were also included. All donor activities were grant-based,
and programs focused on repair of private housing units. Donors committed to act quickly on private
housing repair were highly appreciated and provided the following results in the field:
* effectiveness
* quick start of the program, and
* accommodation of most vulnerable categories in accordance with the following criteria:
single headed families; invalids, former soldiers; and poor and refugees.
Despite the actual situation cost recovery schemes had to be introduced quickly, and most suitable for their
introduction was the public housing sector



- 22 -
B.    Strategy and response of the World Bank
On April 1, 1996 B&H met all conditions for membership in the World Bank, IDA and IFC, retroactively
from February 25, 1993. At the Donor's meeting in December 1995, only seven days before the Dayton
Peace Agreement was signed, donors have promised USD 600 million for emergency activities for the
reconstruction of B&H. The second donor conference took place in April 1996 and donors were requested
to provide additional USD 1.2 billion for financing of reconstruction programs during 1996. The Bank
continued to support implementation of emergency repair programs and assistance was extended to support
the initial stages of Government macroeconomic and institutional transformation. In the reconstruction
area, the Bank focused on creation of employment opportunities and housing, both being very important for
reintegration of demobilized soldiers and return of refugees, as well as on continuos support to
infrastructure repair and demining.
C.    Emergency housing repair project
The main objective of this project was to support the Govemment of Bosnia and Herzegovina in:
*  Emergency housing repair in both the private and public sectors; and
-  Through cost recovery to contribute to achieve sustainable repairs and development in the housing
sector.
More specific objectives were:
*  To assist in the repair of common elements and protect apartment buildings from further damage;
-  To implement a Pilot Project in four towns in order to test Government's approach to repair of both
public and private units; and
*  To build up the capacity of the project implementation unit.
The project was small compared to needs in the housing sector but was introduced with an effort to address
the needs as quickly as possible. The project reflected the following:
The Pilot Project financed by the Dutch Trust Fund (DTF) began in May 1996 and was financed with USD
2 million from the DTF and a USD 2 million advance from IDA, and the purpose was to complete as many
repairs during the 1996 construction season as possible. Several other donors such as the EU, UNHCR
and USAID and also some European countries on a bilateral basis have significantly supported repairs of
private housing. The EU demonstrated its intention of taking the leading role in defining the framework for
these programs. This subject project focused on repair of public sector housing in order to supplement the
work of other donors.
Description of the project:
Project consisted of:
*   Pilot Project financed by Dutch Trust Fund (DTF) covering both private and public sector housing.
*   Emergency public housing repairs - repair of common area elements in apartment buildings.
*   Institutional and technical assistance and operating costs of the PIU, for project preparation,
management and supervision of project execution.
Part I - Pilot Project
Designed to test the approach of the authorities to the project and the implementation procedures for repairs
of private and public owned units. It was decided that it would include:



- 23 -
*  Private houses in Gomji Vakuf, Vitez and Olovo. The maximum amount for reconstruction per unit
was USD 5,000 for providing minimum  living conditions.  Repairs were for roofs and for
weatherproofing including repairs of the bathroom, heating and electrical installations.  Eligible
beneficiaries were owners which were either living in these houses or would return to them, and their
names had to provided by the local office for refugees and displaced.
*  Public apartment buildings in Sarajevo, 10 buildings containing 150 apartments, with a maximum
amount per unit of USD 2,000 to US$2,500.
During the implementation of the Pilot Project, the PIU Housing should be established. which would
continue to work on the implementation of major housing reconstruction projects in Federation of B&H.
Part 2 - Emergency housing repair project
Approximately 190,000 housing units in the Federation are within public sector housing. More than half of
housing in towns is public, and only in Sarajevo there are approximately 80,000 public housing units or
56% of which 48,600 were damaged during the war and 2,748 were completely destroyed. Emergency
housing repairs for apartment buildings include repairs of roofs, external walls, staircases and damaged
installations in buildings in Sarajevo, Mostar, Kupres, Olovo and Gorazde which will be selected in
accordance with criteria given in Annex A of the Technical Annex of the subject project. Between USD
2,000 and USD 2,500 could be spent per apartment. The project would be weatherproof the building and
make apartments habitable and also prevent further damage to the building.
Part 3 - Technical and institutional assistance
Institutional assistance was envisaged for the PIU Housing established within the Ministry of Physical
Planning and Environment, consisting of providing office space, vehicles, equipment and covering
operating costs. PIU Housing and selected municipalities were to employ local housing management and
maintenance enterprises (HMMEs) or other independent consultants to provide assistance with damage
assessment, preparation of technical documents and supervision during execution of works. Approximately
USD 1.8 million was required for support of the project, of which USD 0,5 million was to be provided by
DTF, USD 0.7 million by GTZ and USD 0.6 million by IDA for design and supervision.
Project costs and financing plan
The total budget for all costs related to the project was USD 50 million. There was no provision for
contingencies due to the nature of the project. Original project costs are given in the following table:
1. Pilot Project - works                         1,33  million USD
2. Emergency repairs                            46,87  million USD*
3. Institutional and technical assistance        1.80  million USD
Of which:    Consulting services          0,65  million USD
Equipment                    0,20 million USD
Additional operating costs  0,95  million USD
TOTAL COST                                      50.00  million USD
* World Bank provided USD 15 million equivalent.



- 24 -
PART II - EXECUTION OF THE PROJECT
Given the set objectives, the agreed implementation procedures, and the engagement of different donors, it
can be concluded that the Project was successfully executed, including some specific aspects of success
such as joint donor financing which were not set out in detail in the project description. This especially
refers to the reconstruction of heavily damaged apartment buildings by joining respectively funding of the
EU and UNHCR with World Bank funding, using World Bank funding to leverage funding of other donors.
Details related to various donors and projects are described in the "Evaluation of performance of donors"
section below.
Apart from the Pilot project financed by the Dutch Government (DTF) and Emergency Housing Repair
component financed through the IDA credit, significant contributions to housing repair activities through
the PIU were given by the EU, Government of the Republic of Italy, UJNHCR. Of particular significance
was the contribution of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia for private housing repairs.
Financing of the operations of the PIU Housing, office equipment and costs of preparation of technical
documents, as originally envisaged, was provided by the Dutch Govenmment (DTF), German Government
(GTZ), IDA and other donors. The attached table shows contributions of all donors to housing repairs in
Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina chamneled through the PIU under this project, and amounts and
locations of sub-projects.
Particular attention should be paid to the following aspects:
1. Total investment in housing repairs implemented by the PIU Housing is 83.8 million DM or USD
50.18 million which exceeds originally envisaged USD 50 million.
2. With this amount 2,837 private houses and 776 apartment buildings with 19,510 apartments were
repaired.
3. Investment in private and public sector housing was well balanced. Private housing 38,849,854.48
DM and public housing 41,196,318.62 DM.
4. The average amount for repair of private houses was 13,522.40 DM or USD 7,954.00 and for repair
of apartment 2,111.50 DM or USD 1,242.00. The amount per unit was different in different donor
programs depending on the objectives set by the donor.
5. Costs of institutional support for the PIU and engineering consultants were as follows: PIU Housing
costs were 1,108,849.07 DM and costs of local consultants were 2,645,683 DM.
1. ASSESSMENT OF THE P ROJECT
Suitability of project's objectives
The project's objectives mentioned in the introduction of this report as they were given by the World Bank
housing repair project were well set, especially related to urgently addressing needs of the population and
vulnerable categories.
Cost recovery as a contribution to sustainable reconstruction and development in housing sector is a sound
goal and is in that sense introduced into the project by the World Bank. This goal caused some degree of
confusion from the very beginning of the project since there were problems with the collection of (already)
low rents (collection rates in 1996 were below 50%); increasing rents to market level is still out of the



- 25 -
question in present social conditions. In any case, the fact that authorities, either cantonal or municipal,
have signed specific agreements on cost recovery with the PIU speaks for itself, since not even housing
privatization will completely resolve this issue.
The approach of the authorities to the repair of private and public sector housing was tested through the
Pilot project and has shown that the authorities have accepted the main criteria for selection of both house
owners and tenants. Since most of the World Bank funding was disbursed for repair of apartment
buildings in urban areas, the authorities have sought to propose buildings of highest priority and with as
many families in them as possible. It is obvious from the Pilot project that for private houses the
authorities have proposed the most vulnerable population categories, war victims and social cases.
Regarding the objective to establish and strengthen project implementation capacities, we believe this
objective was well set and it has been achieved. PIU Housing was established with the assistance of the
World Bank and financed by GTZ and DTF, including the technical assistance of the representative of the
World Bank who in 1996 and during the first half of 1997 gave suggestions and took part in works
supervision and especially in getting other donors involved in the program. Bearing in mind the fact that
the financing plan envisaged USD 30.8 million in cofinancing we mostly achieved this objective.
Adequacy of the project design and components
There was a reason why in the beginning it was mentioned that HMMEs or experienced local consultants
should prepare technical documents. In larger towns where HMMEs were established with their technical
departments it was easy to clarify the criteria and acquire adequate documents, but in smaller towns and in
rural areas the PIU had to instruct newly established teams for reconstruction on the required level of
technical documents necessary for efficient repairs up to clearly defined standards and within set funding
limits. The main problem to all our consultants was adjusting technical and social criteria. Most often
municipal departments being under pressure from vulnerable categories ignored technical criteria for
selection of buildings and repairs (such as the degree of damage) and established lists of priorities which
were sometimes difficult to follow since they required a significant increase of funding which was not
possible. These cases required alternatives which caused extended preparation time.
Preparation of technical documents depended on repair standards requested by the respective donor,
although these were in most cases similar for all donors. However, even if bills of quantities were prepared
highly accurately, at times the local consultant was not able to fully envisage the scope and quantity of
works due to difficult site access or due to exclusion of internal works which were not executed in order to
allow for more essential structural repairs or for external works. An example for this are buildings
repaired with joint funding of the World Bank and the EU, where on several buildings due to vandalism
between the completion of technical documents and the start of works contractors had to wait for several
months until additional necessary works were approved by the donor.
Overall quality and speed of project implementation
Quality of implementation varied between donor programs and regions. It depended on several aspects:
capability of the local consultant and PIU presence in the field controlling both contractor and consultant.
Since selection criteria and repair standards in the reconstruction process were clearly set by each donor,
the PIU Housing insisted that these were reflected in the reconstruction documents prepared by the PIU
consultants.



- 26 -
General and technical conditions which form part of each project oblige the contractor to install materials,
products and equipment of standard quality. Practice has shown that standard quality can easily be
misinterpreted and that often quality certificates were issued by the manufacturer not enabling the PIU to
verify them. They were not issued by an authorized institution or laboratory but they were provided by
traders. In order to avoid different interpretations of standards and criteria, the PIU clearly defined the
general and technical conditions for all types of work and produced unifying bills of quantities for repairs
of housing units, which were introduced in February 1997 in a seminar held for local consultants and
contractors, and standard technical conditions were given to each consultant to ensure that the same criteria
were followed.
Speed of project implementation, starting with the identification of works to the completion, was on average
12 weeks (3 months) for works on most of the programs implemented by the PIU. For works executed on
heavily damaged buildings and when investments were higher compared to those of the World Bank, e.g.
when funding was joined to include reconstruction of the units or create space for new units such as in
Gorazde, those works required between 20 and 24 weeks (6 months). In some areas where private houses
were scattered in distant villages with difficult access, there were extended deadlines. In general, speed of
implementation was satisfactory given the available building materials, applied teclnology, and conditions
of works at the technological minimum.
Experience gained during project implementation
Criteria for damage assessment were established by the Federation Ministry of Physical Planning and
Environment during the war. Assessment of damage on the basis of these criteria was the obligation of
municipal war damage commissions, but only in few cases these data could be used since they was not
prepared in a proper manner or by experts acceptable expertise. At the start of the project, the PIU had to
rely on these data, and as a result, implementation was delayed since additional damage assessments has to
be carried out by PIU consultants. One of the major experiences from the project is that assessments by
experts need to be carried out on many more uniits than required in the program.
Despite improvements in unifying technical conditions and criteria, it was not always possible to precisely
define quantities that would not change during the execution of works. The PIU believes that 5% of
contingencies should be included in the each project description and contract.
From the beginning, the PIU was aware that risks exist: that works are not executed in accordance with
required timetables, and that contractors are requesting payment without sufficient works progress (which
due to permanent control and monitoring of works did not occur). The PIU did have difficulty with the
replenishment of the Special Account for IDA funding due bottlenecks created by heavy bureaucratic
procedures at the level of the BiH and Federation Government, and at times contractors started their work
without advance payments and, in some cases, completed works without a single invoice being paid.
Replenishment of the Saudi Fund account was also delayed due to long administrative procedures -
submitting disbursement reports since replenishment can only be made after 4/5 of the funding in the
account is disbursed, while 115 is insufficient to cover all commitments until the replenishment is being
made. These issues related to replenishment of accounts should be carefully considered in future projects.
As a country in transition towards a market economy, a legal environmnent was created which allows
private companies to easily register, and there are many of them in the construction sector since this one of
the most active sectors of the Bosnian economy. An obligatory pre-qualification was conducted in
accordance with procedure set by the World Bank; most of the companies were included in the list of
potential contractors on the basis of their submitted documents. Verification of these documents was



- 27 -
complemented through contractor performance observed during contract implementation (works quality,
meeting of deadlines and other elements of professional performance) which created a better picture.
Because of observed deficiencies some companies were excluded from the pre-qualified list. Detailed
checks of data and strict criteria would contribute that only companies meeting all requirements are
involved in the reconstruction process.
A separate issue were attempts of some local authorities to restrict bidding to companies coming from the
local area only. The PIU Housing always tried to provide satisfactory competition in all bidding
procedures. Recommendation of the PMAU was that in each package at least one company from another
part of the country should be called to bid, a proposal which the PIU accepted and, when applied, caused a
further reduction of bid prices.
2. EVALUATION OF PERFORMANCE OF THE PIU HOUSING
As stipulated in the Credit agreement, the Ministry of Physical Planning and Environment has overall
responsibility for implementation of the project and in this sense a Project Implementation Unit was
established within the Ministry. In April 1996 the core of the PIU was founded consisting of a director
and 4 other staff members. This core staff started with the following activities:
* Defining criteria for damage assessments
*  Defining project approval procedures including checks of bills of quantities and drawings, filling out
forms related to contractor pre-qualification, preparation of tender documents and bidding procedures,
and contract signing
* Establishing a database on damaged housing stock, and producing a housing repair program
*  Organizing monitoring and supervision of the housing reconstruction program.
Additional PIU staff was employed by July 1996 and all works started, focusing on:
* Pre-qualification, tender procedure and selection of contractors
*  Opening of accounts for payments, and reparation of invoices for payments and replenishment
*  Coordination of information on projects at the local and regional level with other donors
During the implementation of the Pilot Project and Emergency housing repair component, PIU Housing
staff consisted of 13 people as follows: PJU Director, technical director and financial director, head of
preparation department, two project managers, one advisor and 5 support staff (driver, office maid,
security officer and secretaries). The same staff was in charge of reconstruction of 2,000 private houses in
19 municipalities in the Federation of B&H started in August 1996, and continued with reconstruction
projects jointly financed by the World Bank and the EU for which agreement was signed in September
1996. In May 1997 agreement was signed with the Government of Italy for USD 4 million and at the same
time a sub-agreement was signed with UNHCR for 7 million DM.
For better control of implementation two more engineers were employed in June 1997, one in Gorazde and
one in Mostar, and apart from daily contacts with UNHCR, they were in charge of daily supervision of the
performance of local contractors and consultants.
The PIU would like to stress the significant contribution of the World Bank representative in contacts with
other donors, preparation of draft project agreements, and negotiations on implementation procedures with
donors who later provided funding for projects to be implemented by the PIU Housing.



- 28 -
Assistance of the Gennan Government through GTZ was extremely useful, providing equipment and
vehicles but also two experts working in the PIU as technical and financial advisors. They assisted
substantially by introducing a special filing system and preparing grounds for the development of a custom
made software for project management based on electronic data processing. What is especially important
is the experience that precisely defined criteria and procedures can reduce the possibility of mistakes to the
very minimum and will prevent a subjective approach to the work. Increased engagement during project
preparation and damage assessment as well as revision of technical documents can prevent subsequent
errors or complications during implementation. Regular staff education through seminars and workshops
can contribute that a high level of perforrnance is maintained during the implementation phase, and the PIU
gained experience both by attending seminars organized by the World Bank and by organizing these
seminars on its own.
3. EVALUATION OF PERFORMANCE OF DONORS
*  The World Bank played a key role in the initiation of the housing reconstruction process by preparing
a reconstruction program, by organizing donor conferences and by the financing the emergency housing
repair project and setting project guidelines subsequently also adopted by other donors. Starting the Pilot
project had twofold benefits: physical results of repairs, and testing the implementation capacities of all
parties involved. The Pilot project was a sort of training for all parties, starting with the PIU, HMMEs or
municipal housing departments, the approach of local authorities to the selection of beneficiaries, and a test
of the implementation procedures. The Pilot project initiated the sequence of steps which were repeated in
all subsequent projects, while taking into account continuos improvements to the process. Nine contracts
with consulting companies were signed and in addition 45 contracts with construction companies for
4,464,605 DM, and 210 private houses and 56 apartment buildings with 2,228 apartments were repaired.
The average amount for repair of one private house was 7,500 DM and for the repair of one apartment
1,297 DM. Funding of the Pilot project was provided by the Netherlands Government through the Dutch
Trust Fund as grant funding.
*  IDA Credit of USD 15 million equivalent for repairs of common area elements of apartment buildings
intended to provide better acconimodation for as many people as possible. This objective required a focus
on lightly damaged buildings, and the main goal was weatherproofing and prevention of further building
damage caused by the weather. Responsibility for cost recovery was given to municipal and cantonal
authorities which would through increased rents recover the IDA credit. The terrns of costs recovery are
explained in financial part of the Technical Annex to the project. Disbursements from the IDA credit were
24,181,913.96 DM, and 424 buildings with 9,421 apartments and 20 private houses in Brcko were
repaired. This project was executed through 14 contracts with consulting companies and 76 contracts with
construction companies (this does not include additional contracts jointly financed by the World Bank and
the EU and the World Bank and UNHCR). The average amount for repair of one apartment was 2,535
DM or USD 1,491 and for a private house 15,490 DM. Apart from benefits due to repairs, the project
introduced the principle of cost recovery through increased rents.
* Government of the Republic of Italy. provided through the World Bank on a grant basis, financed the
repair of 360 private houses and 40 apartment buildings with 1,188 apartments. All procedures and
criteria are identical to those of the World Bank and, in addition, representatives of the Govermnent of Italy
defined target locations for their project. Total funding was 6,812,971.28 DM disbursed through 7
contracts with consultants. The average cost for repair of one private house was 14,308 DM and for the
repair of one apartment 1,399 DM. Effects of this project were significantly increased due to the fact that



- 29 -
the donor agreed that I million DM saved in the first phase could be allocated for repair of further roofs in
Sarajevo which enabled the repair of 22 more apartment buildings just before the winter 1997/98.
* Government of Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, through the Saudi Fund for Development, provided USD
20 million for repair of 2,000 private houses in 19 municipalities of the Federation of B&H. Funding was
provided as a grant to the Government of the Federation, and the Grant Agreement defined the locations
where project would take place. Funding was through the National Bank of B&H transferred into an
account of the Banik for Reconstruction and Development, and all payments were made from that account.
There were certain difficulties with payments due to the replenislhment procedures. Total disbursements
were 31,642,216.76 DM for repair of 2,203 private houses. This project was executed through 26
contracts with consultants and 161 contracts with construction companies. The average amount for repairs
of one private house was 14,363 DM. The technical annex for the implementation of this program
stipulated criteria for the selection of beneficiaries and units which were identical to the World Bank
criteria. Achievements were satisfactory for the donor including the records and documents provided by the
PIU.
* European Union provided 4.9 ECU for repair of apartment buildings on the basis of a joint financing
agreement with the World Bank which enabled the repair of more heavily damaged buildings. The funding
ratio was 30% World Bank and 70% European Union. The EU provided 9,481,021 DM for the repair of
199 buildings with 6,270 apartments. The average amount for repair of one apartment was 1,512 DM.
This project was executed through 35 contracts with construction companies, and consulting services were
paid for from World Bank funding. The EU acted in this project through their international procurement
agent which was in charge of payments, resulting at times in long payment periods and causing difficulties
in the execution of contracts. Nevertheless, this project was successful and enabled building repairs
benefiting more than 6,000 apartments. Funding of the EU was grant funding.
* Thanks to willingness of the World Bank to join funding with UNHCR, PIU Housing signed a sub-
agreement with UNHCR for the repair of 493 housing units in Gorazde, Konjic and Mostar, of which 403
are apartments and 90 are private houses. The specific aspect about this project was the selection of
beneficiaries by UNHCR. Favoring minority retums and Open Cities, the project involved a complicated
selection procedure which required PIU involvement in some delicate administrative works. In 1997, the
sub-agreement was being finalized with the objective that in each repaired unit a specific, pre-selected
family had to return. In accordance with this objective technical conditions and repair standards were
defined which were very similar to those applied in the Saudi Fund projects. The budget of the UNHCR
project was 6,154,618.57 DM. Under the project, houses repaired in Mostar were at an average cost of
DM 25,254.50, and houses in Konjic at 16,436.25 DM. The average cost for repair of one apartment was
11,571.6 DM. The project resulted in rather high average costs per house and flat since repairs focused on
more heavily damaged buildings, thus entering into the second phase of housing repair in the Federation of
B&H.
4. WITHDRAWAL PROCEDURES
PILOT PROJECT
Funding for the Pilot project was provided by Dutch Government through a DTF. The special account was
opened in a local bank in B&H for implementation purposes.  Funds were available to authorized
signatories from the (former) Ministry of Finance of Bosnia anid Herzegovina. The PIU Housing submitted
payment orders to the Ministry signed by the PIU Director or another duly authorized person including



- 30 -
required supporting documents. On the basis of the payment order and related documents, Ministry of
Finance made payments to contractors. Except for some occasional delays due to replenishments, there
were no other problems causing delays during project execution.
IDA CREDIT No. 29020-BA
For purposes of implementation of the emergency public housing repair component financed by the World
Bank the following accounts were opened: (i) Special account in ING Bank in Vienna; and (ii) Project
account in Central bank DD in Sarajevo. Authorized signatories for transfers from the Special account
were: (i) two signatories on behalf of the (former) Ministry of Finance of Bosnia and Herzegovina; and (ii)
one signatory on behalf of the PIU Housing.
Two signatures were required for payments to be effected, and occasionally there were delays due to the
absence of some of the signatories. Invoices for PIU Housing contracts were, until the end of 1997, paid
from the Special account in ING Bank. Payment orders were sent by fax and were effected efficiently, and
Statements of Account were sent within 48 hours. However, due to lack of hard currency in local banks,
contractors sometimes had to wait for 20 days ultil they received funds. That was a problem in the
beginning of the project, but subsequently local commercial balnks become more efficient and transfers
were carried more quickly. The maximum authorized balance on the Special account of USD 3 million
enabled the PIU to carry out payments in a timely manner and to perform regular replenishments.
However, the recovery process of the initial deposit by IDA was not adjusted to other project
disbursements. When the remaining IDA credit balance was approximately USD 1.5 million, the not-yet-
recovered part of the credit balance was less than USD 200,000, which caused some delays in payments
and the need of extension of payment deadlines. The interest on funds in the Special account was
transferred to a separate account available to the (former) Ministry of Finance of Bosnia and Herzegovina
and was used to cover payments towards the World Bank. Funding in the local Project account in Central
bank was available to authorized signatories from the PIU Housing, and this account was used only for
small amounts required for PIU Housing operating costs.
The PIU Housing issued and signed subsidiary agreements with municipal authorities in which the project
took place, defining that they accept the credit funding under terms equivalent to those given in the IDA
Credit agreement, and that they will introduce a rental charges system enabling cost recovery. By a
subsequent decision of the Govemment of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the responsibility for
cost recovery has been transferred to the Cantons. Signing of on-lending agreements with Cantons is being
organized and will be completed when all repair projects in the Canton have been carried out. Cost
recovery activities were entrusted to the Investment Bank of Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
During implementation there were no major problems thanks to the good cooperation with World Bank
staff in the Resident Mission in Sarajevo.
FUNDING OF KINGDOM OF SAUDI ARABIA
In accordance with the Grant agreement with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, a USD account was opened in
the National Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Funding was transferred in 4 equal transfers of USD 5
million, and replenishment was to be made only after there was less thanu USD I million left in the account.
According to the authorization of the Govenmment, funding was then transferred to the account of Bank for
Reconstruction and Development of Bosnia and Herzegovina with Deutsche Bank Frankfurt where
payments were made from. PIU Housing submitted payment orders to the Bank for Reconstruction and
Development, signed by the PIU director or another duly authorized person. During the replenishment
procedure, there were delays until the replenishment was actually made caused by a long administrative
procedure. It would have been better if replenishments could have been done with USD 2-2.5 million left in



-31 -
the account. There were also delays caused by the lack of hard currency in the Bosnian Bank for
Reconstruction and Development.
FUNDING OF THE EUROPEAN UNION
Funding was available on the joint financing basis with a ratio of 30% World Bank and 70% EU funding.
The EU procurement agent on behalf of the EU to make payments for the EU. The PIU Housing submitted
payment orders to the agent, including required supporting documents. The agreement between PIU
Housing and the procurement agent stipulated that payments would be made within 30 days from the day
when a payment order was submitted. The actual period, however, was generally longer due to
administrative procedures. Extensions of payment deadlines with contractors were required.
FUNDING OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF ITALY
This funding was used in accordance with the procedures of the World Bank. For implementation
purposes, a Special account was opened in ING Bank in Vienna. Authorized signatories for transfers were:
(i) on behalf of Ministry of Finance one signatory; and (ii) on behalf of PIU Housing one signatory. All
payments for this project were done from the Special account without delays.
FUNDING OF UNHCR
Project was implemented on the basis of a joint financing understanding with the World Bank. For
implementation purposes, a Project account was opened in Central bank DD Sarajevo. The PIU Housing
submitted payment orders and other required documents signed by the director or a duly authorized person.
Transfers by UNHCR were in the order of 2.5 million DEM, and replenislment could be made once less
than 0.75 million DEM were left in the account. There were no delays in payments under this project.



SOURCES OF PROJECT FINANCING
(in US$ equivalent)
PROJECT TYPE AND                     DTF          IDA      GERMANY          E.U.       ITALY        UNHCR    SAUDI FUND          TOTAL
LOCATION
A. PILOT PROJECT
PRIV4 TE HO USSI.NG
1. OLOVO                           288,028.28                                                                  _                   288,028.28
2. VITEZ                            330,509.50                                                                                     330,509.50
3. GORNJI VAKUF                     332,827.59                                                                                     332,827.59
PUBLIC HOUSINvG
4. SARAJEVO                       1,562,774.39                                                                                   1,562,774.39
5. MOSTAR / E+W                     488,765.52                                                                                     488,765.52  s
SUBTOTAL                          3,002,905.27                                                                                   3,002,905.27
B. EMERGENCY HOUSING REPAIRS
PUBLIC HOUSING
6. SARAJEVO                                    5,549,933.53             2,858,695.47    917,503.26                               9,326.132.26
7. GORAZDE                                     2,081,815.71             2.198.376.59                 851 372.99                  5.131.565.28
8. MOSTAR                                      3,840,404.41                                          464.109.20                  4,304.513.61
9. KUPRES                                        127,719.41               303.700.35                                               431.419.76
10. OLOVO                                       642.740.45               216,298.82                                                859,039.27
11. KONJIC                                      283,294.12                                         1,241,138.51                  1,524,432.62
12. NOVI TRAVNIK                                 105,707.65                                                                        105,707.65
13. MAGLAJ                                       178,589.41                                                                        178.589.41
14. ODZAK                                        194,557.06                                                                        I 94.557.06
15. GORNJI VAKUF                                 173,845.29                                                                        173,845.29
16. ZAVIDOVICI                                   172,224.71                                                                        172,224.71
SUBTOTAL PUBLIC HOUSING                       13,350,831.74             5,577,071.24    917,503.26  2,556,620.69                22,402,026.92



PROJECT TYPE AND                    DTF           IDA      GERMANY         E.U.       ITALY        UNHCR         SAUDI          TOTAL
LOCATION                                                                                                        ARABIA
PRI '4 TE HO USINVG
17. SARAJEVO                                                                                                    4,346,723.75    4,346,723.75
18. OLOVO                                                                                                        857,227.27      857,227.27
19. KALESIJA                                                                                                    1,280,280.61    1,280,280.61
20. CELIC                                                                                                         872,848.52     872,848.52
21. BRCKO                                       176,414.71                            223,010.86                1,273,449.52    1,672,875.08
22. TRAVNIK                                                                           892,893.14                                 892,893.14
23. DONJI VAKUF                                                                                                   654,585.45     654,585.45
24. FOJNICA                                                                                                       663,287.90     663,287.90
25. KLJUC                                                                             410,757.14                  881,977.28    1,292,734.43
26. SANSKI MOST                                                                       425,505.71                1,737,848.50    2,163,354.21  
27. BOSANSKA KRUPA                                                                    887,993.94                1,707,130.44    2,595,124.38
28. KONJIC                                                                                          565,359.27                   565,359.27
29. MOSTAR                                                                                          280,727.01                   280,727.01
30. GORAZDE                                                                                                     2,601,721.21    2,601,721.21
31. MAGLAJ                                                                                                        872,781.87     872,781.87
32. TESANJ                                                                                                        872,727.27     872,727.27
SUBTOTAL PRIVATE               i                176,414.71                          2,840,160.80    846,086.28  18,622,589.58   22,485,251.37
HOUSING.
C. INSTITUTIONAL
ASSISTANCE
- CONSULTING SERVICES              103,414.48   679,830.51                            135,462.33    108,472.99    554,071.85    1,581,252.16
- EQUIPMENT                         66,089.66                 97,979.22                                                          164,068.87
- OTHER COSTS                      122,148.97    23,461.18   371,304.30                              25,957.15                   542,871.59
/PIU HOUSING COSTS/                 ___
SUBTOTAL                           291,653.10   703,291.68   469,283.52       0.00    135,462.33    134,430.14    554,071.85    2,288,192.63
TOTAL                            3,294,558.37 14,230,538.13   469,283.52 5,577,071.24  3,893,126.39  3,537,137.11  19,176,661.44   50,178,376.19



IBRD 29463
1 6'                v,.       ,To Zagreb
16       s X      %ToZagrec                              18~To Zgre  To Osijek
To Zragreb<>o Zagreb                   C  R O  A T I A                 To Vinkovni
-'To Belgrode
I",V
TvzIo              Loez_ _ o \ ic  Z  0  'Q
--<;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r -r- --  UCLVI
z>c
0
:'BOSNIA -Dcesjiva uf    TravaL HVINA                                      0Ke IWco   r e dgBMras~ntcatuji       Loznica Z'7.  ;v
Nm           _lablonict -          :  -      :.
0   REPAIR   PROJECT                                  -            <.ux   lo~~~~~~er&v  ab  PCsE cft'-   TOAD  KAIN
S PlEMerTMTs0e  3 -EO            z 
CROATIA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~1                                                                   UOSAI
-42 -    fU       PUGLIC OUSING =-,s             DATOAGEEEN  KIE::4                                 tVNILaOMETERS              4
Knin                                                                                                   4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~urvnL-'  esg  ntofTeWrd ok h
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'   PRVT dOUaItG-   mopER d 0not ' imly on Ith.iv~zetO9A_ Fport of Te-
Zaclor                                 F,,Zr                                                                  ce~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~noseetorauptueofnn
E M\ERGENCY         HOUSING RPI-        SLCe  IISXIAY                                        l wS>9MOV2ELAI
42          PUBLIC HOUSING                            D NAYTlONA CAGREMETALIE PRVT HOSN      n,- A.TE~  HUGR /A   r
PRIVATE HOUSING                     -- -   INTERNA.TIONAL BOUNDARIES   -                       >    - ALANiA\  -   ''"     ''o
:  :    ;                                .;              .   Y .1 5 .,.r       -\.    ./~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GREECE   - TRE
.16              ;                    17                                              10 8'    - -i''       2
20
nik~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PI  9



