Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-6937-BIH
TECHNICAL ANNEX
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY HOUSING REPAIR PROJECT
July 8, 1996
Agriculture and Regional Development Division
Central and Southern Europe Department
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA Dinar (BHD)
IOOBIFID = USSO.67= I dm
(as of April 30, 1996)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BH    -  Bosnia Herzegovina
DTF    -  Dutch Trust Fund
EHRP    -  Emergency Housing Repair Project
EU    -  European Union
GTZ    -  German Agency for Technical Cooperation
HMME    -  Housing Maintenance and Managing Enterprise
IDA    -  International Development Association
IMF    -  International Monetary Fund
IMG    -  International Management Group
MPE    -  Ministry of Physical Planning and Environment
NCB    -  National Competitive Bidding
NGO    -  Non Governmental Organization
NSG    -  National Shopping for Goods
NSW    -  National Shopping for Work
PCR    -  Project Completion Report
PIU    -  Project Implementation Unit
PPAR    -  Project Performance Audit Report
SOE    -  Statements of Expenditure
UNHCR    -  United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
USAID    -  United States Agency for International Development
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



NV1dILN]w1A)f3l0d)d  -  I I
S3gIflO3JDOd N3VIXlW3nOMd  - 01
S1VVH3LVW DNICIfflg ONV  E03V JO ALII8V1IVAV  - 6
J103HH N3S 1NJYdIOO   - 8
SGNOJ 30 MOlA G31IV13aC   - L
mflo U3rIXVJ 38Ol 01oM 40 NOIIVJIJA3DdS 3NJIFIIO  - 9
3Ovwva 30 IN3NSS3SSv  - g
V01311D3 NO1LD113S MIVIJIdA3N3]   - b7
lDAf&HdIOlId  - £
ONIAJVIS 0NV S3IFIIISNOdS3 lINf NOILVLN3W31dwI l:3)O-Id  - Z
3-f1U3H3S NOIIVIN3IWfdlI 1D3fO8dd  -  I
SIJIGN3ddV
9                                                                   --.----- .. S3U80031V3 INNAwS'Xfsl8S :9 318Vj
9.0*----                        Nn,3 isrnii HJ1OC ONY 1103NJ va HGA ]1F113H95 INJ&JNf8I ag38V
91 .-.     -1..S0. 1.3f0.d iVI..                                  'GA J1.U3HS UN3LSfS'AHUSIQ :b 31N8VI
l.                                                     SIN3DWRNVHV £NraMflDGd3d S0d0dd :c 31[v
6.we                       w@NV1d ONIJNVNIJ :: IlUVI
...................................................... ............--.                                 -- IOvDLDfOd VL1 :  318V
SWIf1VI
8. .S9NIUNVISH3UNf H3HIO UNIV U3HJV3 S1N31A1339V 3g
A.                                                                                      [,     --.---@-s@DNV1d NOISIAWIdAS
LI..OMJAGdZQJ GNV ONIIIGfV  S1NIlGD3V
V.                                                               ..              olVNW'dINIIN]IDG)d
l...--NOIIVZINVO)10 1.D3f0O1d
Ul-.------------------------NOIIVINJ3WTIadNI 13C0Hd Ua
II.*                                                               --SIJAdSV 1VINJVNNGIIAN3
0.[,-,,----------                                      -''''''''NGIIVJIJJISO( JDIkVNOJ3 (INV 1VIJNVNIA
9                                          -NGIIAIHDS3U .LD3fOld
9                                                                                   -.------'''''''''''''''SAAILIYIf' 8033f08dd
S.VNIAOOAZ)13H (INV VINSOfi NI SPJXOIOOd UNV AO3IV'I1S NNVs UTHOM
S---------------------------------------------------------AJ aIVUIS UNIV 3SNIOdS3U MNVB *'d
I'.---   --SNV)9G0?d ADNJD?131N] ONISUGH
ssuajuoj
X3NNV 1IV3INHJ31
l3MOlId MIIVd3 9141S{10H AJN3DH3IAJ
VNIAO93ZIIH UNIV VINSOH






Technical Annex
Page I of 18
A. BACKGROUND
1.    Bosnia Herzegovina's (BH) prewar population of 4.4 million was predominantly rural
with only 18 percent living in urban areas. This population was housed in an estimated 1,295,000
units or approximately the same as the total number of households. The housing stock was of
relatively high quality with about 90 percent of it built after the Second World War. As in many
formerly socialist countries, single-family homes built by the owners with traditional
technologies characterized the rural landscape. Over half the stock in the largest cities was in the
form of publicly owned housing stock or "public sector housing" consisting of multi-family
medium and high-rise brick or prefabricated panel housing and some older nationalized
apartment buildings. Overall, about 80 percent of the stock was privately owned with the
majority of that being in rural areas and smaller towns where almost all housing was private.
2.    Four years of war have had a devastating effect on housing conditions and caused
massive displacement of the population. An estimated half of the housing has been damaged and
about 6 percent destroyed in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Many households are
living in units damaged by shells, while others have had to be housed in private and public sector
housing or in crowded shelters. War damage to housing has been exacerbated by collateral
damage caused by weather conditions and the deterioration of infrastructure installations and
connections to networks. Some vacated houses have been deliberately burned and others have
been subject to looting of all windows, doors, internal fixtures and roof tiles.
J.    While the pattern of damage and destruction is unevenly spread, overall damage has been
extensive, estimated at US$4 billion for Federation territories alone. Detailed estimates of
damage are not available yet for the Republika Srpska but are likely to be comparable in certain
regions. Reconstruction of the stock will be spread over several years. Initial efforts should focus
on the most cost effective means of rapidly increasing the stock of serviceable housing to
improve living conditions, allowing the return of displaced populations to their homes and the
regeneration of war-affected communities.
4.    Complicating the issue of addressing housing needs are the dramatic changes in the
demographic distribution of the population. The war has resulted in an exodus of refugees to
other countries and massive population shifts internally. It is estimated that the pre-war population of
BH of 4.4 million has declined by about 1.0 million. In late 1995, the 3.4 million people in BH were
probably located roughly as follows: I million people reside in the Republika Srpska; the balance of 2.4
million live in the Federation. Of this total population, an estimated 1.5 million people have been
displaced from their homes. With the advent of peace, further demographic shifts are beginning to take
place as displaced people seek to return to their homes. However, some returnees may not be able to
reclaim their housing before alternative accommodations are found for families occupying their units;
others may not wish to return to their former homes. The varying ownership claims arising from these
situations will need to be addressed and may take some time to settle. However, it is clear that the repair
of housing cannot await the full clarification of ownership claims. Resettlement of the population and the
voluntary return of displaced populations, a key element of the implementation of the peace process, is



Technical Annex
Page 2 of 18
also constrained by the damage and destruction of housing underscoring the urgent need for housing
repair and reconstruction.
SECTOR STRATEGY
5.    An emergency repair and reconstruction program for housing of about US$600 million
over three years was presented in a report on Reconstruction Priorities for BH, prepared by the
Bank and others, for consideration by the international donor community. The program called for
a phased approach focusing immediate attention on rapidly increasing the stock of serviceable
units to improve living conditions, allowing the return of displaced populations and free
additional units and resources that are being tied up in housing the displaced population.
6.    The program would start with a focus on repair of lightly damaged units in priority
communities which have suffered a high degree of damage but where the potential for resuming
economic activities and a return of displaced populations is high, in order to maximize the
number of units that could be made rapidly habitable. In a second stage the program would
address the reconstruction of housing to address needs in communities where housing demand
exceeds supply and deal with the more severely damaged units that require reconstruction rather
than repair. Beyond addressing the immediate and pressing war-related housing issues, the
program would begin the process of establishing a solid policy framework to sustain the
development of the sector over the medium to long term.
SECTOR ISSUES AND POLICIES
7.    Recovery of the housing sector will depend to a large extent on repair and reconstruction
of war damaged units, given that over half of the stock has been war affected. The uneven
distribution of damage and the uncertainty regarding final population movements and
resettlement makes it impossible to tell at this time which localities will have critical shortages
that cannot be addressed through repair of existing units. Nonetheless, there are a sufficient
number of viable communities that have suffered considerable damage and could benefit from
immediate attention to housing repair to improve living conditions and allow the return of
displaced populations.
8.    Additionally, a complex set of ownership issues has resulted from the war period which is
likely to affect the recovery of the sector. With the displacement of the population many
individuals are now living in units which do not belong to them. Returning owners may not be
able to reclaim their units without some form of alternative housing being made available to
present occupants. Ownership claims by individuals who may not wish to return to their homes,
or by those whose homes are currently occupied by other displaced families, will also need to be
addressed within the context of provisions of the Dayton Peace Agreement. Housing of
displaced persons in vacated units has, of necessity, been undertaken in an ad hoc manner by
municipalities and will need to be regularized within a legal framework that allows for settlement
of claims made by the rightful owner.



Technical Annex
Page 3 of 18
9.    Beyond the immediate issues arising from the war, the recovery of the sector will depend
on reform of the previous socialist-based housing policies and regulatory framework and their
replacement with market-oriented policies. Outstanding issues to be addressed over the medium
term relate to the development of a legal and regulatory framework that encourages private
investment in housing and trading of housing as an asset; the development of a sustainable
source of long term-finance through the banking sector; rationalization and reduction of subsidies
for maintenance and development of the public sector housing stock; and ensuring an adequate
supply of developable land for housing and related infrastructure; reform of land development
regulations, privatization of land in urban areas and development of appropriate funding sources
for land development.
10.   The formal financing of housing has in the past depended largely on enterprises,
municipal or other social institutions' housing funds. These funds obtained resources from a 3
percent employee tax for the construction of public sector housing primarily in urban areas. The
resources of the funds financed construction and purchase of units which were then leased to
employees by public institutions. The ownership of public sector housing remained "socially
owned" by the sponsoring institution not the individual tenant whose contributions had financed
the development of this stock. As these enterprises seek to privatize, many will need to divest
themselves of the housing stock which they own.
11.   Maintenance of the public sector housing was the responsibility of municipal housing
organizations or enterprises. Minor maintenance expenditure were funded through maintenance
charges collected by the organizations. Municipalities funded the bulk of major maintenance
through funds obtained from enterprise housing funds. The funding of the public sector housing
stock repair and maintenance remains a problem due to the historically low charges for rental
housing and the low collection rates at this time. The substantial subsidies to this stock of
housing will, over the medium term, need to be reduced through sale of the units and rationalized
as the economy improves to allow rents and charges to cover the cost of maintenance and
ownership.
12.   While the formal financing system was geared primarily to the public sector housing
stock, the bulk of the housing was actually financed through private savings and remittances.
Very little credit was available for mortgage or construction finance to individuals, and the credit
which was available came primarily through loans from enterprises and some loans through the
banks. The absence of credit constrained the pace at which private housing development could
occur. In the medium term, it will be important to integrate housing finance with overall financial
sector development and develop a sustainable source of long-term housing finance.
13.   The basic legal framework governing housing consisted of the Housing Act of 1985
which dealt primarily with the components of a socialist housing financing and production
system. The law governed: a) the development of self-managed associations to finance both
provision and maintenance of the public sector housing stock; b) tenant associations for the
management of apartment blocks; c) rental rates and maintenance fees and their collection; d)
tenancy rights and conditions for their termination; e) the provision of enterprise financing for
housing; and f) housing standards. This law is still in force and the legal and regulatory



Technical Annex
Page 4 of 18
framework will need to be reviewed and revised to set the basis for a more market-oriented
housing sector, encourage private investment and trading of housing as an asset.
14.   The provisions of the law with respect to termination of contracts based on abandonment
of the unit or non-payment of rent have been used to make units available to house displaced
populations. Currently, there is draft legislation that attempts to privatize public sector housing
units. The basic provisions of this law would allow legal tenants to purchase their units. Even if
they are no longer occupying the unit, legal tenants would be allowed to purchase the unit so
long as they make their claims within an allotted time period. Several issues may confound the
speed at which privatization can proceed, including: a) the need for funding repair, rehabilitation
and maintenance of damaged units and the common elements of the building; b) occupancy of
rental units by displaced households; and c) determination of appropriate sales price and terms
for purchase considering that most of this housing was paid for by employee contributions, and a
substantial amount of it has deteriorated as a result of war-damage. In addition, housing
privatization efforts will need to take into account the strong tenancy rights which still remain in
force, and the low controlled rates charged for rental. All of these factors combined act as a
disincentive to the purchase of units.
15.   Despite a legal framework that emphasized the organization and structure of public sector
housing, most housing production was undertaken by private individuals. Private production
continued to account for the vast majority of new units through 1991, much of it with inadequate
associated infrastructure. The lack of coordination in housing and infrastructure development
will need to be overcome in the future through infrastructure upgrading.
HOUSING EMERGENCY PROGRAMS
16.   The need to move rapidly and restore lightly damaged units to a minimum habitable
standard has triggered much donor activity. As of May 1996 donors i.e. UNHCR, EU and
bilateral agencies had already: (i) pledged in the Federation approximately US$95 million with
36 municipalities and in certain instances targeted the beneficiaries; (ii) pledged in Republika
Srpska approximately US$6 million with five municipalities;  and (iii)appointed  15
implementing agencies.   The donors and their implementing agencies are operating
independently of the Ministry of Physical Planning and Environment (MPE), but being
coordinated by a Housing Task Force chaired by a representative of the EU supported
International Management Group (IMG). Initially providing construction materials and fostering
"self-help," many programs now cover the provision of labor as well as materials, everything
being on a grant basis. All programs are directed at the private sector.
17.   The speed, extent and level of donor involvement in the repair of private housing reflects:
(a) an awareness of the shortfall in usable housing;
(b) the urgency of an immediate response on grant or highly concessional terms; and
(c) a desire to assist in the repatriation of refugees;



Technical Annex
Page 5 of 18
18.   The decision by the donors to proceed quickly with the repair of private sector housing,
with grant financing is justified on the grounds of (i) expediency; (ii) the need to move quickly;
and (iii) priority; which can be given to widowed families, invalid ex-members of the armed
forces, and the poor and the displaced. The private sector housing repairs, to be financed by the
Dutch Trust Fund (DTF), and incorporated in the proposed pilot project incorporates the
principles of (i) and (iii) above.
19.   Despite the foregoing, there is need to gradually introduce the concept of repayment, and
the project seeks to do this for public sector housing through charges to recover the cost of
repairs.  Public Sector housing, which is often referred to as "social" housing, does not
necessarily house the economically weaker members of society.
B.   BANK RESPONSE AND STRATEGY
WORLD BANK STRATEGY AND PROGRAMS IN BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
20.   On April 1, 1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina (BH) fulfilled the conditions of succession to
the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia's membership in the Bank, IDA and IFC.
Membership is retroactive to February 25, 1993.
21.   Since early 1995, the Bank Group has been deeply involved in developing a donor-
funded reconstruction program for BH. A joint mission of the Bank, IMF, EU and EBRD in late
1995 resulted in the proposed Priority Reconstruction Program which was first presented to a
donors' meeting, co-sponsored by the Bank and the EU in Brussels, a week after the signing of
the Paris/Dayton Peace Agreement. This meeting led to donor commitments of about US$600
million for immediate reconstruction activities. A second donors' conference, again co-chaired
by the Bank and the EU, was held in mid-April, 1996 and resulted in additional donor pledges on
the order of US$1.2 billion for financing priority reconstruction activities during 1996.
22.   The Bank has been following a two-track assistance strategy, which seeks to leverage its
limited resources with significant resource transfer from donors. First, before arrears resolution,
the Bank supported selected immediate assistance programs through a special Trust Fund for
Reconstruction of Bosnia and Herzegovina (TFBH) which is providing US$125 million on
concessional terms equivalent to those offered by IDA, as well as an additional US$25 million in
grant funds. Seven emergency operations, committing the entire US$150 million, have been
approved under the TFBH: an Emergency Recovery Project; a Water, Sanitation, and Solid
Waste Urgent Works Project; an Emergency Farm Reconstruction Project; an Emergency
Transport Project; an Emergency District Heating Reconstruction Project; an Emergency
Education Reconstruction Project and a War Victims Rehabilitation Project. Second, following
arrears resolution (which was made possible by the effectiveness of the Consolidation Loan
package on June 14, 1996), while the Bank will continue to focus on supporting the
implementation of the reconstruction program, its assistance program will be broadened to
include support for the initial phase of the government's macroeconomic and institutional
reforms. In the area of reconstruction, Bank assistance will focus on employment generation and



Technical Annex
Page 6 of 18
housing, both needed to facilitate the reintegration of demobilized soldiers and the return of
refugees, as well as on continued support for the rehabilitation of infrastructure and clearance of
landmines.
C. THE PROJECT
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
23.   The principal objective of the proposed project is to assist the government of Bosnia-
Herzegovina to:
(a) carry out urgent housing repairs to both publicly and privately owned housing; and
(b) contribute to the development of a framework to sustain the recovery and
development of the housing sector through gradual introduction of cost recovery for
repair works.
24.   The more specific objectives would:
(a) assist in the restoration of the common areas and the weatherproofing of the fabric of
public sector housing in order to avoid further deterioration;
(b) carry out a pilot project in four towns which would test the Government's
approach concerning the repair of housing in both the public and private sectors; and
(c) strengthen implementing agencies' institutional capacities.
25.   The proposed project is small when viewed in the context of the needs of the Sector, but
it is driven by an overriding need to move quickly. The project reflects this. The pilot project,
financed from the DTF, commenced in the second week of May and US$2 million from DTF
was reallocated to the project from slowly disbursing projects and a US$2 million Project
Advance (from IDA) is currently being processed, the aim being to undertake as much work as
possible during the current construction season.
26.   Several donors (EU, UNHCR, and USAID) as well as European bilaterals have pledged
more than US$100 million for urgent private housing repair. EU has indicated its interest in
taking a lead role supporting the development of an appropriate policy framework. The Projects'
limited focus on public housing repair is intended to complement the work of other donors.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
27.   To meet these objectives the project incorporates:
(i) a Pilot Project funded from the Dutch Trust Fund (DTF) targeted at both private and
public housing;



Technical Annex
Page 7 of 18
(ii) Emergency Public Housing Repair for the common elements of public housing; and
(iii)Institutional Support Technical Assistance and Incremental Operating Support for the
PIU and project municipalities' HMME's design, management and supervision costs.
28.   Part A - Pilot Project. The pilot project would test the Government's project approach
and implementing procedures for repairs to private and public housing. Accordingly, it is
targeted at:
(i) Privately owned houses in Gornji Vakuf, Vitez and Olovo: In this case, emergency
repairs would be carried out up to a maximum of US$5,000 per unit with
specifications to bring them up to a minimum habitable standard (a water tight
habitable part of dwelling with operating sanitary, heating and electrical systems).
Eligible beneficiaries would be owners who are either occupying or returning to
occupy their units and thereby removing their names from the list of displaced
persons and are registered with the Settlement Fund,
(ii) Public housing in Sarajevo: Repairs to the damaged common elements of 10
buildings incorporating approximately 150 apartments at an average cost of US$2,000
per apartment.
29.   Under the Pilot Project, a PIU has been formed which would continue to implement the
larger emergency repair project. Dutch Trust Fund resources are being used to fund PIU staff,
vehicles and equipment during the four months implementation period and the cost of vehicles
and equipment. The German Government is also providing resources for the duration of the
implementation period.
30.   Part B - Emergency Public Housing Repair. Approximately 190,000 housing units in
the Federation are regarded as public property or 'public sector housing'. Over half the housing
stock in the larger cities is in the public sector; in Sarajevo the number of public housing sector
units approaches 80,000 (approximately 56 percent), and of these, over 48,600 have been
damaged with 2,748 completely destroyed. The Emergency Repair Program for Public Housing
would finance the repairs to the roofs, external walls, entrances, staircases and damaged utilities
etc. in multi-story traditionally built publicly owned housing in Sarajevo, Mostar, Kupres, Olovo,
and Gorazde selected according to criteria outlined in Appendix 4. It is estimated that the costs
would amount to US$2,000-US$2,500 per apartment for lightly damaged and structurally sound
buildings. The program would make the buildings weatherproof and facilitate follow up
programs concerned with repairs to individual apartments.  It would also arrest further
deterioration caused by inclement weather and because of this, the program should aim to be
substantially complete before the onset of winter.
31.   An additional advantage is in respect of the housing privatization program. Tenants in
weather proofed buildings are more likely to be persuaded to buy their units even if they are



Technical Annex
Page 8 of 18
damaged because, in addition to other deductions  a discount based on an assessment of war
damage will be available.
32.   Part C - Institutional Support and Technical Assistance. Institutional support to the
PIU that has been established at the MPE will be required in the fonn of vehicles, office
equipment and operational expenses. It will also be necessary for the PIU and the selected
Municipalities to hire either Housing Maintenance and Management Enterprise (HMMEs) or
local consultants to assist with damage assessment, contract administration and supervision.
Approximately US$1.8 million would be required, to support a US$15 million project, of which
US$0.50 million has been secured from DTF, and US$0.7 million from GTZ, and US$0.6
million will come from IDA for HMME design management and supervision costs.
33.   Project Cost and Financing Plan. The total budgeted cost of the project excluding
customs costs and taxes equals US$50 million equivalent. No physical or price contingencies
have been included given the modular nature of the project which can be modified to meet the
funds available. Project costs are given in Table 1.
Table 1: Total Project Cost Estimate
Project Costs Summary
Project Component                                Cost1
(US$ Millions)
A. Pilot Project Works                             1.33
B. Emergency Repair                               46.87
C. Institutional Support/Technical Assistance      1.80
Of Which:   Consulting Services                   0.65
Equipment                             0.20
Incremental Operating Cost            0.95
Total                          50.00
No price or physical contingencies are involved.
34.   Financing Plan. The financing plan for the project is in Table 2 below. Of the total
project cost, IDA will finance US$15 million. Donor funds have been secured from the DTF
(US$3.5 million) and GTZ (US$0.7 million). BH intends to seek US$30.8 million of donor
support for the repair program. The State of Bosnia and Herzegovina will be the borrower of the
IDA Credit. It will make funds available to the Federation through an onlending agreement. The
Federation will make funds available to the Ministry of Physical Planning and Environment
The Government has a number of discounting concessions under consideration in its housing privatization
program; i.e. age (1% per annum); number of years the tenant has made an obligatory contribution to the
Housing Fund (1% per annum); and 20% discount for cash.



Technical Annex
Page 9 of 18
(MPE), acting through the PIU as the implementing agency, under terms satisfactory to the Bank.
The MPE will in turn pay the contractors on certification by the HMMEs.
Table 2: Financing Plan
(US$ Million)
Source of Funds
Project Component                   DTF       IDA    Germany   Other   Total
A. Pilot Project Works
Private Housing Sector
Olovo                    0.33        -          -        -     0.33
Vitez                    0.33        -          -        -     0.33
Gomji Vakuf              0.34        -          -        -     0.34
Public Sector Housing
Sarajevo                 0.33        -          -        -     0.33
Sub Total      1.33         -          -        -     1.33
B. Emergency Repair
Public Housing
Sarajevo City            1.15     4.80          -     9.80    15.75
Sarajevo Suburbs            -     2.40          -        -     2.40
Mostar (E)               0.24     2.40          -        -     2.64
Mostar (W)               0.24     0.96          -        -      1.20
Kupres                      -     1.29          -        -      1.29
Olovo                       -      1.29         -        -      1.29
Gorazde                     -     1.30          -        -      1.30
Other Municipalities        -        -          -    21.00    21.00
Sub Total      1.63    14.44           -    30.80    46.87
C. Institutional Support
Consulting Services             0.35        -       0.30        -     0.65
Equipment                       0.04        -       0.16        -     0.20
Incremental Operating Cost     0.15    0.561-       0.24        -     0.95
Sub Total      0.54     0.56        0.70        -     1.80
Total                    3.50    15.00       0.70    30.80    50.00
Design Management and supervision costs.
35.   Flow of Funds. BH is the borrower of the IDA credit. Under the terms of the Subsidiary
Finance Agreement between the State and the Federation, finds will be lent to the Federation.
During negotiations agreement was reached that the PIU would directly withdraw funds from the
Special Account for eligible expenditures under the Project.  The PIU  will have an
implementation agreement with Housing Maintenance/Management Enterprises (HMME) in
each project municipality.  HMMEs will be responsible for identifying  damaged buildings
eligible for loans under the project, prepare damage assessments and bidding documents, assist in



Technical Annex
Page 10 of 18
tender evaluation and supervise contractors. HMMEs are also responsible for collecting the
rents, for allocating the amounts corresponding to the repayments for repairs, and for transferring
them onto the account designated for the project.
36.   Customs Duties and Taxes. Proceeds of the IDA Credit cannot be used to finance local
taxes (such as customs duties, sales tax, income tax, etc.).
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
37.   The benefits of repairing war damaged houses, aiding the process of returning displaced
persons to their communities, participating in the process of conversion from a war torn to a
peaceful nation are obvious and fully justify the project. However, economic benefits can clearly
be expected from the completion of the repairs.
38.   The project is designed to repair the building fabric for approximately 20,000 units in a
number of municipalities.. Unless repairs are effected, a rapid and major deterioration of the
buildings can be expected, dramatically affecting the already precarious quality of available
housing. Therefore, for the targeted units which are likely to include widowed families, invalid
ex-members of the armed forces, the poor and the displaced, the rapid provision of habitable
units is of high priority. If nothing is done the lightly damaged buildings will, within three years,
require major reconstruction. The increase in the supply of habitable units will not only save
major assets but also contribute to the regeneration of communities as displaced people find a
place to live and resume their economic activities.
39.   Given the proposed investment of US$50.0 million for direct construction over the whole
program, about US$14.0 million of labor income will be generated. Great attention has been paid
to use Bosnia and Herzegovina building resources and to allow the participation of small local
contractors to the bidding process. The project will create about 35,000 person-months of
temporary construction jobs over the implementation period. The generation of labor will have a
very beneficial impact on the local economy, raising the average standard of living and
revitalizing the resumption of the construction sector which used to employ 80,000 private and
public workers in 1991 in 500 enterprises.
40.   Major public benefits can also be expected from the project, including the following:
*  strengthening the capacity of a newly formed government to respond rapidly to
priority needs of its citizens;
. participating in the process of restoring dysfunctional communities to prewar
normality;
* providing employment in the construction industry and fomenting the recovery of
building suppliers and the building materials industry; and
* possibly facilitating the privatization program in housing.



Technical Annex
Page 11 of 18
COST RECOVERY
41.   Given the emergency nature of this project and the strapped financial circumstances of
both households and local institutions, concessionary financing is justifiable. The estimated
costs to repair the common parts of buildings in Sarajevo averages at approximately US$2,000
per apartment. Costs should be recovered over a long period of time reflected in gradually rising
rents. As a guide to establishing the basis for calculating the incremental rent, the following
formula has been proposed: a US$2,000, 30 year loan with a five years grace period and interest
rates of 1.75 percent per annum would-equal monthly payments of US$8.24 or 8.24 percent of
average household income of US$100 per month. During the grace period, households would be
required to make only the interest payments of US$2.92, 2.92 percent of the average family
income.  It is understood that payments in this range will not present any difficulty and firm
proposals will be available at negotiations.  The PIU will seek arrangements with each
municipality to allow increases in rents that recover the cost of repairs along the formula
described here. These funds would revert to the account designated by the Ministry of Finance.
42.   Risks. While there will be major benefits derived from the program, there will be major
risks to be countered during implementation. The resumption of hostilities is an important risk.
Other risks concern:
a) the failure to substantially complete the roof repairs prior to the onset of the 1996/97
winter; every effort, however, is being made to speed up project processing and
implementation;
b) unsatisfactory workmanship on the part of contractors and diversion of resources into
other activities. This can be overcome by: i) good supervision on the part of the
HMMEs; ii) random checks and effective technical and financial monitoring by the
PIU with the help of expatriate technical advisors; iii) supervision and monitoring by
the housing advisor in the Resident Mission; iv) prior review and approval of the
pipeline of eligible projects and/or initial procurement actions; and v) self-policing by
beneficiaries and building occupants; and
c) possible bottlenecks in project cash flow through the PIU's access to IDA Special
Account being impeded by bureaucratic procedures.
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
43.   The project would have positive environmental impacts as a result of rehabilitating
displaced people into areas where municipal infrastructure facilities had already been (or are in
the process of being) repaired and implemented; and where otherwise buildings would stand
empty to deteriorate through vandalism or weathering. The project has been placed in
environmental category "C".



Technical Annex
Page 12 of 18
D. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
PROJECT ORGANIZATION
44.   The Ministry of Physical Planning and Environment(MPE) at the Federation level would
have overall responsibility for project implementation. To ensure timely and efficient project
implementation, a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has been established at the MPE and a
Director has been appointed. Staffing of the PIU will draw on locally-hired contract staff. It is
being assisted by IMG for the four months duration of the pilot project.
45.   The staffing and deployment of the unit will be as shown in the organization chart in
Appendix 2 and will comprise locally and where necessary internationally recruited staff.
Staffing of the PIU will comprise a core management section which will supervise the staff of the
HMMEs, the latter reinforced by locally employed engineers and architects. The PIU will have
the following locally recruited staff: director, financial controller, secretary interpreter; accounts
database technician, and technical manager. The core PIU team will be assisted as necessary by
foreign advisors experienced in construction, project, technical and financial management who
will advise on project management, financial controls, monitoring of the program and setting up
of appropriate financial control systems. (Appendix 3 provides descriptions of the PIU staff
roles).
46.   The PIU will have prime responsibility for:
*  establishing criteria for physical repair;
*  defining project approval, contract performance specifications, disbursement and
control procedures and necessary forms;
*  maintaining information on housing damage, repair programs and unit costs;
*  monitoring and supervision of emergency housing repair programs;
*  managing disbursement and procurement of goods and services required for the
project;
*  maintaining project accounts and records;
*  coordinating information on project procedures and implementation at the local and
regional levels and with donors; and
*  preparing request for disbursements and statements of expenditures.
47.   Local Project Teams will be established wherever possible within each HMME and will
be responsible for the day to day implementation of the local programs. These offices will be
staffed either by existing HMME employees allocated for the project or by recruited contract
staff. A World Bank mission in May visited Sarajevostan (the Hlousing Managemernt Con .- nm:.
in Sarajevo) and the Reconstruction Offices in East and West Mostar. All three were found to be
capable and competent and the EU is providing technical assistance to the agencies in Mostar.
The PIU will assess the competence and capacity of other municipalities and their agencies.
Recommendations will be made as appropriate. The local offices will be responsible for selecting



Technical Annex
Page 13 of 18
buildings to be repaired according to pre-determined criteria, undertaking damage assessments,
organizing with the PIU the issue and receipt of competitive bids, inspection of the contractor's
work and maintaining local project accounts.
48.   Details of specific responsibilities of the PIU are given in Appendix 2.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
49.   Part A - The Pilot Project. Implementation of the pilot project will be with the
assistance of IMG which is well established in BH and has detailed knowledge of the housing
situation. The setting up of the PIU, the purchase of necessary equipment and the recruitment of
local project staff have already started using the Dutch Trust Fund resources. Criteria for the
selection of municipalities for the pilot project were established during the Bank Mission to
Sarajevo in March and were applied to the selection of the first three towns to receive support
under the project. The City of Sarajevo was added to the list during the Bank Mission in May
1996. A public notice inviting contractors to apply for pre-qualification has been published by
the MPE and suitable applicants have been issued with tender documentation.
(a) Private Sector Housing. As stated in para. 47 each municipality will be required to
set up a local project office from which repairs to housing will be assessed, repair
contract documentation collated and issued to tenderers, tenders received and
contracts approved. The local project teams have carried out the damage assessments
on properties selected according to established criteria. A five percent audit sample
would be undertaken by the PIU to determine the acceptability of the assessments.
These assessments will form bills of quantities accompanying the contract
documentation (instructions, conditions and specifications) to be issued to tenderers.
The local office will receive tenders and will review them with the PIU. Contractors
would be allowed to bid on a package of eligible units for a minimum of US$50,000
and a maximum value according to the stated capacity of contractors. Price quotations
would be submitted for each unit in the package. Once bids are evaluated in Olovo,
Vitez and Gomji Vakuf, beneficiaries would then be allowed to enter into contracts
based on the lowest evaluated bid for their unit. In all cases, the beneficiary would be
issued a certificate approving the contract amount and specifications. The
municipality will sign a performance contract with each contractor and will facilitate
the signing of individual contracts between each property owner and the contractor.
(b) Public Sector Housing, City of Sarajevo. Sarajevostan, with approximately 80,000
housing units in its portfolio, has already chosen 10 buildings incorporating
approximately 150 units, and let contracts for the repair of a single building or
number of buildings as appropriate.
50.   During the period of contract works, which are expected to be completed within four
months, Sarajevostan will certify payments to be made from DTF and will supervise the quality
and progress of the works. The municipalities, and Sarajevostan will also maintain proper project
accounts which will be reported to the PIU on a regular basis.



Technical Annex
- Page 14of18
51.   Contractors will be responsible for the procurement and provision of all necessary
materials and labor to fulfill the works. Emphasis under the contracts will be on local
procurement wherever possible. A period of six months for defects maintenance will apply.
52.   Part B - The Emergency Public Housing Repair. The procedures for implementing the
emergency program of repairs to public sector housing will be the same as those described in
45(b)-47. The PIU will continue to monitor, supervise and advise on all aspects of the work. The
emergency program commenced in May 1996 and will continue for six to fifteen months of
construction followed by a six-month defect maintenance period. As the PIU-managed program
expands it will be necessary to provide further technical support both at the local level for the
assessment of damaged property and the management of local teams.
53.   The implementation schedule of the program is as given in Appendix 1.
PROCUREMENT
54.   The proposed procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3 below and are in line
with the agreed procedures for "Reconstruction of Bosnia Herzegovina-Procurement under
Emergency Projects," as issued by the Bosnia Ad-hoc Advisory Committee on January 4, 1996.
The proposed project procurement plan is attached in Appendix 11. In case of parallel financing
(such as funding by the EU, EC, or bilateral donors), the applicable procurement procedures of
the respective donors would be applied. Goods, Works, Consultant Services and incremental
operating costs financed by the DTF are to follow applicable procurement procedures outlined in
the Grant Agreement No. TF 020274. To respond in a timely fashion to the post-war emergency
situation in BH, the procurement methods described below would be used for IDA-financed
procurement.
55.   Procurement of Small Works Contracts for works shall be grouped in bid packages
estimated to cost US$30,000 equivalent or more each. The works will be procured under lump-
sum, fixed price (with 5% variation allowance) contracts awarded on the basis of quotations
obtained from three qualified contractors (qualified according to criteria acceptable to IDA) in
response to written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the work,
including basic specifications, the required completion date, and relevant drawings where
applicable and be in a form that is acceptable to IDA The works contracts would vary in value
between approximately US$30,000 and under US$1 million. The contracts would be between
the HMMEs and the successful bidder. Bid Evaluations will be undertaken by the PIU and the
HMME on a building by building basis with the award going to the lowest bidder who has the
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. Prior to the issuance of any
invitations soliciting quotations a procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to IDA for
its review and approval.
56.   Other. This category includes design, management and supervision expenses of
HMMEs, estimated at 4% of the works contracts.
57.   Prior and Post Bank Review of Procurement Documents.   Bidding documents
prepared by the World Bank for use for procurement of small works (under the agreed



Technical Annex
Page 15 of 18
Procurement under Emergency Projects referred to in paragraph 51) would be used. The first
five works contracts to be funded through IDA would require prior review by IDA. Post reviews
of procurement actions would be carried out on a quarterly basis by IDA supervision missions.
Table 3: Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Million)
Procurement Element            Other      Small       NBF'        TOTAL
Works
Goods                                         -         0.20          0.20
Works                                      14.44       33.76         48.20
(14.44)                   (14.44)
Consultant Services                           -         0.65          0.65
Incremental Operating Cost      0.56                   0.39           0.95
(0.56)                               (0.56)
Total Project Cost              0.56-      14.44       35.00         50.00
(0.56)    (14.44)                   (15.00)
Not bank-financed.
2Management and supervision costs.
DISBURSEMENTS
58.   The estimated schedule of disbursements is given in Tables 4 and 5 below.
Disbursements are expected to be completed within a period of two years from the date of
effectiveness. The IDA credit would finance the categories shown in Table 6, works and
incremental operating costs in the form of design, management and supervision fees of HMMEs.
56.   Special Account. To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account will be opened and
maintained in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA, on behalf of the State Ministry of Finance.
The State would make these funds available to the Federation Ministry of Finance under the
terms of the Subsidiary Finance Agreement between the State and the Federation. The authorized
allocation of the Special Account would be limited to US$3 million or four months average
estimated share of expenditures. The PIU Director would be authorized to directly sign for
disbursements from the Special Account. The PIU would in turn make resources available to
participating municipalities. See Appendix 8 for proposed detailed flow of funds.



Technical Annex
Page 16 of 18
Table 4: Disbursement Schedule for Total Project Cost
(US$ Million)
Fiscal Year                   I 96/Q41 97/Q1| 97/Q2  97/Q3  97/Q4| 98/Qi  98/Q2
Disbursed Amount                   2      16       9       4      14       3      2
Percentage of Total              4%    32%      18%      8%    28%       6%      4%
Cumulative disbursed amount        2      18      27      31      45      48     50
Percentage of Total              4%    36%    54%    62%    90%    96%   100%
Table 5: Disbursement Schedule for IDA Credit (USS Million)
Component                         FY97        FY97      FY977   FY98
Q1         Q2       Q3/4    Q1/Q2
Disbursed Amount                       6.0        4.0      3.5       1.5
Percentage of Total                 40.0%       27.0%   23.0%      10.0%
Cumulative disbursed amount            6.0       10.0    13.5       15.0
Percentage of Total                 40.0%       67.0%   90.0%     100.0%
Table 6: Disbursement Categories
(USS Millions)
Category                IDA Financed        % of Expenditures to be
I                  I financed under Bank Credit
Works                                       12.17           100% net of taxes
Incremental Operating Cost                  0.48                 100%
Refunding of Project Preparation            2.00      Amount due pursuant to
Advance                                               Section 2.02(c) of Credit
Agreement
Unallocated                                 0.35
Total                         15.00
57.    Statements of Expenditures. Disbursements will be made against Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs) for works related to contracts of up to US$1 million equivalent and all
incremental operating costs, which would include a management fee for which detailed



Technical Annex
Page 17 of 18
documents evidencing expenditures will be reviewed and retained by the PIU and made available
for the required audit as well as the Bank supervision missions.
ACCOUNTS, AUDITING AND REPORTING
58.   Accounts. Separate and auditable accounts would be established at the PIU, created by
the MPE. These accounts would include:
*  a record of withdrawals on the Special Account with copies of underlying
documentation of all disbursements;
*  accounting records that indicate how much has been spent in each municipality; and
bank statements on the Special Account;
*  adequate subsidiary records that show  total expenditures for each beneficiary
household/unit contracts for private housing and payments to contractors; and
*  a record of transactions on the Special Account and the copies of bank statements on
this account.
59.   Technical assistance to the MPE is included under the project to establish proper accounts
and financial control procedures.
60.   Audits. The project accounts will be audited annually by independent auditors under
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. The terms of reference would include audits for the
Special Account, and the Statements of Expenditures. All audit reports will be sent to the Bank
no later than six months after the close of each fiscal year. The MPE will maintain project
accounts for one year after the project closes.
61.   Reporting. The MPE will prepare and furnish to the Bank, in English, a quarterly
progress report showing the status of implementation, the status of procurement and a financial
report in a format acceptable to the Bank.
SUPERVISION PLAN
62.   Project implementation would incorporate a large degree of flexibility in view of the fact
that it would need to adapt to rapidly changing circumstances. Given the need for expedited
implementation, the project would be supervised every three months after effectiveness.
Implementation progress would be evaluated six months after effectiveness. The review would
assess the need for any adjustments. based on implementation experience to date. During the
period of implementation of the pilot project (April-August 1996) experience will be gained with
the implementation procedures and adjustments made accordingly. Starting in June 1996 for a
period of six months, a Housing Director operating out of the Resident Mission in Sarajevo
would continuously supervise all initial project implementation steps, and would assist closely
on matters requiring advice and rapid decisions.



Technical Annex
Page 18 of 18
E. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND OTHER UNDERSTANDINGS
63.          During negotiations, the delegations of BH  government and IDA  reached
agreement on the negotiated documents, and understandings on the following points:
(a)  the rate of increase of rents in public sector buildings benefiting from the
project to recover costs of repairs;
(b) subsidiary financing agreement betweeni BH and Federation;
(c)  access to the Special Account by the PIU;
(d) selection of a pipeline of projects;
(e) appointment of a financial controller at the PIU; and
(f)  terms and conditions of agreements between the PIU and HMMEs.



Appendix I
Page 1 of I
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY HOUSING REPAIR PROJECT
APPENDIX 1
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Table 1.1: Project Implementation Schedule
activity            Description                              Start Date (96D   End D*be6 <9    esponible
.___                                             .                   -  :.:            ..  -  Iistitution
Procurement         Establish PIU and recruit staff.         May 6            12 May         MPE
Preparation
Purchase office equipment and vehicles.    May 13        31 May          MPE & PIU
Standards and       Establish standards and procedures for   April 15         31 May         PIU
Procedures          accounting. operations and damage
assessment.
Selection of Cities   Identify project municipalities.       April 16         May 11         MPE
Assessment of capacity and definition of   May 20        June 5          PIU
support required.
Sign implementation agreement with each. June I          June 22         MPE & Mun.
(Municipalities)
Selection of        MPR and Municipalities to issue open     April 22         May 31         MPE & Mun.
Contractors         invitations to contractors to qualify on
approved list.
Review applications and prequalification of April 29     June 8          PIU & Mun.
contractors. Assign financial limits.
Selection of        Based on funds allocated and criteria for   April 22      May 10         Mun. & PIU
Beneficiaries in    benefit selection prepare initial list of
Private Sector      properties.
Repairs
Training of Damage Provide training to selected representatives May 20        June 14        Mun. &
Assessors           from each municipality who will then train                               HMMEs
others.
Detailed Damage    Carry out assessment of damage and initial May 13          June 7         Mun.
Assessment          estimate of cost of repairs.
On total estimated cost agree number of    May 20        June 29         Mun., PIU &
properties to be repaired.                                               HMMEs
Tender Documents  Instructions to Tenderers. Conditions of    May 2           July 29        PIU
and Tendering       Contract. Specifications etc.
Issue tender documents.                 May 4            July 22         Mun.
Review of tenders and recommendations   May 11           July 29         Mun., PIU &
for acceptance.                                                          HMMEs
Contract Signing    Property repair contract to be signed.   May I I          August 2       Contractor /
Beneficiary
Supervision         Supervise the performance of each contract. May II        to completion   Mun., PIU &
HMMEs
Monitor progress and certify payments.
Maintain full financial records.



Appendix 2
Page I of 3
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY HOUSING REPAIR PROJECT
APPENDIX 2
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT RESPONSIBILITIES
AND STAFFING
I. Performance Responsibilities of the Project Implementation Unit. The PIU will have the
following responsibilities:
* Overall project coordination, monitoring and progress reporting;
* selection of cities where project will be implemented;
* establish and advise on implementation of the detailed procedures for damage
assessment;
* carry out the coordination of donor funding of the project;
* procurement of goods and technical assistance under the project.
II. Finance and Administration Section
* Management of funds, including opening and maintenance of a project account in a
commercial bank, payment for works;
* verification of payment requests from project municipalities; proper maintenance of
project accounts and project records;
* audit of municipal project accounts;
* prepare replenishment requests for the transfer of funds from the special account;
* prepare all necessary forms and detailed procedures for the management and
execution of the above functions.
III. Technical Support Section
* Advise and assist project municipalities with the process for beneficiary selection;
* establishment of the detailed implementation procedures for damage assessment,
contractor evaluation and shortlisting, the tendering process including conditions of
contract, instructions to contractors and performance specifications;
* review and assess the existing technical and accounting capacities of each
municipality selected for housing damage repairs and, where appropriate, provide



Appendix 2'
Page 2 of 3
management support to strengthen the local staffing for the period of the works:
provision of training to the staffs of the municipalities:
*  create and maintain database of contractor's rates, unit costs and damage schedules
for each property.
IV. Local Project Office
* Recruit local project staff in accordance with the qualifications agreed witlh the MPE;
* identify beneficiaries according to the criteria established by the MPE (private sector,
Pilot Project);
* carry out damage assessment of buildings and, where approprite. for properties
identified for selected beneficiaries,
* together with MPE invite contractors to apply for prequalification:
* issue tender documents to bidding contractors:
* evaluate bids with PIU and. where appropriate, assist beneficiaries in contractor
selection;
* define contractor performance guarantees required and prepare and sign with selected
contractors performance standard agreements,
* monitor and supervise the performance of each contract,
* maintain a register and copy of all contract documents;
* maintain municipal project accounts prepare and submit to PIU on a fortnightly basis
a formal report on progress achieved and expenditure committed:
* certify contractor vouchers for payment and submit them to the PIU; and
* prepare a project completion report.



Appendix 2
Page 3 of 3
PIU Organizational Chart & Staffing
Director of PIU
Finance &                  Technical
Adlministration               Support
F                  ~~~~~~Technical
C ontroller                  aae
Secretarial   Computer
Support      Technician



Appendix 3
Page 1 of 5
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY HOUSING REPAIR PROJECT
APPENDIX 3
PILOT PROJECT
PRESENTATION AND OBJECTIVES
1.    Agreement was reached that a pilot project for $1.33 million from Dutch Trust Fund
resources would be initiated in April in the following towns: Gornji Vakuf, Vitez and Olovo for
private sector housing; and in Sarajevo for public sector housing . The pilot program would
repair approximately 210 to 240 privately-owned units and approximately 150 public sector units
in 10 buildings and would test the procedures and approach developed for the governments
emergency repair program. The focus would be on lightly damaged units selected according to
agreed upon criteria detailed in the Appendix 4. Full terms of reference for the pilot program are
as discussed within this appendix. The procedures outlined are intended for the overall project
and would be adapted based on experience in the pilot. This process started in April and was
completed by May 3.
2.    Initiation of the pilot required speedy agreement between the MPE and the Ministry of
Finance on the allocation of the resources from the Dutch Trust Fund to the MPE account. A
budget of US$1.45 million has been allocated for the pilot which would be distributed as
follows:
Table 3.1: Pilot Project-Proposed Allocation of Resources
Item                                   Allocated resources
(US$ million)
Category I (Goods)                              0.04
Category 2 (Works)                              1.33
Category 6 (Operating expenses)                 0.08
Total                            1.45
3.    These categories are the eligible expenses according to Schedule 1 of the Grant
Agreement between the World Bank, acting as trustee for the Dutch Trust Fund, and BH and
correspond to Part E of the Grant Agreement, Schedule 2.



Appendix 3
Page 2 of 5
PILOT PROJECT PROCEDURES
4.    Project Management: The project will be managed by a special unit (PIU) already
established within the office of the MPE. Staff will provide the necessary financial and technical
management abilities to meet the implementation requirements of the pilot project and thereafter
for the larger program. Initial staffing for the PIU will comprise a central management section
supported by a site-based staff of project managers and inspectors of works. The staffing and
deployment of the unit will be as shown on the appended organization chart and will comprise
the following locally recruited staff:
Director of PIU-a professionally qualified engineer or architect having suitable
experience. He will be responsible for the satisfactory performance of the unit, for
promoting the interests of the MPE and the housing repair program in particular with
international donor organizations, and for maintaining full and effective reporting on the
efficiency and effectiveness of the project.
Financial Controller--a professionally qualified accountant or finance officer having
suitable experience. He will be responsible for the monitoring and facilitating of the flow
of funds within the program. Overseeing the financial aspects of contracts established and
generally managing the accounts of the program. Management of procurement.
Secretary-responsible to the director and financial controller. Interpreter-Shall be
computer literate and be totally familiar with the use of the Microsoft Office software
package.
Accounts Database Technician-with sufficient experience of accounts and database
applications. Will be responsible for the establishment and maintenance of financial
databases, their manipulation and reporting.
Technical Manager-professionally qualified building engineer or architect with
sufficient relevant experience. He/She will be responsible for the damage assessment
review, contractual matters and perfomance of the repair contracts.
Architects-to assist with damage assessment, and to provide outreach services will be
recruited as necessary. from local consultants.
5.    Performance Responsibilities of the Project Implementation Unit. The MPE will vest
in the PIU the authority to act on their behalf for the expedient provision of the following
services:
(a) overall project coordination, monitoring and progress reporting;
(b) establish and advise on implementation of the detailed procedures for damage
assessment (Appendix 6); contractor evaluation and shortlisting and the tendering
process (Appendix 10);



Appendix 3
Page 3 of 5
(c) advise and assist with the process for beneficiary selection (Appendix 4);
(d) advise on and prepare and documentation for contracts (Appendix 10);
(e) procurement of goods and necessary consumables for the exclusive use of the project
operation (Appendix 8);
(f) verification of payment requests; proper maintenance of project accounts and project
records; and
(g) advise on the need to engage further contract staff for the proper performance of
duties under the project.
6.    Equipment to be purchased by the PIU: Vehicles and office equipment according to
the schedule in Appendix 8 will be purchased by the PIU for its exclusive use. The goods will be
purchased by National Shopping (NS) procedures as specified in Schedule 3 of the Grant
Agreement No TF 020274 and will be funded as Part E of Schedule 2 against eligible expenditure
categories as shown in Schedule 2 of the same Grant Agreement.
7.    Project implementation. The project will be implemented according to the following
criteria and activities:
8.    Criteria for selecting (a) Beneficiaries for the Pilot Project. Private Secto;: and (b) Public
Sector Buildings. The selection of private housing to be considered for rehabilitation works
under the World Bank Emergency program in Bosnia will be in accordance with the criteria in
Appendix 4.
9.    Procurement procedures for emergency repairs. Works shall be carried out by suitably
experienced contractors selected according to the following means:
(a) Contractor Invitation, Evaluation and Shortlisting procedures:
The MPE, in conjunction with each of the municipalities, will issue in the national
press, and advertise within the Municipal building, a notice inviting contractors to
apply for inclusion on a listing of approved tenderers.
The notice will define the time period within which the applications shall be
submitted to each municipality and shall further define the particulars to be submitted.
The notice will explain that the contractors qualifying under the assessment process
will be limited to the maximum total value of contracts that can be awarded to them
and also that a minimum total value will be applied. However no tenderer will be
guaranteed any award of contracts.



Appendix 3
Page 4 of 5
(b) Tender Process:
The procedures for the invitation, assessment and award of tendered bids will be as
stated in Appendix 10.
RESPONSIBILITIES AND ACTIVITIES OF THE MUNICIPALITIES
(a) Identifying beneficiaries and target apartment buildings, according to the criteria
established by the Ministry;
(b) carry out damage assessment of properties identified for selected beneficiaries;
(c) together with the MPE invite contractors to apply for inclusion on a select list;
(d) maintain accounts of the allocated fund for house damage repairs;
(e) prepare and sign with selected contractors performance standard agreements;
(f) Assist beneficiaries in bid evaluation and contractor selection;
(g) maintain municipal project accounts;
(h) prepare project monthly progress reports and submit to the PIU;
(i) prepare SOEs and submit them to the MPE for payment;
(j) supervise contractors and monitor progress of work;
(k) prepare a project completion report; and
(1) recruit local project staff in accordance with the qualifications agreed with the MPE.
10.   Project cost by component of goods and works. Pilot project costs are as listed in the
table 3.1.



SsP=Udi2L 3
Page 5 of 5
Table 3.2: Pilot Project Implementation Schedule
Activity                                             Start Date           End Date
(96)                (96)
Staff recruitment                                      May 6              May 24
Purchase of equipment                                 May 13              May 31
Establish agreed standards and procedures for
damage assessment                                 April 15             April 30
Detailed damage assessment of damaged housing        March 20             May 31
Estimate the budget cost of works for each property  March 20             May 31
Prepare notices and invitation of bids                 May 4              May 12
Contractors prepare and submit prequalifications      April 22             May 9
Prepare contract documentation (instructions,
conditions, specs etc.)                            May 2               May 11
Assess prequalifications and shortlist-assign upper
limit of total contracted works                    May 2               May II
Issue tender documentation to prequalified
contractors contractor bid process                 May 4               May 10
Review bids and award contracts                       May 11              May 25
Agree with Ministry of Finance on the use of funds
and obtain first tranche                           May 13              May 18
Monitor, supervise and report on all contracts        May 15             August 31



Appendix 4
Page 1 of 2
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY HOUSING REPAIR PROJECT
APPENDIX 4
BENEFICIARY SELECTION CRITERIA
A. Pilot Project: Private Sector Housing in Olovo, Vitez and Gornji Vakuf
The household will need to meet the following criteria to be selected and benefit from the
project:
* The dwelling shall be located within the administrative district of the municipal
authority selected by the MPE;
 The dwelling shall be privately owned and will either be under the present occupation
of the owner, or the known owner will give a written undertaking to the local
municipality that he will return and take up full-time occupation as his main residence
as soon as the building works are completed. The beneficiary will also agree for his
name to be deleted from the register of displaced persons;
* Priority for benefit will be given to widowed families, invalid ex-members of the
armed forces;
* The dwelling shall be located in an area which is either known locally to be free from
land mines or where such land mines have been removed under a formal program;
* The dwelling shall have suffered damage during the war such that it is currently in a
condition considered less than a minimum habitable standard or where the damage is
such that, unless repairs are effected, the present condition will deteriorate in a short
time to less than the minimum habitable standard;
*  The amount of damage suffered by the dwelling shall fall within the categories 1 and
2 as defined by the survey of property undertaken by IMG in 1995. This will include
properties with up to 30% damage where such damage does not affect the structural
stability of the property;
* The maximum value of repair works which can be undertaken on any one property is
US$5,000 and those properties whose damage is assessed as exceeding this value will
not be included in the pilot phase of the rehabilitation program; and
* The dwelling shall have the benefit of operating local infrastructure services. These
will include the supply of electricity, a wholesome water supply and an effective
sewerage system where such services existed prior to the war.



Appendix 5
Page 1 of 2
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY HOUSING REPAIR PROJECT
APPENDIX 5
ASSESSMENT OF DAMAGE
The assessment of damage to properties will include the following details and information:
Basic Data
* Full name of owner of property;
* exact address of property;
* contact address of owner if not same as in 2 above;
* reference to proof of ownership document.
Technical Details
*  General description of the property, including type of building, type of construction,
number of floors and the overall nature of the damage (shell holes, fire damage etc.);
*  define the overall category' of damage for the building;
*  for each of the following elements of the building, the qualifying repair works2 are to
be detailed, including the types and quantities of necessary materials:
(a) Private Sector Housing:
*  roof                   *  external walls       *  internal openings
*  internal walls         *  ceilings             *  decoration.
*  kitchen                *  bathroom             *  floors
*  external openings      *  chimney              *  electrical
(b) Public Sector Housing:
* roof
* external walls
* external openings
* chimney
The categories of damage are:
I - cost of damage repair not greater than 15% of property value,
2 - cost of damage repair 16 - 40% of property value,
3 - cost of damage repair 41 - 45% of property value,
4 - cost of darnage repair 46 - 60% of property value.
Qualifying repair works are as defined in Appendix 4.



Appendix 4
Page 2 of 2
B. Selection Criteria for funding for emergency repairs to the common elements of Public
Sector Housing
1 - Selection of Municipal areas. Municipalities will be selected according to the following
criteria
(a) population 10,000;
(b) damaged stock as percent of total public stock is over 30%; and
(c) majority of damaged public stock has less than 40% damage to external fabric.
2 - Seiection of Buildings. Buildings will be selected when: (i) the owners are known and
no ownership disputes exist (ii) the owners have agreed in writing, to the repair program and
to the cost recovery proposals; (iii) and where the buildings:
(a) are constructed to traditional designs and with traditional materials (non system built);
(b) have limited damage to their external envelope;
(c) are structurally sound;
(d) together form part or a whole of a community group;
(e) either have existing infrastructural services or where these are imminently to be
available under other works;
(f) are in areas cleared, or declared free, of mines; and
(g) buildings with potential for maximizing number of useable units.
3 - Selection of Repair Works. Repairs to damaged buildings will comprise:
(a) weatherproofing the building envelope by permanent works to roofs, walls, windows,
entrances and rainwater goods;
(b) permanent works to halls, stairways (and lifts in specially selected cases) and
corridors; and
(c) rehabilitation of building services within the common service cores or risers.



Appendix.5
Page 2 of 2
* common halls, stairways, and utilities serving a number of apartments
* The information will be provided in a standardized manner according to the
following:
Ref    Element of   Description of repair   Unit of    Quantity   Estimate    Total
building       component        measure               of cost     cost
The assessment of cost of repair (based on no more than the experience of the
assessors) for each component will include both materials and labor necessary for a
satisfactory completion of the work.
* Other information which is considered appropriate for inclusion.



Appendix 6
Page 1 of 3
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY HOUSING REPAIR PROJECT
APPENDIX 6
OUTLINE SPECIFICATION
OF WORK TO BE CARRIED OUT
LIMITATIONS TO THE DEGREE OF WORK TO BE CARRIED OUT
1.    The work to properties to be carried out under this program will be limited to the
following:
A. Pilot Project: Private Sector Housing
2.    The house or those parts of the house subject to repair shall only be returned to a
habitable condition. The definition of habitable, in order of selection priority, shall be:
* a water tight dwelling
o intruder-proof to living areas (e.g. windows, doors and locks as appropriate)
* operating sanitary facilities of flush WC, wash basin and shower
* the means of heating by either stove or fireplace
* electrical installations and fittings in the rooms designated for repair
o accommodation comprising:
* up to a max of two sleeping rooms
one living room / kitchen
* one bathroom / toilet.
3.    In order to achieve these levels of facilities some or all of the elements of works' may be
undertaken but shall collectively remain within the overall budget for the property. Where all
facilities itemized in 2 above cannot be provided within the budget then the order of work shall
be according to the priority ranking in descending order until the budget allocation in exhausted.
A schedule of works is produced which describes the details of repair under each element of building works.
This schedule will be priced by each qualifying contractor and the prices so obtained will be used to award the
contract between the beneficiary and contractor for each property.



Apwndi&L
Page 2 of 3
B. Emergency Repair Program for Public Sector Apartment Buildings
4.    The repairs shall be confined to the common elements and envelope of the buildings (i.e.,
roofs, external fabric, common entrances, stairs, utilities etc.)
C. Standards, Materials and Workmanships
5.    The materials and workmanship applicable, as appropriate to both sectors, which shall be
applied to the repair works shall be according to the following
The standard of materials and workmanship to be applied to the house repairs shall not be
less than those applying to new building works in Bosnia, or in the former Yugoslavia.
To achieve the satisfactory performance of the workmanship and materials the contractors
shall ensure that the best materials of the proposed type shall be used in strict accordance
with the manufacturer's instructions by labor that has been adequately trained for the
purpose.
Roofs. Reconstruction of a roof shall include durable tiles, battening, damp-proof
membrane, insulation and, where appropriate, roof timbers properly sized and secured.
Works to the roof shall iclude flashings, edge boarding, gutters and downpipes as
appropriate.
External Walls. Patching to external walls will include cutting back locally damaged
areas to form a key, priming and the application of a suitable render. Where damage has
occurred to the structure of the wall, bricks shall be cut out and whole bricks of the same
type or better shall be mortared in place.
Balconies will not qualify for repair and access will be locked off.
External Openings. All window openings on the designated floor will be provided with
either single or double wing frames. Only those windows in the rooms to be occupied
will be fitted with a single 3 mm pane of glass, correctly puttied in place, although the
frames will be of such a type that a second pane can be fitted at a later date.
Windows openings in a story above that to be inhabited will be closed off with reinforced
plastic sheet securely battened and fixed along all edges.
Where applicable, one external door will be provided complete with security fittings
comprising a key operated latch lock and an internal bolt.
Internal Walls. Internal walls will have damaged blockwork made good and plaster
patched to an even finish prior to decoration. Any work to fixing electrical conduits or
similar shall have been completed prior to plaster repairs. Only rooms that would be
inhabited will be repaired.



Appendix 6
Page 3 of 3
Ceilings. Where ceilings are of a prefabricated concrete type, they will be plastered and
finished to the same standard as the walls. If the ceiling is of a wooden structure, repairs
to the timberwork shall be carried out and thermal insulation placed above. In no case
will this work be carried out in buildings where the roof has not been rendered
waterproof.
Floors. Ground floor concrete slabs shall be covered with a minimum 2 mm layer of tar,
bitumen or similar. This membrane shall be protected with a cement screed. Damaged
blocks or tiles shall be cut out and removed to be replaced with either cement mortar or, if
provided free of cost by the beneficiary, the original type of material.
Untreated wooden floor panels shall be fitted over a layer of thermal and hydro
insulation.
Internal Doors. Internal door will only be fitted in those rooms in use by the family and
will be of a standard wood-ply sandwich design including hinges and non-lockable
closer.
Kitchen. The kitchen will be equipped with a combined sink and cupboard. The sink will
be plumbed of cold water supply and waste water. A wood burning stove will be provided
where not already available under other donor programs.
Bathroom. The bathroom will be fitted with the following:
O flush toilet complete with bowl, plastic seat and syphonic tank,
o ceramic sink complete with cold water tap, plug and drain,
- shower unit complete with tray and plumbing,
-  liter electric heating boiler.
Walls will be painted with a suitable water-proof paint and clear plastic sheets will be
fixed to two walls over the area of the shower tray to a height of 1.8 meters.
Electrical. The house will be equipped with a roof connector to a distribution board
including a mains isolator, four fused circuit supply ways and a meter.
Each room to be occupied will be wired and provided with one light fitting, one light
on/off switch and two switched power sockets. The bathroom will be provided with a
light and a water heater switch, both located immediately outside the bathroom. The light
fitting will be of the enclosed glass bowl type.
Decoration. The exterior of the building will not be decorated.
Internal walls and ceilings in the sleeping and living rooms will be decorated with one
coat of internal grade emulsion.
The bathroom will be decorated as specified under Bathroom above.



Appendix 7
Page I of 2
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY HOUSING REPAIR PROJECT
APPENDIX 7
DETAILED FLOW OF FUNDS
FLOW OF FUNDS
1.    BH is the borrower of the IDA credit. Under the terms of the Subsidiary Agreement
between BH and the Federation, funds will be transferred to the Federation. The PIU will be
authorized to withdraw funds from the Special Account for eligible expenditures under the
Project. PIU will have an implementation agreement with Housing Maintenance/Management
Enterprises (HMME) in each project municipality. HMME's will be responsible for identifying
damaged buildings eligible for loans under the project, prepare damage assessments and bidding
documents, evaluate tenders and supervise contractors. HMME's are also responsible for
collecting the rents, for allocating the amounts corresponding to the loan payments for repairs,
and for transferring them onto the account designated by the FMoF for the project.
PROJECT FLOW OF FUNDS FOR ELIGIBLE EXPENDITURES
2.    The project flow of funds comprises the following steps:
(i) A US dollar Special Account will be established at a commercial bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA on behalf of the State with an Authorized Allocation
of US$3 million.
(ii) BH will authorize the use of these funds by the Federation under the terms of the
Subsidiary Finance Agreement between BH and the Federation.
(iii) The Federation will authorize PIU to withdraw funds from the Special Account for
eligible expenditures under the Project.
(iv) PIU, subject to adequate controls and according to agreed procedures, will pay
contractors, for eligible expenditures approved by HMME's.
3.    The PIU will prepare an Application for Withdrawl-Form 1903 (the Bank's authorized
format), using a Statement of Expenditure (SOE) for all incremental operating costs and contracs
below $1 million, together with a Special Account bank statement and reconcilliation of this
Account, to IDA for replenishment.
4.    The above 5 steps describe the procedures that apply to the IDA project. Other parallel
financing donor projects might require other procedures, but the PIU, BH and the Federation
must not commingle IDA financed funds with those of other donors.



Appendi&x
Page 2 of 2
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY HOUSING REPAIR PROJECr
FLOW OF FUNDS
World Bunk
State
(Special Account)
-~~   -t   (Project Account)                      l
srU verifies                                                 Pa-   Mt is
compiotion and                                               transfsn,d to
authorize                                                   Conractors
payment                                                      account
PIU                                                      Contractor
}IMME certifisu                              I 
satisfactory                                               Rpquyre fir
complction of work        -Eade
and wquests payment



Appendix 8
Page 1 of 1
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY HOUSING REPAIR PROJECT
APPENDIX 8
EQUIPMENT SCHEDULE
FOR PIU
Table 8.1: Equipment Schedule
Unit    DTF Pilot -    Other/Main Project
Equipment Schedule             Price    D   P                             Total (US$)
Desktop Computer & software    3,000   4   12,000       4      12,000         24,000
Notebook Computer              3,500    -        -      4      14,000         14,000
Laser Printer                  1,500   2    3,000       2       3,000          6,000
Portable Printer                500    -         -      2       3,000          6,000
Photocopier                    3,000    1    3,000      1       3,000          6,000
Facsimile Machine              1,000    1    1,000      1       1,000          2,000
Phones                             -   -    1,000       1       1,000          2,000
Other Office Supplies              -   -    5,000       -      44,000         49,000
Furniture                          -   -         -      -      10,000         10,000
Cars (VW or similar)          15,000    1   15,000      5      75,000         90,000
Total                           40,000             160,000        200,000



Appendix 9
Page 1 of 2
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY HOUSING REPAIR PROJECT
APPENDIX 9
AVAILABILITY OF LABOR AND BUILDING MATERIALS
Introduction
I.    An integral part of the activities of the World Bank Mission to Sarajevo in March was to
review the availability of suitable labor and building materials to complete the proposed
emergency house repair program. Two main considerations were identified: that labor and
materials, both preferably from local sources, were available, and that any significant increase in
the demand for materials would not result in overheating the local economy.
Labor
2.    The labor needed to carry out the repairs program financed by IDA and DTF (US$18
million) is not expected to cause any significant problems.
3.   Inquiries made at the EU mission office in Sarajevo suggest that there are some 400
contractors with a staff of 50 or more still in existence in BH. Discussion with Sarajevestan (the
public housing management organization in Sarajevo) confirms that in the city of Sarajevo at
least there is a large pool of building workers such that labor shortages will not be a problem. A
similar situation appears to exist in other towns and municipalities. There is a pent up desire to
start the repair work.
Materials
4.    Before the war, the former Yugoslavia was pre-eminent in international contracting and
also maintained a strong national construction program. Many building materials were obtained
nationally although supplies of some items, such as glass, for example, were supplemented by
importation. The war has resulted in a virtual cessation of materials production in BH but there
are now positive signs of regeneration of supplies.
5.    The capacity of the local building materials industry is of vital importance for the
rehabilitation process, especially for large scale reconstruction programs. Materials can be
imported by donors, as is the case presently, but the local economy will not benefit unless it
regains some production and marketing capacity. Using locally produced materials would also
reduce the strain on transport to bring in the material, and the load on the major roads
themselves.



Appendix 9
Page 2 of 2
6.     The basic requirements for materials to effect building repairs are cement, aggregates,
clay products (blocks, roof tiles etc.), timbers, glass, sanitary and plumbing items, electrical
wiring and fittings and decorative paints. Of this list all sanitary, plumbing, electrical and
metalwork (ironmongery) items, have been and will continue to be imported. It is also probable
that, in the short term at least, so too will external doors.
7.     The remaining items are available from sources in BH and Croatia although not in large
quantities at present. The reconstruction program will necessarily result in the re-establishment
of certain manufacturing capabilities to meet the program and the situation will improve with
time. Also with the implementation of the mine clearance program mineral quarries currently
unable to function will come back into production thus enhancing the local availability of
building materials. A major limestone quarry south west of Sarajevo is currently unable to
operate because of the land mining that has occurred and it will be critical to the building
program that such facilities are restored to production at the earliest opportunity.
8.     Roof tiles are manufactured in Tuzla and Kakanj and, under a Swedish aid program, there
are plans to further increase production facilities in Sarajevo. The same is true of cement
production. A window manufacturing plant is established in Ilija, Sarajevo, and it is understood
that this plant will return to production within the next few weeks.
9.     A survey of building materials in central BH was carried out in 1995 by Hifab
International AB. Their report concludes that production facilities are available in the country
although many are non-operational at present. The following summarizes their findings:
Product                                           Operational
Limestone, concrete building materials ..........................   Partly
Cement ..........................                          No
Prefabricated building elements ........... ............... Partly
Insulated wall units ..........................           Yes
Clay bricks ..........................                     No
Stoves, water heaters ..........................           No
Fiber board ..........................                     No
Plywood, timbers, windows and doors ..........................  Partly
Kitchen fittings and furniture .........  ................. Partly
Plastic pipes for water and sewerage .......................... Partly
10.   When contractors were questioned about the availability of building materials they
claimed everything was available although imported materials will take time to deliver.
However, it is of importance that links with overseas suppliers appear still to exist and can be
activated as required.



Appendix 10
Page 1 of 2
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY HOUSING REPAIR PROJECT
APPENDIX 10
PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES
Mechanism for Procurement under Small Works
I .    To assure consistency as well as to facilitate a competitive environment the following
procedures are established: Detailed damage assessment of apartment buildings and selected single
family homes eligible under the Government's emergency repair program will be made by the
Technical Departments of each municipality or its housing maintenance and management enterprise
(HMME) according to the standards and procedures established by the PIU. Technical assistance to
the Municipal Technical Departments or HMME's will be provided by the program.
Prequalification of the Bidders
2.    A general prequalification of contractors will be carried out. For this purpose, a notice will
be published in the press and announcements will be made in each municipality inviting local and
national contractors to express their interest in prequalification. This information submitted by
firms will be used to carry out their general prequalification for different levels in terms of contract
values. The prequalification criteria shall be approved by the Association.
3.    To prequalify, bidders shall provide prequalification information using standard forms
provided by the PIU and they shall meet the following minimum qualifying criteria:
* demonstrated capacity as contractor to successfully complete works in the amount
equal to the aggregate contract value specified in the bid.
*  experience as contractor in the construction of similar works of nature and complexity
to the proposed works over the last 6 years.
*  proposals for the timely staffing of essential labor force for the completion of the
works specified in the bid.
4.    Contractors who are prequalified will be invited to offer their price quotations for any of the
apartment buildings and housing units included in the package. The bidders will be asked to offer
their price quotations separately for each building or housing unit selected by them. The aggregate
contract value, however, cannot be:
(i) less than US $ 30,000 or more than US$1 million (public sector housing); or
(ii) less than US $ 50,000 for a group of individual housing units (private sector housing).



Appendix 10
Page 2 of 2
5.    In the case of public sector housing the contracts will be signed by the municipality (or its
housing maintenance and management enterprise); in the case of the private sector housing (pilot
project), each beneficiary will be allowed to contract with contractors who offer the lowest price
quotation for the required work, and who have the experience and resources to successfully
complete the contract accordingly.
Tendering Process
6.    A schedule of items of works compiled for every property will be issued to each tenderer
who will submit its prices, fixed for the specified period of time to cover the completion of the
works.
7.    Tenderers will be invited to submit their bids for repair contract works up to the upper
limit of total contract value allowed.
8.    By assessment of the bids received for each property, contracts will be awarded to the
lowest evaluated bidder.



Appendix I I
Page 1 of 1
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY HOUSING REPAIR PROJECT
APPENDIX 11
PROJECT PROCUREMENT PLAN
=:'t':-t,;-,:'','  '.  ....................  ...    . .....                                        :z"j'i
f:-:.t.,;0-;--0.','.S.00S,.f~..      ..  .   ...     ................:..,:.S ..... .-...'.  -
Package Description
1. Sarajevo City                      1.0      Small Works   June 28,     July 10,     July17,    May1997
4           4.0                      1996         1996         1996
July 29,   August 16,   Sept. 15,       ; 
___ ___ ___ ___ ___ __  ___ ___ __ 1996      1996        1996     i__   __ _
2. Sarajevo Suburbs       32.5                      .;July 29    August 16   September                 c
3. Mostar East .2.5.
4. Mostar West            1.0                                1"' 
5. Kupres                 2            1.3                       =__
6. Olovo                  21.3                               7iJue 2       July 10      July17
7. Gorazde                21.4                               August 10   August 26   September
Includes design management supervision fees.
2Contracts funded through PPA advance would be contracted prior to September 15 for Sarajevo and Olovo.



IBRD 28156
l 6'                           $To Zogreb                                l o            To Osijek      
C  R O  A  T I A                   To Vinkosc,            - c- I1
_-,     >               >                    _  _             5        t      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~To O,,lekj  \
Bosanski Novi          B                                         0                                        To Belgrade
45                                   '   Priedor                               era )nc0
0                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~riM                              -
9 BiIioeskoGroh                                vo\Xt°Krzk                   n 0> Krupceo                                 ' <onici  >
Kni  0 .'              Glamnoc            >     <         B s,iscacc/                             05 kc                      T
- o   '                                                                                                                   >° mGcrnii Vakuf  Krekeac  -   rev-  Belgrade
Zadar                                                                .                  RogcI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ilell isena  \\  ;0
5  0   o   M                98        .      W     s   J                 Nj_               s_nsk MO     F                                            F 
.  ~~~  .;  .  c     \,>OPosusie                 >             +~~~~~NeeN,  OKarlnovik   X    ~//To
i'a                            o  Cr epoije
- s f ~~~~~- . -- - M~~~~~ostor V\o§  T/eitz07
.                  t>-f           g1    /    ~~~~~~~Nevesinje    - #      Podgorico
"g;'^~.  '} >    ~~'   -<   ,>   <Gecko0 (FEDERAL REPUBLIC
sanski  .                                                                                       oznic   --c ,CcpIjMicc  OF
I                          42~Z  
A   <   , ~~' - ~~ --4,'~ Bilecco . (SERBIA/MONTENEGRO)
A d r i atf i c    S e a                                       -k   V-ku f                                 ic ,2<
Jezro       a ce                                                        SekoiLOMTER
.~            ~Th~                     > < t  ¢e            inje )         Tb soap  waspspodocs  bT (he IaIp
DubroansV :   ^           >           De>s. ua -r ot The World Rook TheP
Bosnsko Groh  ucr  Te   o lare  sioea a shown os t
B O S N I A  A N D  HERZEGOVINA                                                                                        apos sep5 ass ,h port
Kni.  GI                             Busovaca~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-    noreen saresoseofs:
DAYTON AGREEMENT LINES                                      iso     f   10  ,               20 3A'
SERB-CONTROLLED AREAS                                               ' 9 EMAENY' RE        POLAND/         UKRIN
FEDERATION-CONTROLLED AREAS nlifVak            Kre§e.- r<.Ne)g,de
,-SWITZ7<  AJSIRA(                   - HUNARYC>
_-RIVERS                                ;t                                                HJNGAR  7      ,     g ,
T42                                                                             O SELECTED CITIES  4  SaPA 
®i    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                             F   s'>t(4Ai F[555 , 
- -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                   .                  ,:,'5   UGR
* THE STATUS OF BRSb  O WLL BE DETERMINED u1n AoSoop                                                              0
BY ABITRATION WITHIN ONE YEAR.  
L   16°                                1?7°                                    1,8 P         0                      2,0    .,ep.i
GIaIY IFQ96









IMAG INGa
Report No:T-    6;937 BIH
Type: 4
1 44d



