Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2902 BOS
Development Credit Agreement
(Emergency Housing Repair Project)
between
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 31, 1996
CREDIT NUMBER 2902 BOS
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 31, 1996, between BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of Part A of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower has contracted or intends to contract from other sources of 
finance (the Cofinanciers) loans and grants in an aggregate amount equivalent to about 
thirty five million Dollars ($35,000,000) to assist in the financing of Parts B and C 
of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in agreements to be entered into 
between the Borrower and the Cofinanciers; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
Page  2
forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment 
to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, 
to the 
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations."
 
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Deutsche Marks" means the lawful currency of the Federal Republic of 
Germany;
(b)
"Eligible Municipality" means any municipality or city which meets the 
eligibility criteria set forth in paragraph 2 (d) (v) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, 
including, inter alia, Sarajevo, Mostar, Olovo, Kupers and Gorazde;
(c)
"Federation" means the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a political 
sub-division of the Borrower, and includes any successor or successors thereof;
(d)
"HMME" means any housing maintenance management enterprise or comparable 
entity responsible for maintenance and management of public sector housing;
(e)
"PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit established within the 
Ministry of Physical Planning and Environment of the Federation; 
(f)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
July 2, 1996 and July 5, 1996 between the Borrower and the Association;
(g)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(h)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means any agreement entered into between the 
Federation, through the PIU, and an Eligible Municipality pursuant to paragraph 2 (d) 
(i) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules supplemental to such Subsidiary Agreement;
(i)
"Subsidiary Credit" means the credit granted under the Subsidiary Finance 
Agreement; and
(j)
"Subsidiary Finance Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and the Federation, pursuant to Section 3.01 of this Agreement, 
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules 
supplemental to such Subsidiary Finance Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to ten million five hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 10,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of services required for Part A of the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of Part A of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank, acceptable to the 
Page  3
Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September 15 commencing September 15, 2006 and ending March 15, 2031. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 2016 shall be 
one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 Dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu  of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment 
modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Page  4
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
(a)
(i)
shall cause the Federation to carry out the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, construction, engineering and 
environmental practices, and to this end shall relend the proceeds 
of the Credit to the Federation under a Subsidiary Finance 
Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the 
Federation under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Association, which shall include the principal 
terms and conditions set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement;
(ii)
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable the Federation to carry out the 
Project and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of the Project; 
and
(iii)
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with the carrying out of the Project by the 
Federation;
(b)
shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Finance Agreement in such 
a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purpose of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Finance Agreement or 
any provision thereof; and
(c)
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, shall cause the 
Federation to carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the works required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause the Federation to 
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower and the Federation responsible for carrying 
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall or shall cause the Federation to:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association, who shall be employed by October 31, 1996;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four (4) months after the end of each such year, 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
Page  5
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall or 
shall cause the Federation to:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Finance Agreement has been 
entered into by the Borrower and the Federation, respectively, with terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely that the Subsidiary Finance 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and is legally binding upon, the 
Borrower and the Federation in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Mehmeda Spahe 5
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  6
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
By /s/ Sven Alkalaj
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Christine Wallich
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated        % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Works under Part A        8,500,000       100% (net of
     of the Project                            taxes)
(2)  Incremental Operating       350,000       100%
     Costs under Part A
     of the Project
(3)  Refunding of Project      1,400,000       Amounts due
     Preparation Advance                       pursuant to
                                               Section 2.02 (c)
                                               of this Agreement
(4)  Unallocated                 250,000
          TOTAL               10,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means 
the costs of incremental staff, services, facilities and other resources, including 
the costs of design, management and supervision services required by the PIU, as 
agreed with the Association, to implement Part A of the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
Page  7
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for Incremental Operating Costs, and 
expenditures for works under contracts costing less than $1,000,000 equivalent, except 
for the first five contracts, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
5.
No withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures for works procured under 
contracts costing less than $30,000 equivalent, and contracts costing more than 
$1,000,000 equivalent.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to:  (i) repair the common areas and 
weather-proofing of building structures of public sector housing; (ii) carry out a 
pilot project in selected municipalities to test the implementation procedures for 
emergency repair of private and public sector housing; and (iii) strengthen the 
implementation capacity of the PIU and housing sector agencies.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Emergency Public Housing Repair
 
Repair works to the common areas (including roofs, external walls, staircases, 
and utility systems) and weather-proofing of publicly owned apartment buildings, 
located in selected urban areas.
Part B:
Pilot Project
 
Repair works to lightly damaged houses and apartment buildings, located in 
selected municipalities.
Part C:
Institutional Strengthening
 
Provision of goods and technical assistance to strengthen the implementation 
capacity of the PIU and housing sector agencies.
***
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Part A:
General
 
Works shall be procured  in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995, and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines), and the following 
provisions, as applicable. 
Part B:
Procurement Procedure
 
Procurement of Small Works
1.
Contracts for works shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost between 
$30,000 equivalent or more and $1,000,000 or less each.
2.
Works shall be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the 
basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors (qualified 
according to criteria acceptable to the Association) in response to a written 
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the 
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.
Page  8
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning 
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations soliciting quotations, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to the first five contracts for works, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 of the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
The principal terms and conditions of the Subsidiary Finance Agreement shall 
include the following:
1.
(a)
The Subsidiary Credit shall be denominated in Deutsche Marks.
 
(b)
The term of the Subsidiary Credit shall be thirty five (35) years, 
including a ten (10) year grace period.
(c)
The Borrower shall charge the Federation a commitment fee at a rate equal 
to the rate of the commitment charge payable under Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower shall charge the Federation interest on the principal amount 
of the Subsidiary Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate equal 
to the rate payable under Section 2.05 of this Agreement.
(e)
The principal amount of the Subsidiary Credit shall be the equivalent in 
Deutsche Marks (determined as of the date or respective dates of repayment) of the 
value of currency or currencies withdrawn from the Credit Account on account of 
expenditures for Part A of the Project.
2.
(a)
The Federation shall maintain the PIU with a sufficient number of 
qualified staff, adequate facilities, and terms of reference, satisfactory to the 
Association.
(b)
The Federation shall:
 
(i)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(ii)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association, on or about February 28, 1997, a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on 
the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during 
the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and
(iii)
review with the Association, by March 31, 1997, or such later date 
as the Association shall request, the report referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions 
Page  9
and recommendations of the said report and the Association's views 
on the matter.
(c)
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions, and without 
limitation thereto, the Federation shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Federation and the Association, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Federation on said plan.
(d)
The Federation shall, through the PIU:
 
(i)
enter into a Subsidiary Agreement with each Eligible Municipality, 
under terms and conditions which shall include, inter alia, those 
set forth in paragraph 2 (e) of this Schedule;
(ii)
monitor the overall execution of the Project and the carrying out 
by each Eligible Municipality of its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement to which it is a party;
(iii)
take or cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate on 
its part to enable each Eligible Municipality to perform its 
obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement to which it is a party, 
and not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance;
(iv)
exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreements in such manner 
as to protect the interests of the Association and the Borrower 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive any such Subsidiary Agreement or provision thereof;
(v)
select the Eligible Municipalities in accordance with the 
following criteria:
(A)
the residents of each Eligible Municipality must be more 
than 10,000 according to the latest available census;
(B)
a significant proportion of the housing stock must be 
publicly owned; and
(C)
a significant proportion (more than 30%) of such housing 
stock must have been damaged, without suffering, however, 
from any major structural damage (less than 40% of the 
external envelope).
(e)
The Federation, through the PIU, shall ensure that the following terms 
and conditions are incorporated in each Subsidiary Agreement:
(i)
Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
the apartment buildings eligible for repair works under the 
Project shall be selected in accordance with the following 
criteria:
(A)
the apartment buildings must have been constructed with 
built masonry, concrete frame, and non-modular construction 
systems;
(B)
the apartment buildings must have suffered limited damage to 
their external envelopes (less than 40%), without suffering 
any major structural damage;
(C)
the apartment buildings must be located in areas that have 
been cleared, or have been declared free, of mines;
(D)
the apartment buildings must be located in populated areas, 
and must either benefit from operating infrastructure 
Page  10
services or be located in areas where, at the time of the 
selection, infrastructure services are planned to be 
restored under other projects;
(E)
the apartment buildings must provide, once repaired, the 
highest possible number of useable units;
(F)
the apartment buildings must be free from any ongoing 
dispute with respect to their ownership at the time of the 
selection; and
(G)
the Eligibility Municipality must have agreed, in writing, 
to the repair works under the Project and to the rents to be 
charged in consideration of such works.
(ii)
Each Eligible Municipality shall, through an HMME, inter alia:
 
(A)
select eligible apartment buildings, in accordance with the 
criteria listed in paragraph 2 (e) (i) of this Schedule;
(B)
carry out damage assessments of the selected apartment 
buildings;
(C)
pre-qualify contractors as provided in paragraph 2 of Part B 
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, prepare the invitation to 
contractors for submission of quotations for the works to be 
carried out under the Project, and enter into agreements 
with the selected contractors;
(D)
supervise contractors and monitor the progress of the repair 
works under the Project;
(E)
prepare and submit to the PIU, for its review, completion 
reports relating to the repair works under the Project; and
(F)
collect the rents charged to the owners of the selected 
apartment buildings.
(iii)
The rents charged to the owners of the selected buildings shall at 
a minimum recover the costs of the repair works under the Project.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set  forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of  the 
reasonable cost of services required for Part A of the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $3,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
Page  11
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the  Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the  Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the eligible Categories, 
and in the equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Page  12
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
