FILE      COPY        R ESTRICTED
Report No . TO -6 93 a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliafed organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report moy
not be published nor moy it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
UPPER VOLTA
APPRAISAL OF THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROGRAM
OF THE
OFFICE OF POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS
January 27, 1969
Public Utilities Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1               =      CFAFZ47
CFAF1, 000                US$4. 05
CFAF1, 000, 000    =      US$4,050
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS USED IN THE REPORT
BEPTOM     -    Bureau d'Etudes des Postes et Telecommunications
d'Outre-mer (Paris)
CAPTEAO    -    Conference Africaine des P&T des Etats de l'Afrique
Occidentale (8 countries)
FAC        -    Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (Paris)
FCR        -    Compagnie France Cable et Radio (Paris)
FCS        -    French Cooperation Services administering the FAC
and Technical Assistance under the Ministry of
Foreign Affaris, Paris
OPT        -    Office of Posts and Telecommunications in Upper Volta
P&T        -    Posts and Telecommunications
SOFRECOM-       Societe Francaise d'Etudes et d'Equipement des Tele-
communications (Paris)
UAMPT      -    Union Africaine et Malgache des P&T (14 French-
speaking African Countries)
UNDP       -    United Nations Development Programme
USAID      -    United States Agency for International Development



UPPER VOL TA
APPRAISAL OF THE TJECOQM24UNICATIONS PROGRAM
CF TIHE
OFFICE OF POSTS AND TELECOMvUNICATIONS
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY                                                     i-ii
I.    RITRODUCTION                                                   i
II.   POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS IN UPPER VOLTA                    1
History and Organization                                       1
The New Office of Posts and Telecommunications                 2
Management, Staffing and Training                              3
Foreign Assistance                                             h
III.  FINANCIAL POSITION                                             5
Accounting and Audit                                           5
Financial Development Since 1959                               6
Tariffs and Revenue                                            7
Present Financial Position                                     7
Past Earnings                                                  8
IV.   EXISTING FACILITIES AND INVESTMENT PROGRAM                     9
V.    THE PROJECT                                                   10
Costs and Financing                                          il
Procurement and Disbursement                                  12
Coordination with French Aid                                  13
Justifications of the Project and Economic Aspects            13
VI.   FUTURE FINANCES                                               14
Financing Plan                                                14
Future Operating Results                                      15
Future Financial Position                                     16
OPT - Postal and Consolidated Operations                      17
VII.  RECOMMENDATIONS                                               17
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
to Upper Volta which was made in June 1968 and was composed
of Messrs. M. V. Scoffier and J. G. Davis of the Bank.



List of Annexes
1. Proposed Organization Chart of the OPT.
2. Basic Tariff Structure.
3. Existing Telecommunication Facilities
h. Construction Program (1969-1971) and Estimated Costs.
5. Costs Benefit Analysis.
6. Notes and Assumptions on Financial Statements.
7. Notional Balance Sheets 1965-1973 (Telecommunications Division).
3. Statement of Income 1965-1973 (Telecomnunications Division).
9. Statement of Sources and Application of Funds (Teleconmunications Division).
10. Notional Balance Sheets 1965-1973 (Postal Division>.
Il. Statement of Incorne 1965-1973 (Postal Division).
12. Statement of Sources and Application of Funds (Postal Division).
13. Consolidated Notional Balance Sheets 1965-1973 (OPT).
1h. Consolidated Statement of Income 1965-1973 (OPT).
15. Consolidated Statenment of Sources and Application of Punds (OPT).
16. OPT - Postal Operations.
17. OPT - Cash Resources.
MAP - IBRD 2359 - Existing and Proposed Telephone Exchanges and
Long-distance Links.



TJPPER VOLTA
APPRAISAL 0F THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROGR M
OF THE
OFFICE OF POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS
SUMMARY
i.        Ihe Government of Upper Volta has asked the International
Development Association for a credit to finance part of its program
to be undertaken during 1969 to 1971 for the rehabilitation and expansion
of public telecommunication facilities.   Total costs of the program are
estimated at US$1.5 million equivalent.   The project consists of part
of the program amounting to US$1.2 million equivalent of which US$0.8
million representing the foreign exchange costs would be financed by the
proposed credit, the remainder of the project being financed from internal
resources.
ii.       The Borrower would be the Government of Upper Volta.   The
works would be carried out by the Office of Posts and Telecommunications
(OPT) under a oroject agreement with IDA. The Government would relend
the proceeds of the credit to the OPT at 6L% for 20 years including h
years of grace under a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to IDA.
iii.      The OPT is a newly created organization which, as from January 1,
1969, took over the functions of the present Posts and Telecommunications
(P&T) Department of the Ministry of Information, Posts and Telecommuni-
cations which exercised the postal and telecommuwnication monopoly.
Organized as a government-owned and controlled agency to establish, main-
tain and operate the postal and telecommunication services, the OPT has
corporate and financial autonomy and will be commercially run.
iv.       The proposed program concentrates on the reconditioning and
expansion of existing local networks and subscribers' installations in
Ouagadougou and in Bobo-Dioulasso, and also includes some interur>.n
connections. Following the recent modernization of switching facilities
in these two main cities and construction off main overlhead routes to
the Mali and Niger borders, the project will improve cquality of service
and productivity of the present plant. It is also aimed at providing
better telephone service where most of the administrative antd economic
activities are concentrated, and at increasing traffic capa&l lity of
existing long-distance spur routes between developing agricultural prov-
inces and trade centers.
v.        The program is technically sound and economically justified.
The estimated costs are reasonable and the arrangements for execution
are satisfactory. All imported equipment to be financed under the pro-
posed IDA Credit would be procured through international competitive
bidding, except for US$112,000 equivalent covering engineerirng services
and parts of various contracts for the construction of the networks
which due to the nature of the works and the small amounts involved
would be awarded after limited tendering on a regional basis.
vi.       The existing facilities were originally installed and opeiaied
by the French Colonial Administration but, sinec 1960. develoumen:rjt was
carried out by the former P&T Administration with mil assistance froin



- ii -
the French Cooperation Services (FCS) under the French Ministry of
Foreign Affairs. Essential services are headed by Erench personnel.
Expansion plans and equipment specifications are prepared by outside
consultants. Qualified local staff will not be immediately available
and the OPT will continue with foreign assistance, principally from
the FCS, at both advisory and executive levels for the implementation
of the program and for the operation of the facilities. These arrange-
ments are acceptable; adequate coordination between the IDA, the OPT
and the FCS will be established in this respect during the supervision
of the project.
vii.      In order to assure OPT's financial autonomy, a complete fi-
nancial and accounting set-up will have to be established with outside
assistance; at present there exist neither adequate records nor the
commercial background for OPT's operations. Basic financial parameters
and statements have been prepared for the past and the future, and the
financial analysis in this report represents the firet such attempt
for P&T services in UDper Volta. Within the OPT the emphasis on com-
mercial operation and the major financial commitments will apply to the
telecommunication services which will therefore maintain separate
accounts from the postal side. The Government has settled its arrears
and has comrmitted itself to pay promptly and fully for the use of tele-
communication services in the future.  On this basis, OPT will be
financially viable. It is estimated that the capital requirements of
OPT's telecommunication program 1969-1971 will be met, 54% frcm the
proposed IDA Credit, 10% from the FAC and USAID, and the balance from
internally generated funds which is an acceptable financing plan. It is
expected that the overall financial situation of the OPT including the
postal services will improve during the program period.
viii.     The objectives of the proposed IDA Credit go beyond the
specific purpose of financing a highly needed rehabilitation project
within a minimum expansion program. Dhe credit vould enable IDA ta
support directly the endeavours of the UPPER Volta Government to estab-
lish the OPT on a commercial basis and to lend its assistance, together
with other aid organizations, to assure the future technical and fi-
nancial viability of the telecomiunication sector in the country.
ix.       The project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$o.8 million
equivalent for construction to be completed between January 1969 and
December 1971.



UPPER VOLTA
APPRAISAL OF THE TELECOMMUNxICATIONS PROGRAM
OF THE
OFFICE 0F POSTS AND TELECOMMflUNICATIONS
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Upper Volta has arepared an improvement and
expansion program for its telecommunications services during the three-
year period (1969-1971) following the establishment of an autonomous
Office of Posts and Teleccmmunications (OPT), which   took over exist-
ing postal and telecommunication services from Government Administration
on January 1, 1969. The main objectives are to rehabilitate existing
facilities which, owing to the scarcity of funds from the Government in
past years, have suffered from lack of maintenance and to carry out the
improvement and expansion required to increase productivity and service
quality of the networks. The total cost of the progran is estimated at
US$1.5 million> and the project is a part of the program amounting to
USil1.2 million of which the proposed IDA Credit would finance US$O.8 million
rerresenting the foreign exchange costs. Internally generated funds
would finance riost of the balance of funds required, with minor contri-
butions from the Friench Government and USAID.  The proposed credit would
be the first lending operation from the Bank/IDA Group in Upper Volta.
1.02      The 3orrower would be the Government of Unper Volta.   The
works would be executed by the OPT which operates the postal and tele-
communication monopoly under the charge of the Ministry of Information,
Posts and Telecommunications. The Government would relend the proceeds
of the credit to the OPT at 6,% interest for 20 years including a grace
period of 4 years.
1.03      The first direct contact with the Upper Volta Government re-
garding the financing of the telecommunications sector was made in
September 1967 by a Reconnaissance 1i,ssion consisting of Messrs. C. Finne
and H.C. Hittmair. After clarification of some issues an Aopraisal
Mission composed of I4essrs. M.V. Scoffier and J.G. Davis visited Upper
Volta in June 1968 and this reDort is based on their findings. Aspects
concerning the past and proposed aid from the French Government were
discussed in Ouagadougou and Paris with representatives of the French
Cooperation Services.
II. POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS IN UPPER VOLTA
History and Organization
2.01      Posts and Telecommunications services for the w-jhole of the former
French West Africa Federation date back to the formation of Posts, Tele-
graph and Telephone Departments operating as Government services under
French rule whichwere set up early in the present century under the
authority of the High Commissioner for West Africa and the Governors in
each separate territory. After the formation of various states within
the Federation, the P&T services of the seven countries, Senegal, Dahomey,



- 2 -
Ivory Coast, Mali, Mauritania, Niger and Upper Volta were operated by
the West African P&T Office with headquarters in Dakar.  When this
Office was dissolved in late 1959, the P&T services in Upper Volta
were left without the benefit of the central administration and with-
out the required qualified staff to set up the necessary central services
in the country. The existing services were incorporated into the general
services of the Governnent.  The financial responsibility and control
for the P&T were transferred to the Ministry of Finance. Minimum
required French staff was maintained to operate the services. Necessary
additional senior staff and advisers were provided by the French
Cooperation Services to run and organize the Department.
2.02      During eight years, from 1960 until 1968, the P&T services
were organized on the simple pattern of a Government department.   The
Minister in charge delegated to the P&T Director the technical and ad-
ministrative responsibilities for daily operation of the services which
were and are still organized in three divisions: Telecommunications
covering telephone, telegraph, telex and radio; the Postal and Financial
Services including the Postal Checking Accounts and Savings Bank; and
General Administration. Telecommunications were run by French nationals
and were organized in a series of technical and operating sections.
This is expected to be continued for some time to come.   Since the
services lacked financial autonomy, there was no financial or accounting
department in the proper sense.   The P&T accounts formed part of the
national budget and were supervised by the Financial Controller re-
sponsible to the Minister of Finance.
2.03      Under the previous organization, operations, staffing and
development of the P&T Department have largely suffered from Government
budgetary problems.  In spite of annual surpluses from telecommuni-
cation operations during the past years, lack of budgetary allocations
resulted in frequent delays in the settlement of current operating and
maintenance expenses.  Employees who had left or transferred from the
P&T services could not be replaced. Development budgetary allocations
were quite insufficient. Installations and quality of service there-
fore suffered greatly from the lack of maintenance and qualified staff.
For the moment a breakdown is prevented by the technical assistance
provided by French personnel maintained at various levels of the organi-
zation, but personnel are performing duties which are beyond their
qualifications and experience. Development and renewal of the in-
stallations are mainly provided by the French Fonds d'Aide et de
Cooperation (FAC) and by other bilateral contributions such as USAID
for specific projects.
The New Office of Posts and Telecommunications
2.04      In 1964, the Upper Volta Government and the French Cooperation
Services (FCS) administering the FAC and technical assistance under
the Ministry of Foreign Affairs agreed that a study be made for the re-
organization of the P&T services in Upper Volta. Towards the end of
1966 a French P&T senior adviser reported on the present status of the
Department and made detailed proposals for its reorganization into an
office with administrative and financial autonomy along the lines "l



- 3 -
of similar offices in other French-speaking countries in West and
Central Africa. The law creating the new OPT which is effective
from January 1, 1969, and the Decree concerning its organization,
management, and the controlling powers of the Government were passed by
the Cabinet in June 1968. These arrangements follow closely the French
adviserts recommendations.  They also incorporate suggestions made by
the mission and are satisfactory.
2.05      Additional statutory regulations concerning the financial ad-
ministration of the Office, and its relationship with the Ainistry of
Finance, have also been passed. These are satisfactory, as well as
the regulations setting out the accounting organization in the Office.
2.06      The basic principle of the reorganization was to create a
Government-owned entity responsible for Postal and Telecommunication
services, with sufficient autonomy to be commercially operated on a
self-supporting basis without undue recourse to the Government budget.
The organization to be set up  in   the newly created OPT is formally
satisfactory. From the scarce information available on past operations,
and making reasonable assumptions which were discussed with local senior
staff, past and forecast operating statements and balance sheets for
P&T operations were prepared considering each service separately and in
consolidation. These statements are reviewed in Chapters III and VI
and show the financial viability of the OPT under the new organization.
Management, Staffing and Training
2.07      OPT's new organization chart, which is being implemented, is
shown in Annex 1. The Minister in charge of posts and telecommuni-
cations is Chairman of OPT's Board of Directors. The Board comprises
13 members nominated by the Government to represent the related Ministries,
the National Assembly, the Economic Council, the Chamber of Commerce
and OPT's staff. The Office is to be headed by the P&T Director who
is assisted by the Chief Financial Officer, a Deputy Director and
Division Chiefs. There will be in fact little change from the lines of
powers and internal organization of the present Department, with the
exception that OPT's new Chief Financial Officer (Agent Comptable)
is vested with all financial and accounting functions and resDonsibilities
of the Office. This officer forms part of OPT's senior executive
staff and has direct access to the Board. He is subject to inspection
by the M4inistry of Finance and to audit by the Audit Branch of the
Supreme Court (Chambre des Comptes de la Cour Supreme).
2.08      The present P&T Director is a Voltaic citizen who graduated
from the French Ecole Superieure des PTT in the senior Postal Branch.
He has been with the Department for about 10 years and is well quali-
fied and capable of managing the services. Almost all other senior
executive and chief technical staff at various key levels are French.
A permanent adviser assists the Minister on budgetary, administrative
and operational matters. Technical advisory and purchasing agent services
are obtained through the FCS which since 1960 has also been financing
most of the development of the Department on a grant basis.



- 4 -
2.09      At the end of 1967, P&T's total staff was composed of h14
permanent and 132 temporary employees. Of the permanent staff, 26h
worked for the postal services and 150 for telecommunications. The
Department operates 64 public offices within the country of which 18
are for postal service only. No substantial change occured in 1968.
Most of the employees have received only a minimum of training and
their productivity is therefore low. Supervisory staff is scarce and
qualifications generally poor resulting in inadequate services in cer-
tain sectors. Sufficient foreign assistance should therefore be
retained at various levels and it has been agreed, during negotiations,
that OPT will take all measures required to institute and maintain
adequate telecommunications personnel recruitment.
2.10      From time-to-time the P&T Department organizes locally,
vocational training courses for its employees.   Due to lack of funds
and instructors, this program only limps along, and should be reactivated
and intensified. Professional and supervisory technical staff are
trained abroad, mostly under French fellowships and scholarships to
specialized schools, and the FCS is favorably considering contînued
action in this field. Trainees will also be sent to regional train-
ing centers being organized in Dakar and Abidjan under the auspices
of the Union Africaine et Malgache des P&T (UAMPT) and of the UNDP.
During negotiations, it was agreed that the OPT, under its recruiting
and training policies, will, in particular, provide all funds necessary
for staff training on the vocational and higher levels, with due regard
tc the normal development needs of the OPT, under the required arrange-
ments with the Government and using foreign aid as necessary.
Foreign Assistance
2.11      The continuance of foreign assistance to OPT's services for
some time is a prerequisite for their proper operation. Indeed, in-
creased assistance will be needed to cope successfully with the new
tasks and responsibilities of the reorganized OPT and to enable it
to complete the works under the program. It is essential that addi-
tional key senior staff be available when the Office begins its
operations and also for some time to come until experience has been
acquired under the new organization. During negotiations, IDA was
informned that the new Chief Financial Officer and his assistant were on
duty at the Department in advance of OPT's vesting date, January 1, 1969,
in addition *to the team of French officers now assisting the Department
which include the Chiefs of Telecommunication and of Postal Services.
An experienced team leader will guide and assist the construction works
of the new overhead lines and cable networks under the program. A full-
time instructor will contribute to intensify the vocational training
program with a view to providing sufficient operational staff.
2.12      Government authorities and senior officials are fully aware
of the need, extent and probable duration of the required assistance
which should continue until such time as suitably qualified local staff
are ready to take over responsibilities at all leveis.   The matter was
also discussed with Officials of the FCS. They fully concur with this
requirement and intent to maintain their assistance in operatilng and



developing OPT's services as in the past since independence. At this
juncture and at the Government's request, the Chief Financial Officer
and his assistant have been appointed and action is being taken to
fill the remaining posts such as the team leader for construction works
and the instructor and to retain the preeeù Fiench 'staf L overxâ suffi-
ccient period of tiale. During negotiations, assurances were obtained in
this respect.
2.13      Since French assistance will be critical to the project's
success, IDA and FG5 should maintain contact with regard to the project
and OPT's reorganization. Information should be exchanged and specific
problems discussed as and when required (see also paragraph 5.10).   In
particular, it is important that discussions be held between IDA staff
and OPT's new Chief Financial and Telecommunications Officers ;6irtty
afterr-theyihÉte: taken  chari;.   . During negotiations, the Govern-
ment has agreed to this coordination and to participate in it.
III. FINANCIAL POSITION
3.01      Since Accurate basic financial information as required for the
appraisal was not available in Upper Volta, the mission had to assemble
elements and information from a number of sources.   Many of the f.nancial
figures in this appraisal are based on reasonable assumptions which
were discussed and agreed upon with responsible officials. However,
discussions on complex financial questions were difficult, if not
impossible, owing to the fact that the Department did not have any
qualified financial officer.
3.02      In order to obtain an Qverall view of the financial position
of the whole P&T Department, the postal division of the Department,
was also appraised. Since this is operated as a separate division full
details are shown in Annexes 10 ta 12.
Accounting and Audit
3.03      Since its transfer from the former Administration, the finances
of the P&T Department were incorporated in the national buds';etary system,
all collections being deposited in the Treasury, disburseme>nts being
made against general budget items tailored according to the nleeds of
the national budget rather than to the efficient management and develop-
ment of the services concerned. Iherein lies in part the reason for
the poor state of the present telecommunication organization.
3.04      Stores, cost and general accounting as applicable to a tele-
communication service is non-existent; revienue accoun-;ng is outmoded
and the all essential plant inventory has not boin ma-;itained.  Lack of
order and control was noted in physical stores, workshops and transport
sections.
3.05      A complete reorganization of the accounting and financial
administration of the whole Department is therefore ur-ently required.
Accounting based on commercial principles, coordinated with efficient



- 6 -
budgeting and costing systems, must be put into operation. This should
apply equally to the postal and telecommunications divisions. The statutes
covering the OPT adequately provide for the establishment of commercial
accounting and satisfy IDA's requirements. Separate accounts for postal
and telecommunication operations will be established under the new
accounting plan.
3.o6      Having regard to the relatively small size of the P&T Depart-
ment, the required reorganization could be adequately completed by a
competent professional accountant having a wide experience in postal and
telecommunication operations and, in addition, some commercial experience.
He should have a good assistant with postal and telecommunication accounting
experience. Initially both positions will be filled by French officials.
During negotiations, IDA was informed that the two officers had been appointed.
3.07      The decree for the organization of the future OPT provides that
the Minister of Finance shall designate a controller to examine the
financial transactions of the new entity. This is a form of internal audit.
In addition, the decree provides for the submission of annual accounts to
the Audit Branch of the Supreme Court which audits the accounts of
governnent departments and government-owned agencies in Upper Volta.   In
view of the commercial nature of the new Office, the telecommunication
accounts of the OPT will be audited by an independent professional accounta;t,
satisfactory to IDA, designated and appointed by the Board to whom he will
report.
Financial Development Since 1959
3.08      In the absence of any inventory showing the assets handed over
in 1959 by the former French West African Administration, IDA had to asses3
their estimated value having regard to the number of lines, type of equip-
ment, buildings, etc. in existence at that time. During the period 1959
through 1968, it is estimated that a total additional capital investment
of CFAF918 million will have been made in the Upper Volta P&T services,
CFAF192 million for postal and CFAF726 million for the telecommunication
service. Telephone subscriber development will have increased:.from 564
to 1,284 maâin lines,'. te.taUt  numbeir of tèléphones in'reasIig from l,O26 to
3,081.
3.09      Of the total CFAF918 million, 65% originated from foreign grants,
20% from the Officets own resources or government funds, and 15% from
loans (see Annex 6). In addition, the French Government met the salaries
and expenses of French nationals employed in the P&T Department in excess
of the Upper Volta Government contribution which is at present CFAF240,000
(US$1,000) per person per annum.
3.10      Telecommunication development costs appear to be high and this
is likely to be due to high import duties, combined with high transportation
and installation costs, and also procurement procedures with limited
competition.



-7 -
Tariff s and Revenue
3.11      The greater portion (some 73%) of total net telecommunication re-
venue originates from the local and long-distance telephone services, the
remainder coming from the telegraph, telex and international services. Re-
gional international service is provided by land line and radio to the
neighboring countries. However, facilities for overseas communications
are provided in conjunction with the concessionary company, Compagnie
France Cable et Radio, Paris (FCP), the revenue from these calls being
shared on a 40/60 basis (see Annex 3). This is advantageous to OPT because
FCR provides all the equipment and meets operational costs.
3.12      Internal tariffs are set out in Annex 2.   Call charges and instal-
lation fees, although appearing to be high when compared with similar ser-
vices in other countries, are in line with those of other adjacent former
French WJest African territories and France. On matters of tariffs, Upper
Volta generaliy gives consideration to the basic principles and policies
recommended by the regional organizations, UAIPT (Union Africaine et Malga-
che de Postes et Telecommunications) and CAPTEAO (Conference Africaine des
Postes et Telecommunications des Etats de ltAfrique Occidentale). For the
time being, there should be no general overall change in tariffs. Once
reliable cost accounts are available and the proposed program is at an ad-
vanced stage, a general review of tariffs i1il be made to ensure the future
financial viability of the telecommunication division, and a tariff struc-
ture which is in the best interest of its future development (see para. 6.07).
3.13      In the past, the Government rarely settled its bills and a large
amount of Government receivables covering a period of several years wvere
still outstanding in 1968. This practice, if continued, could lead to
serious problems since about 40% of all telecommunication revenues originate
from Government lines, and the failure on the part of the Government to
pay its bills would endanger the financial structure of the telecommunica-
tion services, and jeopardize the successful completion of the proposed
program. The Governinent settled its arrears at the creation of OPT and has
committed itself to pay promptly and fully for the use of telecommunications
services in the future.
Present Financial Position
3.14      In presenting the balance sheets, statements of income, and sour-
ces and anplication of funds for both the telecomnunication and postal
services, an attempt was made to reconstruct the finances of the Department
back to 1965, assumning it to be a financially autonomous entity, operating
on a commercial basis. To give an overall view of the finances, consolidated
notional statements were also prepared for the whole Department. Assumptions
made in the preparation of these pro forma statements of past and future fi-
nances, and the detailed figures are dealt with in Chapter VI and Annexes
6 to 17.
3.15      To enable the telecommunication division of the new Office to
commence effective oDerations on January 1, 1969, and function as a finan-



- 8 -
cially autonomous entity, a settlement between the MYnistry of Finance and
the OPT concerning outstanding liabilities,as at that date, was made. A
copy of this has been received by IDA; it is satisfactory.
3.16      It is estimated that the capitalization of the telecommunication
division at the date of transfer, January 1, 1969, was as follows:
CFAF      US$       %
(-iillion-sT
Equity                        639       2.6      89
Long-term Debts
5% Savings Bank loan   46
3/4% French Government
loan              38    84      0.3      il
Total Capitalization          723      2.9      100
3.17      The equity is a balancing figure between the total of net fixed
and current assets and the total of long-term and other liabilities.
3.18      Long-term debt includes a loan of CFAF 46 million, this being
the balance outstanding of a CFAF 74 million 5% loan from the local savings
bank for the financing of various capital works and a French Government
3/4% loan of CFAF 38 million for financing the equipment of Bobo-Dioulasso
auto-exchange. The 15-year savings bank loan will be redeemed in 1976,
the French Government loan over a similar period to 1984.
Past Earnings
3.19      The Income Statements for telecomnunications operations 1965
through 1967 are included in Annex 8.  Total net revenue from all telecom-
munication operations showed a slight increase in 1966 as compared with
1965 but fell back again in 1967, a year of economic depression in Upper
Volta. In spite of the lack of development, total telephone and telex
revenue rose during this three-year period, but telegraph revenue fell,
particularly in local telegraph income. Total operating expenses showed
a 10% increase in 1966 as compared with 1965 but, following severe govern-
mental austerity measures, under which salaries and supplementary allow-
ances w-ere reduced, the 1967 operating expenses were 16% lower than the
1966 figure.
3.20      Low efficiency and high capital cost of the network were the main
reasons for poor operating ratios and a low rate of return. The operat-
ing ratios for 1965 and 1966 were 85 and 92 respectively and although,
folloxing the austerity measures, the ratio improved to 81 in 1967, it
is expected to deteriorate to 88 in 1968. This is due to higher operat-
ing costs necessary to re-establish the undertaking under more
normal operating conditions.   The rate of return was 4.4% in 1965, 2.2%
in 1966 and h.3% in 1967.  A rate of 2.9%j is forecast for 1968.



IV. EXISTING FACILITIES AND INVESTMENT PROGRAM
4.01      Upper Volta, a landlocked country of savanna and arid land,
800 km from the ocean, has a population of 4,400,000 and extends over
more than 1,000 km east to west and 500 km north to south. With no ex--
ploited mineral wealth, agriculture is the principal resource of this
country whose GNP per capita (US$50) is one of the lowest in the world.
I.02      The existing telecommunication system is very modest and closely
reflects the geographical pattern of economic and administrative activities.
It has been essentially developed in and between the two main cities of
Ouagadougou and &bbo-Dioulasso, and toward the Ivory Coast border along the
railway to Abidjan. The main road and railways facilities also connect
these two cities where about 80% of administrative, trade and transport
activities are concentrated, as well as all the industrial activity in the
country representing 12% of the GNP. The expansion of the trunk network
along this axis and towards the neighboring countries in the southern and
north-eastern regions has been associated with agriculture, farming and
cattle breeding which are the most important economic activities represent-
ing more than 75% of the country's exports and an estimated 60% of the GNP.
4.03      Telephone density is only 0.06 per 100 population being the
lowest in Africa. On May 31, 1968, the local telephone service had 2,980
telephone stations of all kinds, including 1,224 main subscriber stations.
Tbre than 1,000 main subscribers iwere connected to the main exchanges in
Ouagadougou, Bodo-Dioulasso and Koudougou; the remaining 200 were in small
cities or administrative centers of the interior. Long-distance connections
principally consist of overhead lines, part of which are equipped with
carrier systens. These lines have a limited capacity of maximum four 2-wire
circuits on the same route and include about 3,800 km of one pair copper
wire, and 1,400 km of single iron wire. International telecommunications
are principally operated by the Compagnie France Cables et Radio (FCR), a
French public enterprise, under a 25-year contractual agreement which the
Government entered into in 1962. The Department is also taking care of the
technical operation of the sound broadcast transmitters for the Ministry
of Information. Details on the existing installations, on their service
capacity and on some expansion works underway are given in Annex 3 and in
the attached map.
4.04      Except for overseas services in Ouagadougou, the existing instal-
lations are not sufficient for the present traffic and for the estimated
potential demand. The local cable network is saturated in Ouagadougou and,
with a present average calling rate of 7 daily calls per subscriber,
similar to the one in Europe, existing switching equipment is overloaded
although only 70% of the available line units are connected. Trunk traffic
between main cities and with Ivory Coast is congested; more circuits are
required for commercial traffic on the main connections. In addition, the
existing installations suffer from lack of maintenance and require improve-
ment to provide a minimum quality of service; obsolete office installations



- 10 -
and single iron wire lines to towns of the interior need to be renetwed to
avoid costly maintenance and to prevent the interruDtion of service to
these places.
4.05      Under the French Technical Assistance Progran, a feasibility
study was made in 1965 for a five-year telecommunications development
program. The study also included a forecast of the anticipated number
of telephone subscribers and trunk circuits requirements over 20 years.
As usual in this matter, the forecasts have been based on a detailed
analysis of the actual use of telecommunication services per category and
groups of subscribers and on the consideration of various sectorial
trends and expected growth rates in population, economic activity, GNP
and use of facilities. The plan for telecommunications was consistent
with the overall development plan prepared for the country. The report
recommended a series of construction works to be carried out over the
next five-year period totalling about US$4.5 million equivalent. The
main works were the following: about 3,000 automatic telephone lines in
the main cities and nearby satellite towns; a 300-channel link between
Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso; a 60-channel link to Ivory Coast; the
reconstruction of about 2,000 km of overhead trunk lines to towns of
the interior and to neighboring countries; a modern telex network; and
the improvement of internal radio links, and of existing office installations.
4.06      Because of the Government's decision taken in 1966 to severely
reduce public spending, development under the overall plan and under the
telecommunication program have been cut back; only parts of this program have
been carried out. Since 1966, French Aid has provided for the most
urgently needed renewal and expansion equipment such as (a) switching
equipment in Ouagadougou to extend the line and traffic capacity of the
exchange to 1,000 lines with additionaI trunk positions; (b) a new 830-line
automatic exchange in Bobo-Dioulasso; (c) carrier equipment on overhead
lines; (d) VHF link and radio communication equipment; and (e) smail
manual switchboards to replace obsolete material in provincial towns.
USAID helped in constructing new regional routes to Niger and Mali. The
main part of these works   were     conpleted by the end of 1968.
h.07      The remaining portion of the proposed five-year plan has been
reviewed and priority works have been selected from it by the Government.
These now form the basis of an interim orogram geared to available re-
sources and slower economic growth which was submitted to the mission.
V. THE PROJECT
5.01      The Project is based on the interim program.   It only includes
the items to be financed from the proposed IDA Credit and OPT's internal
resources. The interim program includes the remaining first priority
projects of the original five-year plan which remain to be completed after
eliminating cost'y developments such as microwave trunk routes between
Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso and to Ivory Coast. This reduced program
was reviewed with FCS and it was also discussed with SOFRECOM, the French
consultant on the main proposed projects.



- il -
5.02      The interim program is aimed at rehabilitating and expanding
the urban networks of the Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso areas, at re-
conditioning sections of the obsolete one iron wire lines of the interior
and would include a new regional line to Togo, or Dahomey, depending on
a decision to be taken later by the Conseil de l'Entente. Low capacity
carrier systens will be installed on existing trunk lines where needed
to alleviate traffic congestion; and, in general, installations of the
provincial offices will be replaced or rehabilitated to improve service
quality.  A small new 100-line automatic exchange will also be installed
in Koudougou and various equipment will be redistributed to extend service
in other cities. Details of the proposed construction works, their fi-
nancing and estimated costs are given in Annex 4 and in the attached map:.
5.03      The proposed program is technically sound and indispensable if
a breakdown, or critical imbalance, of telecommunications in U per Volta
is to be avoided in the near future. Necessary planning and engineering
assistance is hbeing used for its preparation and execution. A detailed
study of the networks in Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso is now completed;
this was the normal follow up to the recent installation of exchange equip-
ment in these cities. French specialists wauld also assist in the con-
struction and acceptance of the cable and overhead line networks which
are the main works under the project. The program combines reconditioninb
and expansion coherently planned and studied; its size and construction
schedule are realistie and satisfactory.
Costs and Financing
5.04      The costs of the interim program may be summarized as follows:
in millions of CFAF        in thousands of US$     % of
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign    Total   Total
Local Telephone     49.5      61.5    111.0   200.4    249.0     449.4   30
Trunk Systems       55.0    134.3     189.3   222.7    543-7     766.4   51
Other Works         18.0     29.1     47.1     72.8    117.8     190.6   13
Contingencies        7.3     12.3     19.6     29.6     49.8      79.4    6
TOTAL           129.8    237.2     367.0   525.5    960.3   l,485.8  100
These estimates are based upon the actual prices charged for recent pur-
chases and works. International competitive procurement procedure might
result in lower costs for items under the proposed IDA Credit. Allowance
for contingencies is about five per cent which is considered sufficient.
5.05      Estimated foreign costs principally cover the supply ahd
delivery of imported equipment and goods, together with engineering under
the program. These will amount to about US$960,000 equivalent. Financing
of this foreign component is proposed as follows: (a) French bilateral
credit of US$122,000 equivalent from FAC; (b) bilateral credit of US$40,000
from USAID; and (c) the balance of US$800,000 equivalent from the proposed
IDA Credit. French bilateràl contribution is expected to be authorizpd unmer
the next program of the FAC beginning in 1969. USAID financing is for a



- 12 -
regional interconnection line to be constructed in 1971. Works financed
under French and US tied credits are not interdependent with IDA financed
works and can be handled separately under OPT's overall coordination.
5.06      Details of the works under the Project and relative costs which
totals US$1.2 million equivalent are given in Annex 4. The IDA financed
portion of this which totals US$o.8 million covers the foreign cost of the
works and is as follows:
US$ Equivalent
1. Equipment for local networks in
Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso                  154,000
2. Equipment for long-distance and
overhead lines                                  435,000
3. Civil and construction works under
items 1 and 2                                    82,000
4. Miscellaneous equipment (transport
equipment, tools, mechanical aids,
construction and installation
accessories)                                     58,000
5. Engineering, supervision and training             30,000
6.  Contingencies                                    41,000
Total       800,000
Item 1 includes telephone cables and overhead line materials and access -
ries for the telephone subscribers' networks. Item 2 covers equipment
such as copper or bimetal wires, poles, insulators, supporting and fitting
accessories and terminal connections for long-distance and overhead lines.
Item 3 represents the estimated foreign exchange component of various
contracts for overhead lines and cable networks construction under items
L and 2. Item 4 includes miscellaneous equipment and materials, tools,
transport equipment, mechanical aids, and other accessories to be utilized
by OPT construction and installation teams. Item 5 covers engineering
services by foreign experts for directing and supervising the line and
cable construction works, and for the on-the-job training of local staff
during the course of the work. All equipment and goods under the project
will be procured through international competitive bidding. However,
owing to the nature of the works and to the small amounts involved, the
contracts for cable and overhead line construction works under Item 3
would be awarded after limited regional tendering. IDA financing of these
contracts would be on a percentage basis of about 40%.
Procurement and Disbursement
5.07      Public tendering procedure is followed by the P&T Department
according to official instructions for government contracts applicable
to all Public Administrations and Agencies which allow for satisfactorv



- 13 -
international tendering arrangements. This procedure will also apply
to the OPTr Development and purchases financed under French and US bi-
lateral credits or grants were tied for procurement from the donor countries.
The P&T Department utilizes, as Purchasing Agent, the Bureau d'Etudes des
Postes et Telecommunications dtOutre-Mer (BEPTOM), a French public agency
based in Paris. On behalf of the FCS, BEPTOM also administers French
technical assistance personnel serving in the P&T Department.
5.08      All procurement for goods and services ta be financed from the
credit (except for the small contracts referred to in paragraph 5.06)
will be after international competitive bidding. Considering the relative
simplicity of the materials under the project, the application of the IDA
Guidelines on Procurement should not cause difficulties or delays, provided
OPT's vIne-w ChîeS'vof.the Telecommunications Division is on duty.  During
negotiations, IDA was informed that recruitment for this post was progress-
ing. The new officer should replace the present one early in 1969. As-
surance was also given that necessary internal arrangements will be made
for establishing satisfactory procedures for international tendering under
the credit. The question should be discussed with the Chief Engineer as
soon as he is appointed, and should be closely reviewed during an early
supervision visit.
5.09      Disbursements would be made against presentation of the usual
documents for import of equipment, against proof of payment in foreign
exchange for supervision and engineering service and on a percentage
basis for civil and network constructinn works. If any savings in ex-
penditure are realized over estimated costs, the unused balance of the
credit would be cancelled unless the circumstances prevailing at the time
provide good grounds for applying the savings to justified items in the
project or to additional works.
Coordination with French Aid
5.10      The importance of continued outside assistance, principally
from France for a successful implementation of OPT's new orgonization,
has been emphasized under paragraphs 2.11 to 2.13. The successful execu-
tion of the project and the establishment of related new procedures for
the procurement depends heavily upon the timely availability of staff, and
services to be financed by the FCS.  To ensure the coordination which is
necessary for OPT's successful organization and under -the prc;gram, IDA will
establish direct and close contact in this respect Leçween -(i.Te As.,ociatioi1,
the OPT and the FCS (see also paragraph 2.13). These contétcts should be
made at the occasion of supervision visits, or as aud when required under
the project.  During negotiations, the Government has been aivised on this
point and has agreed in principle on it. Necessary action should be taken
thereafter with the FCS.
Justifications of the Project and Economic Aspects
5.11      The rehabilitation program is indispensable, if a breakdown of
some important sectors of telecommunications such as the local telephone
systems in Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso, and spur routes in'to towns of
the interior from the main long-distance routs îs to~ be avcAcded in tre



future. The project adequately combines renewal and improvement with
extension of systems which would allow for better balanced and growing
use of existing and recently extended facilities procured under previous
bilateral programs. It is complementary to the recent extension of
switching and trunk facilities which were financed by French and US bila-
teral aid to satisfy a growing demand. The project would improve the
efficiency of operation of these systems.
5.12      A minimum satisfactory system of telecommunications is essential
to the efforts of the Government, the local administrations and the
foreign assistance missions. It should help to create the internal and
external markets necessary to improve agricultural production and trade.
The project takes into account these requirements, and priorities have
been established in urtan networks and toward regions where the main eco-
nomic activity is concentrated and being developed.
5.13      Under the project and the proposed IDA Credit, the reorganized
OPT could proceed on a three-year financing plan, rather than depend on
yearly budgetary appropriations, which would greatly facilitate the
preparation and execution of the works; in addition, benefits should
result from the use of international competitive bidding procedures.
5.14      The assistance from the Association in conjunction with the FCS
should also help to bring the reorganization of the OPT to a successful
conclusion and to enhance the future operations of tele communications in
Upper Volta, thus making an essential contribution to the development of
the country.
5.13      An incremental rate of return has been calculated for the pro-
posed prograrn and is expected to be about 9% to 9.5% (see Annex 5).  For
purposes of this calculation, telecommunication services ha e been valued
at prevailing prices. A return of 9% to 9.5% is above the return of other
investment Drojects of the public sector which are part of the present
Government's program. The proposed project therefore appears economically
justified.
VI. FUTURE FINANCES
6.01      The finances of OPT have been projected for the five years 1969-
1973, and are shown in proaorma balance sheets, statements of income, and
sources and application of funds for both telecommunication (Annexes 7 to
9) and postal services (Annexes 10 to 12) with consolidated statements for
the whole Office (Annexes 13 ta 15). The following presentation concen-
trates on the telecommunication services while the main aspects of postal
operations are dealt with in Annex 16, and the provisions for the cash
resources of the OPT in Annex 17. (see also paragraph 6.14).
Financing Plan
6.02      A forecast of the financial requirements of the telecommunication
services for the three years 1969-1971 covering the period of the projec:
when the proposed IDA  Credit would te disbursed, together with the Gourcps
of funds is summarized as follows:



- 15 -
CFAF      us$        f
(millionsT
Requirements
Construction program                   367.0    1.49     100
Sources of Funds
Internal cash generation               192.6    0.78      52
Less:  debt service                   48.2    0.20      13
144.4    0.58      39
Minor sources less net increase
in working capital                    (13.4)  (0.05)    (3)
Borrowing
IDA Credit                           199.0    0.81      54
Grants - France                         27.0    0.11       7
USA                            10.0    0.04       3
Total Sources      367.0    1.49     100
6.03      During the three-year period, the IDA Credit would provide 54%
of the construction program. direct foreign grants ten per cent, the
rernainder coming from internally generated funds which would also provide
for the necessary increase in working capital. The French Government wouli
continue to meet the cost of providing French staff, the OPT making the
required contribution as mentioned in paragraph 3.09.
6.04      The proposed IDA Credit would be relent by the Government to the
OPT at the present Bank lending rate of 6±% interest for 20 years in-
cluding a 4 year grace period. Similar terms have been assumed for further
borrowings in the two years following the completion of the program.
Future Operating Results
6.05      The projected total net telecommunication revenue forecasts
for the five years 1969 through 1973 show annual increases of between
7.70o andnine per cent.  Increased revenue is estimated to arise from new
subscribers, from the availability of modern switching installations and
other plant, and the expansion of long-distance faciltties. In addition,
there should be an upward trend in revenue from the general improvement
in the service and from the introduction of effective revenue controls.
Additional telex and international call revenue is also anticipated.
5.06      In forecasting revenues for the future, allowance has been
made for a possible initial fall in the calling rate from Government
lines when official accounts have to be kept on a current basis (see
paragraph 3.13). It is certain that once government departments are
aware of the amounts involved, some form of control will be introduced



- 16 -
which, as is usual in these cases, would initially reduce the traffic on
official lines. Responsible officials however oensider that the fall in
revenue fromi this source will only be temporary and -till be progressively
offset by increased revenue from other sources. This assumption is rea-
sonable.
6.07      The rate of return on average net telecommunication assets, in
service, whilst low is forecast to show steady imnrovenent, from 2.8% in
1969 to 3.27' in 1971, and to 4.5% in 1973.  It is doubtful whether speci-
fic goals can usefully be fixed until the progranm is co'mpleted, and a
proper accounting system introduced and operating.   Accordingly, it has
been agreed that (i) during the construction period of the project, OPT
;will consuilt with IDA prior to any change in its e;isting tariffs;  (ii)
before December 31, 1971, a full tariff review will be made;   and (iii)
on the basis of this review a specific target rate of return on net fixed
telecommunication assets in operation will be agreed upon and applied
thereafter.
Future Financial Position
6.08      The telecommunication division forecast balance sheets as of
Deceraber 31, 1969, through 1973, take inta account the settlement as made at
Decemiber 31, 1968 aiid mentioned in para. 3.15.
6.09      Annual internal cash generation would increase from CFAF 54 mil-
lion in 1968 to CFAF 7h million in 1971.  Total debt service cover would
be 7.3 times in 1968, 3.9 times in 1970 when the repaynent of the French
Governnent loan commences, and 2.9 times in 1973, the first year wjhen the
principal repaynent to the Government would commence for the IDA Credit.
6.10      The telecommunication division equity would increase annually
by about 4h during the three-year period of the program, at the end of
which the ratio of long-term debt to equity would be 27/73, leaving a
considerable margin for further borrowing. The statute covering the fi-
nancial administration of OPT treats the question of future borrowings for
the development of both postal and telecommunication services jointly, and
provides that the debt service of the whole Office in any year shall not
exceed 10% of the income of the Office for the previous year. For the
purpose of the Credit and having regard to IDA's specific interest in the
financial situation of the telecommunication division, OPT has agreed that
this general debt limitation provision be supplenented by an agreement
providing that maximum future debt service on any loans incurred for tele-
communication expansion should be covered 1.5 times by net telecommunica-
tion revenue (before charging depreciation) of a 12-month period prior to
the incurring of new debt for telecommunication purposes. The assumed
future borrowings would qualify under this provision, and in this respect
OPT has agreed to consult with IDA during the period of five years after
the conclusion of the proposed program on any future development program
for the telecommunication division.



- 17 -
6.11      As regards short-term borrowing, (including the use of money
order and public checking account funds) for financing the normal working'
capital of the telecommunication division, it is considered that this should
not exceed two months telecommunication operating expenses (excluding de-
preciation) for the preceding financial year or any later 12-month period
whichever is the greater. OPT has agreed to this. The future accounting
plan of the Office in providing for separate postal and telecommunication
accounts (see paragraph 3.05) will show separately the flow of funds for
each service, thereby enabling the extent of the utilization of internal
funds to be quickly identified.
6.12      The Government has agreed to take satisfactory measures for
appropriate insurance of OPT's telecommunication installations and of
the goods to be acquired under the Credit.
OP? - Postal and Consolidated Operations
6.13      Annexes 10 to 12 present the financial forecasts of the postal
division and their analysis is made in Annex 16. The basic assumption
included is that the Government would pay a three per cent interest on
the greater part of OPT's f'unds held in a Treasury Deposit account which
would more than offset postal operating deficits experienced in past
years. This principle has recently been accepted by the Government
and therefore an annual rate of return on net postal assets in service
of between 4.9% and 6.9% is to be expected over the period 1969 to 1973.
6.141     The consolidated operations of the OPT are shown in Annexes
13 to 15 with a separate analysis of OPT's cash resources in Annex 17.
The rate of return on average net fixed assets of the OPT would improve
from 3.5% in 1969 to 4.7% in 1973.  Net plant in service would increase
39% during this period and the debt/equity ratio as of' December 31, 1973,
would be 25/75. Debt service coverage in 1973 would be 3.1 times and
higher in the preceding years. This situation can be considered accept-
able. While specific financial commitments under the IDA Credit would
.g.overn the operations of the telecommunications division, the Government
has given assurances that the telecommunication service would not sub-
sidize the postal operations, and any support for the latter, if required,
would come from the  Government budget thereby assuring a balanced
financial situation.
VII.  RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      The project as described in this report issuitable for an
IDA Credit of US$800,000 to the Upper Volta Government. This sum will
be relent to the OPT at 6,4% interest for 20 years including 4 years of
grace under a subsidiary loan agreement.
January 27, 1969



ANNEX I
UPPER VOLTA: OFFICE OF POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION CHART
FAUDIT TRNCH E                            MINISTER OF INFORMATION
SUPREME COURT                          POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS
.EN.RAL.INS.ECTION.I                                                        AOVISORY ANO GENERAL
GENERAL INSPECTION  .                .                                             _      STUDIES DEPARTMENT
AND FINANCIAL           COOROINATION COMMITTEE
CONTROLLER        I    OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS
tMINISTRY OF FINANCE)                                                                           NATIONAL SCHOOL OF POSTS
...........     ......... :                                 r-             ANO  TELECOMMUNICATIONS
J  BOARD OF DIRECTORS
OFFICE OF POSTS AND              I
I                 [ TELECOMMUNICATIONS                t
CENTRAL   ADMINISTRATION      I
.           _______]                    INTERNAL INSPECTION
DIRECTOR                                     (ADMINISTRATIVE
I                             .           I                             AND TECHNICAL)
CH~~EF FINANCICHIOFFCCEE
SAGENT COMPTALE)              DEPUTY DDRECTOR
EM N Sl AT                       <             1      3RPOSTS ANO FINANCIAL       UILDING, TRANSrORT
l          ~~~~SERVICES                                 |ANO SUPPLT SERVICES
GENERAL                                                  TECHNICAL STUDIES,.;
_ ASMINISTRATION   _         POSTAL  OPERATIONS    _         PLANNING  ANSD..   ............ .......S
A ND SECRETARIAT                                            DOCUMENTATIO0N w ... ................................. ................. ......_
CHIEF                                            CHIEF ENG~~AR AILSWTCINEE
X PERSONNEL      T          ANS INTERNATIONAL                                       B        TRANSPORTS
SERVICES                                              ANENTPLESRVRS
FINANCIAL SERV CES, ,.,,__
_ bUDGET _ ACCOUNTS  TF  PONT          _.LOCAL  ANOA............_ CE.........
AND PLb  C         L NES  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........................................
X SOCIAL AFFAIRS l A STAMPS AND l _| AND | .......... ... O:U;FM[NI ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.................................
GES PSAL         OTENT                   N  SINES                   C      S
UADMINISTRATTION             POSTAN OPERALIC NS             PLANNINGE SAND BERS
CHECAINS ~  ~ ACNSRTCNTNS
NTAMPS ANSWORK AIELND
ANDSOCIALTAFFAT                                             DOCUMATNISC                           T
PTRAUENKTRAND..SMISSION  EXCHANGES.
EALR ERIC ANS181LNS
-  PERSONNEL         AND 1NTERNATIONAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T L C MX ICT ON
SERVICES              C~~~~OERATEONS ANSSPRT
FINANCIAL   ER   CEACS,NIN, UBNRIER
----CONTROLAND ACUNTINDIRECT RESPONCNEST
.........ACCUNTS                      N
STA P   AND            -~~~~~~~EL ECSS NCAIN
SOCALC CREFAINS ACONSPNSUST.CMUIAIN                             ANDA BRAOERROFFICE
TNAASTRANSMISSION  ECAUS
DIRECT RESPONSIBILITY ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~   ~    TEECMMNIATON
CONTROL AND INDIRECT RESPONSIBILITY ~ ~ ~        COSTRUTIO
E  PTRNALSERD  IE
T LECOMMUNICATIONS ~ ~ ~    (R I RO- 99



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
UPPER VOLTA
TELECOIMUNICATION DIVISION
TARIFFS
1. General
Billing to subscribers is bi-monthly. Automatic urban sub-
scribers are subject to a two-part tariff comprising a rental for each
principal and supplementary line plus a charge per local call. Subscribers
to manual urban service are subject to a bi-monthly rental charge including
all local calls. Interurban service is manually operated; long-distance
calls are charged on a unit basis of a three-minute call, the charge varying
according to distance.
2. Charges
The undermentioned are the principle basic internal tariffs at
present applicable to the telecommunication services of Upper Volta.
(i)    Telephone                                       CFAF
(a)  Installation fees (per line)               15,000
(b)  Private subscribers - deposits             10,000
(c) Rentals:
(i) Main line - Ouagadougou and
Bobo-Dioulasso             8,100 per annum.
(ii) Main line - other areas (this charge
includes free local calls)       10,350 per annum
(iii)  Extension line                         1,800 per annum
(d) Local calls:
(i)  Ouagadougou                         )     30 per call
Ebbo-Dioulasso - as from cut-over to)
auto in October 1968           )
Bobo-Dioulasso subscribers are at
present charged for local calls on a
scale according to the total number
of calls made per month
(ii)  Public call boxes                         45 per call
(e) Long-distance calls - per unit call of 3
minutes
(i) from subscribers lines:
O   -   50 kms                            60 per call
51   -   75 kms                            90
76   - 100 kms                            150
101   - 150 kms                            210
151   - 200 kms                            270
Over 200 kms there is additional 90 CFAF for each 100 kms or
portion of 100 kms with a maximum of 900 CFAF per unit cail.



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
(ii)   Public call boxes
Tariffs are as above with an additional
charge of l1 CFAF or 30 CFAF per unit
according to the distance.
(ii) Telei                                                   CFAF
(a)  Installation fees                                 51,000
(b)  Rental                                           180,000 per annum
(c)  Communications - local per 90 seconds                 30
- long-distance per 3 minutes         225
- plus each additional minute         150
(ii i) TelepzraDh
Internal telegrams                                           5 per word
January 2-4, 1969



ANNEX 3
Page L of 4
UPPER VOLTA
OFFICE OF POSTS AND TELECOMCCMUICATIONS
EXISTING TELECCW1EUNICATION FACILITIES
A. Local Telephone
1.        On May 31, 19C:8, the telephone service had 2,980 telephone
stations of all kinds, including 1>224 main subscriber stations. Of
the main subscriber stations, 59% (or 723) were connected to the re-
latively new telephone exchange in Ouagadougou which is of the French
R6 relay type with registers and has an installed capacity of 1,000
lines; the remaining 41% were connected through local battery manual
exchanges in Bobo-Dioulasso where the 300-line exchange is saturated,
and in about 30 other towns within the country where small switchboards
of 4 to 50 lines are operated on a part-time basis. In addition, 34
3-line switchboards for public call offices are operated in villages
along the mnain roads and in provincial administrative and agricultural
community centers. A net? automatic exchange of moderr crossbar design
with a capacity of 800 lines is being installed in Bobo-Dioulasso and
is ewpected to start operation towards the cnd ot 1968.    A list of
telephone exchanges showing the installed capacity in lines units (LU)
and the number of connected direct subscribers' lines (DL) per exchange
1s attached on page 4 of this annex.
2.        The evolution of the number of teLephones during last few
years was as follows:
Main                           Total
Telephones      Extensions     Telephones
1965 (Dec. 31)       1,163          1,628          2,791
1966     U           1>189          1i664          2,853
£967                 1,216          1,703          2,917
1968 (May 31)        1,224          1J756           2,980
Yearly growth rate in telephones averaged 2.5% in 1966 and 1967 but
recently inereased to about 6% due to an extension of the Ouagadougou
excnange facilities.   Similar growth is expected to result from the
new 800-line exchange in Bobo-Dioulasso.
3.        Local network in Ouagadougou is composed of underground
cables prolonged, as necessary, by overhead cables or lines. In other
pLaces, the networks are entirely of overhead lines. The Ouagadougou
local network is completely saturated and must be reconstructed to
allow for connection of new subscribers to fully utilize the present
capacity of the exchange. The present overhead line network in



ANNEX 3
Page o 0f 4
Bobo-Dioulasso does not meet the quality requirements of a satisfactory
automatic service and must also be reconstructed.
B. Long-distance Connections
1.        These connections principally consist of' overhead lines, part
of which are equipped with carrier systems having 1, 3, 6 or 12-channels
capacity. The most important interurban link connects Ouagadougou and
Bobo-Dioulasso along the railway to Abidjan, and at present consists of
4 copper wires providing 17-carrier and physical circuits which are
insufficient to cope with the present demand. A new overhead route
equipped with a pair of copper conductors was built in 1966 for the 40o
kms between Ouagadougou and the Niger border under a USAID regional
project for interconnection between Niger (Niamey), Upper Volta and Mali
(Bamako). It is equipped with one-channel carrier systems in addition to
the physical circuit. Equipment from the same source was also provided
for the 150 km portion between Bobo-Dioulasso and the Mali border, but
installation is delayed pending the availability of credit from the
Government for local construction costs. A route of two overhead copper
wires following the railway to Abidjan is equipped with a 6-channel
carrier system between Bobo-Dioulasso and Bouake in Ivory Coast. The
remaining overhead network covering the interior of the country con-
sists of 1,400 kms of one pair copper wire line and 1,200 kms of single
iron wire; these lines are complementary to the main routes previously
mentioned. In addition, a VHF radio system is operated between
Ouagadougou-Ouahigouya and Tougan over 300 kms; and eight low power HF
radio links are operated from important towns to Ouagadougou and Bobo-
Dioulasso for use during peak hours and also for emergency use during
the frequent interruptions of the surf'ace links.
2.        With the exception of the recently built line to the Niger
border, the existing long-distance ov'erhead lines and facilities suff'er
in general from lack of maintenance and from the necersary improvement
and renewals to allow for the extensive use of modern carrier systems,
and to provide reliable and good quality service. The single iron wire
routes are obsolete and in poor condition; they do not even provide
minimum telephone service in the majority of cases and must be reequipped
to avoid complete interruption of communication.
C. International Services
1.        International telecommunications are principally operated by
the Compagnie France Cable et Radio (FCR), a French public enterprise,
in accordance with a 25-year contractual agreement which the Government
entered into in 1962. This is in line with similar agreements made by
other governments of the French-speaking states. Under the agreement -
(a) FCR owns and operates facilities for international telephone, tele-
graph and telex services, except for certain connections with
neighboring countries using surface links, such as the circuits to



Page 3 of 4
Ivory Coast, Mali and Niger mentioned in paragraph 4.04, which are owned
and run by the P&T Department; (b) FCR assists in training P&T personnel
to run these facilities which would pass to the Office on the expiration
of the concession; (c) investments in new equipment and installations
are made by FCR at its own expense; and (d) local P&T Department
collect the revenue fron international services, but divide this income
with FCR on a 40/60 basis. FCR's 6056 share includes participation of
the other terminals. International radio-telephone and telegraph
services are assured with France and with seven West African countries.
Present installations and operations are adequate and sufficient for
the required services.
2.        Under the agreement, FCR has provided and operates a manual
telex exchange in Ouagadougou    The capacity of this exchange is 40
subscribers, of whien 30 are in service. Six distant subscribers are
connected to this exchange from Bobo-Dioulasso. International telex
service is assured through connections with Paris and Abidjan. Telex
installations and service which is essentially international are
satisfactory.
D. Radio Broadcasting Service
1.        The telecommunications division is also responsible for the
maintenance and operation of' two medium-wave broadcast transmitters ta
Ouagadougou (20 kw and 5 kw antenna power), and Bobo-Dioulasso (1 kw).
Equipment, spares and consumable stores for this service are provided
by the Information Department.
E. The attached map no. IBRD 2359 following Annex 18 shows the
existing interurban links and main telephone «eba&nges
......cont'd



ANNE B 
Page h of 4
LIST OF TELEPHOUE EXCHXIGES
Installed Capacity in Line Units (LU)
and Number or Connected Direct Subscriberst Lines (DL)
- as on May 31, 1968 -
Designation of                         Capacity       Connected
Exchange               Type             in LIT        DL
Ouagadougou            Auto. R6           1,000          723
Bobo-Dioulasso         L.B.  1/          30 + 300  2/    290
Koudougou                il              10 + 50          41
Ouahigouya               "               10 + 50          27
Banfora                  "               10 + 50          26
Kaya                                      6 + 25          18
Fada N'Gourma                             6 + 25          1h
Deougou                                   3 + 17          10
Diebougou                '                3 + 10           9
Dori                                      3 + 10           8
Tenkadogo                                 3 + 10           8
Po                       "                3 + 10           5
Tougan                   "                3 + 10           5
Diapaga                                   2 +  6            5
Koupela                  "                3 + 10           h
Manga                    "                3 + 10            h
Yako                                      3 + 10           h
'"                                       3 + 10           3
Boronio                                   1 +  6           3
Garango                                   1+   h           3
Gaoua                                     3 + 10            2
Kombissiri                                1    4 h         2
Nouna                                     1+   h           2
Zorgho                  Il               2+    6           2
Kantchari                "                1 +  h           2
Dano                     "                1 +  h           1
Batie                                     1 +  h           1
Hounde                                    1 +  h           1
Ziniare                                   1 +  h           1
-~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~122
1/ Local Battery (LB) manual exchange.
2/ 800 LU crossbar Pentaconta automatic exchange
being installed, delivery expected end 1968.
Note:   (1) In addition, 3h call offices in small cities are equipped
with manual switchboards for one main line and 2 or 3
extensions.
(2) Total number of telephone stations of all kinds     2,980.
(3) The ratio total number of telephones over number DL is
about 2.h.
3  2



ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
UPPEE VOLTA
OFFICE OF POSTS AiD TELECOMMUNICATIONS
CONSTRUCTION PROGR4M (1969-1971) AND ESTIMATED COSTS
The following are the principal items of the proposed Project
to be realized 1969 through 1971:
(1) Local network - Bobo-Dioulasso - Renewal and extension of
the existing local cable and subscriber overhead line network,
at present serving 300 lines; this is a vital matter in view
of the opening of an 800-line automatic exchange towards the
end of 1968;
(2) Local network - Ouagadougou - The existing network, at present
serving 723 lines is saturated and needs extension to provide
at least twice the present capacity and to serve new areas
without service;
(3) Interurban overhead lines - Reconditioning of about 400 kms
of interurban overhead single iron wire lines between centers
of the interior, such as Kaya-Dori, Diebougou-Gaoua, Ouahigouya-
Tougan and Koudougou-Dedougou;
(4) Carrier systems on overhead lines - equipment of 8 additional
1-channel systems and improvement of circuit terminals on
existing lines to satisfy traffic demand, and to allow for
extension of telephone service hours in the offices sharing
the circuits along the routes;
(5)  100-line automatic telephone exchange in Koudougou - including
subscriber dialing with Ouagadougou;
(6)  Installation of small manual telephone exchanges, line con-
centrators and call offices in various towns of the interior;
(7) One additional reLional overhead line to a neighboring country,
this is a new USAID project at present under consideration;
(8) Miscellaneous works to expand and improve existing services
and installations, such as improvement of existing VHF and HF
radio connections, reconditioning of telephone switchboards,
trunk line equipment and installations in small offices, re-
arrangement and redistribution of existing facilities, common
services equipment, vocational training scheme, engineering,
consultant and procurement services.
Existing and proposed telephone exchanges and long-distance
surface links are shown in the attached map IBRD No. 2359. Estimated
costs and proposed financing portions under the construction program are
as follows:
January 24, 1969



UPPER VOLTA
OFFICE OF POSTS AND TELECOHMUNICATIONS
ESTIMATRD COSTS OF TMH PROGRA! (1969-1971)
-(In Millions of CFA Francs)-
Total of 3-lear
1 9 6 9                1 9 7 0               1 9 7 1                 Prograe
Foreign  Local Total Foreign   Local Total Foreign Local Total Foreign       Local Total
Cost     cest          Cost    Cost          Cost     Cost          C03t     Co0t
A. IDA Financed Portion
1)  Bobo-Dioulasso Local Network            1a>X9   8.o   20.0    15.0   10.0    25.0    -       -      -       27.0   18.0   45.o
2) Ouagadougou Local Network                15.0   10.0   25.0    15.0   L0.0   25.0     -                      30.0   20.0   50.0
3) Long-distance Overhead Lines             26,t    910   35.4    35.8  1U.0    49.8     54.0   20.5   74.5    116.2   43.5  159.7
4) Transport, Tools, Mechanical Aids
and Aceessories                        5.1    3.1    8.2      5.0    3.1   8.1      4.0    2.6    6.6     14.1    8.8   22.9
5)  Contingencies                            2.3    0.5    3.1      3.1    1.2   4.3      4.4    1.9    6.3      9.8    3.9   13.7
Sub-total                          60.8   30.9   91.7     73.9   38.3  112.2    62.à   25.0   87.4    197.1   94.2  291.3
B. F.A.C. Financed Portion
1)  Carrier Systems                          4.8    0.7    5.5      3.6    1.4   5.0      1.2    2.5    3.7      9.6    4.6   lh.2
2) Koudougou Automatic Exchange               -      -      -        -      -     -       5.5    2.5    8.0      5.5    2.5    8.0
3) Engineering                               6.4    1.4    7.8      6.4    1.4    7.8     2.2    0.7    2.9     15.0    3.5  jffi
Sub-total                          11.2    2.1   13.3     10.0    2.8   12.8      8.9   5.7   14.6     30.1   10.6   40.7
C.  USAID Financed Portion
1)  Regional International Link               -      -      -        -      -      -      10.0   5.0   15.0     10.0    5.0   15.0
D. CPT Financed Portion 1/
1) Miscellanecus and Installation Works       -     5.0    5.0       -     5.0    5.0       -   10.0   10.0       -    20.0   20.0
TOTAL                           72.0  38 0  110.0   -3.9     46.1  130.0     81.3   45.7  127.0    237.1  129.8  367.0
1/ Thia is in addition to almnost all of local costs which are contained in ot.her sections.
January 24, 1969



Dane ? of 1
UPPER VOLTA
TELECOEflUNICATION. DIVISION
COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS
A. COSTS
(CFAF millions)
Years        Capital          Discounting            Discounted
Costs            Factors (9.5%)        Cost
1            110                .9132                100.4
2            130               .8340                 108.4
3            127               .7616                  96.7
Total   367                                     305.5
B. BENEFITS
(CFAF millions)
Years  Revenues  Operating   Benefits   Discounting      Discounted
_ _______  Expenses              Factors (9.5%)   Benefits
1       4.1        -          4.1          .9132          3.7
2      11.0        -         11.0         .8340          9.2
3      20.0       0.8        19.2          .7616        14.6
h      31.0       1.0        30.0          .6955         20.9
( 5.to   42.2       1.4        ho.8        6.233         25h.3)
(25                                                            )
302.7
1.        The above-mentioned tables give the cash fiow for the proposed
investment for 25 years, the assumed life of the project.
2.        The capital costs showin in Table A are taken from the Sources
and Applications of Funds for the Telecommunication Division (Annex- 9).
The benefits in Table B are the additional revenues resulting from the
program minus the additional operating expenses, exclusive of depreciation
and are derived from the Income statement, (Annex 8).
3.        The calculations show that the increased revenue from the
new investment would yield a minimum economic rate of return of 9.5%.



ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 3
UPPER VOLTA
NOTES AND ASSUîr]PTIONS ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
A. BALANCE SHEETS
1. Fixed Assets
In the absence of any records showing the assets transferred by
the former French West African Administration in 1959, gross fixed assets
at vesting date were valued as follows:
(i)   Telecommunication Gross Fixed Assets - CFAF120 million
(ii) Postal Gross Fixed Assets - CFAF30 million
As regards telecommunication plant, values were fixed having
regard to the type and quantity of equipment then in existence.
To the above mentioned totals have been added the estimated capital
expenditure for each succeeding year. The following table gives an analysis
of the total additional capital expenditure from 1959 to 1968 together with.
the source of finance:
Total               Postal       Telecom
CFAF    US$    %    CFAF    US$   CFAF    US$
( m-i- 1i o n-s     (million-s   -Frillion-s
Source
Grants from - France   300.6   1.2    33   117.0   0.5   183.6   0.7
- USA      277.0   1.1    30      -     -    277.0   1.1
- UNDP      20.0   0.1     2      -     _     20.0   0.1
597.6   2.4    65   117.0   0.5   48o.6   1.9
Own or Government
resources            182.7   0.7    20    49.1   0.2   133.6   0.5
Local Loan             100.0   0.h    il    26.0   0.1    74.0   0.3
French Govt. Loan       38.0   0.2            -     -     38.0   0.2
Total Sources          918.3   3.7   ioo   192.1   0.8   726.2   2.9
2. Depreciation
The following composite depreciation rates have been assumed:
(i)   Telecommunication Assets - 4% per annum
(ii) Postal Assets - 3% per annum



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 3
3. Cash
The cash balances shown on the balance sheets for 1965, 1966, and
1967 relate to cash held in the various offices for the postal services.
From 1968 onwards, the total cash held in the OPT at the end of each year
is to be CFAF130 million. This is in accordance with the new convention
between the Ministry of Finance and the OPT. (see Annex 17)
h. Accounts Receivable
(i)   Telecommunication division receivables for the years
1965, 1966 and 1967 related mainly to Government
receivables. 1968 receivables take into account the
provisions of the proposed settlement (see Annex 3,
Section A). They comprise all unpaid private sub-
scriberst bills, plus all December 196 eestimated
billings. Receivables at the end of years 1969 through
1973 cover unpaid accounts for current billings, both
Government and private, plus estimated December billings.
(ii) Total postal division receivables are of small amount
since almost all transactions of the division are con-
ducted for cash. The sums indicated relate to Govern-
ment transactions.
5. Inventories
Stores accounting in the present organization is limited to
recording quantities received and issued. The totals included in the
Balance Sheets have been estimated after discussions with responsible
officials and after inspection of the main stores depot.  Telecommunication
stores are insufficient for the operating requirements oa the service
and prov±3ion has been made for a 100% increase in the five years, 1969-19713
Postal stores relate mainly to stamps and stationery.
6. Current Liabilities
The total current liabilities shown in the Balance Sheets for
the years 1965 through 1967 relate to the total of accounts payable which
were actually forwarded for settlement to the Ministry of Flnance on
December 31st of each year. The 1968 figure is the estimated total out-
standings as provided for in the settlement b1ÎVe-n-t -ÈL>7 ty Grre..in&nice
and the OPT.
7. Equity
The 1965 equity total represents a balancing figure bettween the
total of net fixed and net current assets and the total of a long-term
debt and other liabilities. In subsequent years the change in equity
reflects adjustments for annual profit or loss, assumed contributions by
and to the Governnent, and direct aid towards capital expenditure.



AiNNEX t?
Page 3 of 3
8. Public Checking Accounts
This account covers:
(a) public checking accaunt balances;
(b)  unliquidated postal and money orders;
(c) miscellaneous balances due to the public.
The balance of the account which fluctuates considerably from
year-to-year has been included in the forecast at between CFAF650 and
CFAF670 million annually for the five years 1969-1973.
B. INCOME STATEMENTS
9. Revenue
In estimating revenue, totals have been reconstructed to represent
income twhich would have accrued during the year rather than cash receipts.
In view of the lack of waiting lists and demand forecasts, a
reasonable estimate of telecommunication revenue has been attempted taking
into account the additional revenue likely to arise from the proposed
program of work, from future line development as well as from the improve-
ment of controls.
Estimates of postal revenue have taken into account a possible
increase in postal tariffs in 1969. In the years 1969 through 1973,
provision has been made for the reimbursement of the services rendered to
the National Savings Bank and also the receipt of interest on the funds in
the Treasury deposit account (see Annex 16).  As regards the latter, in
view of the varying rates of interest proposed, the sum of CFAF18 million
has been included for each year. This is equivalent to approximately 3%
per annum over the five-year period.
10. Expenses
In estimating salaries for both postal and telecommunication
divisions, attempt has been made to caver the cost of additional staff
required, including the contributions to the cost of additional French
nationals and salaries of personne1 returnin, from training courses in
France. A reasonable ;.roportion of total salaries has been charged to
capital account.
Januart' 2Éi, 1969



UPPER VOLTA
09p1 - TFtIOMMOUNICATIONS DIVISION
Notlvnai Balance Sheeta 1965-1973
(Ln milo     o! CFA Fran o-
EST.[IMAOEB_                                                              FOREC'2ST                         _   _
As QI' ecember 31                        1965          1966          1967           196%                1369            1970             1971             1972            1973
ASsETS
Fixed Asnet"
Groes telwonmmunications plant                652.7         749.2          776,7         846.2               956.2         1,086.2          1,213.2          1,313.2          1,413.2
Le-m:  dspreilation                            94.4         122.4          152.9         185.h               221.4           262.2            308,4            358.9           4l3.4
Net fixcd plant in service                  558.3         626,3          623.8         660.8               734.a            624.0           904.8            954.3            999-.
Curret As.tt
cash                                                                                      35.0                33.6             33.7            33.6             32.1             32,9
Ac,counts rwveivab1e                           39.5          76.5          1)2.            33.0               45.8             50.5            54.7             59.1             63.9
Triverîborius                                   2.0           2.0            2.0           5                   7.0              8.       _       9.S            10.0             10.0
'rotai rnrrent assets                        41.5          78.S          144o.          73.0                86.4             92.7            97.6            DI1.2            106,C
Lcss:   errent liabilities                    9.1           5.7                          5.0                10.0             12,0            15.0             16.o             17.0
Net currtnt a3sets                           32.4          72.8          i44.n          6B.Q                76.h             B0.7            82.6          _   5.2             69.6
TVOTAI. ASSzPS                              590.7         699.6          767.8         728.8                L11.2           904.7            987,L         1 039.5
L rAOPT.r" 1mS
Ecuity                                          527,1         638.5          703.0         639.8               663.2            667P.            718,3            738.0           763.5
Subscribers' depots                               4.4           4. 6           Lk7            5.0                5.3              5.7              6.2             6.7              7.2
Long terni deub
5i SYav!inws Bank loan                         59.2          75.0           50.6          46.0                 41.2            36.2             30.9            25.3             13.0
3/4% Frermchi Goverrment loan                                 1.5            9. 5         3B.0                3.0              35.5             33.0            30.5             28.0
LUA Credit                                                     -              -             -                 63.5           )J0.0            19W.0            199.0            191.5
Future bômrowing                                                                                                                                                4O.0             80.0
Total long term debt                         59.2          56.0           60.1           84.o              142.7      _      11.7            262.1           29)m 3           318t4
TOTAL LIABL  TTIWS                          5?0.7     _       6.6        767.5          72.38              8iLe             924.7            987.L           ,3_            1,089.6
Dabr/eo1u:ty ratio                                10,'?:          3/Y?          j»# 77        12/3J3             18/532           28/76            27/7,            29/71           2S/71
September 26, 1968



ANNEX 8
UPPER VOLTA
OPT - TELECOMMUNICATICNS DIVISION
Statement of Estimated Incomse (1965-68) and Forecast Income (1969-73)
(in millions of CFA Francs)
ESTIMATED                                      FORECAST
Year ending December 31                  1965    1966     1967     1963            1969     1970     19j1     i-)72    1973
REVENUE
Telephone - local and long distance revenue   107.1   117.1    110.1    110.3           117.d    128.2    137.7    149.4     161.1
- international calls (net)           6.o     4.5      5.4      6.2             6.a      7.4      8.1      3.3      ;2. 7
Telex (net)                                     6.5     7.7      9.5     11.3            13.6     16.3     19.$     22.5      25.C
Telegraph                                     -28.8    21.7     19.0     20.0            21.0     21.5     22.J     .2.7      23.2
Miscellaneous                                   3.2     3.5      1.6      1.d             2.1      2.4      2.3      3.2       3.0
Total operating revenue                     151.6   154.5    145.6   1L-.6           161.3    175.d   lO.1     206.6    222.6
EXPENSES
Salaries                                       d2.1    91.7     71.1     73.4            33.0     38.8     92.3     96.0      ?9.d
Other expenses                                 22.7    21.9     17.0     20.2            23.0     23.5     24.C     24.0     24.5
Depreciation                                   24.1    28.0     30.5     32.5            36.0     40.3     46.2     50.-     54.5
Total operating expenses                    128.9  1i1.6     118.6    131.1           142.C    153.1    162.5    170.5    173.3
NET INCOME                                       22.7    12.9     27.0     18.5            19.3     22.7     27.6     36.1     03.Y
Other miscellaneous income                      -       -        -        3.0 3/          -        -        -        -         -
Net income  before interest                    22.7    12.9     27.0     21.5            19.3     22.7     27.6     36.1     43.8
Less: (interest)                               (3.1)   (3.2)    (3.0)    (2.Y)           (5`9     (8.6)   (13.6)   (16.4)   (10.3)
Net profit during year                       19.6     9.7     24.o     18.7            13.4     14.1     14.0     19.7     25.5
A-ierage net telecommunication plant
in service                             521.0   592.5    625.3    642.3           697.8    779.4    864.4     29.'     27.
Rate of return 1/                               OAI X   2.2%     4.3'     2.?t            2.8%     2.2      3.2,     3. 45      G 
Operating ratio 2/                             85      92      86        d3              83       87       85        2        80
Number of lines                             1,163   1,189    1,210    1,284           1,347    1,428    1,507    L,6E     1,67?
Number of telephones                        2,7?1   2,853    2,917    3,031           3,165    3,355    3.466    3,635    3,755
Times interest covered by net income            7.3     4.0      9.0      ".7             3.3      2.6      2.0      2.2      2.,
1/ Ratio of net income to average net telecosmmunication plant in service.
2/ Ratio of total operatina expenses to total operating revenues.
3/ 0CD contribution to stores.
October 17, 1968



ANNEX 9
UFPFE13 iOLTA
OPT - T%LzcVW.:CATIONS DIVISION
Sources ard Applications of Fundo
<in allions of CFA Francs)
ESTE).TED                                    FORECAST
Year ending December 31          1965    1966   1967     1968            1969    1970    1971     1072   1973         1969-1971      1969-1l73
SOURCES OF FUNiS
Internal cash generation
Net income - before interest             22.7    12.9    27.0     21.5           19.3    22.7     27.6    36.1    43.8           69.6         ilU5
Depreciation                             24.1    28.0    30.5     32.5           36.0    40.9     46.2    50.5    54.5          123.0          228.0
Total                                  46.8    40.9    57.5     54.0           55.3    63.5     73.8    86.6    98.3          192.6          377.5
Sub3criber9s deposilt                       -       0.2     0.1      0.3            0.3     O.h      0.5     0.5     0.5            1.2            2.2
Borrowings
3/S PFrench Oovernrnt loan                -       1.5     8.0     28.5            -       -        -       -       -              -
IDA Credit                                -       -      -         -             63.5    7 6.5    59.0     -       -            199.0          199.0
Future borroving                          -       -      -         -              -       -        -      40.0    40.0            -             80.0
Total borroving                         -       1.5     8.0     28.5           63.5     F6.5    59.0    40.0    40.0          199.0          279.0
Gran ts
French Goveronent                         6.o    20.0    10.5     33.0           10.0    10.0      7.0     -       -             27.0           27.0
U.S.A. to3vernent                        60.0    57.0     -        -              -       -       10.0     -       -             10.0           10.0
Totalgranta                            66.0    77.0    10.5     33.0           10.0    10.0     17.0      -      -             37.0           37.0
TOTAL SOURCES                          112.8    119.6   76.1    115.3          129.1    150.4   150.3    127.1  138.8          429. 8         695.7
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Capital construction                       98.7    96.5    27.5     69.5          110.0   130.0    127.0   100.0   100.0          367.D          567.0
Debt service - Amortization
5% Savings Bank loan                      4.o     4.2     4.4      4.6            4.3     5.0      5.3     5.6     5.9           15.l           26.6
3/14  French Goveroneot loan              -       _       _        _              _       2.5      2.5     2.5     2.5            5.1           10.05
MA Credit                                                                                 -        -       -       -5                            7.5
4.0     4.2     4.4      4.6            4.8     7.5      7.8     8.1    15.9           20.1           4h.1
Debt service- Interest
5% Savings Bank loan                      3.1     2.9     2.7      2.5            2.3      2.1     1.8     1.5     1.2            6.2            8.;
3j/J Preneh Oovernrnt loan                -       0.3     0.3      0.3            0.3     0.3      0.3     0.2     0.2            0.9            1.3
IDA Credit                                -       -       -        -              73      6.2    Il.S     12.9    12.9           21.0           46.8
Future borroving                          -       -       -        -                               -       1.8     .0             -              5.8
3.1     3.2     3.0      2.8            5.9     8.6     13.     16.4    lb.3           29.1           62.8
Total debt service                        7.1      7.4    7.h      7.4           10.7     16.1    21.4     2h.5   34.2           413.2         106.9
Variation in vorkinr capital                7.1    15.7    h1.2      3.9            9.3     4.2      2.2     3'9     3.8           16.2           23. 
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                      112.3    119.6   76.1     30.3          130.1    15S.3   15D.6    128.4  138.0          L31.h          S7.-.
Cash surplus (deflciency)                   -       -      -        35.1 oî.L)              0.1     (0.3)    (3.3i   3.8           (1.6)          <7.1)
Cash at beginning or vear                   -       -      -         -             39 .     33.6    33.7     33.h   32.1           35.}           3'.
Cash a end ol year                          _       _               35.0           33.l     3       3. 7 3.h  32.1  32.              .u           32.
Debt ser-lce coverage                       6.6     5.5    7.        7.3            5.2      3.      3.h      3.5    2.9
Octob.r 17, 1968



UPPER VQLTA
OPT - POSTAL DIV1SION
Notional Balance Sheets 1965 - 1973
(in millions of CFA Francs)
ESTIMATED                                                    FORECAST
As of December 31            1965      1966      1967       1968                   1969      1970      1971       1972      1973
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Gross postal plant                 218.2      219.6     222.1     222.1                  224.6      229.6     234,6     239.6      244.6
Less: depreciation                  31.6       38.1      44.7      51.3                   57.9       64.7      71.6      78.7       85.9
Net fixed plant in service         186.6      181.5     177.4     170.8                  166.7      164.9     163.0     160.9      158.7
Current Assets
Cash                                53.3       50.3      56.8      95.0                   96.4       96.3      96.6       97.9      97.1
Accounts receivable                  0.9        -         2.5       -                      2.5        2.7       2.7        2.8       2.8
Inventories                          5.0       5.0        4.8       5.0                    5.0       5.3        5.6       5.9        6.5
Total current assets              59.2       55.3      64.1     100.0                  1C3.9      10à.3     104.9      106.6     106.4
Less: curoet .)abili%ies          U.3        10.0       6.7       -                      9.0       10.0      10.0      10.5       11.0
Net current assets                44.9       45.3      57.4     100.0                   94.9       94.3      94.9       96.1      95.4
TOTAL ASSETS                  231.5     226.8     234.8      270.8                  261.6     259.2      257.9     257.0     254.1
LIABILITIES
Equity                               157.4      157.1     160.1     159.5                  169.7      177.2     188.0      196.9     206.0
Long termn debt
5% Savings Bank loan                20.8       19.4      17.9      16.3                    14.6      12.8      10.9        8.9       6.8
Public checking accounts - balances  609.0      556.0     575.0     650.0                  650.0      660.0     660.0      670.0     670.0
Less: Treasury deposit account       555.7      505.7     518.2     555.0                  57n.7      596.8     601.o      618.8     628.7
Net liability to Public             53.3       50.3      56.8      95.0                   77.3       69.2      59.0       51.2      41.3
IOTAL LIABILITIES             231.5      226.8     234.8      270.8                 261.6      259.2     257.9      257.0     254.1
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Debt/equity ratio                      12/88     1l/89      10/90     9/91                   8/92       7/93      5/95       4/96      3/97
September 26, 1968



UPPER VOLTA
OPT - POSTAL DIVISION
Statement of istimated Income (1965-68) and Forecast Income (1969-73)
(in millions of CFA Francs)
ES TIMA TED                                         FORECAST
Year ending December 31         1965       1966      1967       1968         1969       1970      1971        1972     1973
REVENUE
Postal services                          133.7     116.2      131.9      129.2        133.5      136,5     139.8       142.8    145.7
Public checking accounts-commissicns       1.9        3.2       b.6        8.8          5.0        5.'       5.2         5.2      5.3
National Savings Bank -
reimbursemnent for services             -          -         -          _            6.5        6.5       6.8         7.0      7.2
Treasury deposit account - interest        -         -          -          -           18.0       18,0      18.0        18.0     18.0
Total operating revenue                135.6     119.4      136.5      13L.0        163.0      166.0     169.8       173.0    176.2
EXPENSES
Salaries                                 100.8      112.2      86.9       95.,         95.h       97.0      97.5       100.5    100.5
Other expenses                            57.3       56.3      45.9       45.9         50.0       58.0      54.0        56.o     59.0
Depreciation                               6.5        6.5       6.6        6.6          6.6        6.8       6.9         7.1      7.2
Total operating expenses                164.6     175.0      139.4      147.9        152.0      157.c     158.4       163.6    166.7
NET INCOME (LOSS) - before interest        (29.0)     (55.6)      (2.9)    113.9)        11.0        8.2      11.4         9.8      9.5
Less (interest)                           (1.1,      1.11       (1.0)      (0.9;        :0.6)     (0.7)     (0.6)       (0.5)    (0.4)
Net profit (loss) during year            (30.1)     (56.7)      (3.9)     (1,8.)       10.2        7.5      10.8         8.9      9.1
Average net postal plant in service      189.8      18L.0      179.8      174.1       168.7      165.8     163.9       161.9    159.8
Rate of return 1/                          -          -          -          -           6.5%       4     9%  6.9%        5.8%     5.9%
rimes interest covered by net income        -         -          -          -           13.7       11.7      19.C       1 b. 8   23. 7
1/  Ratio of net income to average net postal plant in service
October 17, 1968



UPPER VOLTA
OPT - POSTAL DIVISION
Sources and Application of Funds
(in willions of CFA Francs)
ESTIMATED                                            FORECAST
Year ending December 31             1965       1966       1967       1968          1969       1970      1971        1972      1973                 1y69-1971    1969-1973
SOURCES OF FUNL'S
Internal cash generation
Net income (loss) before interest          (29.C)     (55.6)       (2.9)     (13.9)        11.0        8.2      11.4          9.h      9.5                   30.6          49.5
Depreciation                                 6.5        6.5        6.6         6.6          6.6        6.8       6.9          7.1      7.2                    20.3         34.6
Total                                    (22.5)     (L9.1)       3.7       (7.3)         17.6       15.0      18.3        16.5      16.7                   50.9          84.1
Grants - French Governnent                     -          -          2.5         -            -          -         -            -        -                       -            -
Public checking accounts                      29.0        -         19.0        75.0          -         10.0       -          10.0       -                     10.0          20.0
Treasury deposit account                       -         50.C        -           -            -          -         -            -        -                       -            -
Variation in working capital                  25.0       53.0        (1.2)       9.8          6.5        0.5       (0.3)        0.1     (0.1)                    6.7          6.7
MTAL SOURCES                                31.5       53.9       24.C       77.5          2h.1       25.5      15.0        26.6     16.6                    67.6        110.8
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Capital construction                           -          1.4        2.5         -            2.5        5.0       5.0          5.0      5.0                    12.5         22.5
Debt service
5% Savings Bank loan
Amortization                               1.4        l.,i       1.5         1.6          1.7        1.8       1.9          2.0      2.1                    5.4           9.5
Interest                                   1.1        1.1        1.C        C.Q           (.8        0.7       G.6         0.5      C.L                     2.1          3.0
Total debt service                         2.5        2.5        2.5         2.5          2.5        2.5       2.5          2.5      2.5                     7.5         12.5
Public checking accounts                       -         53.0         -          -            -          -          -           -        -                       -            -
Treasury deposit account                      27.0        -         12.5       36.P          17.7       16.1      10.2         17.8      9.9                    46.0         73,7
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                          29.5       56.9       17.5       39.3          22.7       25.6      17.7         25.3     17.L                    66.0        108,7
Cash surplus (deficiency)                      2.0        (3.'°)     6.5        38.2          1.4        (0.1)      C.3        13      (0.8)                    1.6          2.1
Cash at beginning of year                     51.3        53.3      50.3        56.8         95.C        96.4      5.6.3       96.6     97.9                    95.0         95.0
Cash at end of year                           53.3        5C.3       56.8       95.o         96.L        96.3      96.6        97.9     97.1                    96.6         97.1
Debt service coverage                         -           _          1,5         -            7.0        6.0        7.3        6.6       6.7
October 17, 1968



UPPER VOLTA
OFFICE OF POSTS AND TELEtOO4UNICATIONS
Consolidated Notional Balance Sheets 1965-1973
(in millions of CFA Francs)
eTIDATED                                                          FORECAST
As of December 31                      1965         1966         1967         1968              1969          1970          1971         1972          1973
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Grass postal plant                          218.2        219.6        222.1        222.1              224.6        229.6        234.6         239.6        244.6
Gross telecommunications plant              652.7        749.2        776.7        846.2              956.2      1.086.2       1,213.2      1,313.2       1,413.2
Total gross plant                           870.9        968.8        998.8      1,068.3            1,180.8      1,315.8      1,447.8       1,552.8      1,657.8
Depreciation                                126.0       16o.5         197.6        236.7              279.3        326.9        380.0         437.6        499.3
Net fixed plant in service                744.9       808.3         801.2        831.6              901.5        988.9      1,067.8       1,115.2      1,158.5
Current Assets
Cash                                         53.3        50.3          56.8        130.0             130.0         130.0        130.0         130.0        130.0
Accounts receivable                          40.4         76.5        144.5         33.0               48.3         53.2         57.4          61.9         66.7
Inventories                                   7.0         7.0           6.8         10.0              12.0          13.8         15.1          15.9         16.5
Total current assets                      100.7        133.8        208.1        173.0              190.3        197.0         202.5        207.8         213.2
Less:  current liabilities                 23.4         15.7          6.7          5.0               19.0         22.0          25.0         26.5          28.0
Net current assets                         77.3        118.1        201.4        16d.0              171.3        175.0         177.5        181.3         185.2
TOTAL ASSfTS                           822.2       926.4      1,002.6         999.6           1,072.8      1.163.9       1,245.3      1,296.5       1,343.7
LIABILITIES
Equity                                        684.5        795.6        863.1        799.3              032.i        8&.          906.3        934.0         969.5
Subscribers deposits                            4.4          4.6          4.7          5.0                5.3          5.7           6.2          6.7           7.2
Long tera debt
5% Savings Bank loan                         80.0        74.4          68.5         62.3               55.8         49.0          41.8         34.2          26.2
3/41 French Government loan                    -          1.5           9.5          38.0              38.0         35.5          33.0         30.5          28.0
IDA Credit                                                  -            -            -                63.5        140.0         199.0        199.O         191.5
Future borrowing                               -            -            -             -                 -                          -          40.0          80,0
Total long term debt                       80.0         75.9         78.0         100.3             157.3        224.5         273.3        303.7         325.7
Public checking accounts - balances           609.0        556.o        575.0        650.0              650.o        660.0         660.0        670.0         670.0
Less: Treasury deposit account                555.7        505.7        518.2        555.0              5,2.7        590.8         601.0        61b.8         628.7
Net liability to Public                    53.3         50.3         56.          95.0              77.3         69.2          59.0         51.2          41.3
TOTAL LIAUILITIES                      822.2       926.4       1,002.6        9)9.6           1,072.8       1,163.9      1,245.3       1,296.5      1,343.7
Debt/eauity ratio                               10/90         9/91         8/92        11/89              16/94        21/79         23/77        25/15         25/75
September 26, 1968



<3g~TWE VOIAt 'X<N
Coasoli datadSaste         staedIcu          96      i  Fegst _hn        1_69
l1965      1966       1761?      i96          l969       1j70       1971       1972        1973
Postal dçtvi±ioe                           135.6      119.6      136.5       l3.0        163,0     166.0       169.5      173.0      176.2
Telecohnunicationa ditvision               151.6      154.5      U5.6       IL9.6        161.3      175.8      190.1       206.6      222.6
Total operating revenuM                  28-.2      273.9      282.1L  _  283,6        324._      341.8      359.        3          38.8
gXPENSES
Sallaies                                   152.9      2n,9       153.0      173.U        178B,      i85.8      159.8       196.5      200.3
Other expenses                              80.0       78.2       62.9       66.1         73.0        77.5       75.0       50.0       d3.5
Depr?ciation                                30.6       34 5       37.l     .  9 1          1 2,6 47.6          53.1         57.6       6i.
Total operating expenset                L2935       396.5      255.o      279p.        294.0       310.7      320,?     331&.1        34'.S
NKU INOOrS (LbSS)                             (6.3)     (42.7)      2h.I        a.6         30,3       30.9        39.0       65.5       53.3
Other rniscellgnesus i-ncee                   -
Net tnteme  before intercbt                 (6. j     (j2.7)      24.        7.6            0.         0.9       39.0       45.5       5i.3
Less: (interect)                                                   ____ ((,.)                                             (16,9»      ÇO.7
Net profit (lo5s) durine yp&r              }- )       (70         20          J.           2j.b      21.6        2b6.       2h.6 ____
Average total net plant Ui sdrvice         710.8      776.5      804.7       81.24        866.5      945.2    1,028.3    2.091.6    1,236.3
Rate et retutn lt                             ^          -         3MOt       °.63          3.5%       3.3T       3.3%       4.21       4.7%
Tiatea intereet cPvered br net income         -                    6.0        2.:.         h.5         3.3        2.7        2.7        2,9
1/ Ratio ef nt3t Liacome to .veroege tutal net plant t'n  ervice
October 17, 1965



UPPER VOLTA
(îr'd6k O>F POSr, AND) TUàCOqUi1~TI0WS
Consolidated Statement of Sources and Apctions of Funds
(A  mllos ofCFA Fracs
ESTI31ATED                                                     FORECAST
it   -iL~              3l 965                              1966          1967         1968            1969         1970         1971         1972          1973      1969-1971     1i559-197fl
SOURCES 0F FUNDS
Internal cash generation
Net Lncoo,  (lus ..   berore tneeo                   6.3)        (42.7)         21.1           7.6            30.3         30.9         39.0         45.5         53.3         100.2         199.0
Depreciati.n                                        30.6          314.5         37.1         3~9.1            12.6         47.6         53.1         57.6         61.7         1u3.,3        262.6
Total                                             24.3          (8.2)         61.2         46.7             72.9         78.5         92.1        103.1        115.0         243.5         461.6
Subscribers' deposits                                    -           0.2            0.1          0.3             0.3          0.4          0.5          0.5          0.             1.2           2.2
Borro.ings
3/18 Frenlch Gocerment loan                           -            1.5           8.0          28.5              -            -            -            -            --                           -
IDA6 Credit                                           -             -              -            -             63.5         7-6.5        59.0           -            -1.99.0                  199.0
F'tusre borro-ing                                     -             -              --                           -            -            -          10.0         40.0             -          80.0
Total borroving                                     -            1.5           8.0         28.5            635          7.             9.           00          4.           199.0         279.0
Gra.nts
French Gouernment                                    6.o          20.0          13.0         33.0             10.0         10.0          2.0           -            -27.0                     27.0
U.S.A. Government                                   60.0          57.0             -            --                           -          10.0           -            -10.0                     10.0
Total grants                                      66.0          77.0          13.0         33.0             10.0         10.0         17.0           -                        37.0          37.0
Public checklng accouints                             29.0             -           19.0         75.0              -          10.0           -          10.0            -10.0                     20.0
Treasury deposit account                                 -          50.0             -            -               --                        -             -            -             -             -
T'OTAL S0U9CES                                     119.3         120.5         101.3        183.5           2i46- 7       175.4~       168.6        153.6        155.5         1 90.7        799.3
APP'LICATION 0F FUNoe
Capital construction - postal                            -           l.h            2.5           -              2.5          5.0          5.0          5.0          5.0           12.5          22.5
Capital construction - teieoessuications              98.7          96.5          27.5          69.5           11O.0        130.0        127.0        100.0        100.0         367.0          567.0
Total capital construction                          95.7          97. 9          30.0         69.5           112.5        135.0        132.0        105.0        105.0          37?.5         559.5
Sebt service - Acurtization
5% Savings Bank loan                                 5.4           5.6            5.9          6.2             6.5          6.8          7.2          7.6          5.0           20.5          36.1
3/48 Frenci Gocernent loan                                           -             -            -               -           2.5          2.51                      2.5           3010. r'
Em Credit                                              -            --                                          -            -            -            -           7.5             -7.5
Debt service - Interest
58 lavingo Bani boan                                 h.2           4.0            3.7          3. h            3.1          2.3          2.~.         2.3          1.3            3.3          11.4
3/4% French Goveroment l.an                            -0.3                       0.3          0.3             0.3          0.3          0.3          0.2           0.2           0).9          1.3
IDA Oredit                                             --                          -            -              3.3          6.2         11.5         12.9         12.9          21.1.          16.8
Future borro.tng                                       -             -             -            --                           -            -           1.8          L.12            --
Total debt service                                    9.6           9.9           9.9          9.~              .          16.à         23.7         27.f0         33.7          55.L         11iO4
P.blsc checking accounts                                 -           53.0-- -                                    -                    -            -            -                    -             -
Treaoury deposit account                              27.0             -           12.5         36.8            17.7         11.1         10.2         17.3           9.Q          16.0          73.7
7a,i.tion is ucrkiog capital                          1.           (3 7. 3)       12.1          (5/              3.3          3."-         2.              .3.1.5                                17.2
00TAI, APPLICATIONI                                117.3,        123.            Q4. 3       110.3           T63.        Ïo            163- 6                                   9Xl.           Q
Cas6 surplus (defir'iency)                               .           (3.0)          6.5         732                             ------
Casli tI begro=niug cf yelr                           5l.-           5,3.3         5). 3    ~    6.            131).0       71Û.         1             130.         13,1.-        130.1         130.3
Cash aI esc c:' yea,                                                 '03           56.3        )3c.            130.0        130.')        13.           C             7           1 30. 1       131.3
Debt oervice c-erage                                                   -             .c          1755                          t?3.                      3."
Septe.ber 26, 196 



ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 1
UPPER VOLTA
OPT - POSTAL OPERATIONS
L.        Following the pattern adopted in France, the postal division
of the Department carried out the usual postal services and in addition
offered public checking account facilities, and performed the duties of
receiver and paymaster for the National Savings Bank. In providing public
checking account facilities, the division operated a country-wide banking
service which entailed the obligation of having available at all times
sufficient cash resources to meet immediately the demands of the account'
holders.
2.        As in the case of the telecommunication division, the finances
of the postal division have up to the present been incorporated in those
of the national budget. Similar Government accounting principles have
been adopted for both services. The results of the appraisal show that
postal operations, at least since 1965, have been conducted at a loss.
3.        Under the future OPT, a commercial basis of accounting will be
adopted for the new postal division. It is essential that these accounts
show clearly the financial results of the division (see paragraph 3.05).
OPT will continue to perf'orm the same services as the former Department,
including the functions relating to the National Savings Bank, but the
latter organization is to be reconstituted as from January 1, 1969, and
operated in accordance with a separate statute. For this reason, the
mission did not include this service in the appraisal.
4.        As in many other countries, the loss on the postal services
represents a burden on the national budget, and special attention has
been paid to this problem by the Upper Volta Government. Based on a
recent study of the P&T Department by a senior French Government official,
(see paragraph 2.04) it was recommended that inter alia, consideration be
given to the reimbursement by the National Savings Bank of the cost of
the services rendered to it by the postal division, and also to the pay-
ment of interest on the large divisional balance held on deposit in the
National Treasury. This balance relates to unliquidated postal and money
orders and public checking account balances. The principle of the pay-
ment of interest has been accepted by the Government and has be&n in-
cluded in a financial agreement with the OPT. For public checking account
funds which are deposited with the Treasury, it has been agreed to pay a
rate of interest in line with the current deposit rate of the West African
Central Bank. This is at present three per cent per annum.    Interest on
other funds available to the Treasury from the OPT will be paid at the
rate of two per cent per annum.
5.        After taking into account the settlement f`or the postal assets
and liabilities at December 31, 1968, the results for the five years
1969-73 show that the postal division would become a viable undertaking
with an average annual rate of return of net assets in operation of between
4.9% and 6.9%t for the five year period.
January 24, 1969



ANNEX 17
Page 1 of 1
UPPER VOLTA
OPT - CASH RESOURCES
1.        The necessity for the OPT to have adequate cash resources has
beeM provided for in a convention between the Government and the OPT.
(see also Annex 16 paragraph 4)
2.        Until the end of 1968, all the funds of the P&T Department in-
cluding balances due to the public in the form of unliquidated postal and
money orders, and public checking accounts balances, were mainly held in
the Treasury. Cash balances held in the various P&T offices to meet the
demands of the public varied between CFAF50.3 and CFAF56.8 million at the
end of the years, 1965, 1966 and 1967. The new agreement, following the
recommendations of the French senior official (see paragraph 2.04) provides
for the continued use of OPT funds by the Treasury, but establishes that a
ceiling figure of CFAF130 million shall always be available to the OPT in
a current operations account (Compte de mouvements de fonds). All other
funds shall be kept in a Treasury deposit account. All receipts and pay-
ments shall in the first place be paid to and from the current operations
account. It is then proposed to review the balance of this account at the
end of each month and transfer any surplus or deficiency on the allowed
CFAF130 million to or from the Treasury deposit account. Having regard
to the scale of operations, the figure of CFAF130 million should be quite
adequate for both postal and telecommunication services for some time to
come.
3.        On December 31, 1968, the total liability to the public in
respect of postal and money orders, postal checking balances and of other
miscellaneous accounts was ascertained. Of this total sum, only CFAF95
million will form, part of the current operations account, the balance
remaining in the Treasury deposit account. A further sum of CFAF35 million
was transferred to the current operations account by the Ministry of Finance
from the Treasury in respect of the telecommunications division settlement
on the establishment of the office, thereby completing the allowed CFAF130
million.
4.        In the future, any uwused internally generated funds from either
postal or telecommunication division will automatically enter into the
flow of funds between the current operations account and the Treasury
deposit account. Conversely, funds from these accounts will be a source
of short-term finance to both divisions for their normal operations, and,
in this respect, it is considered that some restriction is required on the
use of these monies. As far as the telecommunication divisinn is concerned,
this has been provided for as indicated in paragraph 6.11.
January 24, 1969



U P P E R V O L T A
OFFICE OF POSTS & TELECOMMUNICATIONS
DEVELOPMENT     PROGRAM     (1969-1971)         !                            !
TELEPHONE    EXCHANGES & LONG      DISTANCE LINKS ,        pDiibo                  (
_   /                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dori
h
.Oc,ohigouyc
/4~~~~T~g, Go,c      KoG,b>- Koy             qsBoQnnde 
l ~ ~  ~~~~~~~~~~~ nsDSX                    Meo    ib     ooNGs's        DiopP°D° ) 
- /DIOULASSO   \2   =-                  - -~ _--.,-~   -        ._ J
No cDieboogo,  (                  Noongo        !           i
OUGOU/      TOGO
1` ~   ~~~   ~   ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  sll  eg. DGb Hd - NNG A
t    |    w~~~'-Siderodouou o/                                        EXISTING TELEPHONE EXCHANGES L INTER-URBAN SURFACE ÂINES
\  |   Komptif>Ckour] \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ TELEPHONE EXCHANGE. MANUAL (5SMALE CACTY
\ . > \\ ) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O V E RMHEA D LIN ES' ( 2 W IR ES, CO PP ER )
3 y ~~~~~~~~........ c1 ............VHF LINK
M           >  j                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ch  DENOTES  .JMR1ER OF CHANNELS ON CARRIER ANS VHF LINSS
IV OR Y    C OA ST                        JRO NE WAUTOSMAEOIC EXT ENSItON E RE XCH ABIIAN RGRA (IE9-5
[D IMEROVEHEIIT C EXTENSION CF LOCAL SUBSCRIBERS NETWORKS
°     6J   120        200                                                       FUTURE PROGRAM
KI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- LETROVERHEAD LISvES (2 WiRES, COPPER OR BIMETAL)
-- --LARGE CAPACITY LI:QK 6MAEIMUM SOOEC, SEING STUDIED)
AUGUST 1 96B8BD-25
Ga,o.go~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lRS-25



U P P E R    V O lTA 
OFFICE OF POSTS & TELECOMMUNICATIONS
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM                         (1969-1971)                     !                                           !
TELEPHONE EXCHANGES & LONG                              DISTANCE LINKS                 !       Djibo                               !
*.'         / oDor,
s'-                      - -hiou  iT,too
*    .jOahigoouy                                                   'N
Borsologo                                      J       4
/Dien-Kossn          -           Y\ rKongoumssi                  Tougowri
/    Gourc.                         Ky q> Bo9onde
J~~~~~~~~~~                     NN01
/             /  g      Sib       *-                   /tz     \         Garongo \Roo  lnd'
K 1~~~~~~~~~1
I  Dedougoo ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ipg
J             /                             0$Boro m o   /                                  D\ob       ad o-N'Go,       \ 
\Vtw  H;unde       Soboc,     O
.& ~~~ / ~DIOULASSOD,obogo              =                                      Nongo-~yt/ 
/    \ \ Nako !                                                     g~~~~ T OG   O     j
{   iBonforo                1fl M                                                            g
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nk                                                                                  T 01 G     H 0 
X  *t   | Swideradougo.  ÉV   %.                                                              EXISTING TELEPHONE EXCHANGES S INTER-URBAN SURFACE LIEKS
\   Sid.radougoo                                                                          S   TELEPH1ONE EXCHANGE, MANUAL (SMALL CAPACITY)
\    TELEPHONE EXCHAIqGE, AUTOMATIC
OVERHEAD LINES (2 WIRES, COPPER)
$ *\   y   \ Batie !                                                ----- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OVERHEAD LINES (1 WIRE, IRON)
s                                                                                                          V, ............ X t ............. VHF lINK
,  )ch  DEINOTES S4UMiER OF CHANNELS ON CARRIER AND VHFLINKS
PROPOSED EXTENSION S REHABILITATION PROGRAM (1969-1971)
A                                               f                                                       19   NEW AUTOMATINC TELEPHONE EXCHAN.GE
OVERHEAD LINES (2 WIRES, COPPER OR BIMETAL)
D    IMFEOPE.E,INT S EXTENSION 0F LOCAL SUBSCRIIBERS NETWORKS
0        50      100               200                                                                                       FUTURE PROGRAM
OVERMEAD LINES (2 WIRES, COPPER OR BIMETAL)
K I LOMETERS
- -- - -  - -  LARGE CAPACITY LINK (MAXIMUM 300CEi, BEISIG STUDIED)
AUGUST 19L8                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD - 2S59



