RESTRICT-ED
Report No. P-666
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
FOR A
TELECOMMUNICATIONS. PROJECT
January 30, 1969



DITERNATIONAL DEVELOPM IT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECONI4i2DATION OF THE PRESIDEINT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA FOR A TELECOIHVIUNICATIONS PROJECT
1.        I subunit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US $0.8
million to the Republic of Upper Volta to assist in the financing of a tele-
comraunications project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The proposed credit would be the first lending operation of the
Bank Group in Upper Volta. In September 1967, an IDA reconnaissance mission
visited Upper Volta and discussed with the Government a proposed program of
telecommunications expansion for the three-year period 1969-1971. After
agreement was reached on the reorganization of the Post and Telecommunica-
tions services into an office with administrative and financial autonomy,
an IDA rmission visited Upper Volta in June 1968 to appraise an interim
three-year program of rehabilitation and improvement of existing telecom-
munication facilities.
3.        Negotiations for the proposed credit took place in Washington
between December 8 and December 14, 1968 iwith a delegation headed by H.E.
Bila Zagr6, tiLnister of Post and Telecommunications and Information.
4.        In the past, we have had difficulty in finding projects with
satisfactory rates of return in Upper Volta.  vloreover, the Government's
capacity to identify and prepare projects has been limited, and other
sources of aid (mainly France and the European Economic Community) have
been important. However, an active program of project identification and
preparation has recently been undertaken by the Bank's Permanent lIAission in
Western Africa. A feeder roads program, a cotton and food crops project in
the Black Volta area, and a livestock project are in the course of preparation
and are expected to develop into projects for wihich Bank Group financing
may be considered.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
5.   Borrower:              Republic of Upper Volta
Beneficiary:           Office des Postes et Tel6communications (OPT)
Amount:                Various currencies equivalent to US $0.8 million
Purpose:               To assist in the financing of the OPT's
construction and rene-wial program (1969-1971)
for the expansion and rehabilitation of tele-
communications services in Upper Volta.



- 2 -
Amortization:               In 50 years, including a 10-year period
of grace, through semi-annual installments
of 1/2 of 1% from April 15, 1979 through
October 15, 1988 and
of 1-1/2% from April 15, 1989 through
October 15, 2018.
Service Charge:             3/4 of 1% per annum.
Relending Terms:            The borrower would relend the proceeds of
the credit to the OPT at 6-1/2% per annum
for a period of 20 years including a 4-year
grace period.
Estimated economic return: About 9.5%,
PART III - THE PROJECT
6.        A detailed description of the project is given in the attached
Appraisal Report entitled "Appraisal of the Telecommunications Program of
the Office of Post  and Telecommunications - Upper Volta" (TO-693a) dated
January 24, 1969.
7.        The existing telecommunications system in Upper Volta is very
modest and closely reflects the geographical pattern of economic and ad-
ministrative activities. I-t has been essentially developed in and between
the two main cities of Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso, and toward the Ivory
Coast border along the railway to Abidjan. Telephone density is only 0.6
per 100 population and is the lowiest in Africa. Except for overseas services
in Ouagadougou, the existing installations are inadequate for the present
traffic and insufficient to cope with the estimated potential demand. The
local cable netwrork is saturated in Ouagadougou and trunk traffic between
main cities and with Ivory Coast is congested; more circuits are required
for commercial traffic on the main connections.   The existing installations
also suffer from lack of maintenance due to insufficient budgetary alloca-
tions during the past years, and require improvement to provide a minimum
quality of service. Until their recent reorganization, the Post and Tele-
communications Services wzere operated as a Government department and lacked
administrative and financial autonomy suitable for the operation and
development of public telecommunications services.
8.        The project for which the credit would be made includes the con-
struction, renewal and expansion of the local telephone subscribers' net-
works in Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso, and the improvement and expansion
of the overhead lines and telephone installations of the long-distance
telecommunications netwzork. The project would be executed by the newly
established Office of Post and Telecommunications (OPT). Set up on the
pattern of other similar offi-ces in I-est Africa by a decree of June 10,
1968, the OPT, which began its operations on January 1, 1969, is a Govern-
ment entity with sufficient autonomy to be commercially operated on a



- 3 -
self-supporting basis. Recently enacted legislation creating the OPT
provides for the introduction of commercial accounting, coordinated with
efficient budgeting and costing systems.  Moreover, during negotiations
the Government and the OPT have agreed on the establishment of separate
accounts for postal and telecommunication operations. The OPT, with the
recently-recruited additional key senior staff, is capable of executing
the project, and outside specialists will assist in the construction of
the main works.
9.        The project is well conceived and is technically and economically
sound.  It will yield an incremental rate of return estimated at about 9.e-.
This rate, which does not include any indirect benefits, is above the return
of other public investment projects under consideration for Upper Volta, TLe
objectives of the proposed credit go beyond the specific purposes of finan-
cing an urgently needed rehabilitation project; it would help establish a
new Office of Post and Telecommunications on a commercial basis. It would
also help, together with technical and financial assistance from the French
Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation, to assure the future viability of the tele-
communications system in Upper Volta. The credit could also provide a rea-
sonable basis for further lending in this sector.
10.       The estimated total cost of the project is $1.2 million equivalent,
of which $0.8 million representing the foreign exchange component would be
financed by the proposed credit. The local costs of the project wrill be mr',
from funds internally generated by the OPT to iwhich all assets and liahiliti.,s
of the old P & T Department have been transferred, with the exception of irdnor
specified items. Procurement will be on the basis of international compet-.
tive bidding except for about $82,000, representing the estimated foreign
exchange component of various construction contracts WhiS6  _ra to, 6ir_J1 t
Attrart international interest.
11.       The Government :-ould relend the proceeds of the proposed credit
to the OPT at 6-l/2- per annum for tw,enty years including a four-year grace
period.
PART IV - LOAN INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
12.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Upper Volta and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and the OPT, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Associ-
ation are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The
draft credit documents conform generally to the pattern of credit documents
for similar telecommunications projects.



PART V - THE ECOMONY
13.       An EconoiLc R1eport entitled "Current Economic Position and
Prospects of Upper Volta" (AlJ-la), dated January 21, 1969, will to
iistributei shortly to tha 2xecubivR Directors. Since 1960, the economy
has progressed little in terms of real income which has remained at arourd
$50 per head, among the lowest in the world. The lack of econormic grcwth
is attributed to the very limited natural resources, to a strong and in-
creasirng population pi.essure in the central plateau which is only allevi-
ated by emigration abroad, and to the absence of an active development
policy on the part of the previous Government. In addition, the budgetary
situation had been deteriorating until 1966 when the military took power.
14.       The new Government has applied a financial rehabilitation prcgramn
with firmness and efficiency. Current expenditures have been stabilized dnd
commitments controlled, and new taxes have been levied, wTith the result, thaL
in 1967 a budget surplus was achieved permitting the financing of some in--
vestment expenditures.  Also, the heavy short-term debt incurred in previo-a
years has been much reduced. At the same time, a realistic 1966-70 develop-
ment plan was prepared and has been reasonably well implemented during its
first year.
15.       Service of e.ternal public debt is currently around 7% of exports
of goods and services and 5, of Government revenue.  However, the accumulated
short-term debt owed for the greater part to expatriate firms is not yet fh' ,y
liquidated and puts an additional burden on the budget.
16.       In summary, economic performance has recently improved and prospects
for satisfactory development policies appear favorable.  However, because of
the country's poverty and the virtual impossibility of raising Upper Volta's
taxes beyoncd their present high levels (16% of' total GDP and 25% of monetary
GDP), Upper Volta's capacity to borrow on conventional terms is very limited.
Upper Volta is therefore considered eligible for IDA financing.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE IITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
17.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECOTiMENDATION
18.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:



RESOLUTION No. IDA
Approval of a Development Credit to the Republic of
Upper Volta (Telecommunications Project) in an amount
equivalent to US $800,000.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Association shall grant a development credit
to the Republic of Upper Volta in an amount in various
currencies equivalent to eight hundred thousand dollars
(US $800,000) to mature on and prior to October 15, 2018,
to bear a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of
one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum, and to be upon such
other terms and conditions as shall be substantially in
accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the
form of the Development Credit Agreement (Telecommunica-
tions Project) between the Republic of Upper Volta and the
Association, and the form of the Project Agreement (Tele-
comraunications Project) between the Association and the
Oifice des Postes et T6l6communications de Haute Volta,
which have been presented to this meeting.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
January 30, i969



