CREDIT NUMBER 141 UV
Project Agreement
(Telecommunications Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS
DE HAUTE-VOLTA
DATED FEBRUARY 18, 1969


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 141 UV
Project Agreement
(Telecommunications Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS
DE HAUTE-VOLTA
DATED FEBRUARY 18, 1969


﻿AGREEMENT, dated February 18, 1969, between INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and the OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICA-
TIONS DE HAUTE-VOLTA (hereinafter called the Office) :
WHEREAS by a development credit agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Upper Volta (hereinafter
called the Borrower), and the Association, (hereinafter
called the Development Credit Agreement), the Asso-
ciation has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to eight hundred
thousand dollars ($800,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, to be relent
to the Office, but only on condition that the Office agree
to undertake certain obligations toward the Association
as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Office, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the
Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations herein-
after set forth;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
SECTION 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context shall otherwise require, the several terms de-
fined in the Development Credit Agreement and in Devel-
opment Credit Regulations No. 1 of the Association dated
June 1, 1961 as amended February 9, 1967 shall have the
respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants of the Office
SECTION 2.01. (a) The Office shall carry out the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agree-
ment with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with sound engineering, financial and public utility stand-
ards and practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the purpose.
(b) In carrying out Parts 3 and 4 of the Project, the
Office shall employ competent and experienced consultants
acceptable to the Association to an extent and upon such
terms and conditions as shall have been approved by the
Association.
(c) The training of local telecommunications personnel
under Part 4 of the Project shall be carried out with the
assistance of competent and qualified instructors acceptable
to the Association.
SECTION 2.02. The Office shall apply the proceeds of the
Credit relent to it by the Borrower under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement exclusively to financing the cost of goods
required to carry out the Project and, except as the Asso-
ciation shall otherwise agree, shall cause all goods fmanced
out of such proceeds to be used exclusively in the carrying
out of the Project until the completion thereof.
SECTION 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree:
(i) the goods, other than services of consultants, to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accord-
ance with the Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in


﻿5
February 1968, and in accordance with such other proce-
dures supplementary thereto as are set forth in Schedule 1
to the Project Agreement; and
(ii) contracts for the procurement of all goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, except in respect
of goods to which paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement is applicable, shall be subject to the approval
of the Association.
SECTIoN 2.04. (a) The Office shall promptly furnish to
the Association, upon request by the Association from time
to time, the plans, specifications and work schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications subsequently
made therein, in such detail as the Association shall request.
(b) The Office shall: (i) maintain records adequate to
identify the goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, to disclose the use thereof in the Project, to record
the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices the operations and financial
condition of the Office; and (ii) shall enable the Associa-
tion's representatives to inspect the Project, the goods, all
other plants, sites, works, property and equipment of the
Office and any relevant records and documents.
(c) The Office shall furnish to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit,
the goods, the Project and the administration, operations
and financial condition of the Office.
(d) The Office shall establish as of January 1, 1969, and
shall maintain at all times thereafter, an effective system
of accounting and of financial management based on sound
commercial and accounting principles. Such system shall
be fully operative not later than December 31, 1970, and
shall provide for separate accounts for the Office 's postal


﻿6
operations, and for its telecommunications operations, and
it shall show separately the internal flow of funds for each
of these operations.
(e) The Office shall have its accounts relating to its tele-
communications operations audited annually by independ-
ent accountants acceptable to the Association, and shall
promptly after audited statements (balance sheet and re-
lated statement of earnings and expenses) are available,
and not later than six months after the close of the Office's
fiscal year to which they apply, transmit to the Association
certified copies of such statements and a signed copy of the
accountants' report.
SECTION 2.05. (a) The Association and the Office shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit
will be accomplished. To that end, the Association and the
Office shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views through their representatives with regard
to the performance by the Office of its obligations under
the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
to the administration, operations and financial condition
of the Office and to any other matters relating to the pur-
poses of the Credit.
(b) The Office shall promptly inform the Association
and the Borrower of any condition which interferes with,
or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by the Office of
its obligations under the Project Agreement or the Subsid-
iary Loan Agreement.
SECTIo  2.06. Until all the works under the Project shall
have been completed, the Office shall not effect any changes
in its telecommunications tariffs without prior consultation
with the Association.
SECTON 2.07. (a) The Office shall carry out or cause to
be carried out a full review of its telecommunications tar-


﻿7
iffs before December 31, 1971; on the basis of such review
the Office shall establish, and thereafter maintain, a tele-
communications rate structure and tariffs which shall pro-
vide to the Office revenue sufficient: (i) to cover the oper-
ating expenses of its telecommunications operations, and
(ii) to produce an annual return on the current value of
the net fixed telecommunications assets operated by the
Office at a rate established by the Office after consultation
with the Borrower and the Association, having due regard
to future development requirements.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The annual rate of return shall be calculated
by using as the denominator the average of the
current value of net fixed telecommunications
assets operated by the Office at the beginning,
and at the end of the year in question and, as
the numerator, the operating income of the
Office from its telecommunications operations
for that year.
(ii) The term "current value of net fixed telecom-
munications assets" means the gross value of
fixed telecommunications assets as revalued
from time to time, less accumulated deprecia-
tion, based on appropriate valuation and de-
preciation methods approved by the Associa-
tion.
(iii) The term "operating income" means the dif-
ference between operating revenues and oper-
ating expenses.
(iv) The term   "operating revenues" means all
revenues from telecommunications operations
and other revenues incidental thereto.
(v) The term   "operating expenses" means all
direct costs of operation by the Office of its
telecommunications facilities, including a rea-


﻿8
sonable portion of overhead costs, adequate
maintenance expenses, and an adequate provi-
sion for depreciation, but excluding interest
and other charges on debt.
SECTIOLR 2.08. (a) Except as the Association shall other-
wise agree and subject to Section 2.08(c) hereof, the Office
shall not incur any debt other than pursuant to the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement, unless its net revenues from tele-
communications operations for the preceding fiscal year
or for any later twelve-month period, whichever is the
greater, shall be not less than 1.5 times the maximum debt
service requirement for any succeeding fiscal year on all
debt including the debt to be incurred.
(b) The Office shall incur no debt during the period of
execution of the Project and during the period of five years
following the completion of the Project without prior con-
sultation with the Association.
(c) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term  "debt" means all indebtedness of the
Office, an.- all indebtedness incurred by the Bor-
rower on behalf of the Office, relating to its tele-
communications operations, except: (A) indebted-
ness representing money borrowed in the ordinary
course of business and maturing by its terms on
demand or not more than one year after incurrence,
to the extent that the amount of such indebtedness
at any time outstanding does not exceed 170/% of
the Office's total telecommunications operating ex-
penses excluding depreciation for the preceding
fiscal year or for any later twelve-month period,
whichever is greater; and (B) indebtedness which
is incurred in the ordinary course of business other
than for money borrowed and which is payable not
more than one year after its incurrence.
(ii) The term "incur" with reference to any debt in-
eludes any modification of the terms of payment of


﻿0
9
such debt. Debt shall be deemed to be incurred on
the date of execution and delivery of a contract,
loan agreement or other instrument providing for
such debt.
(iii) The term  "net revenues" means gross revenues
from telecommunications operations and other rev-
enues incidental thereto, adjusted to take account
of the Office's telecommunications tariffs in effect
at the time of the incurrence of debt even though
they were not in effect during the fiscal year or
twelve-month period to which such revenues relate,
less all operating, maintenance and administrative
expenses and provision for taxes, if any, but before
provision covering depreciation and debt service
requirements.
(iv) The term  "debt service requirement" means the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sink-
ing fund payments, if any), interest and other
charges on debt.
(v) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Borrower, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt
or, if such o1her currency is not so obtainable, at
the rate of exchange that will be reasonably deter-
mined by the Association.
SECTION 2.09. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Office shall not create nor permit to be created
any mortgage, pledge, charge or other lien on any of its
property or assets necessary to its telecommunications
operations; provided, however, that the foregoing provi-
sion of this Section shall not apply (i) to any lien created
on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as


﻿10
security for the payment of the purchase price of such
property or (ii) to any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not
more than one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred.
SECTION 2.10. (a) Except as the Association shall other-
wise agrec, the Office shall at all times maintain its exist-
ence and right to carry on its telecommunications opera-
tions and shall take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain
and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises
which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
(b) The Office shall at all times operate and maintain its
plants, equipment and other property, and shall promptly
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, in accord-
ance with sound engineering and public utility practices.
(c) The Office shall not, without the prior approval of
the Association, sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose
of any of its property or assets which shall be required
for efficient telecommunications operations.
SECTION 2.11. (a) The Office shall at all times manage
its affairs, maintain its financial position and carry on its
telecommunications operations, in accordance with sound
business, financial and public utility practices, and under
the supervision of competent and experienced management.
(b) The Office shall appoint no Director, Chief Financial
Officer or Chief Engineer for its telecommunications oper-
ations, without prior consultation with the Association and
without giving due consideration to the views expressed
by the Association with respect to the qualifications and
experience of the persons proposed for such appointments.
(c) The Office shall take all measures required to insti-
tute and maintain adequate telecommunications personnel
recruitment and training policies and, in particular, shall
provide all funds and facilities necessary for the training
of its vocational and higher level personnel, with due re-


﻿11
gard to the development needs of the Office, and in accord-
ance with sound management and financial practices.
SECTION 2.12. (a) The Office shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provisions satis-
factory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound
public utility practices.
(b) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
the Office undertakes to insure the imported goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit against marine, transit
and other hazards incident to the acquisition, transporta-
tion and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in
a currency freely usable by the Office to replace or repair
such goods.
SECTION 2.13. The Office shall duly perform all its obli-
gations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as
the Association and the Office shall otherwise agree, the
Office shall not take or concur in any action which would
have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiv-
ing any provision of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination; Cancellation and Suspension
SECTION 3.01. The Project Agreement shall come into
force and effect on the Effective Date. If the Development
Credit Agreement terminates pursuant to Section 6.03
thereof, the Association shall promptly notify the Office
of this event and, upon the giving of such notice, the
Project Agreement and all obligations of the parties here-
under shall forthwith terminate.
SECTION 3.02. The Project Agreement and all obliga-
tions of the Office and of the Association hereunder shall
terminate on the later of:


﻿0
12
(i) the date when the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms, or
(ii) December 31, 1988.
SECTION 3.03. Notwithstanding any cancellation or sus-
pension under the Development Credit Agreement, all the
provisions of the Project Agreement and all the applicable
provisions of the Credit Regulations shall continue in full
force and effect, except as specifically provided in Article
V of the Credit Regulations.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
SECTION 4.01. Any notice or request required or per-
mitted to be given or made under the Project Agreement
and any agreement between the parties contemplated by
the Project Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice
or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, tele-
gram, cable or radiogram to the party to which it is re-
quired or permitted to be given or made at such party's
address hereinafter specified, or at such other address as
such party shall have designated by notice to the party
giving such notice or making such request. The addresses
so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.


﻿13
For the Office:
Office des Postes et Telcommunications de
Haute-Volta
Ouagadougou, Upper Volta
Cable address:
Ofipostel
Ouagadougou
SECTION 1.02. No delay in exercising, or omission to ex-
ercise, any right, power or remedy accruing to either party
under the Project Agreement upon any default shall impair
any such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a
waiver thereof or an acquiescence in such default; nor shall
the action of such party in respect of any default, or any
acquiescence in any default, affect or impair any right,
power or remedy of such party in respect of any other or
subsequent default.
SECTION 4.03. The Office shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of the Office, take any action or execute
any documents required or permitted to be taken or exe-
cuted by the Office pursuant to any of the provisions of the
Project Agreement and the authenticated specimen signa.-
ture of each such person.
SECTION 4.04. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any documents required or permitted to be exe-
cuted, under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement on behalf of the Office may be taken or
executed by the Director of the Office or such other person
or persons as the Office shall designate in writing.
LN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
L


﻿14
caused the Project Agreement to be signed in their respec-
tive names and delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ MOHAMED SHOAIB
Vice President
OFFICE DES POSTES ET
TELECOMMUNICATIONS DE HAUTE-VOLTA
By /s/ HAMA ARBA DIALLO
Authorized Representative


﻿15
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement of Goods
1. With respect to goods in Categories A, B, and D as
set out in Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement,
identical or similar items of equipment and accessories
thereto will be grouped together wherever practicable for
purposes of bidding and procurement, and such grouping
of items shall be subject to the approval of the Association.
Such procurement shall be on the basis of the Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits
published by the Bank in February 1968 (hereinafter re-
ferred to as the Guidelines).
2. Prior to inviting bids with respect to items or groups
of items in such Categories A, B, or D of said Schedule 1,
expected to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the
Office shall submit to the Association for approval, a de-
scription of the advertising procedures to be used, and
copies of specifications, invitations to bid, and draft con-
tract documents. Before awarding any such contract, the
Office shall submit to the Association for approval evidence
of advertising, the analyses and evaluation by the Office
of bids received, the consultants' recommendations, and
the Office's proposals for awards. If a proposed final con-
tract differs substantially from the terms and conditions
contained in the documents previously approved by the
Association, the text of the proposed changes will be sub-
mitted to the Association for review and approval prior
to the execution of the contract. One conformed copy of
each contract for any such items or groups of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be sent
to the Association promptly after execution.
3. In respect of contracts for the procurement of items
or groups of items in such Categories A, B or D of such
Schedule 1 expected to cost less than the equivalent of
$25,000, a description of the advertising and bidding proce-
(nres used, the speciflcations and the bid evaluation report,


﻿16
as well as one conformed copy of each such contract, shall
be sent to the Association promptly after the execution of
any such contract and prior to the submission to the Asso-
ciation of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract.
4. With respect to the civil and construction works in
Category C of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Office shall give the invitations to bid regional
advertising coverage acceptable to the Association. Con-
tracts with respect to such civil and construction works
shall be awarded after approval by the Association of an
abstract of all bids received, of the Office's evaluation
thereof and of the Office's proposals concerning such con-
tracts and the awards. Such contracts shall be awarded to
the bidder or bidders offering the loest evaluated bid
determined to be the most favorable in regard to technical
and financial considerations and practices, and one con-
formed copy of each signed contract with respect to such
civil and construction works shall be sent to the Association
promptly after execution.
5. Whenever a contract under the Project is awarded to
a supplier or to a contractor not registered in Upper Volta,
the Office shall facilitate the accomplishment by such sup-
plier or contractor of all regulatory formalities which may
be required to enable it to carry out such contract.


