Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFMICIAL USE ONLY
RePor No. r-4173-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$43.3 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE
SECOND EAST JAVA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
October 16, 1985
This doement has a restricted dibibufion and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofAcial duti. lb contens may not oherwise be disdosed withut World Bnk authorizafion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp)
US$1          = Rupiahs 1,100
Rp 100        = US$0.09
Rp I million  = US$909.1
FISCAL YEAR
Central Government: April 1 - March 31
Water Enterprises:   January 1 - December 31
UNITS AND EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)                 =  39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km) 3              0.62 miles
I cubic meter (m3)          =  35.3 cubic feet
1 hectare (ha)              =  2.47 acres
I liter per capita          =  0.26 US gallons per
per day (l/c/d)           =    capita per day
1 liter per second (l/s)   =  0.264 US gallons per second
or 15.8 US gallons per minute
ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONYMS AND INDONESIAN TERMINOLOGY
ADAB              -  Australian Development Assistance Bureau
BAPPENAS          -  National Development Planning Agency
BNA               -  Basic Needs Approach (GOI water supply program for cities
with populations of 20,000 and above)
BPAM              -  Temporary water entity operated by Cipta Karya
Cipta Karya       -  Directcrate General of Human Settlements
DAB               -  Directorate of Water Supply
Dinas             -  Department of Local Government
GOI               -  Government of Indonesia
iKK              -  Ibu Kota Kecamatan, the Headquarters city or town of a
kecamatan
Kabupaten         -  A subdivision of a province
Kecamatan         -  A subdivision of a kabupaten
Kotamadya         -  A self-governing city
MPW               -  Ministry of Public Works
O&M               -  Operations and Maintenance
PCK               -  Provincial Cipta Karya
PDAMS            -  ' semi-autonomous water enterprise
PWD              -    alic Works Department
PUOD             -  uirectorate General of Public Administration and Regional
Autonomy in the Ministry of Home Affairs
REPELITA          -  National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita I, 1969-74;
Repelita II, 1974-79; Repelita III, 1979-84; Repelita IV,
1984-89; Repelita V, 1989-94).
Water Entity      -  BPAM or PDAM



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
SECOND EAST JAVA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Republic of Indonesia.
Beneficiaries:  Thirteen water enterprises located in the province of East
Java, and Ministry of Public Works' Directorate General of
Human Settlements (Cipta Karya).
Amount:         US$43.3 million equivalent.
Terms:          Repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Relending
Terms:        Part of the proceeds of the IBRD loan (US$12.8 million
equivalent) would be onlent by the Government to PDAM
Surabaya, repayable in 25 years, including five years of
grace, at 11-12Z interest. The Government will assume the
foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:  The proposed project would benefit about 1.2 million persons
in a wide range of urban and semi-rural communities throughout
the East Java Province, witn particular emphasis on low income
groups.  It would support the Government of Indonesia's water
sector development and investment program in conformity with
its Fourth National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita IV)
targets through: (a) providing low-cost water production and
distribution to about 75 small- and medium-sized towns in the
East Java Province; (b) expanding and rehabiLitating the water
supply system in the provincial capital of Surabaya; (c) pro-
viding techricaL assistance to new and recently established
water entities for improved operacion and system expansion;
(d) strengthening provincial level capability in planning and
implementing water supply investment programs, water pollution
control, and monicoring and development of water entities'
performance; and (e) providing technical assistance for
determining appropriate organization of water entities in
three provinces and preparing future water supply projects.
Risk            The primary risk is that a part of the revenue from smaller
cities cr cowns (IKKs) (population less than about 5,000) may
be slow in materializing. However, (a) the volume of water
and revenues involved are very small; and (b) the experience
under the first East Java Water Supply Project (Loan 2275-IND)
indicates that connections, water sales and revenues are ahead
of schedule.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by -ecipients only in the performance of
their official dutis. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:Ja                                 Local       Foreign    Total
(US$ million)
BNA/IJKK Towns                                13.6         13.8        27.4
Surabaya                                       8.4          8.6        17.0
Institutional Development                      2.5          5.0         7.5
Other Technical Assistance                     2.7          4.3         7.0
Project Administration                         1.6          0.7         2.3
Base Cost                                 28.8         32.4       61.2
Physical Contingencies                         3.2          3.4         6.6
Price Contingencies                            6.9          5.7        12.6
Total Project Costs                       38.9         41.5        80.4
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                           5.2         38.1        43.3
ADAB                                            -           1.5         1.5
Government of the Netherlands                   -           1.0         1.0
Government of Indonesia                       29.0          0.9        29.9
PDAM Surabaya                                  4.7           -          4.7
Total                                     38.9         41.5        80.4
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY             1986     1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
- ----USs million)
Annual              0.2       2.7      8.1    17.5      9.2     4.2      1.4
Cumulative          0.2       2.9    11.0    28.5    37.7    41.9    43.3
Rate of Return:  lIZ.
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 5726-IND dated September 30, 1985.
Map: IBRD No. 19110
/a   Including taxes and duties equivalent to US$7.3 million.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC
OF INDONESIA FOR THE SECOND EAST JAVA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of US$43.3 million to help
finance the Second East Java Water Supply Project. The loan would have a term
of 20 years, including five years of grace, at the standard variable interest
rate.  Part of the proceeds of the loan (US$12.8 million equivalent) would be
onlent by the Government to Perusahaan Daerah Air Minum (PDAM) Surabaya,
repayable in 25 years, including five years of grace, at 11-12% interest. The
Government wiLl assume the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY V1
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social Pro-
gress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979), was
distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979, and a country
economic memorandum has been prepared in each subsequent year. The latest of
these, entitled "Indonesia: Policies for Growth and EmpLoyment" (No. 5597-IND
dated April 23, 1985), was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 30,
1985. Annex I gives selected social and economic indicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread across
an archipelago of more than 13,000 islands with a land area of about two mil-
lion sq km. It now has a population of over 155 million, growing at about
2.1% p.a., and is the world's fifth most populous nation. The country has a
diversified resource base, with plentiful primary energy resources, signifi-
cant mineral deposits, large timber potential and a developed system of agri-
cultural commodity production and export. A high proporticn of these primary
resources are located on the sparsely populated islands of Sumatra and
Kalimantan, while two-thirds of the population live on Java, which has areas
with some of the highest rural population densities in the world. About a
quarter of the population lives in urban areas, and the current rate of urban
population growth is about 4% p.a.  The 1983 estimate of GNP flr capita is
US$560, which places Indonesia among middle income countries.-
1/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Smallholder
Cattle Development Project (No. P-4155-IND), circulated under ccver of
R85-306, dated October 3, 1985, and approved by the Executive Directors
on October 22, 1985.
21   On the basis of the World Bank's system of country classification and
Atlas methodology for calculation of GNP.



Macroeconomic DeveLopments and Resource Management
4.        Until 1981, the economy had been growing at almost 8Z p.a. for over
a decade. This growth was associated with rapid increases in public expendi-
tures, total investment and savings. The initial impetus for this occurred in
the period of recovery from the turbulence of the mid-1960s. The Government
of Indonesia (GOI) took effective action to restore macroeconomic stability,
liberalize the economy, rehabilitate infrastructure, and provide incentives
for domestic and foreign private investment. However, the dominant external
influence over the past decade has been the huge expansion, and significant
variability, in foreign exchange earnings from oil. Net exports from the oil
and gas sector rose from US$0.6 billion in 1973/74 to US$10.6 billion in
1980/81, when the current account enjoyed a surplus of US$2.1 billion. Oil
receipts also provided about 60% of Central Government receipts by 1980/81 and
helped finance a sustained increase in demand. The pattern of expenditures
has also helped foster diversified growth. Of particular note has been the
support for agriculture, through investment in infrastructure and support ser-
vices. This supported an agricultural growth rate of almost 4% p.a. over the
past decade, and led to the recent achievement of self-sufficiency in rice.
Manufacturing also enjoyed a high growth rate during the 1970s (of about 14%
p.a.), although this was from a very low base and predominantly oriented
toward the protected domestic market.
5.        During 1982, the Indonesian economy was affected adversely by the
protracted international recession and the accompanying decline in export
earnings, especially from oil. These developments led to a sharp turnaround
in Indonesia's external resource position and a fall in real per capita
incomes. In response, the Government acted promptly to ensure that the
country's balance of payments situation was manageable and to provide a basis
for longer-term structural transformation. Particular attention was paid to
reducing Indonesia's dependence on oil for export earnings and public
revenues. Specific measures introduced over the past two years include:
(a) a 28X devaLuation of the rupiah against the US dollar in March 1983,
without any change in the policy of full convertibility;
(b) a major rephasing (postponement/cancellation) of large-scale and
import-intensive public investments, especially in the industrial
sector;
(c) successive price ncreases for petroleum products, which have
largely eliminated domestic subsidies;
(d) a far-reaching financial reform, including the liberalization of
interest rates and the abandonment of credit ceilings;
(e) introduction of a comprehensive tax reform program, aimed at
increasing government revenues by broadening the tax base, simplify-
ing the structure of rates and improving administration; and
(f) an ongoing effort to reduce the unfavorable impact of the regulatory
framework, including simplification of investment approval proce-
dures and a major reorganization of customs, ports and shipping
operations.



- 3 -
6.        These measures, aided by more favorable trends in the world economy,
are already having their desired impact. GDP, led by strong performance in
the oil (including LNG and refining) and agriculture sectors, rose by an
estimated 4.7% in 1983 and 6.5% in 1984. The balance of payments situation is
also improving. In particular, the current account deficit was reduced from
US$7.1 billion (8.5% of GNP) in 1982/83 to an estimated US$1.9 billion (2.4%
of GNP) in 1984/85. The major factors responsible for this improvement are
import cuts, resulting from the Government's effort.. to curb aggregate demand,
and higher export earnings from non-oil products, due to recovery in the
industrial countries and the Government's policies to promote non-oil
exports. The Government's restraint is also evident in the budget, where real
expenditures have probably fallen over the past three years. This fiscal
discipline, in turn, helped keep domestic inflation down to about 12Z in 1983
and 9Z in 1984, despite the inevitable pressures associated with the 1983
devaluation and the petroleum price adjustments.
Policies for MediumrTerm Growth and Transformation
7.        Sustained growth of the nor-oil economy by at least 5% p.a. is
probably necessary to have a significant impact on employment creation and
poverty alleviation over the remainder of this decade. To promote such a
growth rate, without generating unmanageable balance of payments pressures, is
one of the major challenges facing the Government. Successful transformation
of the economy will require continued action in three key policy areas:
management of the public investment program (and improvements in the regu-
latory/policy environment for private investment), rationalization of the
external trade regime and development of the financial sector.
8.        The projected import constraint imposes serious limitations on the
rate at which Indonesia can undertake new investments over the next few
years. At the same time, some reallocation of resources towards agriculture
and the social sectors might be justified, in order to reduce the import con-
tent of investment while still meeting the Government's employment objec-
tives. It is therefore important that mechanisms are established to facili-
tate orderly and rational adjustments to the public investment program. Pos-
sible options include preparation of multi-year expenditure plans (at least
for the larger projects), identification of a core program of high priority
projects and strengthening of project appraisallselection procedures. The
Government is also considering ways to improve project implementation, so that
investment returns can be realized more promptly. Given the budgetary con-
straints, it is expected that the private sector will be called upon to play
an increasingly important role in capital formation. To encourage this pro-
cess, the Government recently announced simplifications in investment approval
procedures and a major internal reorganization of the Investment Coordinating
Board.
9.        The recent decline in the price of oil has clearly demonstrated the
importance of reducing the economy's heavy dependence on a single source of
foreign exchange and, more generally, the need to rationalize the external
trade regime. The Government has set a target of doubling non-oil exports in
nominal terms over the next five years. This target should be attainable
provided that economic recovery in the industrial economies is sustained,



- 4 -
Indonesia's access to those markets is not constrained by protectionist
measures and, most importantly, Indonesia follows appropriate trade and
exchange rate policies. The Government has already introduced a range of
export promotion measures intended to improve export incentives, ensure ready
access to finance for exporters, raise product quality and enhance marketing
capacity. However, over the longer term, there is no effective substitute for
comprehensive trade reform. On the import side, Indonesia's trade regime has
historically been characterized by a predilection for high tariffs and quanti-
tative restrictions. In March 1985, the Government announced a major reduc-
tior. in the range and level of nominal import tariffs. However, other actions
-- including increased use of import quotas/bans and regulations requiring
higher local content in production -- have served to promote some potentially
costly and uneconomic investments which could prove counterproductive to the
export drive.
10.       The Government's decision to move towards a more liberal financial
environment raises a number of issues relating to resource mobilization,
financial intermediation and credit allocation. Over the longer term, as the
scope for subsidized credit is reduced, the banking system will have to play
an increasingly important role in mobilizing domestic resources. However,
during the transition period, some potential conflicts between the resource
mobilization and credit allocation objectives could arise. For example, the
increase in deposit rates following the recent financial reforms, while
encouraging resource mobilization, has also led to high real lending rates
which have tended to dampen investment and credit demand.  This in turn may
restrain economic activity. It is therefore important to find ways to reduce
the high intermediation costs of banks. Consideration should also be given to
other ways of mobilizing financial resources, including development of a
capital market, expansion of the banking network (especially in rural areas)
and selective relaxation of restrictions on pri-ate banks (combined with
increased bank supervision).
Incomes, Employment and Human Development
,1.       Indonesia's physical, human and economic resources are very unevenly
distributed between its main regions. Java, for example, accounts for almost
50% of Indonesia's CDP and 62% of its population, but only 7% of its land
area. Although all five of the country's main regions experienced rapid per
capita growth in the 1970s, regional differences in output tended to widen.
To a large extent, differences in performance are associated with the impor-
tance of the mineral sector, particularly petroleum. However, there are two
important processes at work in Indonesia which enable the benefits of growth
to be more evenly spread than indicated by output trends. The first of these
is migration. Between 1971 and 1980, 4.3 million people (or 16% of the natur-
al increase in population) resettled permanently in provinces outside those of
their birth. Approximately 1.7 million people moved from Java to the Other
Islands, of whom one million were resettled through the official transmigra-
tion. program. There has also been substantial rural-urban migration both
between and within provinces. The second process is the redistribution of
income through the government budget. Regional variations in per capita con-
sumption are much less pronounced than differences in per capita output. This
is largely due to the impact of taxation on the oil sector.



12.       An analysis of household expenditures indicates that Indonesia's
rapid economic development has been accompanied by significant progress in
reducing poverty. Between 1970 and 1980, the proportion of the population
living in poverty declined from 57% to 40%; the decline was particularly rapid
in the Other Islands and in urban areas. The core of the poverty problem con-
tinues to be in rural Java, where LandLess Laborers form a large, and possibly
rising, proportion of the population and where, for most of the 1970s, there
is little evidence of any rise in real agricultural wages. However, there was
a significant rise in real agricultural wages around 1980-81, associated with
the sharp increase in rice output and booming overall economic growth.
Increases in rural non-agricuLtural and urban wages also occurred at the
beginning of the 1980s. Despite the slowdown in economic growth and stabili-
zation measures since 1982, the limited available evidence suggests that wages
and incomes have held up, partly as a consequence of continued agricultural
growth.
13.       In the future, the availability of productive employment will be a
key determinant of income distribution. The labor force is expected to grow
at about 2.3% p.a. over the next decade, while economic growth will be lower
than in the 1970s. The resultant squeeze in the labor market is not expectee
to lead to a dramatic increase in unemployment but there is a serious risk of
stagnant or declining labor income in both rural areas and the urban informal
sector. Civen the balance of payments constraint facing the country,
Indonesia's employment outlook depends crucially on the pattern of economic
growth, and in particular the extent of labor absorption in the commodity-
producing sectors. Although over the long term the structural shift in
employment away from agriculture should continue, this sector will still
account for half or more of total employment and the growth in agricultural
incomes will be an important determinant of job opportunities elsewhere in
non-farm activities. This will require continued priority to agriculture in
the form of supportive pricing and investment policy, with some shift in
emphasis toward the Other Islands. On Java, attention will need to be paid tc
issues of agricultural diversification and the pace of mechanization. With
respect to the industrial sector, the development of an efficient, relatively
export-oriented pattern of production can also contribute to significant labor
absorption in the medium to long term, especially in Java; this will involve a
continuing major role for small-scale firms. if a favorable evolution of the
employment situation is to occur, there will also need to be an sppropriate
pattern of public expenditure and supportive policies for the urban informal
sector; finally, the transmigration program can make a substantial contribu-
tion, provided it is closely coordinated with complementary agricultural
investment programs, in tree crops, water resources and livestock development.
14.       There has been substantial progress in extending the provision of
social services throughout the population. Uriversal enrollment in primary
education has been virtually achieved and the enrollment rate in secondary
schools is now about 35%. However, the weak educational base of the popula-
tion continues to be a major obstacle to rapid economic development and a sub-
stantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary education will be necess-
ary as well as a major effort to raise the quality of the whole system. In the
health sector, there has been a large expansion in facilities, notably at the
sub-district level, but continued investment and an improvement in quality
will be necessary to increase effectiveness. This will have to be cumplemen-
ted by a major expansion in water supply and sanitation if the improvement in
indices of mortality and morbidity during the 1970s is to be maintained. By



1981, only 18% of the rural and 40% of the urban population had access to safe
water, compared with government targets of 60% and 75%, respectively, for
1990.
External Capital Flows
15.       The recent improvement in Indonesia's balance of payments situation
is evidence of the Government's commitment to manage short-term economic
shocks. The ongoing program of economic reforms should also help to hold the
current account deficit to sustainable levels over the medium term. Even so,
continued resource transfers from abroad will still be essential if the
Government's modest growth targets (5% p.a.) for the next five years are to be
achieved.  Staff projections indicate that new public medium- and Long-term
(MLT) borrowing will have to average about US$5.2 billion p.a. o"er the next
three years, including about US$2.5 billion p.a. of officiaL development
assistance and the balance from import-related credits and untied borrowing.
Indonesia is well placed to arrange the necessary financing on reasonable
terms; the profile of existing debts is good and a comfortable LeveL of exter-
nal reserves has been rebuilt over the past two years.
16.       Total public debt outstanding at the end of 1984 is estimated at
US$22.9 billion, with an additional US$14.0 billion of undisbursed commit-
ments. Of the total debt disbursed and outstanding, official assistance
(including non-concessional multilateral aid) accounts for 50% and obligations
at variable interest rates for only 24%; there is no short-term public debt.
The average maturity of public MLT debt at the end of 1984 is estimated at 16
years. The Government continues to manage its external debt quite prudently.
Until 1982, Indonesia had succeeded in maintaining its public debt service
ratio, based on net exports (i.e., net of oil sector imports), at or below
20%. However, because of the sharp drop in oil export receipts over the past
three years, the ratio rose to 25Z in 1984. With the projected levels and
composition of borrowirgs and export earnings, Indonesia's public debt service
ratio, again based on net exports, would rise to about 30% in 1989 and then
gradually decline in Later years. With private MLT debt included, the total
debt service ratio, based on the conventional concept of gross exports, would
rise from 21% in 1984 to around 24% in 1989 and decline back to 22% by 1995.
While debt management will require careful attention in the coming years, the
projected debt service ratios are not excessive by international standards.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA 31
17.       As of September 30, 1985, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits
totalling US$910.08 million (less cancellations) and 101 Bank loans amounting
to US$7,859.57 million (less cancellations). IFC commitments totalled
3/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Smallholder
Cattle Development Project (No. P-4155-IND), circulated under cover of
R85-306, dated October 3, 1985, and approved by the Executive Directors
on October 22, 1985.



US$163.2 million. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and
IFC investments as of September 30, 1985. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1983 was
13.1%, and the share of debt service, 10.3Z compared with 13.3% and 7.9%,
respectiveLy, in 1982. From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was
made through IDA. Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following
the commodity and oil price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's
lending in the re-ainder of the 1970s was through IBRD loans, with a modest
amount of IDA lending being justified primarily on poverty grounds, as the per
capita GNP was well below the IDA cutoff level. IDA lending was discontinued
in FY80. Given the critical importance of agriculture (including
transmigration) for employment, food security and exp._.rts, over one-third of
Bank Group-assisted projects have been in this sector. In addition, loans and
credits have been extended to virtually all other sectors of the economy,
including transportation, education, urban development, water supply, rural
development, industrial development financing (including small-scale
industry), power, telecommunications, population and nutrition, and technical
assistance.
18.       During Repelitas I (1969-74) and II (1974-79), and in line with the
objectives of these first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group
lending was directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expan-
sion of infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was also
given to meeting the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance
needed for preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III (1979-
84), published in early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and
stability, but departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on
more equitable income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which
was fully in line with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required
greater attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial
sector) and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was
already consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis has been given to
these priorities. However, the adverse economic developments that occurred in
the latter half of the plan period and the measures taken to address them, led
to a reshaping of development objectives for Repelita IV (1984-89). These
femphasize restoring growth of incomes and employment while continuing finan-
cial prudence, promoting structural change toward a more diversified economy,
and maintaining efforts to improve income distribution and alleviate poverty.
This shift in focus has underscored the need to follow through on reforms that
have already been initiated, seek increased efficiencies in the economy, mobi-
lize domestic resources to finance needed investments and recurrent expendi-
tures, and foster a policy environment conducive to the achievement of
required changes.
19.       The Bank has geared its lending and economic work program to address
these needs. The approach is to continue to emphasize the ongoing dxalogue on
economic policy that has been a cornerstone of the Bank's relationship with
the Government for many years, and to coordinate discussion of macroeconomic
issues with advice on institutional and policy reform in important sectors and
subsectors, coupled with lending operations and technical assistance that meet
priority needs and support institutional improvements in specific areas.



- 8 -
development of the financial system, and public resource management. In the
lending program, agriculture continues to receive the most attention.
However, the program is broadly based, and includes increasing emphasis on
education and human resource development. Continued attention is being given
to power and energy, where the Bank is concentrating on policies to diversify
Indonesia's energy base, rationalize pricing and improve sector planning. In
transportation, the Bank is focussing on efficiency improvements in the
maritime sector and on improving the national network of highways and rural
roads. In urban development and water supply, lending is being directed more
and more to developing innovative low-cost solutions, providing for colt
recovery and strengthening local institutions, in order to minimize demands on
the Government budget and decentralize the responsibility for addressing basic
needs. In all, the Bank's lending program is intended to contribute about 20%
of Indonesia's external capital requirements during the next three years and
is expected to be an important catalyst in attracting other funds. Where
possible, we are seeking also to widen the impact of Bank lending through
technical assistance, as well as complementary investments and coordinated
policy dialogue with other donors. This is especially true in our lending
programs for power, urban development, water supply and transportation.
20.       There has 4een an improvement in the last few years in the
disbursement ratio - from a low of 13% in FY80 to over 17% in FY85. The poor
FY80 ratio was in large part merely a result of the rapid increase in commit-
ments during the FY77-79 period, when total Bank/IDA commitments to Indonesia
increased by 122% compared to a Bank-wide increase of 83%. However, it also
reflected implementation difficulties arising out of the Government's budget-
ary, procurement and payment procedures, as well as the severe shortage of
managerial and technical manpower in Indonesia. A number of steps have been
taken by the Government and the Bank to address these issues. Several special
Bank missions have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems and make recom-
mendations for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures. The Governm ent
and the Bank have also instituted formal and regular joint review procedures
to identify general and project-specific problems and work out corrective
measures. Procurement seminars were held in Jakarta in September 1979,
November 1981 and May 1984. As a consequence of these joint initiatives, the
Government has taken measures to streamline some of the complex budgetary and
financial procedures affecting project implementation. In addition, in order
to reduce disbursement delays due to initial project implementation difficul-
ties, many operations are now being presented for Board consideration at a
later stage in the project cycle. The combined effects of all of these acti-
vities are reflected in the increase in disbursements from US$206 million in
FY79 to US$728 million in FY8-'.. It is nevertheless clear that continued
efforts to improve pr'ject implementation and the pace of disbursements are
required, as Indonesia continues to show a disbursement ratio below the Bank-
wide average. A number of initiatives are underway. The Bank is helping the
Government in a special effort to identify problems in the construction indus-
try with a view to developing appropriate remedial actions and policies, as
4/   The ratio of actual disbursements during the fiscal year to the cumula-
tive undisbursed imount at the beginning of the fiscql year.



- 9 -
weaknesses in the domestic contracting industry have been identified as one of
the major causes of implementation problems in Indonesia. Efforts are also
underway to develop standardized tender documencs in order to speed the
procurement process, and to improve project monitoring and land acquisition
procedures. It is the Bank's and the Government's intention to devote conti-
nued attention to these and other aspects of project implementation in the
coming year, in order to ensure that maximum benefit is realized from the
Government's investments, Bank-assisted and other.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Background
21.       Population and Administration.  Indonesia has 27 provinces which are
divided into 216 districts (Kabupatens), and these in turn are divided into
about 3,300 subdistricts (Kecamatan). There are 54 autonomous cities (Kot-
amadya), about 3,300 district towns (Ibu Kota Kecamatan or IKK), and about
65,000 villages. East Java Province has 29 Kabupatens, 554 Kecamatans, 8
Kotamadyas and 8,260 villages. Indonesia's population of over 155 million is
increasing at an average annual rate of 2.1Z and in Java (excluding Jakarta)
the rate is 1.9%. About 22% of the national population lives in urban areas
which are growing at 3.7% per annum. The average population density is 83
persons/sq km, but in East Java it is 657, one of the highest in the world.
With 30 million people, the province has about 20X of Indonesia's population
and 2% of its land area. Eleven percent of East Java's population reside in
the eight autonomous cities. The largest of these, Surabaya, has 2.2 million
people and is, after Jakarta, Indonesia's second largest citv.
22.       Water Resources.  Indonesia is well endowed with rainfall and ground
and surface water resources, but problems of distance, contamination, exces-
sive demand and conflicting uses hinder simple and rapid development on a wide
scale. Because of population density, intensive agriculture and above-average
industrialization and urbanization, the water supply situation in Java is more
critical than in other parts of Indonesia and the estimaced 1990 demand repre-
sents 98% of the available supply in Java. Household and industrial water
requirements are about 10% and agricultural needs about 90% of total needs.
Exploitation of the remaining 'easible surface water impoundments and ground-
water sources, together wich improved irrigation efficiency, careful alloca-
tion of supply and enforcement of pollution controls are needed to conserve
Java's water resources to adequately serve future growth.
23.       Sector Service Levels.  About 45% of the urban population had access
to piped water supply in 1983. Much of this suffers from contamination, low
pressure and intermittent supply. A considerable portion of the urban and
rural population is dependent on water from vendors or from shallow wells,
streams or rivers at considerable health risk. About a quarter of the urban
and rural population is considered to have satisfactory sanitation facili-
ties. Of the rural population, only 20% have access to potable water from
either piped systems, wells with handpumps, central rainwater collectors or
protected springs. The remaining 80% obtain water from unprotected streams,



- 10 -
springs or wells. While the present situation is unsatisfactory, there has
been considerable improvement in water supply over the period 1970-1983,
during which the percentage of total population served has risen from 2.5% to
26%. However, due to population growth, the absolute number of people without
access to safe water has remained almost the same at 117 million in 1983 as
against 118 million in 1970.
24.       Sector Institutions  Several ministries of the Government are
responsible for the water supply, sewerage and sanitation sector. The
Ministry of Public Works (MPW) is responsible for development in urban areas
and the Ministry of Health for water quality monitoring and for water supply
in rural areas. The Ministry of Home Affairs by virtue of its responsibility
for local government and local government enterprises, is indirectly
responsible for overseeing operations. Water and sanitation systems are owned
and operated by local governments, either as a department (Dinas), or as a
semi-autonomous water enterprise (PDAM) to operate all water systems within a
Kabupaten or a Kotamadya. Within MPW, the responsibility for planning and
implementation of all water supply and sanitation projects lies under the
Directorates of Programming and Water Supply (DAB) in the Directorate General
of Human Settlements (Cipta Karya). During the period of construction DAB
provides technical and managerial assistance to water supply entities and tem-
porarily operates them until they become PDAMs on achieving sufficient
revenues to cover cash operating expenses. At present DAB operates about 80
such temporary organizations (BPAMs).
25.       GOI's Sector Development Policies.  During Repelitas I and II
(covering 1969-79), total capital investment in the sector was close to Rp 182
billion. The initial emphasis was on water production, which increased from
9,000 liters per second (Ils) to 21,000 I/s. In 1979, as Repelita II was
drawing to a close, it was recognized that the pace of development needed to
be accelerated, and that for equity considerations the smaller cities and
towns and the poor of those places must be accorded priority. Therefore,
during Repelita III (1979-1984) the GOI embarked upon a 'basic needs' approach
which sought to provide essential service rapidly, at low cost. Under the
impetus of the UN International Drinking Water and Sanitation Decade overall
service level targets were set by GOI in 1981 for urban and rural water supply
to serve 70% and 60% of the population, respectively, by 1990. Two major
programs for urban water supply in the 1980s are the Basic Needs Approach
(BNA) program for cities and larger towns (with populations of 20,000 and up),
and the Ibu Kota Kecamatan (IKK) program for Kecamatan headquarter towns with
populations in the 3,000-20,000 range. Investment during Repelita III
amounted to some RD 360 billion, of which Rp 300 billion was in urban projects
and Rp 60 billion in rural projects. In terms of water production, the
Repelita III targets were achieved; capacity increased to over 30,000 l/s.
However, the distribution network has lagged far behind. Repelita IV, which
commenced in 1984, will continue the BNA and IKK policies with special
emphasis on Category 4 towns (20,000 to 100,000 population), as well as larger
cities. The preliminary investment program for Repelita IV amounts to some Rp
880 billion for water supply, representing about 0.2% of GNP per annum.



- 11 -
26.       Sector Financing and Cost Recovery.  The investment required to meet
the 1990 urban water supply target for Indonesia is estimated to be about
US$1.8 billion (1984 prices), or US$365 million per year for the remaining
years of the decade. While the target is unlikely to be met because of imple-
mentation capacity constraints, investment is still expected to be
substantial. Due to its stringent resource position, GOI is giving increasing
emphasis to cost recovery from users and has set a clear financing policy
based on the level of service. According to GOI policy, basic needs systems
(defined as those which provide upto 60 l/c/d on average for up to 60% of the
population) would be financed by central government grants; systems providing
6C-125 I/c/d, by a mix of central government loans, grants and internal cash
generation; and systems for more than 125 l/c/d, by central government loans
(current interest rate 12%) and internal cash generation only. Based on these
principles GOI requires every PDAM to at least generate funds for operations
maintenance and depreciation while maintaining affordability, and requires
increasing self-financing from PDAMs providing a higher level of ser.-ice.
This implies progressive cost recovery in the sense that as the consumption
increases, the contribution from beneficiaries will increase. Consultants
engaged under the first East Java Water Supply Project (Loan 2275-IND) and
Bank staff have been reviewing the current financing policy, including the
national water rate structure, and have generally endorsed the GOI's approach
as realistic in the present stage of development of water systems.
Exper-ence with Past Bank Lending
27.       Experience with previous urban and water supply projects has been
good on balance. The Bank has made three loans to GOI for water supply
projects, including two which cover a total of 12 cities and another for
development of 13 BIJA and 37 IKK systems in East Java. As indicated in the
Project Completion Report for che Five Cities Water Supply Project (Loan 1049-
IND), physical targets in most cases have been met generally within budget,
although with some delays, and Cipta Karya is evolving to become a well-
organized and forceful development agency, responsive to sector and project
issues and forward looking. The main problems evident are: (a) limited
implementation capacity; (b) weaknesses in local government organization and
procedures; and (c) scarce trained manpower and locally generated financial
resources, which have often led to operational difficulties. Lack of
monitoring of PDAM operations has also been identified as a key problem. PDAM
operations suffer in some cases from large proportions of unaccounted-for
water, operating losses, poor collection of bills, large accounts receivable
(particularly from government agencies) and inadequate audit. Resolution of
such institutional problems is partly the responsibility of the Ministry of
Home Affairs, itself a relatively poorly equipped organization for development
purposes. These problems are being addressed through the first project (Loan
2275-IND) and would continue to be under the proposed project. Measures to
strengthen local government management and finances are being supported
through various Bank-assisted urban projects.
28.       Following experience with the logistical and management difficulties
of nation-wide projects, GOI recognized the need for a more systematic
approach to matching of its considerable investment and institutional develop-
ment requirements with the various financing and donor agencies capabili-



- 12 -
ties. It therefore requested that the Bank should focus its subsequent atten-
tion initially on one province, East Java, with the objectives of (a) provid-
ing water to all communities with a population of 3,000 or more; and
(b) achieving an institutional development model for replication in other pro-
vincial and regional water supply schemes. The ongoing first project (Loan
2275-IND) is therefore mainly concerned with the planning, design and
implementation of BNA and IKK water supply systems in East Java, and with
institutional development. Systems in 50 towns utilizing innovative
technology, intended to provide low-cost, safe water supply to about 720,000
persons, are being implemented under this first project which is in its early
stages and progressing satisfactorily. Institutional development under the
first project includes the developing and strengthening of project PDAMs,
strengthening of Cipta Karya (including DAB and the water supply sectoral
training programs), and a study of water enterprise operations and finances.
The institutional studies are being funded under a co-financing agreement with
the Australian Government.
Urban Water Supply Objectives, Issues and Constraints
29.       The Government's urban water supply objective is to provide by 1990
adequate water supplies to 70X of the urban population. It would do this by
continuing the BNA and IKK Programs and improving operational capabilities of
the agencies concerned. Particular emphasis is being placed on training of
water supply staff, public health education, and upgrading the capabilities of
local consultants, civil works contractors and suppliers. Principal issues
and constraints facing the sector are:
(a) Implementation Capacity. In common with many other GOI agencies,
Cipta Karya is experiencing increasing difficulties in implementing
its growing development programs on time. In Cipta Karya's case,
many of its difficulties stem from the logistically complex nature
of the sector, involving numerous local authorities spread over a
wide geographic area, as well as restrictive central budgetary and
procurement procedures and manpower shortages. As a result, Cipta
Karya is moving toward decentralization of its project operations to
provincial-level agencies, and has recently esLablished project
management units in East Java and elsewhere, with delegated
responsibility for many project preparation and implementation
functions. Other functions such as planning and programming of
Cipta Karya activities, are scheduled to be introduced at the
provincial level shortly. The effectiveness of decentralization
will depend, however, on the training of adequate manpower as well
as the development of appropriate systems, for which extensive
consultant support is to be provided.
(b) Personnel Requirements for the Urban Water Program. At the end of
1982 the total staff of the 86 PDAMs in existence was about
14,400. A recent study of manpower and training needs predicts that
by 1990 the total PDAM manpower must rise to 38,000. The DAB has in
progress a human resources development program which was started in
1979 with Netherlands Government and Bank assistance. It has the
objective of training management, administrative and operating



- 13 -
personnel for DAB and water entities. The Directorate General for
Public Administration and Regional Autonomy (PUOD) in the Ministry
of Home Affairs also has recently introduced a one month course for
PDAM managers and a number of foreign-assisted projects have
established their own training courses. As part of a broader effort
to strengthen MPW staff training, Cipta Karya is attempting to move
more of the training activities to the provinces. For Repelita IV a
"Manpower Development Program" is being established in consultation
with the Bank, with training aimed at six broad groups: government
agencies, BPAM/PDAMs' consultants and contractors, suppliers and
manufacturers, educational institutions, professional organizations,
and non-government organizations.
(c)  Operation and Maintenance.  Water systems, although generally built
by DAB, are operated by the local government either as a unit of its
public works department (Dinas) or as a PDAM. As a Dinas, staff and
accounts are not kept separate from other local government functions
and water revenues flow into the local government's general fund.
Each PDAM has a Board of Directors with representation from local
government, charged with providing a public service through a
financially viable, well managed organization. Accounts are
independent of other agencies. Newly employed PDAM staff require
extensive training. As part of its institution building function,
on centrally funded projects DAB sets up PDAM management, operating
and accounting systems and trains staff in their use. PUOD has the
authority to supervise and assist the PDAMs. However, for
operations and maintenance (after project completion), DAB has
neither the power nor sufficient scaff to continue this assistance
and control, nor does PUOD have the staff or qualifications to do
so.  Periodic review of operating results of PDAMs under the
previous Bank-assisted projects indicates unsatisfactory perform-
ances at small PDAMs.  Review of staffing indicates several
vacancies at senior levels, a high incidence of staff who are not
permanent employees of the PDAMs and are frequently withdrawn, and a
lack of authoritative direction to support the organizational
development of PDAMs.  Foll!eDing a study of appropriate arrangements
for the supervison of PDAMs' operations, the Ministries of Home
Affairs and Public Works and the Governor of the East Java Province
have agreed to assign a development function to the Provincial Cipta
Karya (PCK) in East Java which would provide assistance to all water
entities and monitor their performance in a systematic and timely
manner (para. 39).
(d)  PDAM Organization Struc_ure.  In view of the relatively small size
and weak financial viability of many of the PDAMs, the Bank-assisted
first East Java Water Supply Project (Loan 2275-IND) included a
study of alternative organizational structures. The consultants,
who recently completed their draft report, examined several options
and are recommending the establishment of an organization on a
province-wide basis. Given the proposed PDAM monitoring
arrangements, a provincial PDAM is not essential for East Java.
However, in small provinces where organizational capacity at the



- 14 -
local level is weaker, the issue is be more important. The GOI is
reviewing the merits of the proposed reorganization of water
enterprises and alternative solutions. In support of this review,
the proposed project includes provision for consultancy services for
determining a suitable organization structure for water entities in
Irian Jaya, South Sulawesi and North Sulawesi provinces. The
studies are expected to be completed by November 30, 1986.
(e) Water Resource Management. The growing scarcity of water supplies
for agricultural, municipal and industrial purposes in Java
highlights the need for increased emphasis on water resource
management and the appropriate allocation of supplies. Few
economically feasible new sites remain for large storage purposes,
irrigation efficiency remains relatively low, dam operating rules
are not always optimized and, consequently, despite increasing use
of groundwater, necessary supplies for the rapidly growing urban
areas and industrial centers are restricted. Surabaya, the largest
industrial city in Indonesia, has been unable for many years to
respond to demands for potable water due to raw water shortages in
the Brantas Basin. The shortages arise partly because of an
incomplete inventory of the region's surface and groundwater
resources as well as indequate planning for their exploitation and
conservation. Available supplies are also being steadily degraded
through pollution from specific sources and residential areas, and
depletion of groundwater. An urgent need for a concerted water
resource management strategy exists, particularly in East Java. GOI
through its Directorate General for Water Resources Development of
MPW, is reviewing, with Japanese Government assistance, aspects of
this issue in the Brantas Basin, but additional studies are needed.
Bank Role and Rationale for Involvement
30.       The Bank's role and rationale for involvement in this sector and the
proposed project are to: (a) support low-cost technology development through
refinement of the innovative low-cost mass approach pioneered by GOI for water
supply to smalL towns and semi-rural communities (IKKs); (b) strengthen the
central agencies responsible for sector planning; (c) strengthen provincial
and local government capabilities to plan, implement, and subsequently operate
and monitor services so that there can be increasing decentralization of
responsibility; (d) support GOI's programs of physical development; (e) assist
in manpower development; (f) improve resource mobilization through increases
in locally-generated funds and introduction of improved financial planning and
management measures in local government and water enterprises; and (g) help
identify and draw attention to issues requiring resoluition, e.g. PDAM
organization of structure and water resource managemrnt. The Asian
Development Bank and the Australian and Netherlands' Governments are equally
committed to support of the sector and there has been good coordination and a
useful exchange of information between these and other external agencies and
the Bank.



- 15 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
31.       To date, Bank water supply sector assistance in East Java is
expected to benefit about two million of the Province's 30 million inhabi-
tants. Through earlier Bank-assisted projects, water works will have been
financed in 14 of the 37 possible Kabupaten and Kotamadya water entities. As
the next stage, similar BNA and IIK works in 75 towns serving over 800,000
persons have been proposed for implementation through this project covering 12
further water entities. In addition, a badly needed expansion of production
facilities in the provincial capital, Surabaya, was investigated and proposed
for inclusion in this project. Preparations for both these sub-projects were
carried out by consultants funded through Loans 1709-IND and 2275-IND and
reviewed by several missions during 1984 and 1985. Bank staff appraised the
project in April 1985 and negotiations were held in Washington D.C. in
September 1985. The Indonesian delegation was led by Mr. Soenarjono Danoejo,
Director General of Human Settlements. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5726-
IND) is being distributed separately. Supplementary project data are provided
in Annex III.
Project Objectives
32.       In line with the Bank strategy, the objective of the proposed
project is to provide continuing support to GOI's water sector development and
investment program, specifically: (a) to substantially increase low-cost
water production and distribution facilities throughout the East Java Province
in conformity with Repelita IV targets; (b) to provide technical assistance to
forthcoming or recently established water enterprises in East Java for sounder
operation and system expansion through introduction of and training in
appropriate management, accounting, operating and maintenance practices;
Cc) to improve provincial government capability in: (i) planning and
impLementation of water supply investment programs, (ii) monitoring and
development of water entity performance, and (iii) provision of technical
assistance and training to water entities; (d) to implement improved financing
policies; and (e) to help in the preparation of other water supply projects.
Project. Description
33.       The proposed project would address water supply needs and
deficiencies in a wide range of urban and semi-rural communities throughout
the East Java Province, with particular emphasis on low income groups, and
would comprise:
(a) BNA/IKK Towns. (i) Provision of new water supply systems in about
75 small- to medium-sized towns, including source development,
transmission and distribution systems, service reservoirs and
treatment where appropriate, service connections and public
standpipes, and fire protection where appropriate; and (ii)
construction and equipping of office and workshop facilities for
water entities serving these towns;



- 16 -
(b)  Surabaya.  Expansion and rehabilitation of the existing water supply
system, including (i) improvements to the Brantas Basin irrigation
system to increase the supply of raw water in the Surabaya River;
(ii) construction of a water treatment plant at Karangpilang
(including river intake, first-stage treatment capacity of one cu
m/s, a pumping station and transmission and distribution mains);
and (iii) repair or replacement of service pipes and meters;
(c) Institutional Development. (i) Strengthening of Cipta Karya's
training program through improving water supply training facilities
in Jakarta and various provinces; providing technical assistance for
training of managerial, technical, and administrative staff of water
entities, water supply sector staff in East Java, and contractors;
and development of a manpower training program; (ii) provision of
facilities for and training of staff in Provincial Cipta Karya for
improved monitoring and development of water entities; and (iii)
strengthening the pollution control capability of the East Java
Provincial Government; and
(d) Other Technical Assistance. (i) Development and strengthening of
water entities; and (ii) carrying out studies and preparation of
detailed designs for future water supply projects and studies of
appropriate organization for water supply in the provinces of Irian
Jaya, North Sulawesi and South Sulawesi.
Project Costs and Financing
34.       The total project cost is estimated to be Rp 85.5 billion
(US$80.4 million equivaLent) of which the foreign exchange (both direct and
indirect) is estimated at 522 or about Rp 46 billion (US$41.5 million
equivalent). Taxes and duties are estimated at about Rp 8 billion (US$7.3
million equivalent). All base cost estimates are expressed in June 1985
prices based on detailed engineering designs for the majority of works.
Physical contingencies of 10% of base costs have been allowed in all cases
except technical assistance for studies, where an allowance of 5% has been
made. Price contingencies for local currency costs are based on expected
increases in construction costs of 8% in 1985 to 1990 and 5% per annum
thereafter. The corresponding rates for foreign costs are 5% in 1985, 7.5% in
1986, 8% in 1987-90 and 5% per annum thereafter. The overall price
contingency amounts to about 20% of base costs. Technical assistance costs
included in Parts C and D total US$11.9 million equivalent.
35.       The proposed Bank loan of US$43.3 million equivalent would finance
60% of total project costs net of taxes and duties (US$7.3 million) and
reserved procurement of vehicles (US$1.1 million). The loan would be made to
the Government of Indonesia for a period of 20 years, including five years of
grace, at the standard variable interest rate. Part of the loan proceeds
(US$21.0 million equivalent) would be passed to the water entities for BNA/IKK
towns as a grant. In the case of PDAM Surabaya, part of the loan proceeds
(US$12.8 million equivaleut) would be onlent at 11-12% interest for a period
of 25 years, including five years of grace, in accordance with a Subsidiary



- 17 -
Loan Agreement. GOI would assume the foreign exchange risk. GOI would be
responsible for about 37% of the total project costs and PDAM Surabaya for
about 6Z, the latter being provided from internal cash generation. GOI
intends to obtain from the Australian Development Assistance Bureau (ADAB) and
the Netherlands' Government parallel cofinancing for technical assistance
services valued at about US$2.5 million, required for institutional
development and future project preparation.
Project Preparation and Implementation
36.       The project would be implemented over a six-year period and will be
completed by September 1991. Feasibility studies, detailed designs and
procurement documents have been completed for the BNAIIKK towns, Surabaya and
Institutional Development components of the project, except in the case of the
rehabilitation program proposed for Surabaya where studies intended to identi-
fy measures to reduce PDAM Surabaya's unaccounted-for water losses to about
25% of production by 1991 would be completed and an action program comnence by
April 1, 1988. Land for the Surabaya and Institutional Development components
of the project has been acquired. Based on experience with the first East
Java Project, land acquisition for the BNA/IKK towns component is not expected
to cause difficulty. All proposed source wells have been drilled and lined.
GOI would pass on the proceeds of the Bank loan, together with the local
currency requirements, to the executing agency, Cipta Karya, which, in cooper-
ation with the East Java Provincial Government, two Kotamadyas (including
Surabaya) and eleven Kabupatens, would implement the project. After
completion of the project the assets would be transferred to the PDAMs and
management and operations would be entrusted to them. Responsibility for the
management and supervision of construction of water supply projects in East
Java rests with Cipta Karya, which intends to use similar implementation
arrangements as already used successfully under the first East Java Water
Supply project. PUOD would assist on policy matters and in dealings with
local governments on administrative aspects of the project.
37.       Under the general supervision of Cipta Karya, the present Project
Management Unit in East Java established for the first East Java Water Supply
Project would be responsible for (i) management of the BNA/IKK towns and
Surabaya components of the project, which would be carried out by two Project
Implementation Units; .nd (ii) overall reporting coordination of the
project. The present Project Implementation Unit for the first East Java
Water Supply Project would be responsible for the BNA/IKK towns component, and
a Project Implementation Unit would be established by March 31, 1986 in PDAM
Surabaya to be responsible for the Surabaya component. Both existing units
would be strengthened to cope with the additional workload caused by the
proposed project through transfers of staff from Cipta Karya and PCK, as well
as consultant advisors. A Project Management Unit and two Project
Implementation Units would also be established by March 31, 1986 in Cipta
Karya, to be responsible for project components relating to Institutional
Development and Other Technical Assistance.



- 18 -
Pollution Control in Surabaya
38.       Because Surabaya's scarce water resources are currently threatened
by high pollution levels in the Surabaya River, an investigation of the causes
of such pollution was carried out during project preparation. Principally the
pollution results from organic waste discharges by a small number of large
factories and residential areas along side the river. GOI has prepared an
action plan to address these problems that is acceptable to the Bank, and as a
first step has obtained the written agreement of the specific industries
concerned to carry out an investigation of their internal industrial processes
to determine what steps need to be taken to reduce effluent discharges to
acceptable levels. During negotiations assurances were obtained that the
action program for pollution abatement would be carried out by December 31,
1987 and that thereafter effluents into the Surabaya River would be discharged
in accordance with sound environmental practices. Recognizing the importance
of timely completion of the program for effective operation of the new water
treatment plant to be constructed under the project, it was also agreed during
negotiations that disbursement of the proposed Bank loan for tbs- Surabaya
component of the project should be conditional upon attainment of specific
milestones in the pollution abatement action program; namely (i) assignment of
responsibility and provision of resources for managing and monitoring the
carrying out of the action program; (ii) completion of pre-investment studies
by the main industrial polluters and their commitment to carry out the
recommended actions; and (iii) completion of a study for improvement of
domestic sanitation in areas adjoining the Surabaya River. In addition to
these measures, the proposed project would provide technical assistance to
strengthen pollution control capabilities of the East Java Provincial
Government.
39.       Monitoring and Development of Water Entities.  Responsibility for
development of the East Java water entities has been assigned to the East Java
PCK whose functions would be to (i) provide technical and financial guidance
and related implementation support to water entities; (ii) supervise the
operational, financial and management performance of water entities including
review of audit reports; and (iii) assist in preparation of investment plans
and tariff adjustments. A building wouLd be provided together with equipment
and technical assistance and the Government has agreed to provide adequate
staff and operating budget. Staffing arrangements were reviewed and agreed at
negotiations. Together with the technical assistance and training to be
provided to water entities for strengthening operations and management
capabilities, these arrangements are satisfactory to the Bank.
Procurement
40.       Procurement for the proposed project will follow closeLy the proce-
dures established for the first East Java Water Supply Project (Loan 2275-
IND). Civil works contracts costing about US$6.6 million and 16 equipment and
materials contracts totalling about US$18 million, together representing about
44Z of the proposed construction costs, would be procured on the basis of
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
The balance of the civil works and equipment supply, totalling about US$36.5
million, comprising about 180 minor works contracts of estimated size ranging



- 19 -
from US$80,000 to US$1.8 million equivalent, that are unlikely to be of
interest to foreign bidders, would be procured following Local Competitive
Bidding (LCB) procedures which were reviewed by the mission and found
satisfactory to the Bank. Vehicles, including motorcycles, valued at about
US$1.1 million equivalent would be subject to reserved procurement because GOI
restricts their importation, and would be provided on a schedule that was
agreed with the Bank during negotiations. Equipment, materials and minor
works (particularly for rehabilitation of existing water supply systems)
required in small lots or on an urgent basis, valued individually at less than
US$300,000 equivalent and totalling less than US$4 million equivalent would be
procured through prudent shopping procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Local
manufacturers would be granted a preference of 15X of the CIF price of
imported goods or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is the lower in the
evaluation of bids. Bidding documents for equipment and civil works contracts
exceeding US$500,000 and US$1 million, respectively, totalling about US$42
million or 84Z of all proposed procurement, would be subject to review by the
Bank prior to bids being sought. A summary of the project procurement
arrangements is shown in the table below.
PROJECT EXPENDITURE BY PROCUREHMENT CATEGORY
(Us$ million)
LCB                     Not        Total
Expenditure                   Open    Prudent              applic-   expenditure &
category             ICB    bidding  shopping      Other   able      disbursement
Civil works          6.6     32.7       0.2          -        -         39.5
(4.0)   (13.5)    (0.1)                            (17.6)
Equipment           18.0      3.8      0.2          1.1       -         23.1
(15.2)    (3.,)   (0.2)         (0.0)               (18.7)
Land                  -        -         -           -       1.1         1.1
(0.0)       (0.0)
Tech. assistance      -        -         -         11.9       -         11.9
(7.0)               (7.0)
Project ad-nin. and   -        -         -           -       4.8         4.8
operations                                                (0.0)       (0.0)
Total         24.6      36.5      0.4         13.0     5.9         80.4
(19.2)   (16.8)    (0.3)        (7.0)   (0.0)       (43.3)
Note:  Amounts shown include base costs (June 1985) and physical and price
contingencies. Amounts shown in parentheses are estimated disbursements from
loan proceeds. 'Other' procurement procedures would apply to: Ci) reserved
procurement of vehicles; and (ii) recruitment of consultants in accordance
with Bank Guidelines.



- 20 -
41.       In order to meet the proposed construction timetable, advanced contracti
has been initiated by Cipta Karya for: (a) goods and materials for the BNA/IKK
towns component of the project valued at about US$16 million; and (b) civil works
for the primary and main process plants for the Surabaya component, valued at about
US$19 million. Experience in other projects in Indonesia shows such procurement
typically takes 12-18 months from advertising to award of contract. Procurement i-
rhese cases is following Bank guidelines and the appropriate reviews by Bank staff
are being carried out.
Disbursement
42.       The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed against:  (a) 45% of
expenditures for civil works for the BNA/IKK towns and istitutional development
components of the project; and 65X for the Surabaya component; (b) 100% of the
foreign (CIF) cost of directly imported equipment; 95% of ex-factory costs of
locally manufactured equipment; and 65% for other locally procured equipment; and
(c) 100% of expenditures for technical assistance not financed from other sources.
All disbursements would be made following standard Bank documentation requirements,
excepting minor procurement under all categories valued at less than US$100,000
equivalent per contract for which Statements of Expenditure (SOE) procedures would
be used. GOI budgeting and capital funding arrangements would be used for pre-
financing of expenditures eligible for reimbursement from loan proceeds.
43.       It is expected that loan disbursements would be completed by June 30,
1992, about nine months after completion of civil works.  The disbursement period
nearly seven years is realistic, in view of the good disbursement performance to
date in the similar first East Java Water Supply Project, the proposal to use
experienced staff from that project during implementation, and the advanced state
project preparation and procurement arrangements.
Accounts and Audits
44.       Project accounts would be maintained by each Project Management Unit and
Project Implementation Unit and consolidated by the East Java Project Management
Unit, starting with accounts for GOI's fiscal year ending March 31, 1986. These
accounts would be audited by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank and the
audit statements made available to the Bank within seven months of the close of ea
fiscal year. Accrual accounting systems are to be in place for each of the water
entities with the assistance of the proposed consultants, before the time the
project facilities come into operation. After the accounting systems are in place,
these would be audited annually starting with accounts for the year ending
December 31, 1990, by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank and audit
reports made available to the provincial monitoring unic which would send a sui mar-
including the actions taken to carry out the auditors' recommendations, to the Bank
not later than August 31 each year. For PDAM Surabaya, satisfactory audit
arrangements are already in place and would be continued.



- 21 -
Operations and Maintenance
45.       Operation and administration of the 75 BNA/IKK water supply subprojects
would eventually come under the control of 12 separate PDAM organizations. Eleven
of these would be Kabupaten-vide PDAMs which would incorporate the BNA and IKK
project towns, as well as other towns with existing water supply systems within each
Kabupaten. The twelfth PDAM would operate the Kotamadya Pasuruan water supply
system. Four PDAMs are existing and assurances were obtained at negotations that
the remaining eight PDAMS would be formed by December 31, 1992 and would incorporate
existing and new assets. New offices and workshops would be provided for each water
entity through the project and staff training provided. A new group would be formed
within PDAM Surabaya to operate the Karang Pilang water treatment plant. These
arrangements are satisfactory to the Bank.
Financial Aspects
46.       Water Entities Serving BNAIIKK Towns.  Available past financial
information for the existing PDAMs and BPAMs is limited and not fully reliable.
However, it indicates that all except PDAM Kotamadya Pasuruan incurred losses in
1983. Most are expected to continue to incur losses during the project
implementation period. In accordance with current practice, GOI has agreed that
required operating subsidies would be made available during the project
implementation period. While past results are of interest, they have little bearing
on the overall financial projections because the future systems will be either
totally new or will be much greater in size (about 12 to 15 times greater in terms
of service connections) than the present system.
47.       According to GOI policy for 'basic needs' systems (para. 25), the proposed
BNA and IKK schemes would be financed by central government grants. Furthermore,
water tariffs should be set at levels sufficient to cover operations and maintenance
costs (O&M) and depreciation, while maintaining affordability i.e. water charges to
be less than 42 of monthly income. Consultants have updated socio-economic surveys
to ascertain the current levels and distribution of household incomes in the project
towns and the amount consumers might be prepared to pay for water. Using these
data, and the projected O&M costs and depreciation for each water entity, tariff
affordability was assessed. The tariff calculation indicates that 10 out of the 12
water entities are likely to be able to set a tariff to cover full O&M and depre-
ciation. The required water charges for water entities in Madiun and Pacitan would
rise significantly over the affordability target of 4% of household income. In
these cases it was therefore unrealistic to maintain the full tariff and the effect
of utilizing a tariff to cover O&H costs plus a part of depreciation was investiga-
ted. This analysis showed that Madiun and Pacitan would be able to cover O&M plus
45% and 90% of depreciation, respectively.
48.       Revenue Covenant For Water Entities Serving BNA/IKK Towns.  Keeping the
affordability results in view, assurances were obtained during negotiation that:
(a) the tariff structure would be set for each water entity along the lines of the
National Water Rate Structure; (b) tariffs would be adjusted every year with the
objective of reaching a level in 1991 (on completion of the project) which would
allow each water entity thereafter to cover at least operations and maintenance
costs and depreciation on revalued fixed assets; (c) in the case of water entities
Madiun and Pacitan which are presently expected to cover operations and maintenance



- 22 -
expenses, but only a part of the depreciation expenses, the affordability analysis
wouLd be updated by GOI by Decembe= 31, 1990, in order to determine the maximum
portion of depreciation on revalued assets which can be recovered. Since the water
entities have no previous debt service, and the Government and the Bank would
finance 100% of the capital expenditures which would be transferred as equity to the
water entities, this covenant would ensure that each water entity is financially
viable from a cashflow perspective, with the depreciation allowance generating cash
for working capital or minor expansions.  The minimum tariff (in 1985 prices)
required in 1991 to meet this requirement would mean an increase from about Rp 50Jm3
to Rp 116 (US$0.11), which implies a gradual increase in real terms spread over six
years. The proposed rates would be comparable to those applied elsewhere in
Indonesia at present and are considered reasonable by GOI. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the depreciation allowance would be used exclusively for
improvements or expansions of the water systems, to working capital, or to amortize
future debt, if any.
49.       Surabaya.  PDAM Surabaya has consistently shown profits from its opera-
tions. Likewise, enough cash was accumulated in the past through its depreciation
account for the PDAM to finance the third water treatment plant at Ngagel which was
completed in 1982. It is also involved in the financing of the ongoing distribution
project which is being assisted by the Second Water Supply Project (Loan 1709-IND).
PDAM Surabaya tariffs are adjusted periodically; the latest increase of about 80%
became effective on April 1, 1985. The financial projections show that Surabaya is
expected to continue operating at a profit throughout the projection period (1985-
94). During negotiations assurances were obtained that GOI would take appropriate
measures, including adjustment of tariffs as required, to cause PDAM Surabaya to
produce funds from its internal cash generation equivalent to not less than 30% of
the annual average of the PDAM's capital expenditure incurred or expected to be
incurred during a three-year (past, current and next) period. This implies main-
taining of the average tariffs at current levels in real terms. No problem is
foreseen in achieving this objective.
50.       Profit Sharing.  PDAM Surabaya is required to distribute 55% of its net
income after tax to the Kotamadya and the remaining 45% to various other funds (such
as staff bonus, charities, general reserves, and pension fund). These provisions
are made within the general guidelines of the Ministry of Home Affairs and the regu-
lations of the Kotamadya Council. However, the Ministry of Home Affairs has
recently issued a further guideline to provincial governors suggesting that PDAMs
should not be required to make any further contributions to their Kotamadyas.
Kotamadya Surabaya has not accepted the guideline fully even though, during 1984, it
accepted a contribution of 32% instead of the 55%. Others also accepted lower
payments. In view of the budgetary needs of the city and others, it has been agreed
that these contributions would be limited in future to the 1984 figure (with minor
adjustments) plus an increase of 5% each year. Any change in this agreement would
require the consent of the Bank. Based on present projections, this would result in
gradually lowering the payments to Kotamadya Surabaya and others to about 12% and
6%, respectively, by 1991.
51.       Limitation on Debt.  In order to ensure prudent financial management of
PDAMs, assurances were obtaned during negotiations that project water entities would
not incur long-term debt without the consent of the Bank, unless debt service is
covered at least 1.5 times.



- 23 -
Economic and Social Aspects
52.       Financial and Economic Rates Of Return  The Internal Financial Rate of
Return (IFR) which is the rate of discount which equalizes the present worth of
incremental financial costs (net of taxes) and revenues (at constant prices)
resulting from the project was calculated for each water entity by aggregating
subprojects within its boundaries. Aggregation is appropriate because the tariffs
are uniform within each water entity and there are no significant differences in the
per capita cost of individual subprojects. The IFR is negative for most BNA/IIKK
systems and 17.5% for Surabaya.  The benefits of the project were then supplemented
using as proxy (a) the charge by the vendors for the first 3 m /month (approximately
20 lcpd) and (b) average water cfharges for higher consumption. For towns where data
on vendors is not available, cost for constructing and maintaining wells and cost of
carrying water was used. ERRs so calculated range from 0.7% to 6.6% (average 4.4%)
in BNA/IKK systems and 20Z in Surabaya. A 20% increase in capital cost with an
unchanged benefit stream would reduce the average ERR to 3.1X, and with a 5%
reduction in the benefit s:ream, would yield an average ERR of 2.4%. The correspon-
ding figures for Surabaya are 17% and 15.7%, respectively. These calculations are
not, however, a complete measure of the economic rate of return because it does not
adequately take account of all the benefits which result from the new system. The
justification for the project does not rest solely with the rate of return, because
(a) it provides essential and safe water supply service, at least cost, to a
heretofore unserved population (about 90% of whom are poor) living in semi-rural
areas; (b) it will help to improve the health and living standards of the
population; and (c) it provides the means for strengthening sector institutions and
replicable policies based on basic needs approach. The project as a whole would
yield an ERR of 11. A 20% increase in total costs with an unchanged benefit
stream, would yield an average ERR of 8%, and with a 5% reduction in the benefit
stream would yield an average of 7%.
53.       Poverty Impact.  In BNA/IKK towns the project would benefit about 820,000
people by 1991 through house connections and standpipes. The level of population
served would be increased 10 times, while present users will have improved water
quality, service, pressure and reliability. Ninety-three percent of the total
connections and 872 of the distributed water would be for households with
government, commercial, industrial, and social users receiving the balance. About
90% of the population, or some 740,000 persons in the BNA/IKICK towns, are below the
relative poverty level of US$130 equivalent per household per month. In Surabaya,
about 1.3 million persons are estimated to be poor. On the whole, about 80% of the
urban poor in the project areas would benefit from the project. In Surabaya, where
present vendor charges are very high, the Government has agreed to take steps to
minimize the zost of water co low-income groups.  About 67% of the water produced
for BNA/IKiZ towns would benefit the urban poor. The corresponding figure for
Surabaya is 8%, and for the overall project is 35%.
54.       Project Risk.  Available data on willingness to pay for piped water in
smaller IKKs (i.e. population less than about 5,000) is not conclusive. There is
some risk that a part of the revenues from such systems may be slow in materializ-
ing. The experience of several IKKs under the first East Java Water Supply Project
indicates oversubscription of available connections within the very first year as
compared to an assumed four years connection build-up period. On the other hand,
data based on IKKs elsewhere in Indonesia indicates an unwillingness to pay due to



- 24 -
the availability of shallow wells, and therefore, there is a risk that all
connections will not be subscribed within four years of project completion. The
share of total revenue from the smaller IKKs in the two weakest water entities
(Madiun and Pacitan) is about 10% and llZ, respectively. The impact of this is
expected to be minimal. There are no significant implementation risks anticipated.
55.       Environmental Impact.  The proposed project would have a significant net
positive environmental impact and would improve the quality of lite of persons in
the beneficiary cities and towns. A major environmental improvement is expected to
follow from the effluent discharge control program to be implemented in connection
with the Surabaya component of the project (para. 38 above). The proposed program
would reduce significant pollution of the Surabaya River from several industries to
within legally prescribed limits as well as reducing pollution from residential
sources through improved sanitation and strengthened environmental monitoring.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
56.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
October 16, 1985
Washington, D.C.



- 25 -                                     ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6 pages
1*10:112,x6SOCIALm n uzmnV KUSIUENAVTAE)                         re
29p601b    iioMb RZWC              NICOLE 1NCOU           NIDoI.3
h-AR  C11001    SQ. DOU)
TOTAL                            1919.3     1919.3      1919.3
ACEICULTUlJAL                     296.5      307.1       31.5.
m  MR CAPIU (Ua)                       ..         ..       560.0            1011.1                   1375.9
_: COmarToa  C*iIca
(KItOGRAN OP OIL RQUIVZALBNT)      3C.0       93.0       191.0            56.8                     993.6
PWULATION.HID-TAR (ICOaSsDS)  94680.0   116201.0   155669.0
URBAN POPULATION tE Or TOTAL)      14.6       17.1       24.1              35.9                     67.7
roULATN pxojzcnaus
POPULATION IN TA 2000 CNILLR                           212.0
STATIWOY POPULATION CHILL)                            368.0
POPULATION HONIIt                                       1.3
POPUTION O331tT?
PlR SQ. KM.                      49.3       60.5       11.1             36.9                      48.0
PER SQ. KM. At. LAND            319.3      376.4       683.4           1591.2                     91.1
POPULATXOS AGE fTfUCTuRE (2)
0-14 YT                         40.7       44.0       40.6              33.2                     38.5
15-64 SE                         56.2       53.4       55.3              57.7                     57.1
6U AID ABOVE                      3.0        2.5        3.5               3.5                      4.2
POPUATIOS GOVM RATE C()
TOTAL                             2.1        Z.0        2.2               23                       2.4
URBAN                             3.7        3.6        4.3               4.1                      3.6
QUDE liMTR RATE (PER THOUS)        44.2       41.0       34.0              30.1                     30.9
CEOUK DLATH RATE (Pin TfOUS)       22.9       17.6        12.3              9.4                      8.0
COSS  2OOUCT1011 itATE              2.7        2.7        2.1               1.9                      2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACRPTOR. AIAL (TIIUS)             ..       131.1      3051.0 IC
USERS (I of sailE   WHss)         ..         ..         56.0             56.5                     4|5.3
1303 OF FOOD PROD. Prr CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                     93.0       102.0      123.0             124.4                    109.6
P35 CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORXES tS OP 3qEQUTRUNTS)      79.0       92.0       112.0            115.7                    113.2
PFOTCINS (GlMS PER DAY)          34.0       41.0       53.0              60.3                     69.4
OF kWtCK ANDaL AND PULSE         6.0        6.0        7.0 /d           14.1                     34.2
CnILD (Ae5 1-4) DOEAT RATE         21.9       18.1       13.0               7.2                      4.8
LIFE El1CT. AT  IRTH (TEAS)       41.2        47.0       53.5              60.6                    64.3
INFANT IDCT. RATE (PCX INOUS)     150.0      121.0      101.0              64.9                    59.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WAno  (OP)
TOTAL                             ..         3.0       23.0              46.0                     65.3
URBAN                             ..        10.0       40.0              57.6                     76.5
RURAL                             ..         I.        18.0              37.1                     4.2
ACCZSS TO UCRETA DISPOSAL
CI Of POPUIATIN)
TOTAL                             ..        15.0       23.0              50.1                     56.3
URBAN                             ..        19.0       20.0              52.9                     73.4
RUIIAL                            *-        14.0       24.0              44.7                    25.3
POPULATION Pit PKUCIA           46760.0    26510.0    11530.0 4          7751.7                   1909.7
POP. PER NURSING PERSON          4510.0 If  7680.0     2300.07i          246.3                    608.2
POP. PER UOSPITAL LED
TOTAL                          1360.0     1650.0      1720.0 |         1112.1                    362.0
URBAN                           250.0        ..       700.0             651.4                    422.0
RURL                              ..         ..      3160.0 H          2596.9                   2716.7
ADMSSIONS PEr HDSPITAL BED          ..         ..         ..               41.1                     27.5
AVERSCE SIZC or HOUSENOLn
TOTAL                             4.4        4.4
URBAN                             4.9        5.3
tOtL                              4.3        4.7
AVERSE NO. OF PEUSONSIROOH
TOTAL                             ..         3.5
URBA                              ..         1.6
RURAL                             ..         1.3
PRcENTAGE OF UIELLINGS SITK LECT.
.OTAL                             ..         ..
URBAN                             ..         ..
RURAL                             ..         ..



ANNEX I
- 26 -                                             Page 2 of 6 pages
INDONESIA             - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHU_T
INaoESIA                            REFERECE GROUrPS (VEIGTED AVRAS) 1g
HOST                    (HOST RECENr EStITK) /b
196/b  97Gb RCc    lb          sNILF INCM             baIDDw XNG
19,,b      1970b  bSTDT            ASIA 4 PACIPlC         LAT. ANRIIC A  CAR
KDCA21OU
ADJUSTEo ENRDLJENT RATIOS
PRIKAaY:  TOTAL                  71.0       77.0       100.0              100.7                   106.7
MALE                   86.0       83.0       106.0             104.4                    108.5
FEMALE                 58.0       71.0       94.0               97.2                    104.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                  6.0        15.0       33.0              47.8                     44.2
HLEz                   10.0       20.0        38.0              50.6                     42.7
FEIALE                  3.0       10.0       27.0               44.8                     44.9
VOCATIONAL (Z OP SECONDARY)        20.4       22.1        13.9              18.4                     13.3
PUPIL-TEACHMR RATIO
PRIMARY                          39.0       29.0        29.0              30.4                     29.9
SEcONDARY                        14.0        13.0       16.0              Z2.2                     16.7
PASSENGER CARS/TNOUSAND POP         1.1        2.1         4.4 /c           10.1                     46.0
RADIO RECEIVERS/TNOUSAND POP        7.2       21.9       131.2             17Z.9                    328.3
TV RECEIVERS/TROUSAND POP           0.1        0.8        22.6              58.5                    112.4
NEWSPAPER C"DArL. GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER TaouSAND POPULATION           11.0         ..        14.9              65.3                     81.1
CINEMA ANUAL ATrENDANCE/CAPITA      2.8         ..         1.0 /c            3.4                      2.4
LAu POEM
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (oOUS)        34791.0    41090.0    54417.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                 27.8       30.9        29.3              33.6                     23.6
ARICULTURE (PERCENT)             75.0       66.0        58.0 /c           52.2                     31.4
INDUSTRY (PDCENT)                 8.0        10.0       12.0x             17.9                     24.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCCNT)
TOTAL                            36.7        35.4       35.0              38.9                     33.5
HALE                             54.2        49.5       49.6              50.8                     51.3
FEMALE                           20.0       21.6        20.4              26.8                     15.9
ECOOIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.2         1.3        1.3               1.1                      1.3
INCOME DISTRINTIOM
PERCET OF PRrVATE INCOME
RECEIVD BY
RIEsT 5S OF RBOUSEOLDS                                  235 .  2
SIcHS? 20S O BOUSr OLDS           ..          ..        494 l             48.0
LW3EST 20S OF HOUSEHOLDS          .           .          6:6 M             6.4
LOIIST 401 OF PMSEOLDS            .           .         14.4               15.5
ESTIIIATED ABSOLUTE POVERT INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URDUAN                            .         124.0 lb   124.0 h              ..                    288.3
EJRAL                             ..        106.0 7ri   106.0 7h          151.9                   185.3
ESTIMED RELATZVE POVERYT INCOtC
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                  119.0 th           177.9                    519.8
RURAL                                                   98.0 7            16.7                    359.7
ESTIMATED POP. BEW= ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (Z)
URBAN                                        51.0 /b   26.0 th            23.5
RURAL                             .          59.0       44.0              37.8
NT AVAXLAUE
NOT APPLICABLE
N 0 T f 3
/a  The group averpes for each Indicator are populatian-v.l_hted artimetic seems. Corag of countri
amg the indicators depends on avalability of data and Is not unifom
Jb  Unleus otebxwise noted, "Data for 1960" Tefer to any year between 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970" betwee
1969 and 1971; and data for "oat Recent Zetl_te" betace   1981 and 1983.
/c  1980;  tZ 1977; /. 1979; If 1962; LI 1976; /b 1980 pricee.
JUNE, 195



- 27 -                                        ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6 pages
_KFI4Tfl0P  OF SOCIAL INDICATURS
NoteL Although the daLr am dmwn from suces geerly judged Ut most autntie and reiabl it sbould also be wted that they may not be intautiolly
comparble bemus of the lack or standardized definitions and cocerp ued by dileent coeutn  in collcting the data. The duatm. nonetes ne eful to
deacibe orden of mnitude, ndicatetrends and chanactrize atain mjor diffemc  been countrim.
The rferen  oups are 113 tbe-  countfy roup of the subjp country sd (2) a country group with omwh higher  ge incme th  the country
groupof tbe subject couny (cxpt for -High Income Oil Exports group where Middkl Income Nort Africa nd Middle Eair acsen bo se of ronr
socio.cultual affinitmsl. In the rference group data the averags af populion weighted arihmeic men for each indieaor n shown Dnly when majority
of the countries *a group ha daa for tat indicor Since the coverag of countre mong the indicatom depends on the avaiability ofdats nd is not uniform.
ouaon mutl be esermsed in retling avergsI of one indicator to anolsert Thce averages  only ueful in compring te value of one indicator ml a time among
the coun"y and rekrence groups
AREA (thousand sq.kmj                                          Crude Sink Rate (per rfhmud)-Number of live births in the year
Tel-Total surface ar  comprising land area and inland waters   per thousand of mid-year population; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                      Crude Death Rate (per tksasrand-Number of deaths in the year
Agricmkael--Estimate of agricultural area used tenporarily or  per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops. pastures. market and kitchen gardens or to  GroC  RepwAiie  Rae-Average number of daughtcrs a woman
lie fallow. 1960 1970 and 1982 data                            will bear in her nornal reproductive period if she experiences
prsent age-specific fertility rates usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current       in 1960 1970, and 1983.
market pries calculated by same conversion method as World     Fax*  Plsidng-Accepsi, Am.! (rhussadsj-Annual num-
Bank Atlas (198143 basis); 1983 data                           ber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                 family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.     && PLUawr4sW  (peret of nr   ue-The prcen-
petroleum, natural gas and hydro-. nuckar and geothermal dcec-  tage of narried women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tncity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any fonn of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                     of child-bearing age are geneally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is neasured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                groups.
Total Popaltiooa. MidLYVer (rhoasmdfs-As of July 1 1960. 1970.  FOOD AND NUTRMON
and 1983 data.
V1rbu PopWani  (prcent of toeal)-Ratio of urban to total      ydx efFeed Prewdani  Per Capita (190-71 - Ii-Index of per
Urba  Peulaiem  perentof aeal-Raio  f uran  o ttal capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agiculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.    include primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
Pepulaian Pejecejas                                            which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Poptiation in wear 2000-The projection of population for 2000.  excludedt they comprise cereals root crops. pulses oil seeds.
m,ade for each economy separately. Starting with information on  vegetables. fruits, nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets livestock, and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates, mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters  on national average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
wre projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.            hr Capit Suyf GCaois (percet efre,afosmtsi-Conput-
StaionrWr poputaron-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports kss exports, and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate = 11. In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed, seeds for use in agriculture, quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also  food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements were
consunt. and the growth rate Is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activty
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature, body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and scx distribution of population, and allowing IO percent For
rate to replacement level.                                     waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 19S2 data.
Pepulaton M'omentum-Is the tendency for population growth to   Per Capit Supply of hertei (grS per day )-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved, that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year z. given the assumption that fertility remains at replac-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment level frorn year t onward. 1985 data.                     75 grams of total protein and 23 gamms of animal protein as an
Papuladn Density                                               average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.km.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-  Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total ara; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.                hr Capit  eorea SuWly Sum Asima! ad Pulse-Protein supply
Per sq.km. agricultural land-Computed as above for agncultural  of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day; I961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                          1970 and 1977 data.
Pbpitioen Age Structwre (perceti--Children (0-14 years). work-  Cld (ases I-4) Dretr Rate (per Moaad -N umber of deaths of
ing age (l5-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of nid-year populationt 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.             group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Ppapulatin Cronk Rate (percent i-total--Annual growth rates of  from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 19B3 data.
toal mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.   HEAL
Pbpaadeu Groth Rate (percent-mrism--Annual growth rates         4e Ezperay  r  tA (yewrs)-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.    infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for aU people



ANNEX I
- 28 -                                      Page 4 of 6 pages
at the time of of its birth were to stay the me throughout its life;  PupCducher Ratio - primary. and ecoudr-ToWt  td     en-
1960, 1970 and 1903 dats.                                     rolled in prim   and    ony   leveb dividd by numbr  of
Ilar Mwait Aute (pr thosiand)-Number of infants who die        teachas in the corresponding levels
before reaching one year of ae per thousand ive births in a give
year. 1960. 1970 aod 1983 dat                                  CONSUMFnoN
Acae to So  WOW (pwe   of)_I F_i  W. we.- ml                   Pusqer Cm  (Per  _ _madP - mlte)-Pbsse r crn con-
rwu5-Number of people (totaL urban, and rural) with reionable  prise c-otor cars seting ls than eight persons exdude ambul
acen to safe water supply (induds treated surFfae waa  or      ac  heanrs and military vehicle.
untated but uncontinated water uch u that from protcted        Ral a.ewb    (per thoumadpapihou)-AII typ  of eceive
bombeoles spinp and sanituy wells) as pemntu of their repc-    for radio broadcua  to general public per thouund of population;
tive population. In an urbn ar  a public fountain or standpost  exdudes un-licensed receivers in countnies and in yeas when
located not more than 200 metes from a house may be cordeed    registtion of radio sets wu in effect; data for recent yeus my
as being within reaonable access of that house. In rurald u    not be compareble snce most countre  bolbhd   Uc
renable access would imply that the houswife or members of the
houelhold do not have to spend a disproportionate pMrt of the day  TVRwUin  (ptr  end p-slto)-T           n Vec forbroadcat
in fetching the family's wW n                                  to gene   public per thousand population; exdudes unicensd TV
Acet to Eruvu Dspsl f(pfcet of popolate. -t.tll, tv            rcevers in countries and in yean when registrtion of TV st wa
md rral-Number or people (totaL urban, and rural) served by
excrete disposal a percentages of their respective populations.   rws       CIIwC&mka (per thuardpopohlou)-Shows; the aver-
Excreta disposal may includc the coDection and disposal, with or  age circulation of dadly geneal mtest newspaper." defined as a
without treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-  periodial publication devoted primarily to recording  neral news,
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be -dily" ir it appeas at at four tim  a week.
Pspxahb per Physoid-Pepulation divided by number of prmc-      CLwE  A _na Atteada    per CMt per Yw-Based on the
tisingphysicians qualifiedfromamedical schoolat university level,  number of tickets sold during the year, induding admissions to
Populutlo. per N oWwiu Persaw-Population divided by number or  drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practcing male and female graduate nurses, assistant nurses.
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                      LABOR FORCE
P'podn p-- Iaiphi  5d--otl.d a-b       d rwal-Population       Total Law Force (frbhJsams)-Economically active persons, in-
(total urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of  cluding armed fcorv  nd unp nployed but exduding bouiwtisi
hospital beds available in public and private, general and specialts ctc,  coveng popubtion OrU lt DeAitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation centrs. Hospitals are esta6ishments  various countries are not comparable; 1960. 1970 and 1983 dataL
pemmanently staffed by at least one physician. Esablishments prov-  FemNk (prcrarj-Feniale labor rorce as percentge of total labor
iding pnncipaly custodil care are not induded. Rural hospitals,  force.
however include health and medical centers not permanently staffed  Agrkr (percear)-Labor force in faring, forestry, hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant nurse, midwife. etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force; 1960.1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical faciities.                                          Indmstry (perceut)-Labor force in mining, construco  masnu-
Admiss per Hospietl Be-Total number of admissions to or        facturing and electricity, water and gas as pentage of totl lbor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Pwrk4mra Ato    (percentk-.as, rk. andjfaia-Participarion
HOUSING                                                        or activity  tes are computed as totaL mal, and female labor force
Averq  ,Se of Houeod (persos pe homeldtJ-red,  bu,             as percentages of totaL male and female population of all a
andrral-A household consius of a group of individuals who share  respectively: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. Tbese are basd on LOLs
lving quarers and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation ratesreflectingage-xstructureofthepopulationand
may not be included in the housebold for statistical purpoe.   long time trend. A few estimates are from national soun
Average Number of Perss per Room-rotul, mrbam, ad wi-          Economa.c Depeudem:c Raio-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rural     65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respetively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                 INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Percetage of Dwelg vih Electy-toral. ubh. and rwai-            Peeage of Totr D4vprbl kIowa (hate i cas ed  ind)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by tota bouse-
tage of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively,        hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adjured Eiroler Rados                                          The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Prutmay school - total, tal and femalk-Gross totaL male and   leels, and should be interpreted with consideable caution.
female enrollment of all ages at the primary level as percentages of  Esimted Absolute Fbey lc     Ll (USS per cqdta)-w&=
respeaive primary school-age populations. While many countries  ad iou-Absolute poverty income lcvel is that income lvel
consider primary school age to be 6-11 yea  others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionaly adequate diet plus essential
diffemnces in coutry practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Esmated Relawe PbVerauc     Lewd USf I per capirt)--wen
education, gross enrollment may excwd 100 percent since some    nd rwd-Rural relative poverty income leve is one-third of
pupils are below or above the countrys standard primary-chool  averagc per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                           derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary school - total, mak and femae- Computed as above    living in urban areas.
secondary education rquires at least four years of approved pri-  Esred Popsue. Brow Absofir Aer  Imba   Leve fpa-
mury instrucuwn; provides general. vocationaL or teacher training  cent j-wm  end rwu- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspond-  who are absolute poor.
ence courses are generally excluded.
Vocarsaen  Eaaro iei (percnt of secondaryJ-Vocational institu-           Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technicaL industriaL or other programs which operate     Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of econdary institutions.                              June 1985



- 29 -                                              ANNEY I
Page 5 of 6 pages
Population       155.8 million (mdd-1983)
GNP per Capits:  US$560 (1983 estimate)
INDONESIA - ECONOHIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million USs at                            Annual growth rate (2) lb
current prices)                ACtual                                 Projected
Indicator                           1983         :980   19a 1   1VMZ   1983  19847-  1Y5 I          1988   IYa89   199
NATIONAL ACODUNrS
Gross domestic product /c         78.344        9.9    7.9  -0.2    4.7    6.5    2.9    4.6    5.1    4.7    4.1    4.3
Agriculture                     20,651        5.2    4.9    2.1    4.8    5.0    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7
Industry                       29.896        12.5    8.5   -6.4    5.0    9.8    0.9    4.5    5.5    4.6    3.0    3.5
Services                       27.797        11.B    9.8    5.5    4.3    4.0    4.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5
Consumption                       62,731       12.4   15.8    3.0    0.7    7.2    3.1    3.1    4.2    4.2    4.2    4.2
Gross lnvestment /d              1I.908        18.9   11.1    8.5   -7.0   -9.0    5.1    5.1    5.3    5.5    5.7    5.5
Exports of CNFS                   19,508       -5.6   -2.4  -12.6   14.2    3.5    1.4    6.4    5.2    3.9    1.4    3.0
Imorts of CNFS                   22,803        15.1   27.1    3.2  -8.6  -7.5    3.6    1.5    2.4    2.6    2.6    3.4
Gros. national savings            12,273       33.2  -20.0  -11.3    3.7   18.4  -3.3    8.9    8.0    6.9    5.3    5.2
PRICES
Cep   eflator (1981 - 100)                       91    100    113    131    142    154    168    183    199    217    237
Exchange rate (Rp per USS)                      627    632    661    909  1,026
Share of CDP at mrket prices (Z)
(at current Price.)                         AveraR  annual increase (S) /b
1960   19/U   1975  lY80   1935  lsYU         1960-lu   197- ISY80   1980-85   1955-Yt
Gross domestic product          100    100    100    100    100    100         3.9       8.4        7.4       4.3       4.6
Agriculture                    54     47     32     25     26      25        2.7       4.1        3.3       4.1        3.7
Industry                      14      18     34     43     38      38        5.2      12.0        9.8       3.4       4.2
Services                       32     35     35     32     36      37        4.8       9.7        9.5       5.6       5.5
Consumption                   91      89     79    71      78      76        4.1       8.4        9.2       6.0       4.0
Cross Investment /d            8      14     20     21     18      19        4.8      18.3       12.2       2.6       5.4
Exports of CNFS                13     13    23      31     25      24        3.6       9.2        2.9      -1.1       4.0
Imports of CUFS              -13    -16    -22    -22    -21    -19          3.2      22.1       14.0       2.6       2.5
Gross national savings         8       9     17     26     19      21        6.1      23.1       14.2      -0.3       6.8
As Z of GDP
1960              1970               19Z5              1980               1S84
PUBLIC FINANC /e
Current revenue                              11.7               10.1              17.4               22.5              21.5
Current expenditure.                         14.0               8.4                9.9               12.8              13.3
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                   -2.3              +1.6               +7.5               +9.7              48.2
Capital expenditure                           n.a.               5.0              11.3               13.0              10.0
Foreign financing                             0.2                3.5               3.7                3.3               1.8
1960-70         1970-75          1975-80         1980-85          1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual tiNP growth rate (2)                         4.5              7.6             7.1             4.1             4.7
Annual CUP per capita growth rate (1)               2.4              5.1             4.7             2.0             2.5
Annual energy consumption growth rate (2)           2.2             11.2            11.0             1.4             4.6
ICOR                                                2.2              2.2             3.3             4.8             4.C
Marginal savings rate                               0.30             0.48            0.28          -0.01             0.21
Import elasticity                                   1.2              2.8             f.84            0.57            0.53
/a  Estimates.
7W At constant 1973 prices for 1980-81, and 1981 prices for 1982-90.
7E  At  arket prices.
7W Fixed Investment; stock changes are Included in consumption.
7T Central Covernmaent only, on an April-ta-March fiscal year basis.
East Asia and Pacific Region
May 31. 1985



- 30 -
Population        1S5.8 million (mid-1983)                                                                     ANNEX I
GNP per Capita:  US5560 (1983 estimate)                                                                        Page 6 of 6 pages
INDONESIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EnTEtNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
iMllail5n URI at current prices)
Actual                                 Projected
19180    1151      1hZ      118]      19Ue/   1185      1186      JIll      19SO
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS/b
1.  Exports                                     22,885   22,994   18,672   19,817   20,243  20,769   22,868   26,170   36,235
(a)  Oil and LNC (gross)                    17,297   18,824   14,744   14.449   14.341  14.253   15.512   17,821   23.848
(b)  Nonoil                                  5,588    4,170    3,928    5,368    5,902   6,516    7,356    8,349   12,387
2.  Imports (including net NFS)                -17.589  -22,570  -22,339  -19,655  -17,611 -19,066  -20,783  -23,026  -31,586
(a)  Oil sector                             -4,050   -5,407   -4,802   -3,839   -3,135  -3,801   -4,113   -3.619   -6,540
(b)  Nonotl imports                        -11,837  -14,561  -15,824  -14,246  -12,805 -13,616  -14.899  -16,462  -22,438
(c)  NFS (net)                              -1,702   -2,602   -1,713   -1,570   -1,611  -1,649   -1,771   -1,945   -2,608
3.  Resource balance                             5,296       424   -3,667       162   -2,632   1,701    2,085    3,144    2,800
4.  Factor services                             -3,165   -3,210   -3,573   -4,476   -4,596  -4,528   -4,994   -5,708   -7,287
(a)  Interest public debt                     -823      -994   -1.145   -1,256   -1,620  -1,598   -1,851   -2,132   -4,487
(b)  Other (net)                            -2,342   -2,216   -2,428   -3,220   -2,976  -2,930   -3,143   -3,576   -4,487
5.  Capital grants                                  76        67       105       95       100      112      119       125       150
6.  Balance on current account                   2,207   -2,719   -7,135   -4,219   -1,864  -2,715   -2,790   -2,439   -2,488
7.  Direct foreign Invesrtmnt                       140      142      311       193       250      250      275       300       375
8.  Public M & LT loans
(a)  Disbursement                            2,551    2,673    4,192    4,965    3,828   4,988    5,428    6,068    6.892
(b)  Amortization                             -936   -1,053   -1,102   -1,295   -1,628  -1,980   -2,137   -2,545   -4,603
(c)  Net disbursements                       1,615    1,620    3,090    3,670    2.220   3,008    3,291    3,523    2.289
9.  Other capital (net)                         -1,488       -31       455    1.975       2B7    -143      -104      -418       133
10.  Change in reserves (- increase)             -2,736       988    3,350   -1,619       -873    -400      -672      -966     -309
11.  Net official reserves                        7,342    6,354    3,004    4.623    5,496   5.896    6.588    7,534    9,3B4
Reserves in months of nor.oil imports
+ NFS                                        6.5       4.4       2.1      3.5       4.6     4.6       4.7       4.9      4.5
Memorandum Item
Net toreign assets of the banking
system/c                                     10,787   10,622    6,322    6,395    9,930  10,331   11,003   11,969   13,819
Total reoerves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                                   9.6       7.4      4.3       6.4       8.2     8.1       7.9       7.8      6.6
EXrERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT/d
croas DUlsursements                             2 551    2 673    4 192    4 965    3 828
(e,ncessionar Loans                                3U      77         w      2iK        '55
Bilateral                                                        Wu1  m  EDT  317   Er7
IDA                                            42        69       78        60        54
Other                                           6         7         8        8        19
Nonconcessional Loans                            1892    1880    3503          357    3 277
BFiateral                                     _W         'T7U    _3TT    ';iU
IBRD                                            331       314      505       489       772
Other multilateral                               52        85       126      160       163
Private-source                                1,421    1,310    2,356    3,219    1,938
External Debt
Debt outseanding and disbursed /e            14. 971   15 870   18 515   21 686   22 863
Official-source                            YS3IS        U     TIMT1T   T7LU37 1T  E2T
Private-source                              5,465    5,812    7.403    9,649   10,042
Undisbursed debt                              9,481   11,387   12,870   13,778   13,973
Debt Service
TotaM   service payments                      1,759    2,047    2,247    2,551    3,248
Interest                                      823       994    1,145    1,256    1,620
Payments as Z of exports/f                      7.7       8.9     12.0      12.9      16.0
Average Interest Rate on New Loans (X)             8.1      8.7       9.2      8.8       9.1
,.ca-source                                 5.4       7.8      8.8       8.7       8.6
Private-source                                 12.4       9.4      9.5       8.S       9.8
Average _aturity of 1ev Loans (Years)             18.8     15.5      15.2     15.1      15.9
oftca -source                                 24.4      20.5     20.6      22.3      20.9
Private-source                                  9.8      11.1     11.1      10.3       9.2
An X of debt outstanding at end of 1984
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Haturities due within 5 years                                                                               34
Maturittes due vithin 10 years                                                                              65
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due vithLn first year                                                                             7.0
/a  Estimates.
7T  On an Aorti-to-March fiscal year basis.
7TF  Includes foreign assets of deposit money banks in addition to official reserves.
7;  Excludes private nonguaranteed loans.
1^  At end of period.                                                                             East Asia and Pacific Region
It  Oil exports treated on gross basis.                                                                   May 31. 1985



- 31-                        ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1985) /a
Loan/                                                          Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                      Bank     IDA    Undisbursed
Thirty-six Loans and forty-three Credits fully
disbursed                                               1,766.40   776.92          -
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                             140.00      -         59.98
1604    1978   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II            65.00      -         27.40
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                            77.00      -         17.71
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                      54.00       -         10.39
1696    1979   Fifth Highway                               123.20       -         12.18
1707    1979   Transmigration II                             90.00      -         79.15
1708    1979   Eighth Power                                175.00       -         39.70
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                          35.50       -          7.01
946    1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                    -      12.00        6.15
1751    1980   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders III          99.00       -         30.85
984    1980   Smallholder Rubber Development                  -      45.00       24.95
995    1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                           -       37.60        6.72
996    1980   National Agriculture Extension II               -      42.00       22.77
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                       116.00       -         45.83
1835    1980   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV           42.00       -         28.75
1840    1980   National Agricultural Research               35.00       -         35.00
1014    1980   National Agricultural Research                 -       30.00        3.60
1872    1980   Ninth Power                                 253.00       -         77.73
1898    1981   Smallholder Coconut Development              46.00       -         32.41
1904    1981   University Development                       45.00       -         35.16
1950    1981   Tenth Power                                 250.00       -         12.96
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation                            22.00       -         12.98
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development                     43.00       -         22.36
/a The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report OD.
all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 32-                         ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4 pages
Loan/                                                         Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                     Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders V           161.00       -        111.49
2011    1981   Second Small Enterprise Development         106.00       -          5.48
2049    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway                     85.00       -        72.73
2056    1982   Eleventh Power                              170.00       -        56.27
2066    1982   Second Seeds                                 15.00       -         9.89
2079    1982   Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and
Transport                                185.00       -         78.03
2083    1982   Rural Roads Development                      85.00       -        45.86
2101    1982   Second Teacher Training                      80.00       -        72.56
2102    1982   Second Textbook                              25.00       -        23.16
2118    1982   Sixteenth Irrigation                         37.00       -         19.17
2119    1982   Seventeenth Irrigation (East Java            70.00       -        41.16
Province)
2120    1982   National Fertilizer Distribution             66.00       -         35.62
2126    1982   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VI           68.10       -        58.11
2153    1982   Coal Exploration Engineering                 25.00       -        16.93
2199    1982   Central Java Pulp and Paper Engineering       5.50       -         4.03
2214    1983   Twelfth Power                               300.00       -       236.22
2232    1983   Nucleus Estate and Suallholders VII         154.60       -        152.27
2235    1983   Provincial Health                            27.00       -        25.19
2236    1983   Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation              22.40       -        20.25
2248    1983   Transmigration III                          101.00       -        58.66
2258    1983   Public Works Manpower Development            30.00       -        27.29
2275    1983   East Java Water Supply                       30.60       -        22.00
2277    1983   Fifth BAPINDO                               208.90       -       147.25
2288    1983   Transmigration IV                            63.50       -        60.87
2290    1983   Second Polytechnic                          107.40       -       106.99
2300    1983   Thirteenth Power                            279.00       -       211.47
2341    1984   Third Agricultural Training                  63.30       -        60.32
2344    1984   Nucleus Estate and Suallholder Sugar         79.20       -        50.65
2355    1984   Second Non-Formal Education                  43.00       -        38.78
2375    1984   Second Provincial Irrigation Dev.            89.00       -        72.64
2404    1984   Highway Betterment                          240.00       -       213.71
2408    1984   Fifth Urban Development                      39.25       -        39.07
2430    1984   Third Small Enterprise Development          204.65       -       114.40
2431    1984   Second Swamp Reclamation                     65,.00      -        63.53
2443    1984   Fourteenth Power                            210.00       -       209.48
1950-1  1985   Supplemental Loan for Tenth Power
(1950-IND)                                 50.00      -         32.23
2472    1985   Secondary Education and Management
Training                                   78.00      -         75.74



33 -                        ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4 pages
Loan/                                                          Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                      Bank     IDA    Undisbursed
2474    1985   Upland Agriculture and Conservation           11.30      -         11.27
2494    1985   Smallholder Rubber Development II            131.00      -        131.00
2529    1985   Fourth Population /a                          46.00      -         46.00
2542    1985   Second Health (ffanpower Development) /a    39.00        -         39.00
2543    1985   Kedung Ombo Multipurpose Dam Irrig. /a    156.00         -        156.00
2547    1985   Second University Development                147.00      -        147.00
2560    1985   West Tarum Canal Improvement /a               43.40      -         43.40
2577    1985   National Ports Development                   111.00      -        111.00
2578    1985   Transmigration V /a                          160.00      -        160.00
2599    1986   Science and Technology Training /a            93.00      -         93.00
Total Bank loans and IDA credits          8,084.10   943.52
Less cancellations                          -85.03   -12.44
7,999.07   931.08
Of which has been repaid                   -481.49   -20.54
Total now outstanding                     7,517.58   910.54
Amount sold to third party        28.24
Amount repaid by third party    -28.24         -
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b         7,489.34   890.25
Total undisbursed                         3,413.26    73.13   3,486.39
/a   Not yet effective.
/b   Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 34 -                       ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1985)
Fiscal                               Type of            Loan    Equity    Total
year         Obligor                business            --  (US$ million)   --
1971    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement             10.6       2.5       13.1
1971    P.T. Unitex                   Textiles            2.5       0.8        3.3
1971    P.T. Primatexco Indonesia   Textiles              2.0       0.5        2.5
1971    P.T. Kabel Indonesia          Cable               2.8       0.4        3.2
1972    P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles            4.5       1.5        6.0
1973    P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel       Tourism             9.8       1.6       11.4
1973    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement              5.4       0.7        6.1
1974    P.T. Primatexco Inc&nesia   Textiles              2.0       0.3        2.3
1974    P.T. Monsanto Pan             Electronics         0.9        -         0.9
1974    P.T. PDFCI                    Devel. Fin. Co.      -        0.5        0.5
1974    P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles            2.4       0.6        3.0
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement              5.0       1.5        6.5
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               -        1.1        1.1
1977    P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles            0.4        -         0.4
1977    P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles            1.3       0.2        1.5
1979    P.T. Daralon                  Textiles            0.9        -         0.9
1980    P.T. Papan Sejahtera          Capital Market      4.0       1.2        5.2
1980    P.T. Indo American
Industries            Glass Dinnerware  11.1        0.9       12.0
1980    P.T. Semen Andalas            Cement and
Indonesia               Construction
Material         48.0      5.0       53.0
1982/5  P.T. Saseka Gelora Leasing Capital Market         5.0       0.3        5.3
1984    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement             25.0        -       25.0
Total gross commitments                         143.6     19.6      163.2
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled             110.8      7.3      118.1
Total held by IFC                                32.8     12.3       45.1
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)  1.0                    1.0



- 35 -                              ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
SECOND EAST JAVA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project: 18 months
Cb)  Project preparation agency:                          Cipta Karya
(c) Date of first presentation to Bank, and Bank
consideration thereof:                               November 1984
Cd)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:              April 1985
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:                  September 1985
CE) Planned date of effectiveness:                        February 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions:
A "project launch" mission is planned for Narch 1986.
Section III: Special Conditions
The Government has agreed that:
(a) An action program to reduce PDAM Surabaya's unaccounted-for water losses
to about 25Z of production by 1991 would be carried out commencing April
1, 1988 (para. 36);
Cb) An action plan to abate pollution caused by industrial and residential
effluents discharging to the Surabaya River would be carried out not later
than December 31, 1987, and attainment of specific milestones would be a
condition of disbursement for the Surabaya component of the project
(para. 38);
(c) Tariffs of water entities for BNA/IKK towns would be adjusted every year
to cover at least operations, maintenance and depreciation on revalued
operations and maintenance expenses and all or part of the depreciation
expenses on completion of the project; and the depreciation allowance
would be used exclusively for improvements or expansions of the water
systems, working capital, or amortization of future debt, if any;
(para. 48);



-36 -                              ANE  III
Page 2 of 2
(d) Funds from PDA? Surabaya's internal cash generation would be equivalent to
not less than 30X of the annual average of the PDAM's capital expenditure
incurred or expected to be incurred during a rolling three year period
(para. 49); and
(e) Measures would be taken by PDA? Surabaya to minimize the cost of water to
low income groups (para. 52).



__________________________________                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 19110
'ItAtLASIA       llAYS3A                                          I _  _I3t                                                                                  INDONESIA   4i-i
-i   , _J   __                                                                            SECOND EAST JAVA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
RALIM ANTAN                                                                                                                          A    SRA CITIES INVOLVED IN PROJECT
I' CAWESI                                                                                                                         sFIKe TOWNS INVOLVED IN PROJECT
SUMAIEHA'. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                                              O~~~~~~~~~0TRICTI IKASUPATENS) INVOLVED IN PROJECT
TOWNS AND SISTRICTS COVERED IuNDhI PREYviOuPROiJEcT
J AVA                                       SEAA                                                                          LOANS (
ROIAW                 -        ISTRICT IKASUPATENI1 OICJNOAAIES
rIO JVD Icr/ A^E AVI-    FIRAILWAYS                                                                                                                          _      _    PROVINCI SOUNDARIES
________-______k_bo_                                           ,                                     -    RIVERS                   _     INTERN4ATIONAL EOUNOARIES
# UtAN             T;
JAWA
IND~~~~      ;,_t^o/N  OC00ANO/
-             OTIl~0ThNUMBERS REPRESENT PROJECT TOWN NAMES ISISANNEX tl.                              o-
T                                                                             ILETER             200                   0         0
;   eeeCkn  >>hrs_rfrer_*rcr                                             Xtl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MLES, ,,                     f                      
,    ~       ~~~~                                                                                     0       IS"l S r w O _ _ 1  2a  E0 4   tD 
JULY ISttE
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l






