CONFORMED COPY
0
LOAN NUMBER 1060 YU
Subsidiary
Loan Agreement
(Port of Bar Project)
BETWEEN
PREDUZECE "LUKA BAR" - BAR
(Port of Bar .Enterprise)
AND
ZELEZNICKO TRANSPORTNO PREDUZECE BEOGRAD
(Belgrade Railway Transport Enterprise)
DATED DECEMBER 11, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1060 YU
Subsidiary
Loan Agreement
(Port of Bar Project)
BETWEEN
PREDUZECE "LUKA BAR" - BAR
(Port of Bar Enterprise)
AND
ZELEZNICKO TRANSPORTNO PREDUZECE BEOGRAD
(Belgrade Railway Transport Enterprise)
DATED DECEMBER 11, 1974


﻿SUBSIDIARY LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 11, 1974, between PREDUZECE "LUKA
BAR" - BAR (Port of Bar Enterprise) (hereinafter called the Port of Bar) and
ZELEZNICKO TRANSPORTNO PREDUZECE BEOGRAD (Belgrade Railway
Transport Enterprise) (hereinafter called RTE Belgrade).
WHEREAS by a loan agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter called
the Loan Agreement) between the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (hereinafter called the Bank) and the Port of Bar, the Bank has agreed
to make available to the Port of Bar a loan in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to forty-four million United States dollars ($44,000,000) (hereinafter
called the Loan) under the terms and conditions and for the purposes set forth
therein;
WHEREAS a copy of the Loan Agreement has been furnished to RTE
Belgrade which accepts all its provisions insofar as they may concern it;
WHEREAS under the terms of said Loan Agreement the Port of Bar shall
relend to RTE Belgrade a part of the proceeds of the Loan under a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement satisfactory to the Bank; and
WHEREAS the parties hereto have agreed to enter into this Agreement, which
is the Subsidiary Loan Agreement referred to in Section 3.05 of the Loan
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the Loan Agreement (including the Recitals
thereto) and in the General Conditions (as so defined) shall have the respective
meanings therein set forth, except for the terms already defined in the Preamble
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Subsidiary Loan
Section 2.01. The Port of Bar shall relend to RTE Belgrade, out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the amounts from time to time withdrawn from the Loan


﻿4
Account under Category 2 of the allocation of the proceeds of the Loan referred
to under paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement (said amounts so
relent being hereinafter called the Subsidiary Loan), on the terms and conditions
in this Subsidiary Loan Agreement set forth or referred to.
Section 2.02. (a) Upon request of RTE Belgrade, the Port of Bar shall
promptly make application for withdrawal from the Loan Account of amounts
which the Port of Bar is entitled to withdraw therefrom for expenditures by RTE
Belgrade for Part G of the Project.
(b)  RTE Belgrade shall furnish to the Port of Bar, with a view to
submission to the Bank, all such documents as are required by the Loan Agreement
or as shall be requested by the Bank in order to enable the Port of Bar to make
the withdrawals from the Loan Account requested by RTE Belgrade.
Section 2.03. The Port of Bar shall open a Subsidiary Loan Account on
its books in the name of RTE Belgrade and shall credit to such account the amount
of the Loan allocated to RTE Belgrade pursuant to Schedule I to the Loan
Agreement. The Subsidiary Loan shall be deemed to be withdrawn from such
account on the date and in the amount and currencies of each withdrawal by
the Port of Bar from the Loan Account with the Bank under said Category 2
of the allocation of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.04. (a) RTE Belgrade shall pay to the Port of Bar a commitment
charge in dollars at the rate of 3/4 of 1% per annum on the amount credited
to the Subsidiary Loan Account in accordance with Section 2.03 of this Agreement
and not withdrawn therefrom. Upon full withdrawal or cancellation of the Loan,
appropriate adjustment shall be made in such commitment charge on the basis
of the actual amount of the Subsidiary Loan standing to the credit of RTE Belgrade
from time to time. Commitment charges in respect of the Subsidiary Loan shall
accrue from the same dates and on the same basis as commitment charges shall
accrue on the Loan.
(b) RTE Belgrade shall also pay to the Port of Bar in dollars any additional
charges payable by the Port of Bar to the Bank under the Loan Agreement on
account of any special commitments entered into by the Bank, in accordance with
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions referred to in said Loan Agreement, at
the request of the Port of Bar for expenditures by RTE Belgrade. The Port of
Bar shall promptly request the Bank to enter into such special commitments upon
written application of RTE Belgrade and upon such terms and conditions as shall
be agreed between the Bank and the Port of Bar.


﻿.9
5
Section 2.05. RTE Belgrade shall pay interest to the Port of Bar at the
rate of 8% on the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time. Interest on any portion of the Subsidiary Loan
so withdrawn shall be payable in the currency in which the principal of such portion
is repayable.
Section 2.06. Interest and commitment charges shall be paid by RTE Belgrade
to the Port of Bar semi-annually on April 1 and October I in each year. Interest
payments on the Subsidiary Loan and commitment charges shall be capitalized
on the same basis and to the same extent as interest is capitalized on the
corresponding portion of the Loan.
Section 2.07. The principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn by
RTE Belgrade in accordance with Section 2.03 of this Agreement shall be repaid
by RTE Belgrade to the Port of Bar on the dates and pro rata to the amounts
of the maturities of the Loan set forth in Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement,
in such currencies, required by the Port of Bar to repay to the Bank said maturities
of the Loan, as the Port of Bar shall specify prior to each maturity date; provided,
however, that, in no event shall the aggregate amount of the Subsidiary Loan so
repaid by RTE Belgrade in any currency exceed the portion of the Loan withdrawn
by the Port of Bar from the Loan Account with the Bank in respect of expenditures
by RTE Belgrade and interest on such amounts so withdrawn and repayable by
the Port of Bar to the Bank in such currency.
Section 2.08. (a) Upon at least 45 days' notice to the Por, of Bar, RTE
Belgrade may on any maturity date prepay the amount of one or more maturities
of the Subsidiary Loan, together with all accrued interest and any premium that
may be payable by the Port of Bar to the Bank upon prepayment of the
corresponding amount of the Loan, and any such prepayment shall be applied
to the outstanding maturities of th Subsidiary Loan in reverse chronological order.
(b)  The Port of Bar shall apply any prepayment received in respect of
the Subsidiary Loan to the prepayment of a corresponding amount of the Loan.
ARTICLE IH[
The Project
Section 3.01. (a) RTE Belgrade shall carry out Part G of the Project, with
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate financial,
engineering and railroad management practices. and in ciose cooperation with the
Port of Bar.


﻿6
(b)   RTE Belgrade shall give its full cooperation to the Port of Bar in
carrying out those portions of the Project which aie of common interest to the
RTE Belgrade and the Port of Bar.
Section 3.02. RTE Belgrade shall comply with all the provisions of the Loan
Agreement relating to withdrawals from the Loan Account and the use of the
proceeds of the Loan and procurement of goods and services so financed, insofar
as they concern expenditures by, or for the account of RTE Belgrade, as if such
provisions were fully set forth in this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations set forth herein, RTE Belgrade shall:
(i)        take all appropriate steps to obtain from Serbia the proceeds
of the Grant of Serbia in accordance with the Grant of Serbia
Law; and
(ii)       promptly transfer to the Port of Bar, through Investiciona Banka
Titograd, on a grant basis, the proceeds of the Grant of Serbia,
as and when such proceeds are made available to RTE Belgrade
under the Grant of Serbia Law.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, RTE Belgrade shall:
(i)        contribute out of its own resources, towards the financing of
Part G of the Project (in addition to the Grant of Serbia, which
is not to be applied to any expenditures for Part G of the
Project), an amount of not less than 67,500,000 Dinars; and
(ii)       provide, or cause to be provided, all such additional funds, over
and above the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan and over and
above said amount of 67,500,000 Dinars, as arc required to
complete Part C of the Project in accordance with the established
timetable for completion of the Project.
Section 3.04. RTE Belgrade and the Port of Bar shall take all appropriate
steps to ensure proper coordination (i) in the carrying out of the portions of the
Project to be carried out respectively by RTE Belgrade and the Port of Bar, (ii)
between rail and port operations with the port area, and (iii) in the evaluation
of future traffic projections.
Section 3.05. RTE Belgrade shall:


﻿7
carry out Part G of the Project by contractors acceptable to
the Bank under contracts satisfactory to the Bank;
(ii)       insure, or make adequate provisions for the insurance of, the
imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Subsidiary Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by RTE Belgrade to replace
or repair such goods;
(iii)       furnish to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, contract documents and work and procurement
schedules for Part G of the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request;
(iv)        maintain records adequate to record the progress of Part G of
the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(v)         enable the representatives of the Bank and the Port of Bar to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in Part G of
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan and any relevant records and
documents;
(vi)        furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning Part G of the Project, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan, and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds; and
(vii)       take all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land, and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction and operation of the facilities
included in Part G of the Project, and shall furnish to the Bank,
as requested from time to time, evidence satisfactory to the Bank
that such land and rights in respect of land are available for
purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, RTE Belgrade shall
acquire the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan free
of any encumbrances.


﻿8
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operation of RTE Belgrade
Section 4.01. RTE Belgrade shall at all times conduct its operations, manage
its affairs, plan its investments and maintain its financial position in accordance
with appropriate financial, engineering and railway management principles and
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted
by qualified and competent staff.
Section 4.02. RTE Belgrade shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make adequate provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate railway
practice.
Section 4.03. RTE Belgrade shall take all steps necessary to maintain or
renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful
in the conduct of its business.
Section 4.04. RTE Belgrade shall at all times operate and maintain its railway
network, equipment and installations and make all necessary renewals or repairs
in accordance with appropriate engineering and railway management practices.
Section 4.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, RTE Belgrade shall
not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets which
shall be required for the efficient operation of its business.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. RTE Belgrade shall maintain records adequate to reflect, in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices, its
operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. RTE Belgrade shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by the Social Accounting Service or another
competent and experienced independent auditing organization; (ii) furnish to the
Bank, as soon as available but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such


﻿9
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of RTE Belgrade and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time
to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) RTE Belgrade represents that at the date of this Agreement
no lien exists on any of its assets as security for any debt.
(b)   RTE Belgrade undertakes that, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree: (i) if RTE Belgrade shall create any lien on any of its assets as security
for any debt, such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Subsidiary Loan and that in the creation
of any such lien express provision will be made to that effect at no cost to the
Port of Bar or the Bank and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of RTE Belgrade as security for any debt, RTE Belgrade shall grant, at no
cost to the Port of Bar or the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Port
of Bar and the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on the Subsidiary Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien created on property,
at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase
price of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after the date
on which it is originally incurred.
(c)   The Port of Bar and RTE Belgrade agree that the provisions of
paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section 5.03 are intended for the benefit of the
Bank, and that any security granted for the Subsidiary Loan shall be held by the
Port of Bar as security for the repayment of the Loan, to the extent of the amount
of the Subsidiary Loan.
ARTICLE VI
Consultation and Information
Section 6.01. RTE Belgrade shall cooperate fully with the Port of Bar and
with the Bank to ensure that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To
that end, the Port of Bar and RTE Belgrade shall from time to time, at the request
of either party or of the Bank:.
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under this Subsidiary Loan Agreement,


﻿10
the administration, operations and financial condition of the Port of Bar and RTE
Belgrade, and any other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan;
(b)  furnish to the other party and the Bank all such information as it
shall reasonably request concerning the progress of the Project and the general
status of the Loan and the Subsidiary Loan.
Section 6.02. RTE Belgrade shall furnish to the Bank all such information
concerning the administration, operation and financial condition of RTE Belgrade
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 6.03. The Port of Bar and RTE Belgrade shall promptly inform each
other and the Bank of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere
with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, the maintenance of the
service thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations inder this
Agreement.
Section 6.04. RTE Belgrade shall enable the representatives of the Port of
Bar and the Bank to inspect the records referred to in Section 5.01 of this
Agreement and any relevant documents.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies
Section 7.01. (a) If (i) a default shall have occurred in the payment of any
amount payable by the RTE Belgrade to the Port of Bar under this Agreement,
or (ii) a default shall have occurred in the performance of any other obligation
on the part of the RTE Belgrade under this Agreement, then the Bank may by
notice to the RTE Belgrade suspend in whole or in part the right of RTE Belgrade
to request the Port of Bar to withdraw from the Loan Account the amount of
the Loan to be relent to RTE Belgrade and such right shall continue to be suspended
in whole or in part, as the case may be, until the event or events which gave
rise to such suspension shall have ceased to exist or until the Bank shall have
notified the RTE Belgrade that such right has been restored whichever is the earlier.
(b)   If the right of the Port of Bar under the Loan Agreement to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended or terminated with
respect to any amount in the Loan Account to be relent to RTE Belgrade, regardless
of the reason therefor, then the right of RTE Belgrade to make withdrawals from
the Subsidiary Loan Account provided in this Agreement shall likewise and
simultaneously be suspended or terminated, as the case may be.


﻿11
Section 7.02. If (i) the event described in Section 7.0 1(a)(i) of this Agreement
shall have occurred and shall continue for a period of thirty days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to RTE Belgrade; or (ii) the event
described in Section 7.01(a)(ii) of this Agreement shall have occurred and shall
continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Bank to RTE Belgrade; or (iii) if the Bank shall have declared the principal
amount of the Loan to be due and payable immediately for reasons not attributable
solely to the Port of Bar, then the Bank, at its option, may declare the principal
amount of the Subsidiary Loan then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
to the Port of Bar for repayment to the Bank, and upon such declaration such
principal amount together with interest and other charges thereon shall become
due and payable immediately, anything in this Agreement to the contrary
notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Miscellaneous
Section 8.01. This Agreement shall enter into force and effect simultaneously
with the Loan Agreement.
Section 8.02. When the entire principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan
withdrawn by RTE Belgrade and all interest and other charges accrued thereon
shall have been paid, or upon termination of the Loan Agreement prior to its
effectiveness, this Agreement and all the obligations hereunder shall forthwith
terminate.
Section 8.03. Any notice, demand or request required or permitted to be
given under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been
duly given or made when it shall be delivered:
(a)  for the Port of Bar:
Preduzece "Luka Bar" - Bar
81350 Bar
Yugoslavia
(b)   for the Enterprise:
V     V
Zeleznicko transportno preduzede Beograd
Nemanjina 6
11000 Beograd, Yugoslavia


﻿12
Section 8.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Subsidiary Agreement
to be signed in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first written.
PREDUZECE "LUKA BAR" - BAR
By /s / Naum Ackovski
Authorized Representative
V                                      1
ZELEZNICKO TRANSPORTNO PREDUZECE BEOGRAD
By /s/ Josip Kulisic
Authorized Representative


