Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3786-OM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$15.0 MILLION
TO THE
SULTANATE OF OMAN
FOR A
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
April 24, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



SULTANATE OF OMAN
Currency Equivalents
1 US Dollar   =  0.:345 Rial Omani (RO)
1 RO     =  2.89 US Dollars
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIAI'IONS
ETS  : Education and Training System
ICB : International Competitive Bidding
MOE : Ministry of Education and Youth Affairs
MOSAL: Ministry of Social Affairs and Labor
MPD : Manpower Planning Department
MPU : Manpower Planning Unit
PCR : Project Completion Report
PPAR : Project Performance Audit Report
TA   : Technical Assistance
TTI : Teacher Training Institute
l
. .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



FOR OMCIAL IJSE ONLY
SULTANATE OF OMAN
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              Sultanate of Oman
Amount:                US$15.0 million
Terms:                 15 years, including three yeais of grace, at the
standard variable interest.
Project Description:  The project would support the Government's education and
training objectives, which are to improve the quality
and capacity of the education and training system to
meet the! high demand for educated and skilled manpower.
The project would provide construction, equipment,
furniture and technical assistance (TA) for a teacher
training institute, two general secondary schools and a
commercial secondary school for girls. Additional TA
would be included to assist the Ministry of Education
and Youth Affairs (MOE) to improve planning, cost
control and nnanagement of the education and training
system ito support the development of technical
education. The project would contribute to the
institutional development of the MOE; improve the
quality of primary and preparatory schooling by
increasing the output of teachers, thereby alleviating
the acute shortage of Omani primary and preparatory
teachers; increase general secondary education capacity
for girls and provide for the first time commercial
training opportunities for girls, thus facilitating
female participation in the labor force and in higher
education; and increase the general secondary school
places and improve the quality of general and
specialized secondary schooling. There are no undlue
risks anticipated.
I~~~~~~~
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization|



Estimated Project Costs: 1/                            Local   Foreign   Total
…US$ Million…
Construction, Furniture and
Equipment for;
1 Teacher training institute                            0.84      3.63     4.47
2 General secondary schools                             1.79      7.77     9.56
1 Commercial secondary school                           0.57      2.47     3.04
Technical Assistance
Experts                                                 0.23      0.90      1.13
Fellowships                                             0.01      0.05      0.06
Base Cost                                               3.44    14.82    18.26
Contingencies:
Physical                                            0.32     1.40      1.72
Price                                               0.73     3.20      3.93
Subtotal                                      1.05      4.60      5.65
Total Project Cost                            4.49    19.42    23.91
Financing Plan:                                        Local   Foreign   Total
------US$ Million-
Government                                         4.49      4.42      8.91
Bank                                                 -      15.00    15.00
Total                                         4.49    19.42    23.91
Estimated Disbursements;
Bank FY            FY85    FY86    FY87    FY83    FY89    FY90    FY91
Annual              0.15    1.95    4.20    4.65    3.50    0.50    0.05
Cumulative          0.15    2.10    6.30   10.95   14.45   14.95   15.00
Rate of Return;   Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report; No. 4958-OM, dated April 24, 1984.
Map; No. 17990R, April 1984.
1/ Project cost estimates do not include any import duties or taxes. The
amount of duties paid on building materials imported by building
contractors are not accurately identifiable. Equipment and goods imported
for use by government ministries are exempt from duties.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO THE SULTANATE OF OMAN FOR A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Sultanate of Oman for the equivalent of US$15.0 Million to help
finance the foreign exchange costs of the Second Education Project. The
loan would have a term of fifteen years including three years of grace at
the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A report entitled "Oman Current Economic Position and Prospect:s",
(2528-OM) was distributed to the Executive Directors in October 1979. A
mission to review the Second Five-Year Plan visited Oman in December 1981.
Their findings, together with updating information, are reflected in the
following paragraphs.
3.       Oman is an oil-producing country located southeast of Saudi Arabia
and adjacent to the United Arab Emirates in the Arabian Peninsula. This
could lead one into placing Oman in the same category as its wealthy
neighbors, such as UAE or Kuwait, and thus concluding that modernization
and development are easily within its grasp or financial capacity to
acquire. However, the country's more visible signs of wealth and progress
tend to obscure the important fact that the history of modern Oman did not
begin until barely a decade ago. Prior to 1970, Oman was closed to the
outside world under the rule of a Sultan who resisted all modernizing
influences and attempted to keep Oman a traditional state. Subsistence
agriculture, artisanal fislhing and minor handicraft activities were
basically the way of life in the country. At the same time, the southern
province of Dhofar was subjected to a long and costly guerilla warfare that
continued until 1975.
Past Economic Developments
4.       In 1967, oil production started and with it came rising incomes
and the possibility of establishing a modern economy. Rapid economic
development, however, was initiated only in 1970 when Sultan Qaboos came to
power, resulting in a remarkable transformation of the economy. In the
short span of 14 years, economic infrastructure has been built up from a
very rudimentary stage ancd impressive gains have been made in education,
health and housing. Rapid increases in personal incomes and in the
expansion of public services have improved substantially the living
conditions of the population, particularly those in the urban centers. In
1970, less than one thousand children were in school, there was only one
small hospital, hardly any electricity and piped water, and only 10
kilometers of asphalt roads in a country with an area of some 300,000
square kilometers and about a million people.  Now the schools have about
140,000 pupils, there are about 2,000 hospital beds and more than 2,000



- 2 -
kilometers of asphalted roads. Urban areas are almost fully supplied with
electricity and running water and a growing part of the rural areas are
gaining access to these services.
5.       Nevertheless, the high average pter capita income of $5,920
reported for 1981 gives an exaggerated imoression of the country's real
wealth, first because incomes are highly skewed in favor of urban areas,
largely inhabited by foreigners (two-thirds of the non-agricultural labor
force is estimated to be expatriate., while about 60 percent of all Omanis
still live in rural areas); second because of the still pervasive lack of
vital infrastructure (human and physical) compared with countries of a much
lower average income, but a longer historly of economic development; and
third because the productive base of the economy was only littl.e widened
during this period, depending still overwhelmingly on oil.
6.       Diversification efforts have beeni hampered by the scarcity of
skilled Omani manpower, a major factor behind the lack of project
preparation, evaluation and implemerLtation capacity. To alleviate this
constraint, the Government has pursued a liberal policy towards the import
of expatriate labor, whilst at the same time emphasizing education and
training programs for Omani nationals. While in the short and medium term
it would be impossible to carry out rapid economic development without
expatriate labor, the Government realizes that the presence of a large
number of expatriate workers also has its costs, such as the outflow of
foreign exchange through worker remittances (almost 20 percent of oil
revenues), the physical infrastructure needed to support these workers, and
their socio-cultural impact.
7.       The rapid growth of the economy in the 1970's was stimulated
primarily by high levels of government expendituires fueled by rising oil
revenues. The period 1974-76 witnessed a sharp increase in such
expenditures from a very low base.  After a period of relatively slower
growth due to strains on physical and financial resources, government
spending was stepped up again in 1979-81 as oil revenues increased, raising
the share of public administration and defense to nearly one-third of
non-oil GDP. Nevertheless!, the budget recorded surpluses averaging 12
percent of gross domestic product, which were ut:iLized largely to build up
a General Reserve Fund. The decline in oil prices changed the fiscal
situation considerably; in 1982 Oman's budget surplus declined sharply to
1.3 percent of GDP.
8.       With the gradual elimination of physical bottlenecks and the
adoption of liberal labor immigration policies, the large government
outlays together with induced private sector in-vestments resulted in a
growth of non-oil economic activity (about one third of total GDP) at an
average rate of 10 percent p.a. Although only preliminary income data for
1982 are available, indications are that tiae grcwth momentum of the
previous years was maintained in the non-oil sector.  Manufacturing in
particular expanded briskly as new projects came on stream in the private
sector; however, it still accounted for little more than one percent of
total GDP. For 1983, the Government planned to maintain this pace of
development. The first full year of production of Oman's first oil
refinery, as well as the coming on stream 'Later in the year of a copper
smelter and a major cement plant have contributed to this effort.



- 3 -
9.       In spite of the rapid development of the non-oil economy, over 60
percent of Oman's GDP is produced by the petroleum sector. Crude oil
exports dominate Oman's balance of payments, accounting for over 90 percent
of the country's exports. They were mainly responsible for the large
surpluses recorded in the balance of payments during the six-year period
1976-81. In 1982 a 7 percent decline in oil revenues together with a
continued high growth of imports of goods and services was the main cause
of the sharp decline in Oman's current account surplus to $315 million from
a record level of over $1 billion in 1980 and i381. Inspite of a slight
increase in oil revenues in, 1983 - resulting from a 15 percent increase in
production, but a 10 percent decline in prices - the current account
surplus did not improve as imports and workers' remittances continued to
grow rapidly.
10.      Oil will maintain its diominant position in the medium term even
though Oman has reached its present production capacity of about 400,000
barrels per day (b/d), with short and medium prospects limited to no more
than 500,000 b/d. The country's flow of financial resources, therefore,
will remain highly dependent on fluctuations in oil prices. Large amounts
are being invested to expand exploration activity, and identified reserves
have risen to 3 billion barrels.. Oman also has considerable natural gas
reserves; a substantial proportion of these, however, will be requiredl for
oil field injection, leaving unallocated proven reserves below the
threshold needed for competitive gas exports.
Plan Strategy (1981-85) and Economic Prospects
11.      Since oil resources are expected to be depleted a generation from
now, the long-term prospects of the Omani economy depend on the country's
capacity to further diversify its productive base in non-oil sectors.
Almost half of the value of non-oil production has hitherto originated from
construction, public administration and defense. However, unlike several
of its neighbors in the Gulf, Oman has some potential for exploitation of
natural resources besides oil. There are long-established agricultural
settlements scattered throughout the country in areas where sufficient
water is available. Relatively large increases from the present low crop
yields appear feasible through introduction of modern production techniques
and improved quality of inputs.. There is good potential for coastal
fisheries and sufficient deposits of some minerals have been found to
justify further exploration.  The productive base could also be widened
through development of selected import substitution industries for
non-durable consumer goods, some energy-intensive industries and downstream
copper products, based on the copper mine that started operations in 1983.
The Government's objective is to encourage the private sector to assume a
lead role in non-oil activities.
12.      Whereas the priority in the 1970's was on development of the
economic and social infrastructure, among the main objectives of the Second
Five-Year Plan (1981-85) is expansion of the productive sectors, including
the further development of the petroleum and gas sector. The Plan projects
investments of Rials Omani (RO) 3.3 billion ($9.6 billion), or nearly 24
percent of GDP, of which two thirds are to be tndertaken by the public
sector.  In the first two years (1981-82), actual public sector capital



- 4 -
expenditures including financial support, were 14 percent above Plan
targets and in the 1983 budget, the allocations were about 25 percent in
excess of the Plan. This level of development expenditures, however, would
seem difficult to sustain much longer, without creating increasing public
finance and balance of payments problems.
13. Since the volume of oil production is unlikely to increase much
further and prices are projected to improve only modestly, oil export
earnings are likely to grow only slightly, from $4.28 billion in 1983 to an
average of about $4.35 billion for the period 1984-86. These earnings
would be supplemented marginally by copper exporlts. This slow increase in
exports, obviously, will affect growth of Government revenues, the overall
savings performance of the economy, and the balance of payments.
14.      Given these rather unfavorable balance of payments and public
finance prospects, continuous large investments - while maintaining growth
of non-oil GDP at high levels (up to 9 percent) - would soon lead to
rapidly increasing budget and balance of payments deficits difficult to
finance in the longer term. In view of the Government's past record of
prudent management, it is likely to take the necessary measures to avoid
these risks even at the price of a substantially lower growth of non-oil
GDP than that achieved over the last years.
15.      To facilitate this adjustment, greater efforts will have to be
made to mobilize domestic resources and develop demand management tools.
The present relatively limited tax effort leaves open several possible
options to increase non-oil government revenue. For instance, a moderate
indirect tax or import duty on select:ed luxury goods could yield additional
revenue and at the same time slow down consumption of such goods. A tax on
domestic sales of petroleum products, as well as other indirect taxes,
could be introduced. A reassessment of the present income tax structure,
improvement of tax administration, and gradual reintroduction of property
taxes are among other possible measures to augment non-oil revenue. There
is also a need for reconsideration ofi the rates charged on publicly
provided services, particularly electricity tariffs, where revenues fall
short of costs. These measures should be combined with further restrictive
measures to curb the rapid growth of public recurrent expenditures and
private consumption, and with a thorough re-evaluation of the country's
development priorities and investment program.
16.      The concept of domestic resource mobilization would apply also to
Oman's domestic manpower. The major efforts to upgrade the skills of
domestic labor and to increase participation rates will need to be
continued to promote programs for the replacement of the large expatriate
population. Such efforts would enable the count:ry, in the medium term, to
contain the fairly large share of its oil revenues that it spends to
finance the services of expatriate labor.
External Assistance and Foreign Debt
17.      Oman's external public debt amounted to about $760 million at the
end of 1982; this corresponds to little more than 10 percent of GDP or 20
percent of total net foreign exchange reserves (including the General



- 5--
Reserve Fund). The debt service ratio had declined rapidly over the last
years from 9.3 percent in 1978 to 3.1 percent in 1982.  The present foreign
debt burden, thus, is very small. The trend, however, is towards a more
rapid increase; total foreign debt outstanding has grown by over 50 percent
between 1980 and 1982 and this upward pressure is likely to continue over
the next years, even if public investments are cut back substantially.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN OMAN
18.      Bank lending to Oman began in 1974.  As of March 31, 1984, six
loans totalling $61.4 million (net of cancellations) had been made; of
this, about $51.9 million is now held by the Bank. A summary statement of
Bank loans to Oman as of March 31, 1984 is provided in Annex II.
19.      Bank loans to Oman have been principally directed towards the
provision of technical assistance in crucial areas, the relief of national
manpower constraints, and the development of appropriate policies and
investment strategies in priorily sectors. A Technical Assistance Project
(Loan 985-OM) helped Oman to establish the Development Council, the
Government's key institution for economic management and planning. An
Education Project (Loan 980-OM) helped increase national educational
opportunities and improve standards. Highways Maintenance and
Telecommunications Projects have helped establish and develop Oman's
institutional capacity to manage effectively two of its more importanl:
infrastructure programs. These two sectors are viewed by the Government as
essential to integrate the various parts and tribes of the country into a
whole and to promote a sense of nationhood.
20.      The Bank's ongoing lending program in Oman consists of three
projects in telecommunications and highways maintenance. No major problems
have been encountered and implementation is proceeding smoothly.
Disbursements for two of the projects have been satisfactory; however, due
to a delay in the implementation of the Telecommunications Project,
disbursements have been about 80 percent of appraisal estimate, and this
performance is expected to improve.
21.      Since the approval by the Executive Directors of a loan for a
Second Highways Maintenance Project in January 1982, no Bank lending has
been provided for Oman. The Second Highways Maintenance Project was
4           expected to be the last lending operation of the Bank in Oman.  However, it
was subsequently discussed and agreed with the Government in the conlext of
the Bank's graduation policy that the Bank would resume its lending
operations in Oman over a brief graduation period. During this period, the
Bank's lending strategy would 'be directed at: (i) consolidation of gains
(particularly institutional development) attained through the
implementation of completed or ongoing Bank-assisted projects; and (ii)
selection of a few crucial sectors where development still lags behind. In
line with this strategy, the lending program during FY84-86 would include
the proposed Second Education Project and projects in the highways,
telecommunications and health sectors. Apart from health, the Bank has had
previous involvement in all the other sectors. A health project, however,
is particularly crucial in Oman where the prevailing life expectancy is
only 50 years.



- 6 -
22.      In addition to the lending program described above, technical
cooperation between the Bank and Oman will continue to be an important
feature of Bank involvement. An ongoing technical cooperation providing
Bank assistance to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Labor (MOSAL) in
establishing a Manpower Planning Unit (MPU) andl in implementing a manpower
planning program through 1985 is proceeding satisfactorily. The MPU has
been established and became the Manpower Planning Department (MPD) as of
June 1, 1983. The Bank will continue to provide technical support to the
MPD in the implementation of its work program, focussing on the improvement
of the data base and the conduct of special sector studies. In addition,
the Bank, upon request of the Government, has assessed the manpower
implications of the Second Five-Year Development Plan and advised on the
formulation and implementation of a minimum wage policy and its economic
and social implications. More recently, it has assessed the needs for
rural training and advised on a strategy for broadening the scope of
vocational training in the agriculture, fisheries and rural handicrafts
subsectors.
23.      To date, IFC has made only one investmenit in Oman--a $2 million
equity participation in the Oman Development Bank. IFC has at present no
project pipeline in Oman but will continue to explore opportunities for
further investment.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Background
24.      In 1970, Oman's education sector was among the least developed in
the world. Only three schools existed, with less than 1,000 students and
facilities for vocational and teacher training or adult education were
virtually non-existent.  The institutional base for planning and managing a
rapid expansion of education and training was completely undeveloped.
Revenues from oil production, which started in 1967, have fueled a
remarkable transformation of the economy. Under the Government of Sultan
Qaboos, who came to power in 1970, economic infrastructure has been built
up from a very rudimentary base and the country has made impressive gains
in education, health and housing. Although oil will continue to dominate
the economy in the medium term, the long-term prospects of the Omani
economy depend on the country's capacity to diversify its production base
into non-oil sectors.  However, diversification efforts have been hampered
by the extreme scarcity of skilled Omani manpower.
25.      Some 80 percent of the Omani labor stock are unskilled and many of
these are illiterate. Professionals, sub-professionals and skilled workers
comprise only about 3 percent, 4 percent and 7 percent of the labor force
respectively, reflecting the extreme paucity of trained Omani nationals.
Although nationals are starting to increase their representation as skilled
office workers, they still contribute less than 40 percent of employment.
The expatriate labor force, on the other hand, has increased from 93,600 to
about 200,000 between 1976 and 1982, representing about 55 percent of the
total workforce, and this trend is expected to continue over the next
decade. The requirement for additional workers, both expatriate and Omani,
is expected to reach about 155,000 by 1986. Due to the increasing
complexity and sophistication of the economy, a large percentage of the
additional demand will be for professional, technical and skilled workers.



The task facing the Education and Training System (ETS) in meeting this
demand for skilled and higher level manpower is thus very considerable.
26.      Although still relatively low (7 percent of Omani public sector
employment in 1982), female participation in the labor force has increased
rapidly alongside increased educational opportunities, and government
policy is to promote women's education in order to facilitate female
employment, and alleviate labor shortages. In the public sector,
employment of Omani women increased by about 81 percent between 1979 and
1982 compared with an overall increase in Omani public sector employment of
about 24 percent. Moreover., the proportion of Omani women in the most
senior public service grades is almost identical to that for men. Women
are relatively well represented in education, health and in the public
sector of Oman generally, and their level of participation in other sectors
is improving.
Recent Developments in the Education and Training System
27.      Administration and Management.  The Second Five-Year Development
Plan (1981-85) gives priority to the development of the ETS, including
general and specialized secondary education and teacher training, in order
to meet the country's economic needs for skilled manpower. Progress
towards these objectives is planned and coordinated by the
Inter-Ministerial Education. and Training Council, chaired by the Sultan,
which is responsible for overseeing strategy and defining policy. The
Ministry of Education and Youth Affairs (MOE) is responsible for formal
education, which includes primary, preparatory, general and specialized
secondary schools and teacher training. A number of other ministries,
including Labor and Social Affairs (MOSAL) and Health, play a significant
role in providing vocational training related to their special fields.
28.      Enrollment Growth and Development.  The Government's achievements
in improving access to education are impressive. School enrollments Lad
reached 142,300 by 1982. Female enrollments have increased proportionately
even faster than male enrollments and now comprise about 36 percent of
total enrollment in primary, preparatory and secondary schools. Gross
enrollment ratios had reached about 71 percent, 30 percent and 9 percent
for primary, preparatory and secondary levels respectively in 1982.
29.      Specialized education and training institutes, while still in
their infancy, are also being developed as a high priority. At the
secondary level (grades 10-12), the country's first technical secondary
school is under construction; an agricultural institute has 105 students;
commercial education enrolls 160 students (of whom about 70 are females,
enrolled in temporary facilities opened in 1983); and teacher training
810. Vocational training at the post-secondary level (grades 13-14) will
commence in 1984, with the opening of a higher technical institute and the
conversion of existing secondary level teacher training facilities into
post-secondary institutes. In-country provision of higher education is
planned for 1986, with the first intake into the Sultan Qaboos University
and a high priority has been accorded to the development of a faculty of
education which would train secondary school teachers and school



-- 8 -
administrators. In order to provide higher education opportunities at the
present time, the Government provides scholarships to about 500 Omani
students pursuing higher education and training in overseas countries.
30.      The Government also has a strong commitment to adult education.
Literacy centers, using school facilities after hours, trained over 8,000
adult students in 1982, double the number trained in 1976. Female
enrollments in these classes exceeded male enrollments. Additionally,
evening classes enrolled a further 8,000 adults to pursue formal education
at primary, preparatory and secondary levels.
Issues in the Education System
31.      The Government's strategy for the rapid development of the ETS to
meet the country's needs for skilled manpower a' all levels has been
pursued with significant success in increasing educational opportunities
from the very low base existing a decade ago and in developing the
institutional basis for further qualitative and quantitative improvements
in the system. Following the very rapid quantit-ative expansion of
schooling, particularly at the primary level, the MOE is turning its
attention to the key issues which relate to: (a) the shortage of Omani
teachers; (b) the lack of secondary school places; (c) the quality of
education; and (d) the need for improved planning, cost control and
management of the ETS.
32.      Shortages of Omani Teachers.  The acute shortages of skilled
manpower are reflected in the extreme scarcity of Omani teachers, and the
Government has had to rely heavily on expatriate teachers for the
development of the ETS. Since 1976 the number of expatriate teachers in
primary, preparatory and general secondary schocls has almost doubled.
However, the proportion of nationals in these schools actually declined as
enrollments and teaching staff have rapidly increased. Moreover, the
recruitment of high quality expatriate teachers has become increasingly
difficult, due to increased competition from neighboring countries and
attempts elsewhere in the region to expand primary school enrollments. The
Government has, therefore, given high priority in the First and Second
Five-Year Plans to building up the teacher training system. Three
secondary level teacher training institutes (TTIs), together with temporary
facilities elsewhere in the country now provide three-year secondary level
teacher training programs as well as one-year post-secondary programs to
over 800 students. A fourth institute is under construction and a fifth is
planned under the proposed project. In order to provide in-country
training opportunities for secondary school teachers and school
administrators, a faculty of education at Sultan Qaboos University is
planned to open in 1986. To improve the quality of TTI graduates, and also
to increase the output of trained teachers, the Government has decided to
convert the three year secondary program to a new two year post-secondary
(grades 13-14) program, starting in 1984. The new post-secondary teacher
training program will also promote a more efficient and flexible use of
teachers by emphasizing multisubject and multigrade teaching.
33.      In order to attract high quality entrants to teaching, the
Government pays attractive stipends to trainee teachers, in addition to
providing free tuition and boarding. As a result, there has been no



- 9 -
shortage of applicants for teacher training places and drop out rates are
low. Salaries and allowances for qualified teachers are reasonably
attractive by comparison witth other public sector employment and are
particularly so for women. However, despite these efforts to increase the
supply of Omani teachers, the demand for teachers will continue to outstrip
supply for the foreseeable future.
34.      Shortage of Secondary School Places.  The Government's efforts to
lessen dependence on expatriates in higher level occupations are hampered
by the shortage of secondary school places (grades 10-12). Gross
enrollment ratios, at about 12 percent for boys and 5 percent for girls are
amongst the lowest in the EMENA region. Competition for secondary
schooling is intense and the pressure on secondary school places will grow
as opportunities for post-secondary education and training increase.
Government policy for secondary education is to expand the provision of
general secondary places; twfo new secondary schools are planned under the
proposed project. By 1988, general secondary school enrollment ratios are
targetted to reach about 21 percent for males and 11 percent for females.
Priority will be given to the science stream of the three year curriculuim.
About 70 percent of the projected general secondary school graduates in
1988 would be absorbed by higher education or training in Oman or abroad,
with the rest proceeding to employment.
35.      The Government is also placing high priority on the development of
specialized secondary schools. An agricultural school constructed with
Bank assistance under the first education project (Loan 980-OM), graduated
its first group of students in 1982. The first commercial school for boys
opened in 1983 and a similar school for girls is planned under the proposed
project to open in 1988, while since 1983, students have been accommodated
in temporary facilities. The first technical secondary school will open in
1984.  It is intended that about 75 percent of the graduates from these
schools (including the girls' commercial school) will enter the labor
market in middle level skilled occupations in commerce, government,
industry or agriculture. In order to increase the popularity and status of
the commercial, technical and agricultural schools, it is the Government's
policy that graduates who receive the highest marks in the final secondary
examination will be eligible to proceed to further post-secondary trairing
or higher education in Oman or abroad.
36.      Despite the progress made in developing secondary schooling,
shortages of capacity will continue to be a major problem for some time to
come, and continued priority will need to be given to expanding both
general and specialized secondary schooling to provide sufficient numbers
to satisfy the needs of the labor market, or to proceed to higher education
or further training.
37.      Quality of Education.  The very rapid expansion of the education
system has had some detrimental effects on the quality of education. Three
key reasons include: (a) the increasing difficulty in recruiting well
trained and high quality expatriate teachers and the Government's
reluctance to provide in-service training to expatriates because of the
short duration of their contracts (usually between 2-4 years).
Furthermore, the living conditions under which expatriate teachers work are



-- 10 -
sometimes poor. As a result, teachers may be poorly motivated and
ill-suited by training; (b) the Government has had to rely on imported
curricula, with which teachers may be unfamiliar and ill-suited to teach;
and (c) the departments in the MOE responsible for teacher training,
curriculum and educational development and inspection are themselves at an
early stage of development and have found it difficult to evaluate progress
and exercise quality control as the system has expanded. Despite these
problems, which are recognized by the Government, the ETS appears to be
performing reasonably efficiently.
38.      Planning, Cost Control and Management of the ETS.  The expansion
of the ETS has been so rapid that insufficient attention has been given to
planning, cost control and management. In order to implement the expansion
program, the MOE has created a number of specialized Directorates,
including a Directorate for Educational Development, whose responsibilities
include school mapping, the planning of new schools, enrollment projections
and compilation of education statistics and assistance in the preparation
of education projects. This key role in planning future investments in the
ETS is hampered by a lack of suitable technology, methodology and
appropriately trained staff. In particular, there is a need to improve
school location planning and forecasting of capacity needs for investment
decisions. In addition, coordination between the various departments
involved in education planning and project implementation needs to be
improved, with a greater use of financial information to inform decision
making. Because of the heavy burden imposed by the large construction
program during the recent period of rapid expansion, the MOE has been
unable, as yet, to give sufficient attention to measures to reduce costs,
such as improved school management, standardization of designs, and planned
maintenance. Control of costs would also be facilitated by a financial
reporting system which enabled information on education costs to be
compiled both by region and by level of education to provide an improved
basis for financial analysis. Technical assistance (TA) to improve
financial planning, cost control and management procedures would be
included in the proposed project.
Education Policy and Budgetary Support
39.      The educational objectives of the MOE in the Second Five-Year Plan
(1981-1985) and beyond, although ambitious, are reasonable and will require
a major investment in human resources. The program has three main thrusts
as follows:
(a) Development of the school system.  The MOE plans to continue the
rapid expansion of the ETS, with primary, preparatory and general
secondary school capacity increasing al: an annual rate of about 9
percent, 13 percent and 20 percent respectively between 1982 and
1988. The planned level of expansion of primary education should
result in practically all primary school age children having
access to primary education by the end of the decade. By 1988,
the specialized secondary school system would comprise two
secondary commercial schools, an agricultural secondary school and
a secondary technical school. To support the rapid expansion of
primary and preparatory education, post:-secondary teacher training
capacity is planned to reach about 1,400 by 1990.



- 11 -
(b) Improvement of the quality and effectiveness of existing
programs. MOE policy to improve the quality and effectiveness of
education has not yet been clearly articulated and quality
improvement will be difficult to achieve without a major efforl: to
train expatriate as well as national teachers and improve MOE
monitoring, supervision and curriculum activities.  This process
is necessarily long-term and will depend on the speed with which
trained Omanis enter education management and teaching. The
Government is aware of the need for improvements, and the proposed
project would assist curriculum development and the training of
Omani and expatriate science teachers.
(c) Establishment of effective monitoring and review procedures. The
Inter-Ministerial Education and Training Council provides strong
policy guidance and support to the MOE and other Ministries
responsible for education and training. The Council has recently
turned its attention to issues of management and efficiency in the
ETS and has requested the Bank supported MPD in MOSAL to work in
cooperation with the MOE to evaluate the internal efficiency of
the ETS and define priorities for various levels of education and
training. In addition, the MPD will monitor the output from the
various levels of the ETS, including the MOE general and
specialized secondary schools, to evaluate their success in
replacing skilled expatriates. The MPD will liaise closely with
the schools and employers in this task and provide feedback, which
will be used to plan future developments. These important
initiatives should assist the Government to establish close links
between the ETS and the labor market.
40.      Budgetary Support.  As a result of the rapid and justified
expansion of education, educational expenditure, initially small, has been
increasing rapidly over the last six years. By 1982, education capital and
recurrent expenditure represented about 7 percent and 17 percent of
national capital and recurrent expenditures respectively, and 3.4 percent
of GNP, ratios comparable with neighboring countries. The school building
program resulted in capital expenditure growing at the high annual rate of
48 percent between 1976-82, while national capital expenditure grew at 8
percent annually over the same period. During the same timespan, recuirrent
education expenditures grew at an annual rate of 32 percent, while national
recurrent expenditure increased at an annual rate of 22 percent. Teachers'
salaries and allowances accounted for 72 percent of all recurrent
expenditure in 1982. This is a low figure by comparison with other
borrowers in the EMENA region, but is comparable with neighboring countries
and reflects the relatively high cost of labor for building maintenance in
Oman.
41.      Education capital expenditures should not show further significant
increase as a result of a slower rate of enrollment growth and the
completion of much of the school building program. While education
recurrent expenditures are expected to rise through the end of the decade,
their potential growth should be minimized by a more efficient and
economical use of teachers and improved student-teacher ratios. Likewise,
capital expenditures can be contained by improved school location planning,



- 12 -
standardization of school designs and increased attention to building costs
and maintenance. The proposed project would ass:Lst the Government to
effect such cost limiting measures.
The Bank's Role in Education and Training
42.      Previous Experience.  The Bank has so far provided one loan of
$5.7 million for an education project (Loan 980-CM) which provided support
for establishing primary teacher training, introducing diversified
education at preparatory level and training agricultural technicians. The
Project Completion Report (PCR) of October, 1981, and the Project
Performance Audit Report (PPAR) No. 3849 dated March 9, 1982, note that the
project was successful in supporting the Governments' efforts to lay the
foundation of a modern education and training system. Among other things,
the project: (a) provided new education programs, including a modern
approach to teacher training; (b) imparted a knowledge of systems and
procedures for the design, planning and execution of physical
implementation; (c) stimulated educational planning; and (d) introduced the
concepts of diversified preparatory education and of practical,
pre-vocational exposure at the preparatory level,, Moreover, the MOE
adopted the project procedures for procurement and for the receipt and
installation of school furniture, equipment and supplies and the
Government's Tender Board eventually adopted many of the project bidding
and tendering procedures for application to all public works. As part of
the development of education planning, the Government established the
Inter-Ministerial Education and Training Council, The PPAR and PCR
highlight certain weaknesses in the design and management of TA.
Nevertheless, the reports conclude that the TA contributed substantially to
education development and institution building. The experience gained
during implementation of the first project has beben taken into account in
the design of TA for the proposed project. In particular, the proposed TA
package reflects the requirements of the project and the capacity of the
MOE to utilize TA; and with particular reference to fellowship training,
the relatively small number of qualified Omani counterparts available to
utilize such training.
43.      The Bank has also supported training indirectly through loans to
specific sectors such as highways and telecommunications and a TA project
which helped develop economic planning and establish the Development
Council.  Ongoing support is being provided through reimbursable TA to help
establish the MOSAL Manpower Planning Department. The current program
focuses on improvement of the data base for manpower planning.
44.      Future Strategy.  The objective of Bank involvement in the
education and training sector is to support government policy to alleviate
labor shortages through the cost effective development of human resources.
In the proposed project, support would be given, among other things, to
increased female participation in education and t:raining, to the further
development of teacher training and to measures t;o reduce recurrent and
capital costs of education. The Bank's dialogue with the Government is
expected to continue beyond the lifetime of the proposed project, through
reimbursable TA to support institution building in key agencies involved in
the development of education and training, such as the MOE and MOSAL.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.      The proposed project would address one of the most critical
constraints to Oman's economic development, namely the scarcity of educat:ed
and skilled manpower. This would be achieved by providing assistance to
the Government in implementing priority items consistent with the human
resources component of its Second Five-Year Development Plan (1981-1985)
In so doing, the proposed prcject would target important gaps in the
development of Oman's educational system and complement efforts initiated
under the ongoing reimbursable technical assistance project to develop
manpower planning in Oman.
46.      A Bank identification mission visited Oman in September 1983
during which possible project: components were discussed and thereafter
preparation completed by the Government. Appraisal of the project by the
Bank took place in December 1983. Negotiations were held in Washington
from April 9 to April 12, 1984 with a Government delegation led by
Mr. Ahmed Amer Al-Rawas, Director General of Educational Development,
Ministry of Education and Youth Affairs. A report entitled "Staff
Appraisal Report - Second Education Project" (No. 4958-OM), dated April 24,
1984 is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. The main
features of the loan and the project are mentioned in the Loan and Project
Summary and in Annex III. A map of the project area is attached.
Project Objectives and Description
47.      The proposed project is designed to assist the Borrower achieve
key education and training objectives, which are to. (i) improve the
quality of primary and preparatory schooling through increased provision of
teacher training; (ii) increase the capacity and quality of secondary
education; (iii) provide increased education and training opportunities
for girls; and (iv) improve planning, management, and financial procedures
in the Ministry of Education and Youth Affairs (MOE). The project woulci
support the expansion of teacher training for primary and preparatory
school teachers through the construction of a new teacher training
institute for boys; provide increased secondary schooling through the
construction of two general secondary schools (one for boys and one for
girls) and a girls' commercial secondary school; improve the quality of
secondary education through the development of specialized curricula and
teachers' guides; and improve planning, management and financial procedures
in the MOE by introducing new planning and cost control techniques.
48.      Teacher Training Institute (TTI).  The proposed boys' TTI would
have an enrollment capacity of 240. Its construction would complete the
Second Five-Year Plan's program for the development of teacher training and
would increase the annual output of trained teachers by about 18 percent by
1990. The TTI would offer a two year post-secondary teacher training
program designed to prepare teachers for primary (grades 1-6) and
preparatory (grades 7-9) levels. A new two-year post-secondary teacher
training curriculum, text books and some teaching materials have been
prepared with technical assistance (TA) from neighboring countries, and
will be introduced into the existing TTIs in 1984. The new curriculum is



- 14 -
related to the recent introduction of an integrated school curriculum for
grades 1-9 and includes general education in all subject areas, advanced
training in a specialist subject such as Mathematics, Science, English,
Arabic, or Social Studies, and professional training in the principles and
methodology of primary and preparatory school teaching. An objective of
the program is to prepare teachers capable of mu'Ltisubject teaching in
grades 1-3 and multigrade specialist subject teaching in grades 4-9,
thereby promoting a more efficient and economicaL use of teachers and
improved student-teacher ratios.
49.      The TTI would be located at Sur, a major regional center, to
provide an equitable distribution of teacher training facilities in the
country and to serve as both a local and nationaL teacher training
resource. Thus, in addition to taking students from the locality of Sur,
the TTI would also enroll its students from other regions of the country
and would accordingly include boarding facilities for 160 students. In
order to attract high calibre senior staff to the institute and to ensure
efficient and continuous monitoring of TTI activities, including boarding
facilities, three staff houses would be provided for the Director and two
Deputy Directors of the TTI.
50.      The TTI would receive its first intake of 120 students in 1988 and
reach full capacity in 1989. Thereafter, a total of 25 teacher trainers
would be required to staff the school. With the exception of an Omani
Director, the MOE would staff the TTI with expatriate teacher trainers
during the first years of operation after 1988. The teacher trainers would
be recruited from neighboring Arab countries. Thereafter, the MOE's
policy, which is reasonable, is to replace expatriates gradually with
Omanis who have been trained abroad, or from graduates from the Sultan
Qaboos University, Faculty of Education.
51.      To strengthen the new teacher training curriculum further, 24
staffmonths of expert services would be provided to prepare teaching
materials and audio-visual aids and to assist the introduction of modern
teacher training and classroom techniques. The experts would be based at
the oldest established TTI at Qurum, which was assisted under the first
education project (980-OM). The Qurum TTI will act as a national
in-service training and development resource to assist the TTIs in the
introduction of the new curriculum and to monitor and evaluate the
effectiveness of the new program.
52.      General Secondary Schools.  The proposed general secondary schools
(a boys' general secondary school at Ibra and a girls' general secondary
school at Saham) would provide secondary school cpportunities for students
throughout the regions in which they would be located. The two schools
would each have a capacity of 576, an estimated anrLual output of about 150
and would reach full enrollment by 1990. The two schools would increase
projected general secondary school capacity by about 5 percent for boys and
11 percent for girls by 1990. About 70 percent of the graduates from the
two schools would proceed to higher education or training, with the
remainder proceeding to employment. The curriculum for the proposed
schools was introduced into the exist:ing general secondary schools in 1979
and is acceptable to the Bank. The curriculum emphasizes a core program of



- 15 -
subjects including mathematics, languages and cultural studies. The
curriculum for the boys and the curriculum for the girls' schools contain
few differences.  The size of the proposed schools has been determined on
the basis of projected preparatory school enrollments and outputs in the
regions in which the schools would be sited. In order to provide
opportunities for students in the region living outside the immediate
location of the school, each school would be provided with 280 boarding
places. When fully operational irn 1990, the two schools would require a
total staff of 65, who, with the exception of directoral staff, would
largely be expatriates during the initial period of operation.
53.      Twenty-four staffmonths of expert services would be included to
assist the MOE to improve the teaching of science and the utilization of
science laboratories and equipment in the general secondary schools.
Teachers' guides to assist science teachers to prepare simple demonstration
experiment and involve students in laboratory work would be prepared by
experts working with the MOE Curriculum Development Department, which wDuld
also supervise their introduction and use in the secondary schools. The
experts would also assist counterparts in the MOE Curriculum Development
Department to prepare short training programs for science teachers in
practical science work. This would include review of the utilization,
layout and equipment requirements of the secondary school science
laboratories.
54.      Girls' Commercial Secondary School.  This would be the country's
first commercial secondary school for girls. It would have a capacity of
270 and an estimated annual output of 80. The school would be located in
the Muscat region to serve the major public and private sector
organizations and government offices which are now beginning to employ
female middle level skilled office workers. The school would complement
the boys' commercial secondary school which opened in the capital region in
1983.
55.      The size of the school has been determined on the basis of
projected outputs from the girls' preparatory schools and the anticipated
demand for commercial secondary school graduates. When fully operational
in 1990, the school would require a total staff of 15, who would be
expatriates during the early years of operation and would be readily
available for recruitment from Arab countries. The school would recruit
students on a countrywide basis and accordingly, 180 boarding places would
be provided for students domiciled outside the capital area. In line with
government policy to attract high quality senior staff to key national
education and training institutions, staff housing would be provided for
the Director and two Assistant Directors of the school.
56.      The curriculum for the girls' commercial school will be similar in
content to that already in use in the boys' commercial school, and includes
general subjects, including Arabic and English, and commercial subjecl:s,
such as Arabic and English typing, bookkeeping, accounting and business
studies. The commercial topics in the curriculum need updating to reflect
the introduction of modern office technology and procedures in Oman, and 12
staffmonths of expert services would accordingly be provided to upgrade the
commercial school curriculum in the areas of modern office skills,



- 16 -
business machines and office management. The experts would undertake a
needs analysis in cooperation with the MOE and public and private sector
organizations to determine appropriate skill requirements and related
syllabi. Short in-service training programs would be conducted in both the
boys' and girls' commercial schools to train staff in the new curriculum.
57.      Technical Assistance (TA).  In addition to the TA directly related
to project institutions described above in the preceding paragraphs the
project would provide forty staffmonths of expert services and 20
staffmonths of related fellowship training to assist the MOE to: (i)
introduce effective education planning techniques including forecasting of
future capacity needs, school location planning and the development of
education statistics; (ii) develop cost-accounting methods which would
provide more precise financial information for policy makers; (iii)
introduce appropriate school management techniques for the pro'ject schools;
and (iv) update Projects Department staff on project management methods.
Project Implementation
58.      Project Management.  The construction, furnishing and equipping of
all institutions and the TA component are scheduled to be completed by
June 30, 1990. Implementation of the project would be managed by the MOE
Projects Department. The Projects Department, which was set up during the
First Education Project, is responsible for all new MOE construction
projects and is successfully implementing the large school expansion
program. The technical staff of the Department includes a chief engineer,
one electrical engineer, five civil engineers, two junior architects and a
junior quantity surveyor. To strengthen its project management
capabilities, the department has received a budget from the Ministry of
Finance to hire a senior architect and a quantity surveyor. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that these staff would be employed by
January 1, 1985 (Section 4.03, draft Loan Agreement). In addition, the
project would provide 16 staffmonths of expert services and two staffmonths
of fellowship training to staff in the Projects Department to upgrade their
expertise in project management.
59.      Project School Sites.  Except for the site for the commercial
school, sites for all project schools had been selected and acquisition
procedures finalized by the time of project appraisal. All sites are
satisfactory and have access to electrical power and adequate water
supply.  Evidence of selection and acquisition of the sites of all schools
included in the project was provided to the Ban'k during negotiations.
60.      Building Design.  Architectural design work is being carried out
by two experienced foreign architectural firms who have been engaged by the
Projects Department as consultants, respectively for: (a) the two general
secondary schools; and (b) the TTI and the commercial secondary school.
These firms are also expected to supervise construction of the project
institutions. Sketch plans for the TTI and the commercial secondary school
have been reviewed and commented on by the Bank. Sketch plans for the
general secondary schools are under preparation and would be submitted to
the Bank for review and comment by J'une 30, 1984. Final construction
drawings, together with bid documents are scheduled to be completed by
September 30, 1984.



- 17 -
61.      Equipment and furniture.  Basic lists have been reviewed and
commented on by the Bank. Preliminary equipment lists, specifications and
bid documents were prepared by the MOE Projects Department in cooperation
with the MOE Departments of General Education, Teacher Training and
Technical Education and presented to the Bank during negotiations. Bid
documents and detailed specifications are under preparation by consultants
and will be forwarded to the Bank for review by the end of September,
1984. The consultants will also supervise procurement of furniture and
equipment. International competitive bidding (ICB) for equipment and
furniture is expected to commence during the second quarter of 1985. The
contracts for major equipment bid packages will include installation and
commissioning of equipment.
62.      Management of technical assistance.  To simplify management of TA,
the MOE would obtain expert services and fellowships as a comprehensive TA
contract. The experts would be selected in accordance with the Bank's
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants." Terms of reference for the TA
have been drafted and were discussed at negotiations. Prior Bank review
would be required of the proposed contract for the TA package under the
proposed project. Agreement was reached at negotiations that the TA
program would be carried out within a time schedule acceptable to the Bank
(Section 3.03, draft Loan Agreement).
63.      Accounts and Audits.  The Projects Department would establish a
separate project account, as was done for the First Education Project. The
maintenance of the first education project account was orderly and
systematic and the submission of withdrawal applications generally timely
and complete. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that accounts
for the proposed project, including the Special Account (para. 68) would be
audited each year by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles; and the Bank would be
furnished, within six months of the end of each fiscal year, with certified
copies of the audit report.
Project Cost and Financing
64.      The total cost of the project, exclusive of taxes and duties from
which goods and services destined for public projects are exempt, is
estimated at $23.9 million in 1984 prices. Physical contingencies are
estimated at $1.7 million and price contingencies at $3.9 million.  This
represents a contingency allowance for unforeseen physical events equal to
10 percent of the estimated costs of construction, furniture and equipment,
and 5 percent of the estimated cost of TA.  Price increases are estimated
at about 19.6 percent of baseline costs, plus physical contingencies.
Total contingencies are estimated to be about 30.9 percent of the baseline
cost. The foreign exchange component is estimated at $19.4 million
equivalent or about 81 percent of the total project cost. Estimated
construction costs are based on unit prices derived from current contracts
and cost analysis for similar construction with slight adjustments to
reflect regional cost differences. Costs for professional architectural
services reflect the current scale of fees established for services
provided by foreign architectural firms. Estimated equipment costs are
based on current c.i.f. unit prices, adjusted to include local
transportation costs and where appropriate, installation costs. Furniture
estimates reflect percentages of construction costs represented by the
relationship between furniture and construction costs experienced for



- 18 -
similar institutions in Oman. Estimated TA casts, which draw on recent
experience, average $11,000 equivalent per man-month for expatriate expert
services, inclusive of salary, fee, overhead, international travel and
subsistence and $3,100 per man-month for fellowship training. When fully
operational the annual recurrent cost of the project institutions would be
about RO 1.8 million, or about 2.3 percent of the projected MOE education
recurrent expenditures in 1988. This increase is anticipated to be fully
within the Government's fiscal capability, and could be absorbed by savings
accrued from increased student-teacher ratios.
65.      The proposed loan of $15 million would finance about 77 percent of
the total estimated foreign exchange cost of the project or 63 percent of
total project costs. The Government would finance the remaining 23 percent
of the foreign exchange cost and 100 percent of the local costs, amounting
to a total of about $8.9 million (37 percent of the total project cost).
Procurement and Disbursement
66.      Contracts for construction of the project institutions (total
$18.65 million including contingencies) to be financed under the loan would
be awarded on the basis of ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines. During
negotiations, the Bank was advised that successful foreign bidders for
civil works, equipment and furniture contracts would be required to
register in the Commercial Register, be categorized by the Ministry of
Public Works and have an Omani local agent to carry on business in Oman.
The Government has confirmed that these formalities are confined to the
successful bidder and that prior registration, categorization and
appointment of a local agent would not be required in order to participate
in ICB. In addition, registration formalities for successful bidders in
the project will be processed quickly and will not delay project
implementation. Prior Bank review of procurement documentation and
contract award recommendation would be required for all civil works
contracts.
67.      Equipment and furniture needs (total $2.94 million including
contingencies) would be grouped to the extent possible in large packages
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more each. Prior Bank
review of procurement documentation and contract award recommendation would
be required for all equipment and furniture contracts awarded on the basis
of ICB. The exceptions to ICB procurement of furniture and equipment,
which would not exceed an aggregate total of $0.3 million equivalent (about
10 percent of the estimated furniture and equipment costs, including
contingency allowances), would be as follows: contracts for items
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent or items which the Bank
agrees are of a specialized nature for which I(B is not practical, would be
awarded in accordance with procedures agreed with the Bank on the basis of
evaluation and comparison of quotations soliciled from at least three
reputable suppliers. TA financed under the loan would be selected in
accordance with Bank Guidelines.
68.      The proposed loan would be disbursed over a period of six years
against 59 percent of total expenditures for civil works; 100 percent of
foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory cost)
and 90 percent of local expenditures for other items procured locally in



- 19 -
the case of equipment, furnil:ure and teaching materials; and 80 percent of
total expenditures for technical assistance. To facilitate timely
withdrawal of the proceeds of the loan, the Borrower would open, maintain
and operate a Special Account in the Central Bank of Oman or a commercial
bank acceptable to the Bank, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank (Section 2.02 (b), draft Loan Agreement). Opening of the Special
Account would be a special condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan
(Section 5.01, draft Loan Agreement). The initial deposit into the Special
Account is expected to be about $0.75 million equivalent.
Benefits and Risks
69.      The proposed project would make an important contribution to
Government plans for the rapid development of human resources. The TTI to
be established under the project would contribute to the alleviation of the
acute shortage of primary and preparatory school teachers (para. 33). The
emphasis on multisubject and multigrade teaching would promote an efficient
and economical use of teachers within primary and preparatory education and
the location of the TTI would improve the regional distribution of teacher
training resources. The two general secondary schools and the commercial
secondary school would increase educational opportunities at the secondary
level and would provide commercial training opportunities for girls (para.
54). They would also contribute to the improvement of the quality of
secondary schooling, by assisting with curriculum and staff development.
Finally, the project would assist the Government to plan, manage and
control the costs of the development of the ETS by introducing improvell
planning, cost accounting and management techniques in the MOE.
70.      There are no undue risks anticipated with the proposed project.
Project components are well prepared and the MOE has the necessary
implementation capacity, which will be further strengthened by the
appointment of additional professional staff. All project components are
high priority items included in the Second Five-Year Plan. Requisite and
sufficient funds have been included in the MOE budgetary allocations to
cover the government contribution to the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Sultanate of Oman and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are given in
Section III of Annex III. Opening by the Borrower of a Special Account
with the Central Bank of Oman or a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank
is a special condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan (Section 5.01,
draft Loan Agreement).
72.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 20 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 24, 1984
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
- 21 -                                                           (Page 1 of 6)
T A B L E 3A
OMAN                     - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
OMAN                                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) la
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) lb
/b_         'b  RECENT/b            MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
196011-b    1970-  ESTIMATE-         N. AFRICA & MID EAST    LAT. AMERICA & CARIB
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. NM)
TOTAL                                 300.0/c      300.0/c      300.0/c
AGRICULTURAL                           10.4         10.4         10.4
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     480.0       2170.0       5920.0              1340.0                     2088.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITTA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)           ..        959.0       1974.0               810.4                     1407.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)       505.0        654.0        919.0
URBAN POPULATION (Z OF TOTAL)           3.5          5.1         20.0                47.4                       65.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                  1.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                    6.1
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                  2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                           1.7          2.2          3.1                36.0                       35.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND               48.6         63.1         85.6               449.0                       93.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (%)
0-14 YRS                            43.3         44.1         45.2                43.9                       40.1
15-64 YRS                            54.0         53.2         52.0                52.6                       55.8
65 AND ABOVE                          2.7          2.7          2.8                 3.3                        4.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 2.0          2.6          3.1                 2.9                        2.3
URBAN                                 5.8          6.3         16.8                 4.6                        3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)           50.5         49.8         48.7                42.5                       31.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)           27.8         21.6         17.5                12.0                        8.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.5          3.5          3.5                 3.0                        2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)              ..
USERS (% OP MARRIED WOMEN)             ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71=100)                            ..        100.0         95.0/d              97.5                      113.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)           ..           ..           ..               102.3                      111.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)               ..           ..           ..                72.0                       67.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE             ..           ..           ..                17.8                       34.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE            51.8         35.9         22.2                15.2                        5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)          38.5         43.6         48.9                57.2                       64.6
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)         193.3        158.3        125.3               104.2                       62.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..         32.0/e              59.3                       64.8
URBAN                                  ..           ..        100.07               84.9                       77.8
RURAL                                  ..           ..         28.0/e              37.5                       44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(X OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..         12.0/f                ..                       54.6
URBAN                                  ..        100.0        IO.07T                 ..                       69.8
RURAL                                  ..           ..          5.0/f                ..                       29.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            31120.0/g    8640.0        1730.0              3536.0                     1776.0
POP. PER NURSING PERSON                  ..       9110.0        450.0              1820.7                     1012.2
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              2830.0/_&        *         580.0/d             643.3                      477.0
URBAN                                  ..           ..        140.07d             545.0                      667.5
RURAL                                  ..           ..       1220.07W            2462.0                     1921.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..           ..         52.4/d              26,4                       27.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (% OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..           ..                46.2
URBAN                                  ..           ..           ..                77.6
RURAL                                  ..           ..           ..                16.1                         ..
-------------------------------------   - -------                                 _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



-22-                                                         ANNEX I
(Page 2 of 6)
T A B L E 3A
OMAN              _         SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
OM,AN                                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960/:L      1970W   ESTIMATE1/       N. AFRICA & MID EAST    LAT. AMERICA & CARIB
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                        ..          3.0         62.0                 89.6                      105.0
MALE                        ..          6.0         81.0                104.8                      106.3
FEtALi                      ..          1.0         43.0                 72.4                      103.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                        ..           ..         14.0                 41.7                       40.0
MALE                        ..           ..         20.0                 52.8                       38.6
FEMALE                      ..           ..          7.0                 31.2                       41.2
VOCATIONAL (X OF SECONDARY)               ..         24.7/h         1.7                10.3                       34.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                 ..         18.0         23.0                 31.9                       30.7
SECONDARY                               ..           ..          9.0/i               23.3                       16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                    ..        20.0/h         ..                 43.3                       79.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP               ..          4.0          9.2/i               18.0                       45.6
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAN4D POP             ..           ..           ..                138.1                      228.2
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                 ..           ..          2.9/e               45.6                      108.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST ) CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                  ..           ..           ..                 31.0                       64.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA           ..           ..          l.1/e                1.7                        2.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)                 ..        177.0        236.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                        ..           ..           ..                 10.7                       24.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                   ..         67.3         61.1                 42.5                       31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                      ..           ..           ..                 27.8                       23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                   ..         27.1         25.7                 25.6                       31.3
tMALE                                   ..           ..           ..                 45.4                       49.8
FEMALE                                  ..           ..           ..                  5.6                       14.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 ..          1.7          1.9                  1.8                        1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..           ..                276.1                      289.8
RURAL                                   ..           ..           ..                177.1                      184.5
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           .,           ..                400.0                      519.8
RURAL                                   ..           ..           ..                283.3                      372.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (i)
URBAN                                   ..           .            ..                 22.0
RURAL                                   ..           .            ..                 30.8
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  Official figure, UN estimate is 212.5 thousand sq. km.; /d 1977; /e 1976; If 1975; /g 1962; /h 1972; /i 1978.
May 1983



-  3-                                                                 ANNEX I
(Page 3 of 6)
DM  INITlIOf  OF SOCIAL. INfDICATORS
Ienstalhoghth  4 to  r  drao fro   sure  genraly jndga  the mot  ntr teit  ad reliable  it should nin  henoteId tho  they nay nt IeInternaIonally
comar ble  henaee  f the look of stoadardleddeiiiosad  eopta oaed by different  ootinIn  niclgthedt.Tedn   re   oehls                                               sfoI to
des..trih  ordees ef  agsitnda*iIdlootet trends, and ohronterlee terin majnr dtffareoe   hetaeoo nrts
The refern-   g..esp  ore (1) the san    -tony grnap of the shjenn u-otny and (2) Ionounry groop nith nomeht higher   .. arr, ioom  thee the country group of the
sfubjet easntry (eaePo for "High Iouse  Ol tsporteen5 group where "ddle Incm  Nteth Africa ard Middl  E..t  in  bbne  hcus  vysroe    ciocioa
affitstnies).  I. Iba refereore geRIp date the averges ore ppopnisno  esighted  -ith-etic  eanfor each indicator and shnn only  he. majority of the  Ioontrie   J.It
groap hs. date for thet indiooor.  flare the o-erag  of noontries amog the idi--or  depends ton the ovilabtilty of data and is ant ..ifo.-, cauion moat he
srtem-d totantn   evtg of one indicator no snthet   Thos-aatgn .ue Inl  -nnt1 to coparingtbt vol-e of oeiodina-or a  a time onnn  the cuotry and
refereat genaps.
AREA (thenaund sq.km.)                                                                               Porolotion~ re  Ibsca       opltu    iiddh   uhr  rpatc
Teta1 - Tonal  nefoce oe-  -apeisig land area snd inland eaer; 1960pyscan                                           aite _   eom a adloa1 school on  si-eraity level.
1970 end 19ff dats..yoeolotion oar tt.rioaPro                                                                                      rprto   divided by eanhr of p-stling.
ugitealtofal -F Etimate of agelcolntra  atn   ned tempoe.aeily or Permanently                        maeadFso    edaeses,asaaeara,practical nase  ad
for e-eP., Pastares, ntkan and hksciso garIden  or to lie gallon.; i96i.                           rate    oouila iee.
1970 ead 19ff data.                                                                              Popolation ret Houtal En      oa,  re,ad  t          ota   - Pupolni.on (total,
utba, and cou)dirided by theIr tospenn.iocanbe  of hospital bednf~
agMPERCP ITA(fg          GNsP pet oapitrse  mae t iurreot narhe  pricee,                                avilable  o public nd prio-te gen_esi and  pec_i.Ieed honpita1 and
calculated by saec        -voira netted en leld Baak AtLas (1979-ft heels);                          rehabilito-ocenen   H.apitaln ore entabliah-etn  Pe.asneetly Itefe
1960, 1970, end 1981 data,                                                                           by a   es   n  phynicias.  fEtabliehee.ts proidiog grinipelly cutda
cos  reno  included,  local hospitals, h-e-e, inoIde health andi.
OMOXI CONSUMIPTION PER CAPITA - fenra  apparest cons-pein  of oamnri.tusl                                 dica. cntr  oro  psea-etlys-ffad ho. aphysician  (but bya medical
pelmery energy (...1  n   int,pnoem .unealgas end bydrs-, naea                                       asaisIan, nurse, midwife,  tc.) nitih offIein-patient  aomndnitad
And aeorhsemlsleutriciey) in kiogrems ofcol  qlaetpee naples;                                        PIooids a lisined cange at medical facilities.  For salttipa-p-n
1960. 197H, and 1980 data.                                                                           orechopitals inciode WHO. ptstoipal/geerl hospitals~, adtoa
hep dal, loa hr oa   ospltslo and nediosl end naerity cnes
POPUL.ATIONI ADul VTAL STATISTICS                                                                      ipec.ilid  hosPital Are  isoloded ouly oader total.
Tata1 Peeplatio. ted-Tea  (aheuaad) -           of a  In1y 1; iH60, 1970, And 198i                  dieospr  optlld - Tta  otosho  of adinsiuenI toot dienherge
da.                                                                                                fr_ h.spi.al    'dide   by the nunher of beds.
DIhM             Ielale  (P,-e.at of tota) - R.".o of  Iborh    totonal1 papslatloo;
differest dafIn1'iti  -sf  ehenarees ma ya fact oonparsbiiity of dens                         1011111
smag oseIteiss; i96, 1970, sad I9Hi dareA!1g. Oeou   lee of    hbebod (fpersnape  houshold).- cocul, aro,adrural
Yo~~~   4a9Pr9, 011019                                                     - A hounehold nornista if a group of lediridasle abc share liviog qoareers~~~~~~~~~~~~A  _ I    :,it.   .Ppff   I:
fpa  latiae is  ear 2ll - Cacreo  popultioa projectionsare I htd ot 1980                           and theic nto meals.  A hoacdr or ledger may or nay non he included in
by age and see ang.       .d their mortality AnfetIIty                                 the boahold focsaisia  parpuess.
ras.-  yrejeceiu  pa-me-r  for moc.1tamyraeoapisf tAes                                         .cea.  noober ofp rec-noperu e-m-ttl,ra, d corl  reug   a shr
leel  asole  life especetnay Ie birth Increasin   with rcnny'speo   erosprromi   l   chn   o   oalocpe   cteio
c.Ps Incom  level, sed female life    , epttany s ilising an 775danliega, r-pecetrly.  Deellinga etclode noo-p_en Ia t nnutatao and
years.  The  armtesfor feet ulnly ratealt  her  three 1-nl                                       unoccupied parta
esaig  eln In.L  fertiliny ...cording  to income lee  an.I   pasI.t family                goest  Oetiit   pretofdslgs- total, orunadrrl
poleaig perfrmace   Each counteY istthea aeelgaed oae of these nine                             Connitldelg                -hs tiin    nlvn    or atnpretf
combintiaan oH e..ntlity endfertility red  for peoJaneine p-rpo-eIf tonal, urban, and rura  danilinga ospettr-,y,
Itetianar  eosalatieo-  Ioastetionsy  pupaltlon thece is ne geastb
sIon  the birth cas  in  qus  to IIIe dtn  rats  and sine  he age                          EDUCATION
stealce~ia   aunan,This I  acivd             i after feeilinyrsIte".dunditaiettt
del  otherpamnt le-1 of unitor  cIp-rdnation  rate, when                                  Prr  sho1-ttl,nl and fe..ole - li.es  .tota, tale and female
oeb generatlc   fasnrpae  inefetty                      h   ttuay                                 enrollmet o       IlSage  At the prisary leve  us p-rcotge  of raene
papnlanioa slo  esntinaid onhlb  basis of thepra)ntsdceAntee-                                      yri...y achnol-age Ppaplana;nomal  incloden   bidrs  aed   -
istics of the pupolasico in the yest l000, end the care of d-otas of                               Yearn but adj-etd for different 1angtha of prlsr  eduction; far
fectlit rateto rplacemen  leve.                                                               countisaithuni-ee-a  ad-aiac enrollmen  nay eacrad li Peec..nt
Tearsteianay penleioit   . ruhed - Th.e year shea atanioarysinc  toeppill  r   ea  orom   h    fficial achool age.
papal.tiun sine slit ho toahe.                                                                  _nanuy  cbo  _ :totl   scadfel    Comptd aa uh-ve  -eond.ty
Pae,alatloa le..etyIdo..anianro.qui-e  on leas  foar years of  ppyto-ed pri-ay inc it
Per en. he. - Mid-year papolanice pet squre kiloisete  (10 beca-e) of                                pr-viden gonre,  octia,  or -enher.r, on ttl inertin fur
ntal. are; 1960, 197G, and 19ff  Ian.                                                              pupils ot1a1y of 12 to 17 yearn ofa ge; cact-pond-rc    --use  are
Per es. he. agina-lnural land -Cpompted as abate foergrcanoallad                                     genotaly ...cloded.
only; 1981, 197i ond i980 datnu._icaitale                                                                    'alo  (prcn  of necodary) - VacationedInsiol
noatA..ag  Stcnctues (eon)-Childreu (1-14 y-ur),  orhing-ago15                                 it-lde   e     Ica,industrial, or other progruss  hich op-rat  ideped-
6A years), end retired (8 Iyar  and ae-I) as pecetae  of. I.id-yea                                 evily  t as dep-otnanta of secodaryin itloa
1aaaia   9bl, I97.and 19H.  dan.IPupil-teaher ratio-peisaey, ond seoudacy - Tora  etdetieroiled it
?Popultlla  Geoeth len  (percent ) -I totl   Annual groehrae  of tonal mid-                          prinaryaod Ao-ondsy 1-oi  divided by nmbere of t-sohern  In the nor-
yer  aplait  fr  95      960 Hh-70, ad19 70-81.                                            ra-podtiog level.
Pasl-ooioahlea(peccan0.t)1 - orhet - a,uoa  5tounb eaten of urban                        Pdnin liteIray rate (Per-ee) -lerc odo1ts (able no reed sod arts) as
pepalotane fa  1951-f1 96b-7i, a-d 1970-fl.I5 pe                                                   Ittf f total odolt population aged 15 yean  ndror
lid   irblns(e  thousad) - ana  Ire birthn per thousand of nLd-
peo   ualtin  ihg   970, and i9f  data.                                                 CONSftPtiGN
CtasHahln   prtosn)- AIInoa  d-ths pe  thousad oH eld-yuuo                                   P.nur-uer InoC     pr hon       Popla .o)          . -ase -e cata  mortise  -010
population; 1960, 197i, aad 19H1 data,                                                             cars  .eo tu   seta ight pertoac; enciodee asbula-ca, hearten and
Iroes f-rrnducnioo lets-Averge  -ubn  of dnaghtsroaIomao nAil hear in                                niltsryoe hcla
henealrplndacto   rtidIf ab  eneae   ran    g-  ei  coado  Ietvr   pe   huad pocoolati) - All tyI    of Peeler  far radia
feetllt   eaen;  ausly  lee-earansoat  en:din  In 19ii  1970, ntlbu                              attgrriphl   e                 uad of pIypoltc;acu                e
I99.                                                                                              icne    vrvr --i         cu.. rien  and Is years whet reglotto   nf radio
at bl -t-oootrol devices odar .-aPi... of na olfamily plu..info                                    cono        hliahsd lIcens..ing.
crogran.                                                            ti tecalvarn (per thousan~~~~~~~~,~"-d pperolonon)- TV .acelvera for broa.dcato
Pamiy Pacang-see   (prcet of mried ra-en  -IPerhevtugs nfrtte%evrl-ooc  e  tosndI                                            pupui...on;  -ncld-nol         e  TV Io... inert
eoeeo  chil1d-hearingae(bl%yan(h   t bIrth-contro  d-ir   oinvvr                                                   d Ir ysart obyre- trcb   of Tons-aoar it  ffc
all married doser lv name afe urour.                                    Nuon~~~~~~~~1 popar Ci-coLotio- (par _hoooan  ppclatlncl -Oo h h  urgr
torn naD NTRytoiiot                                                                                    oiclucoo  "daiygnrlItaetoapaye, defined atap-rind!i-I
loden of rood productior pe r capita (i196-71=100) - ivd-n of per capItaynblicotio   Acocdprsrl  ro rccditu  enra  rn                                                   IIti  cnidere-d
a-Ia prodnctio  nf eli fond  -omditlen.   Prndo,nionnrcladsneedaa.d                               to ho "daily" if it  Iper   nIens  four cues:           ek
feed sad is or calendar year hel.  lommedttieicore - iprimary goods (n.g.dor-  Annua  Ottndac  pee. Cocita per Year - Hano  an tho rusheea
engarranedinstead of angst) ohtch ace  dible an -cnti  ntriscs (e.g.                               ticho-  sold doting the year, includlag ud soa            todiv-in civenan and
offee andtea are .ncluded),  Aggregate prdoctia  of each rooctry ie                                anhtlorn.ics,
bosed on nation..l a-ergs  redoer price oright; i961-65, 1970, and I9f1
Pet naita srrrly of c          inrie   (pecet  f   onircas.nta) - Computed from                    fonlt.  Labor Foec  (thousands) - lcn uulatiospens  irciuding armed
energ  equialentof ne  fondnoppilea ee liblein cauntrIy par cap ita peforcadunelayed butecaighoete, Idat_uIdeoc,ec,reeg
da.   ialrhbe nopplien compric  damenclo p -dalit, iparte Ies                                   pouainofaaI                 . isfininto     In  -ariou  c--str Atar  oat "
4           enek, en  chnge  In stock,   e   uple                lds aema  fed, sed,                            opacabis; 19610, 1970 sod 1981 data.
qsineoedio fodProcssngad Io.... in distribotian.                                          Poale ~(     -trr) -  eaelbrfoeea.            eretg    f  oatabrfre
Reqnlrement  sets entleatd by PAP hoe  us d     phyniolugical seds tot normalAsticaInute (peren) - Lbor farce It farming, forestry ht    and
activity a d healeh n      dnnidelgsneoenl tpetosbdyeighte,                                          fishInga  reontl f naa  lahacI force; 1960,'19700 and iHEI data..
ag  ed  s  dsrbto of  uuoi"              ,ad  loio .pecn P-           farcsr                       Indastry (percet) -Labor forc  to mining, ca            c       -t, nfactori"
an houehld levl  i9b-, 1970 end19ffdta                                                                n  sair-icky, naver ond gan as pa-rengs of tota  labo  farc; 1960,
Pernagtea nopir of Prtin (Ean per   Y)n  - P-otalo conen  of per capita                                i9Piad18  dta.
ne   apyof fad  pertday.Se  sPply of  ondIs defi-s  us abice-.                            Ptliainlt                rei    total, male, and feanle - Participatius an
leqaieet   o   l   aetre   ealse   yHg  rrd   a    iiu                                               Itvity rotan art  opa ted as total, .ale, and fiaslbrforneaI
uiancnof hi grams of total protsiaprday and 20 grams of aimal andPercentage  of total, malesad female  Iualtion  t  llagee  -aeroti-eip;
Pa=s  protein, of which ii grams shoid ho' saimal Prei.  These19Hi, 197, and 1981 deta.  These are hsd'on 1i0's   stcpa ane
studard  are lone  thnthos  of 75 grm  of tonal prateit and 23  rm                                  e  enn  age-e   t,rutare of the pupslaes,  And long nine irsed.A
at aima  prtel  us  e  vergr oe- lbsg sed,ropned by PAP In the                             te   niao   r   rmetiav..l 9aarcss.
Third sanld rn  lrs;  Hi-b   97   n  19ff daea                                                  l..no..c leeder   a           - Eatta of  ppltisoder .1 evA 85 end1 Inarc
Per capita  teeie Iar1  from n aadpus-protein  supply of food                                        the totl labor foecs.
derIved from animls and c1s.s to grant per day; 19h1-h5, 1971 and 1977
date.                                                                                          1110ME DISTRIBTfIOi
Chtild CaSes i-A) heathlespa  thusn)                 -Io deaths per thousand In                    Prcntge  f   iHt Incm  (bth in cah an   iudl - lec-i-d by riuheat 5
ag Ig4pI-Iyas,t  childrenI tohibi  age group; for ano  daveloylog                                eron-t, IRichot        pste` ,  oos   2  y -ctn, and pooes  40 peren  of
nostis  daa.aP      r    from litftbls  1960, 1970 and 1981 data,                                  housholds.
Lif  Epeteoy  t  iru  (eas) -Avrge eneber of years of life  eann                         TTgene1._.ne -tateverappyr ppoinane   -easres of poverty 1a-1l, and
at birth; 1960, 1970 and 1981 dat.                                                                 nbohold he titepreted eith coidecable catloe.
Cof-n hIorlality Sea (per thousand) - -e.-I deah   fltnsus   o                                     E.itletd abrasPonct-          ac     lee   00   e       apt) -  rbat and roal-I
year of age per thouand lire births; 1960, 1971 ea MlH data.dhaIut, Povrt,                                            eoe  level  Is thnbaairehlnooaaisa
Access  f.hoPs Outer(percen.t of pupulatios)5  t- total, orba.. and.crl...Iiioal   deu    diet plus enunotta  non-fond reqoieet  Is  a
'fma   fPeopl  (totl, urben, and rts I) vIth reaonII  access to Iafe                        aff-dabl-.
enac  nupplyfo (icle  crute  surfac  -ner  or untrea..ted but                                    atisoted Rlelai-e Potety Ioom  lrel (US$ per capina) - orb. av   d rotal1
_noreiaedatr suhI    ntht  rm rtectsd borcholan, npringn, and                             lra.  reatlca porarty inome level is one-third of  -orga per capita
aaitay eniI-)a  pecnagso  thei  reIcI             r  peuanua              npesnl tn..... of the c.-Iey.  Urban leve  Is d-i-od fros the rural
urhesarea    poblc fostaiu00 stndpus  locted rotL srelnlgmtslciabajc                                        tfrhigher cos  of living Ia aeoa asan
..ces  ta  ecea  terel (peren  of pnpol.iain-tol,rbuad
rural -aN-he- of pepl  (carol, nyhan, and morl)seee   'yscrota
dIsposal as pet-eneole  of their Trelopec        ootivepaulnln.   ncenaI dinput-l
may incIde tho collection aod dseu    ih or wthout  ,,tretet,p of                                                                       ion=mo ad lecialItoca Divisia
hom. eac-t  and aseretrby  aerbrn   ytna    or the  neo p7,it                                                                     toroi         fuyia and yP,Je.ti..  Is`rctant
pritt- and similar  Mttlain                                                                                                                            ay 1903



Co 0Ol0    0   0*0 0z    n0'o. n0 xo o00 c0c n               g0'.no*|o0-.o& I                            c         no       00       *00 o00    <0 D D000    *00* 60 
- <00    00 r 0*  '0    00                     0               C-0  '0    02  0*  2" KC K0*    -   C0*                    00         0.    "*       c0*         000         n* c
0;~   ~     0" 'D  = -           O0*            O           X D**1                                                               *0      00 =00'            0*0    0o   - C
Ow            -0 -        00*         '0       '  n  0   *0* ° 0_   W0*0*0*0*  *0 0X  P  O "'  '   ' 4 W  0     *   0  0r  V. *0  000  O. 0*   *0       0   0 0.-'        *0  *0   D O P       O; 
C000         *00          *0   *0  00          0   v.0   0'0*00*0    r*    0°.0             4o 0*oo9  0*0        0*0      *0*0    <'          0*            '   wo 1oob P¢-Wv '00000*0
_~ ~  ~   ~    ~  ~0 v       *            01i   0 w00 ,o  r*04         *0   ,- 00* 0o o.                         0*00     *00* _0                        *0r0 aoo    o GVP V.9O P PPt'0    .  O O -W
0*~ ~    ~ ~ '     "'  O' *0*                                           wp o* *0   *0  '0    P1*00  0    0000  0n   r* *00  °0*    0' "0 0 w                0 o¢9 P >               t-s
*00~~~~,0.     *0u',or      o       v1  w0  _0  0 s      10.          00   r .0       -         u         .0            0-                                 *0        000   '0oX
00.~~~~  ~     ~     ~ ~ ~~               ~~~~~            ; *0  *0  * -  *00    o0  0or.     o *     4-0                       o.    0        oeMve   
0~ ~ Hs*   _o    1.'                                               0        *0
M~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~~*                       '0           000*     '0                 *0                     *0          w     0*                              Hr P r¢v
2 ~ ~ ~       ~           ~          ~          ~          ~          ~         ~ ~ b *0S 0> ..  00t,O                                                   I *|



- 25 -
BALANCE OF PAYHENTS ANID EERNAL ASSISTANCE                                          ANNEX I
(Millions of US dollar.:  current price.)                                          Page 5 of 6
Actual                          Est:                     Projected
1976          1977         1978         1579          194(             1981          1983           1985
A.  SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
1.  Exports (including NFS)                    1598.7        1622.5      1598.9       2282.3        3813.8           3981.8        4809.3           5940.0
Crude oil exports                     1574.4        1530.5      1510.7       2162.5        3609.3            3877.4        4665.3          5633.7
2.  Iwports (including NFS)                   -1179.8       -1210.2    -1313.5       -1429.7       -1932 3          -2114.7       -2670.3         -3375.3
3.  Resource Balance                            418.9         412 3       285.4        852.6        1881.5           1867.1        2139.0           2564.7
4.  Net service and private transfers          -519.9        -t4i 5      -376.4       -523.2           3.5           -730.7        -817 7           -914 5
4.1  Profit remittances                    -?51.Q       -194.8      -149.9       -172 5           '2.6           -387.0        -468.5          -536.0
A. Oil companies                         -59.9         -45.5       -35.3        -47.9         -79.5            -165.0        -197 0          -225.0
B. Contractors and others               -191.1        -149.3      -114.6        -79.2          -93.1           -222.0        -271.5          -311 0
4.2  Net interest income                    -2.0           -0.6         6.9       -20.0          -36.3             76.0         212.2           358.0
4.3  Worker's remittances                 -266.9        -246.1      -233.4       -282.0        -362.5            -419.7        -547.9          -71E 5
t.       4.4  other services                           -              -          -          -92.5        -134.9               -           -13.5           -20.0
5.  Balance on current account                 -101.0         -29 2       -91.0        330.0        1247.9           1136.4        1321.3           1650 22
6.  Private direct investment                    34.7          20.8        40.0         76.6          85.6             85.4          50.0             50 0
7.  Official grants                              52.1         268.4        19.4        179.8         102.1            133.2            -               -
Public M & LT loans
8.  Disbursements                               191.8         161.3        81.5         44.8          36.7              9.7           12.7            19.7
9.  Amortization                                -24.3         -56.2      .114.8       -185.5        -139.9            -51.1         -94 6             88.7
10.  Net disbursements                           167.5         105.1       -33.3       -140 8        .103.2            -41.5         -81.9           -69 0
11.  Short-term capital                           68.6          18.8        15.6        -50 5          -7.5              -              -
12. Capital transactions n.e.i.                 -234.5        -164.4       -47.7       -202.7        -218.1              -              -
13. Changes in reserves (- - increases)           12.7        -219.5        97.0       -378.0       -1246.7          -1313.5        1289.4          1631.2
16.  Net foreign exchange reserves                91.5         310.9       214.0        592.0        1838.7           3021 6        5650.8           8810.2
S. GRANT AM LOAN COMMITMENTS
Total public M & LT loans                  305.6           51.4        22.4         29.7          40.5
IBRD                                   -            16.5         -            -            22.0
other multilateral                    46.2           -           -            6.2          11.1
Governmer.ts                         156.8          34.9        22.4         20.0           7.4
Suppliers                              4.4                       -            -             -
Financial institutions                98.2           -           -            3.5           -
C.   }1<MRANDUM ITEMS
1. Grant element of total official-
comitments (percent)                      23.2            6.1       52.0         37.1           16.9
2.  Average interest (percent)                    4.3           8.4         2.0          0.6           6.9
3.  Average maturity (years)                     17.0           9 4        19.3         11.1          12.6
- Nil or less than half of unit shawn                                                                                                 E(2DD



- 26 -
DEBT AND CREDITWORTHINESS                               ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
Actual
1976       1977        1978       1979        1980
A. MEDIUM AND LONG-TERM DEBT (DOD end of period)l/
(millions of US dollars)
1.  Total public debt outstanding (disbursed only)        423.5       552.9       562.1      455.9       345.5
2.  Including undisbursed                                 825.9       864.2       821.8      583.7       478.4
3.  Total public debt service                               34.3       81.3       135.0      208.8       160.9
Interest                                           10.1        25.2       20.2        23.3       21.0
B.  DEBT BURDEN (percentages)
1.  Debt service ratio                                       2.2        5.0         8.5        9.2         4.2
2.  Debt service/GDP                                         1.4       .3.2         5.2        6.1         3.0
3. Debt service/Government revenue                          2.3         4.6         9.3       10.4         6.0
4. Total DOD/GDP                                           17.4        21.9        21.7       22.7         6.5
C.  TERNS (percentages)
1.  Interest on total DOD/total DOD 2/                     3.7         5.9         4.8        4.1         4.6
2.  Total debt service/total DOD 2/                        12.7       19.2        24.4       37.1        35.3
D.  DEPENDENCY RATIOS FOR M & LT DEBT (percentages)
1.  Gross disbursements/imports                            16.3       13.3         6.2        2.6         1.6
2.  Net transfer/imports 3/                               13.3         6.5        -2.5       -9.4        -5.4
3.  Net transfer/gross disbursements 3/                    82.1       49.5       -39.8     -366.1      -338.4
E.  EXPOSURE (percentages)
1.  IBRD disbursements/total disbursement                  0.6         0.5         4.7        8.3        16.1
2.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                     0.3         0.3         1.0        2.0         3.9
3.  IBRD Debt service/total debt service                     -         0.4        0.4         0.6         1.5
F.  EXTERNAL DEBT (disbursed only)                            Outstanding December 31. 1980
(millions of US dollars)                                     Amount          Percent
1.  IBRD                                                       13.6            3.9
2.  Other multilateral                                         48.1           13.9
3.  Governments                                               228.4           66.1
4.  Suppliers                                                   6.5            1.9
5.  Financial institutions                                    48.9            14.2
6.  Total public M & LT debt                                 345.5           100.0
7.  Total public M & LT (including undisbursed)              478.4           138.5
1/  Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt.                                                - Nil or less than half of
2/  DOD at the end of previous year.                                                               unit shown
3/  Minus sign indicates a negative net transfer (repaymeats larger than disbursements).
EM2DD



- 27 -
ANNEX Il
(Page lof 2)
A. OMAN - STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS!'
(As of March 31, 1984)
--------US$ Million--------
Amount (less cancellations)
Loan
Number   Year    Borrower        Purpose               Bank          Undisbursed
Three loans fully disbursed                              9.4               -
1441     1977    Sultanate       Highways
of Oman       Maintenance            15.0               2.5
1884     1981    General         Telecommunications   22.0               18.5
Telecommu-
nications
Organization
2084     1982    Sultanate       Highways
of Oman       Maintenance II         15.0              13.6
Total                                         61.4
of which has been repaid                     9.5
Total now outstanding                         51.9
Amount sold                     0.3
of which has been repaid    0.3
Total now held by Bank                        51.9
Total undisbursed                                               34.6
1/  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
(Page 2 of 2)
B. OMAN - STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1984)
--Amount in US$ Million--
Year            Obligor            Type of Business       Loan      Equity      Total
1979    Oman Development Bank          Development
Finance          -          2.0         2.0
Total gross commitments                           -          2.0         2.0
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                            -           -          _
Total commitments now held by IFC                 -          2.0         2.0
Total undisbursed                                 -



- 29 -
ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
Time taken to prepare project             : Five months (August 1983 -
December 1983)
Agency which prepared project             : Ministry of Education and Youth
Affairs
Project first presented to Bank           : December 1982
First Bank mission to review project    : June 1983
Departure of appraisal mission            : December 1983
Completion of negotiations                : April 1984
Planned date of effectiveness             : August 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1. Condition of Effectiveness:
Borrower will open a Special Account with the Central Bank of Oman or
a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank to facilitate timely withdrawal of the proceeds of
the loan (para. 68).
2. Measures to be taken by the Borrower include:
(a) Borrower will employ a senior architect and a quantity surveyor by
January 1, 1985 (para. 58).
(b) Borrower will carry out the technical assistance program in
accordance with a time schedule acceptable to the Bank (para. 62).



'I



IBRD 17990R
.A.  ::  :       :: :             ;     bv>F4;;l Sti                              IS  L A M  I C   R E P U B L I C  O F
PAKISTAN
QATARJD h
\ ; /-\   \::    : \  ;: \  .'                                          {9$Frdi                              I
\                                             Ac. .OI .                     S      5i : : \\              
SA U D I    A R A B I A
SUL-TANATE OF OMAN
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
A    G-noro AP-d.Oy S,hods             o
_0   T-hoco, To    no t Mt;
LA                                         Q~~~~~~~~~k  Coo-Vio S-ootMay School
/  AlHrsz.   \  g          / r1 1] > eI  ~      ~     ~     ~    -of-1 ,,,
S  A  U  D  I   A  R  A  3 1  A   /                                         -, n -1:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ptl,T.
-   ..                                                                                                                      4    Pro's .R 
/~~ ,                                                                                                                                    0  con co SErN ThUATONsPOJC
( F-ssd   ,             .            A             \            0           0            |          1     !         1 1 0        A'El-   -(5C0-0-re   -o d O bfoo)
PEOPLE'S       V                         \
DEMOCRATIC               .                     I,:roto                                                                                                                                       
REPUBLIC ho '   
OF   YEMEN                          U          Spool      ,                               ,52ry
/ ~  .7      ,          -.  -  



I



