Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 17959
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3307-TUN)
June 4, 1998
Human Development Sector
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Tunisian dinar (TND)
1990         US$1.00 = TND 0.85 (September 1990)
1991         US$1.00 = TND 0.92 (year average)
1992         US$1.00 = TND 0.88
1993         US$1.00 = TND 1.00
1994         US$1.00 = TND 1.01
1995         US$1.00 = TND 0.94
1996         US$1.00 = TND 0.97
1997         US$1.00 = TND 0.91
1998         US$1.00 = TND 1.11
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BHC:         Basic Health Care
BHCC:        Basic Health Care Center
CEO:         Chief Executive Officer
CREPF:       Regional Family Planning Center (Centre regional
d 'education et de planningfamilial)
DBHC:        Directorate of Basic Health Care
FP:          Family Planning
IBRD:        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
MCH:         Maternal and Child Health
MPH:         Ministry of Public Health
ONFP:        National Office of Population and Family Planning
(Office national de lafamille et de la population)
UNFPA:       United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF:      United Nations Children's Fund
WHO:         World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
TUNISIA:                         January 1 - December 31
IBRD:                            July 1 - June 30
Vice President: Kemal Dervi,
Country Director:  Christian Delvoie
Sector Director: Jacques Baudouy
Task Manager:  Claire Voltaire



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DEFINITIONS
Contraceptive prevalence:         Percentage of married women of reproductive age who are using
(or whose husbands are using) any form of contraception.
Crude birth rate:                 Number of live births per year per 1,000 people.
Crude death rate:                 Number of deaths per year per 1,000 people.
Infant mortality rate:            Number of deaths of infants younger than one year old per 1,000
live births during the same year.
Life expectancy at birth:         Average duration of human life, calculated from the mortality
rates in effect at the time of birth.
Population growth rate:           Rate at which a population is increasing (or decreasing) in a
given year as a result of natural increase and net migration,
expressed as a percentage of the base population.
Maternal mortality rate:          Number of maternal deaths per 100,000 live births in a given
year attributable to pregnancy, childbirth, or post-partum.
Net reproduction rate:            Average number of daughters a woman would give birth to if
during her lifetime she were to conform to the age-specific
fertility and mortality rates of a given year. A net reproduction
rate of 1.00 means that each generation of mothers is giving
birth to exactly enough daughters to replace itself in the
population.
Crude rate of natural increase:   Rate at which a population is increasing (or decreasing) in a
given year owing to surplus (or deficit) of births over deaths,
expressed as a percentage of the base population.
Total Fertility rate:             Average number of children a woman will have if she
experiences a given set of age-specific fertility rates throughout
her lifetime.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3307-TUN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
PART I:  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ....................................................... I
A. PROJECT DESCRIPTION .I
1. Introduction    ..
2. The project as initially designed                  ..1
3. Modifications to project design                    ..3
B. PROJECT EVALUATION                                 . . . 3
1. Ojecte .... 3
(a) Contraceptive prevalence ...................3............                    3
(b) Health status of women and children in rural areas        .4
2. Strates                                  ...4
(a) MCIFP services                              .4
(b) BHC targeting of underserved services                .5
3. Implementation                               ..5
(a) Integration of MCH/FP services                    .5
(b) Expansion of outreach/mobile services                .6
(c) Improvement of first referral level                .6
(d) Quality enhancement                           .6
4. Major factors affecting the proiect. and key lessons learned    .      .7
(a) A project fully consistent with the Government's strategy    .      .       7
(b) A weak information and monitoring system               .         .8
(c) Human resources                            ..8
5. Key Lessons leamed and applied to future operations                             8
6. Borrower and Bank perforance                         .9
C. SUSTAINABILITY AND FUTURE STRATEGIC ACTIONS .10
PART II: BORROWER'S EVALUATION .12
A. Borrower's Comments on Part I .12
B. Abstract of the report from the independent evaluation committee .12
PART III: STATISTICAL DATA                    ..20
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .21
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .22
Table 3: Project Timetable .23
Table 4:   Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimnated and Actual .......................................... 23
Table 5A: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ................................................................. 24
Table 5B: Distribution of MPH Non-Salary Operating Budget ................................................... 24
Table 5C: Record of Training Activities ...........................................................................   25
Table 6A: Key Indicators for Project Results .25
Table 6B: Evolution of Population and Health Indicators, by Region .27
Table 7:  Studies Included in the Project .28
Table 8A: Project Costs.                                                              29
Table 8B: Project Financig .30
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants .32
Table 10:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ..................................................... 33
Table 11:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..........................................................................   33
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Missions ...........................................................  34



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3307-TUN)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report on the Population and Family
Health Project for which the Republic of Tunisia had requested World Bank financial
assistance. A loan (No. 3307-TUN) in the amount of US$26 million equivalent was
approved by the Executive Directors on March 21, 1991. It became effective on October
2, 1991 and was closed on March 31, 1998, twelve months beyond the date originally
envisaged, March 31, 1997. The accounts will be closed on July 31, 1998 and most of
the funds will be disbursed.
The conclusions and content of this Report are based on project records held by
both the Bank and the Ministry of Public Health, and on statistical data drawn from the
studies and surveys conducted. They also relied on the results of the evaluation carried
out by an independent evaluation committee at the request of the Ministry of Public
Health. (An extract of this report is attached). The lessons to be learned from this project
were debated at a workshop organized, on the initiative of the Directorate of Basic
Health Care, during the final Bank supervision mission and attended by all major
participants, as well as by the director of the Hospital Reform Support Project.
This Report was prepared by World Bank staff members Mmes. Claire Voltaire
(MNSHD) and Janet Nassim (HDD) and Dr. Albert Sales (MNSHD), and its preliminary
version discussed with the members of the Tunisian project team. Messrs./Mmes.
Baudouy (MNSHD), Ellena (IFC), Jarawan (MNSHD), MacDonald (EASHN) and
Pierre-Louis (MNSHD), also contributed with constructive comments.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3307-TUN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
The objectives of the Population and Family Health Project were to increase contraceptive
prevalence and improve the health status of the population. To achieve them, the project was to
strengthen family planning and maternal and child health services, and integrate them within a basic
health care program that would target the most vulnerable groups, especially women and children in rural
areas.
The main findings of this Implementation Completion Report are as follows:
*  Virtually all proposed project activities were completed, and only minor adjustments were made
during implementation. Management of the project by the Directorate of Basic Health Care was
good. Project execution mechanisms proved to be appropriate and were fully adhered to. The
Bank's supervision performance has been rated very satisfactory by the Government.
*  Project objectives in the matter of contraceptive prevalence were achieved very early in the process.
A significant improvement in the health status of women and children in rural areas, the second
project goal, was also observed.
*  From the strategy standpoint, family planning and mother and child health services have been
substantially strengthened, and the quantitative goals set at the outset of the project (e.g. percentage
of assisted deliveries) were met in most cases. The integration of services was carried out
successfully and medical staff redeployed, which translated into increased quality and efficiency of
services. Throughout the project period, the Govemment pursued its policy of reducing regional
disparities, and project resources were scrupulously allocated in favor of underserved zones.
However, assignments of essential health personnel did not always keep pace with the strengthening
of sector infrastructure.
*  The main lessons drawn from this project are: (i) the importance of fully integrating projects'
objectives in the Govemment strategy, as testified by the project success; (ii) the need to develop
realistic monitoring and evaluation mechanisms, in line with existing capacity, which was not fully
achieved in the project; and (iii) the importance of harmonizing staff allocations with Government
priorities, illustrated in this project by the difficulties encountered in deploying staff in remote rural
areas.
*  Project sustainability will be ensured by the government's continued commitment to reducing
regional disparities and generalizing the integration of services. It will also depend on the Ministry
of Public Health's (MPH) capacity to adapt to new conditions such as the growing importance of the
private sector and the increasing need to decentralize resources and management functions. The
roles of the central government and the mandates of the health facilities will have to evolve. Staff
allocation to rural areas and improvements in the quality of care will need to remain high priorities
for the Government during the Ninth Plan. The use of financial, human and physical resources will
need to be more flexible to enable regions to evolve according to their specific needs.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3307-TUN)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1.    Introduction
1.     During the 1970s and 1980s, Tunisia achieved major progress in improving access to health care,
which translated into marked improvements in the health status of the population, and in a decline of the
fertility rate. By the end of the 1980s, however, a certain stagnation in the fertility rate (approximately
3.5 births per woman) and the infant mortality rate (51.6 per 1,000 life births) was observed. Major
differences also existed between rural and urban areas in terms of maternal and child health and fertility
indicators. On the basis of experience gained from pilot projects designed to test the integration of
family planning with basic health care services, the Government decided to implement the project
described below.
2.     The project as initially designed
2.     Objectives:    This project's aims were to increase the national contraceptive prevalence rate
(modern methods) from 40 to 45%, and to improve the health status of the population, with particular
emphasis on women and children in rural areas.
3.     Strategies:    To achieve these objectives, the project relied on two strategies:  (i) the
strengthening and integration  of family planning services (FP) and maternal and child health care
(MCH) within the context of a program to upgrade basic health care (BHC); and (ii) targeting of BHC
services on those groups in the population showing the highest fertility and mortality rates.
4.     Components:  The project had four components:
*  Integration of MCH and FP services at BHC centers through: (i) the recruitment and redeployment
of midwives in underserved areas; (ii) in-service training for midwives, paramedical personnel, and
physicians to help them provide all MCH/FP services; (iii) the establishment of a Regional Family
Planning Center (CREPF) in a low-income Tunis neighborhood; (iv) improved monitoring and
referral of pregnant women at risk by district hospitals and rural maternity clinics; and (v) improved
neo-natal health care services.
*  Expansion of outreach services to increase access to MCHJFP through: (i) redeployment of National
Office of Population and Family Planning (ONFP) teams to less accessible areas; (ii) reorganization
of mobile teams (doctors, nursing personnel, midwives) to provide better coverage; and (iii) purchase
Depending on the interviewee, the concept of integration meant: (a) a transfer of the activities of an ONFP midwife to a BHC midwife;
(b) availability, at a single center, of both FP and MCH activities; or (c) the possibility of coordinated services (coordinated as to time,
place, and organizational arrangements) for the mother/baby pair.



2
of mobile clinics to increase coverage in sparsely populated areas not served by a health facility.
*   Improvement of the first referral level of health care through: (i) provision of dental, X-ray, and
laboratory services in district hospitals lacking them; and (ii) upgraded access to ambulatory
specialist care by establishing five diagnostic centers in urban low-income neighborhoods.
*   Enhancement of the quality of health care through: (i) the introduction of a technical, management,
and maintenance in-service training program; (ii) improved supply of basic drugs; and (iii) studies to
improve performance evaluation and introduce a health information system.
5.      Inputs: The project provided for: (i) rehabilitation of infrastructure and equipment of BHC
centers; (ii) replacement of used vehicles and additional vehicles for mobile activities in remote areas;
(iii) purchase and replacement of ambulances and medical equipment (X-ray, laboratory, dental) for use
at the first referral level; (iv) consulting services and purchase of teaching aids for in-service training
programs for BHC personnel; (v) provision of spare parts and technical assistance to improve the
maintenance of vehicles, equipment, and buildings; and (vi) technical assistance for research and
evaluation.
6.      Implementation Arrangements: Provision was made for: (i) appointment of a project director
(the Director, Basic Health Care), with two deputies (technical and administrative), under his immediate
supervision; (ii) establishment of a unit with responsibility for regular monitoring of the project; (iii)
appointment of an ONFP counterpart to coordinate project activities; (iv) establishment of a project
management committee chaired by the Minister of Public Health, and composed of the CEO of ONFP
and representatives of the relevant MPH departments as members; and (v) appointment, by the Minister,
of an independent evaluation committee.
7.      Costs and Financing: The project financing plan2 included an IBRD  loan of US$26 million,
and a Government contribution of US$37.2 million. The project was to be completed within five years.
8.      Loan Agreement:   The legal covenants governing the loan are summarized in Table 9.
Effectiveness  of the loan was contingent upon:  (i) appointment of the project director; and (ii)
presentation by MPH of a Resource Allocation and Implementation Plan for year 1 of the project. The
Government also undertook, inter alia: (i) to present a Resource Allocation and Implementation Plan
every year for the following twelve months; (ii) to keep the annual growth rate of the BHC non-salary
operating budget positive and at least equal to the annual growth rate of the overall MPH non-salary
operating budget4; (iii) to make adequate foreign exchange available for the purchase of contraceptives
for the FP program and for the project if external aid were not forthcoming; and (iv) to present terms of
reference for a study on the BHC vehicles maintenance system by an agreed date and ensure that the
study recommendations were implemented.
2    Project costs, including taxes and customs duties, were estimated in September 1990 at TND 57.7 million (or US$63.2 million), with a
foreign currency component of TND 30.8 million (or US$36.2 million).
3    The loan became effective 7 months after Board Presentation.
4    This covenant was satisfied (see Table Sc). However, while its intent to protect resources allocated to basic health services was
legitimate its introduction was useless as the growth of this budget (in absolute terms or as a proportion of the overall budget), does not
permit evaluation of whether this level of resources enables the DSSB to respond adequately to its mandate and to the demand for its
services. Moreover, the simultaneous implementation of the Hospital Restructuring project (loan 3308-TUN) which tackled financing
issues of the system, was a more appropriate vehicle to monitor health system financing.



3
3.     Modifications to the project design
9.     Components. A few adjustments were introduced during project implementation: (i) the terms
of reference for some of the studies were adjusted to accommodate needs and constraints existing when
they were being carried out (see Table 7); (ii) training activities were funded by UNICEF and not by the
Bank, as initially planned; (iii) the number of diagnostic centers was reduced to four from the initial five
to remain within the allocated envelope; (iv) rehabilitation of the CREPF in its existing location, as
initially planned, proved not to be feasible (since it was found to be in the path of a highway under
construction), and an entirely new facility had to be built; and (v) only four of the 15 mobile clinics
planned for were funded by the Bank while the remainder were financed by the European Union.
10.   Inputs and Costs. The project was executed entirely within the budget allocated, but completed
one year later than initially scheduled. The few cost adjustments that were necessary canceled one
another out (see Table 8). Though there was no formal co-financing of the project, UNICEF financed
most of the training component and other donors contributed to the financing of ONFP mobile clinics.
11.   Implementation Arrangements. The project director chose to make technical monitoring of the
project the responsibility of the Maternal and Child Health Division of MPH which allowed for better
integration of project activities in the Ministry rather than create a new unit. An administrative unit was
set up to monitor the construction and equipment contracts, which it either attended to itself or delegated
to relevant departments of the Ministry. This unit was also made responsible, in conjunction with the
Finance Directorate of MPH, and with the Central Bank, for financial and accounting matters relating to
the Special Account. Coordination with ONFP remained on an ad hoc basis.
12.   Loan Agreement. No amendments were made to the Loan Agreement itself, except to defer the
loan closing date from March 31, 1997 to March 31, 1998.
B.    PROJECT EVALUATION
1.    Objectives
(a)    Contraceptive prevalence
13.   The project objective, based on the findings of the 1988 Demographic and Health Survey, was to
increase contraceptive prevalence (modern methods) from 40 to 45%. According to the PAPCHILD5
survey, the contraceptive prevalence rate is 59.7% for all methods (old and new), and 50% for modern
methods only. With hindsight, this objective may have been too modest since it was achieved in the
early years of the project. However, this did not deter the Government from continuing its program of
increasing access to services in rural areas. In rural areas, 51.4% of women use contraception, a figure
which, although still below that for urban areas (65%), does indicate considerable progress in terms of
their deternination to control their own fertility.
5 Pan Arab Project for Child Development, an initiative of the League of Arab States. The Tunisian survey was conducted by ONFP from
November 1994 to January 1995. The findings, which constitute averages for the period 1990-1994, were published in 1997.



4
(b)     Health status of women and children in rural areas
14.    Existing data show encouraging improvements in national health status (see Table 6). Data on
differences between urban and rural areas, although scarcer, do however indicate that disparities persist,
despite the government's policy to favor underserved areas. This may be due to the influence of other
factors in urban areas, such as the increasing importance of the private sector in health services delivery.
15.    A recent study on maternal mortality 6 indicates a major decline in the maternal mortality rate
to 69 per 100,000 live births compared to 192 in the early 1980s7. At the same time, it highlights major
gaps between regions (Greater Tunis, 39.9; Central West, 105.7).
16.    The PAPCHILD survey puts the infant mortality rate at 35 per 1,000 live births compared to
51.6 in 1985-1989, a significant decline over a short period. Child health has improved, partly as a result
of almost universal vaccination coverage. However, particular attention needs to be paid to controlling
diarrheal diseases and malnutrition in certain parts of the country.
2.      Strategies
17.    The strategies followed -  improvement and integration of MCH/FP on the one hand, and
targeting of underserved areas on the other - enabled the Government to fully reach its objectives and
the project results. However, the indicators of the project shown in Tables 6 give only a partial picture of
actual project outcome. Considering how little statistical information was available in 1990 and the
problems encountered in developing the information system (see Section 4 below) and carrying out the
studies planned, it is difficult to measure to what extent disparities were reduced and progress made in
rural areas, or how much impact the project had in enhancing service quality. The available information
is discussed below.
(a)     MCH/FP services
18.    Family planning and maternal and child health services were successfully strengthened and
integrated (see Table 5A), thanks in particular to the redeployment of midwives, thereby enabling a more
efficient utilization of services. Tunisia is one of the rare countries to have succeeded in achieving such
an integration. Projects objectives have been fully reached:
*  According to the PAPCHILD  survey, 79%  of pregnant women had the benefit of at least one
prenatal consultation over the period 1990-1994. Knowing that the public sector covers 63% of
prenatal consultations and provides 75% of all MCH services, one can estimate this rate at 84% for
19968, a figure very close to the project goal of 85%.
*  The PAPCHILD  survey also indicated that over the period 1990-1994 approximately 80%  of
deliveries took place in the presence of a health worker (65%  in rural areas). These figures are
below the targets set at the beginning of the project (70% in rural areas). However, the 1995 report
6   "National Survey on Maternal Mortality in Tunisia 1993-1994," Directorate of Basic Health Care, Ministry of Public Health.
7   The estimation of maternal mortality in 1980 comes from the PAPCHILD survey. However, as the methodologies of the two surveys
were very different, these figures should be viewed with caution.
s   This assumption is based on the estimated rate of private sector participation given by the PAPCHILD survey of the 1990-1994 period,
and therefore probably understates the real degree of private sector activity, which has expanded notably over the last five years.



5
by the BHC Directorate shows that the first-level public facilities alone handle 69% of assisted
deliveries. Knowing that this figure excludes the private sector and tertiary maternity clinics, which
are found mainly in urban districts, one can assume that the project goal was achieved.
* Estimating postnatal consultations coverage, assessed at 39% at the outset of the project, is even
more difficult. Coverage by the public primary care facilities is 43% (consultations in the two
months following delivery)9, but no national figure is available.
(b)    BHC targeting of underserved areas
19.    Project investments as a whole were successfully channeled toward the country's governorates
with less resources, following a methodology developed during project preparation. However, the
deployment of human resources did not follow government set priorities, which somewhat lessened the
impact of the investment effort. While significant progress was achieved in rural areas, similar
improvements were observed in urban areas, as a result of the rapid expansion of the private sector and
the easy access of the urban population to more sophisticated care. In general, the allocation of public
resources could be improved to achieve greater equity by: (i) better taking into account the private sector
and its potential complementarity; (ii) using regional health indicators to weigh resources allocations;
and (iii) introducing a resource utilization regional performance criterion.
3.     Implementation
20.    Physical execution of the project was very satisfactory overall, and all planned investments were
carried out.10 All scheduled extension, renovation or construction works in 158 health centers were
completed, and all the centers are currently equipped and in operation. All 560 vehicles to be purchased
were delivered. ONFP is now using 15 mobile clinics (only six of which were financed from project
proceeds). Fifty-seven district hospitals were rehabilitated and equipped with dental, laboratory, and X-
ray units. Four diagnostic centers were built and equipped.
21.    The main observations made by the project evaluation mission regarding execution of the
various components of this operation were as follows:
(a)    Integration of MCH/FP services
22.    As a result of the project, MCH/FP services were integrated at 419 centers, a 130 % achievement
of the project objective. By the end of 1996, 1,612 of the country's 1,841 health centers were offering
these services, and the concept of integration is now accepted by all concerned. In operational terms,
integration produced a 48%  increase in family planning activities11 during the 1992-1996 period,
compared to 30% nationally. Over the same period, the number of new contraceptive users increased by
75% in the priority areas (15% nationally), while prenatal consultations increased by 30% in the priority
areas (less than 17% nationally). A study on acceptance of perinatal services carried out in 1997,
indicated that over 85% of women who received perinatal services were generally satisfied with the
range and quality of services received12
9   Source: Basic Health Care Directorate, 1996 Annual Activities Report.
10 See Part I (A), Section 3, for details of the few modifications to project plans during the implementation process.
I Expressed in terms of number of visits. Source: ONFP Assessment of Eighth Plan and 1997 Objectives.
12  See comments from the Borrower p 12 par. 2.



6
23.    The majority of midwives employed by the BHC Directorate have participated in a training
program in non-clinical family planning, while ONFP midwives have been trained to administer pre- and
post-natal care. Initial training course curricula have been adjusted to reflect these developments. At the
regional level, coordination between ONFP and basic health care units has been excellent.
24.    The Regional Family Planning Center (CREPF) has been established, although behind schedule
and the center has been in operation since October 1997. Statistical information on its impact is not yet
available. This center has been selected for the introduction of a pilot reproductive health program.
25.    A system  has been developed to ensure the identification of at risk pregnancies and the
appropriate transfer of mothers to the higher care level. Midwives have been trained to use referral
guidelines and criteria. At project start-up, the new referral system led to the transfer of an important
proportion of deliveries - about one-third - to the regional level. Though the criteria for referral now
seem better applied (in 1996, only 17% of cases were transferred), it may be necessary to closely monitor
the characteristics of women transferred to ensure that these criteria are neither too sensitive nor
misapplied.
(b)    Expansion of outreach/mobile services
26.    The provision of vehicles enabled the reorganization of mobile teams and therefore the
expansion of services in isolated areas where assignment of permanent staff would not be cost-effective.
Redeployment of ONFP midwives has made it possible to provide additional services at centers that were
previously rarely, if at all served. A total of 348 new centers have been covered in isolated areas, while
the frequency of MCH/FP services has been increased at 197 centers. The results are clearly apparent
from the figures given in the accompanying Statistical Annexes, which show increased contraceptive use
among women living in rural areas. Four mobile clinics were purchased from project proceeds, and 11
others were bought with European Union funds.  These units offer a satisfactory response to
user/beneficiary needs, and are complementary to the BHC network.
(c)    Improvement of first referral level
27.    Although all investments aimed at strengthening dental, X-ray, and laboratory services at district
hospitals were made, field visits show that the necessary personnel was not always assigned to these new
units. Their utilization rate is not yet known, nor is their role in attracting the population to the district
hospitals concerned. Generally, district hospitals' bed occupancy rates remain low.
28.    Of the four diagnostic centers (where consultations with specialists are available) built and
equipped from project proceeds to relieve pressure on the hospitals, three were inaugurated in March
1998, while the Sfax center has been in operation for nearly a year. Although it is still too early to assess
its impact, the directors of nearby university hospitals are already reporting less pressure on their out-
patient departments. The Ninth Plan calls for the opening of other centers and the conversion of a
number of district hospitals into day hospitals also providing specialist services. The establishment of
these centers and day hospitals is planned as part of the regional health maps being developed which take
into account potential complementarities with the private sector.
d)     Quality enhancement
29.    All planned training programs were completed, although two reached only part of their target
groups, namely the practical internships in obstetrics for midwives and the public health diploma for



7
doctors (intended for regional directors and heads of primary care services). In these two instances, the
workload of the personnel concerned prevented them from finding the necessary time. The impact of
training on staff attitude and knowledge has been found satisfactory. These training programs could not,
however, be financed by the Bank. As the per diems paid to interns under the relevant Tunisian
legislation are well below the expenses they actually incur, participation in such training is not appealing,
especially to lower-paid staff. In the case of the project, it was only the cooperation of UNICEF in
covering training expenses that ensured the success of these training programs.
30.    Little information on the health status of the Tunisian population was available at the outset of
the project. Accordingly, it included plans for ad hoc studies and surveys (in 1991 and 1996), which
would also provide the data required for eventual evaluation of the project. Details of their content and
execution are given in Table 7. However, it was possible to carry them out only once, at the project mid
point. Moreover, they were financed in the context of other projects, and could not be used, as planned,
to assess the impact of this operation.
31.   In the case of statistics on project activities, a major effort was made to develop a data collection
system that would meet the needs of the MCH/FP program. However, reporting by individual centers
remains cumbersome, and there is no systematic utilization of the data actually generated. Efforts in that
area have to be sustained to simplify the system and improve its quality, reliability and relevance as a
tool for decision-making.
4.     Major factors which affected the project
32.    The main factors that affected the project are the following:
(a)    A project fully consistent with the Government's strategy
33.    The Government's objective, as defined in its Eighth Five-Year Plan was to consolidate its
health system by improving its efficiency, quality and efficacy of services while ensuring the system's
financial sustainability. These objectives translated into a two-pronged strategy: (i) to restore the
credibility of basic health services and of the first referral level; and (ii) to restructure its main tertiary
hospitals to improve their efficiency, as a prerequisite to reviewing the financial burden sharing
mechanisms of the system. Bank assistance to the country mirrored this approach and two projects were
prepared concurrently to support these two axes.
34.    The objectives of this project were also fully in line with the Government's policy on population
matters and reduction of regional disparities. These objectives remain valid at loan closing and the
Government continues its strategies of integrating health services and eliminating disparities in health
status in the Ninth Five-Year Plan, which aims at integrating 90% of BHC centers by the year 2001 -
i.e., all centers where it is cost-effective. This strong link to the Government strategy enabled the project
to clear the few obstacles it had to face, particularly in the early years when there was some confusion
regarding the definition of the term "integration", as well as reluctance on the part of some stakeholders
and donors to go ahead given the mixed results of earlier attempts at integration and the fear of loss of
acquired privileges.



8
35.    The implementation of this project at the same time as a Hospital Restructuring project 3, made
it possible to tackle, simultaneously, problems of ineffectiveness in the hospital sector and indirectly to
protect the funding of BHC services. At the same time, the choice of having 2 separate projects
simplified the design of both projects and thus improved their likelihood of being completed
successfully.
(b)    A weak information and monitoring system
36.    The need for a better-integrated information system was already obvious to-all concerned during
project preparation. It was hoped the system could be streamlined to ease the administrative burden
placed on service providers, to improve its quality and reliability, and to enhance data processing and
analysis capacity. Despite this realization, development of a comprehensive information system was not
made a component of either project. A choice was made in the case of the Hospital Restructuring project
to concentrate on development of a management information system, in keeping with that project's
objectives.
37.   In the case of this population and family health project, however, greater attention could have
been paid to: (i) capacity to carry out the studies planned, since this might have led to reducing the scope
of the ambitious research program and to better targeting of its objectives; (ii) development of a flexible
statistics collection system limited to a few key indicators; and (iii) the importance of close coordination
between ONFP and the BHC Directorate on decisions regarding information collection, use, and
analysis. Though both the MPH and the Bank became aware of these difficulties early in the project, a
satisfactory remedy could not be found. The studies in progress were too complex and resource
consuming to envisage their modification, and it was opted to test the information system put in place in
the regions before changing it again.
(c)    Human resources
38.    The difficulty of finding personnel to work in isolated areas had been anticipated at the project
design stage. Numerous attempts were made to mitigate this situation: financial incentives were
introduced, midwives' work schedules were adjusted, and recruitment efforts were focused on groups
more likely to be attracted to these areas. These measures served to improve the coverage in these areas
by midwives and public health physicians, since their numbers increased, respectively, from 798 and
1106 in 1991, to 946 and 1297 in 1996. However, human resources assignment has remained very
centralized, and is not always in line with stated MPH priorities. Civil Service Regulations (for example,
the obligation on the Government to reassign available personnel to facilities of their choice or the
regulatory work schedule) are all ill-adapted to the specific needs of the health sector. Major gains in
productivity and effectiveness are potentially achievable, and steps to that end are being taken in the
context of the Ninth Five-Year Plan strategy, supported by the recently approved health sector loan.
5.     Key lessons learned and applied to future operations
39.    Analysis has provided a number of lessons: (i) a good alignment between the project objectives
and the Government strategy is key to project success; (ii) monitoring and evaluation mechanisms should
be developed in line with existing capacity and permnit project evaluation; and (iii) personnel allocations
need to be harmonized with Government priorities.
13  Project financed by Loan 3308-TUN, for a comparable loan amount, was designed to improve the management of 22 of Tunisia's tertiary
hospitals and provide assistance with the development of new health system financing mechanisms.



9
40.   The recently signed Health Sector Loan (Ln 4294-TUN) takes into account the constraints
encountered and lessons learned during the implementation of both the Population and Family Health
project and of the Hospital Restructuring project. In particular, the project includes (i) the development
of management information systems to integrate all existing efforts and develop indicators in live with
the needs of decision makers at all level of the system; (ii) the introduction of a new methodology to
allocate resources to regions and facilities which will provide a more transparent process for staff
allocation and greater accountability of regions and facilities; and (iii) the elaboration of regional health
maps which include the private sector as well as the introduction of incentives for increased partnership
between the public and private sectors.
41.   MOH's tradition of self-evaluation also facilitated the systematic incorporation of lessons
learned from experience. Indeed, the implementation of the project under review brought to light a
number of operational problems and provided opportunities to develop solutions, which were
incorporated in the design of the health sector loan. For instance: (i) the adoption, in the new health
sector project, of a process of delegation of credits to the regions that was tested and used for civil
engineering works during this project; (ii) the examination, within the government, of ways to overcome
obstacles to personnel training and ensure payment of adequate per diems to trainees; (iii) the
development, prior to project launching, of a management procedures manual and a project management
software program, to avoid the delays met with in launching the population and family health project;
and (iv) the need for all stakeholders to be fully involved in the project from the outset.
7.    Borrower and Bank performance
42.   In terms of its design, the project was prepared by a competent team which assembled a detailed
documentation package, used by the Bank as the basis for its appraisal of the operation. The project
benefited from the concurrent preparation of a hospital reform support project and from the close
coordination that existed between the teams working on the two projects. As far as formulation of their
strategic framework was concerned, these two projects also benefited from very constructive
participation by the then Ministry of Planning.
43.   In terms of the implementation process, the performance of the project team was very
satisfactory. Its hybrid management structure - an administrative management unit set up within the
BHC Directorate, plus the MCH Division, the whole headed by the BHC Director in his capacity as
project director - ensured availability of sound project management capacity, integration and coherence
of objectives, and execution as part of the overall program of the BHC Directorate. However, this
approach would have benefited, at the outset of the project, from personnel training e.g., in procurement,
disbursement procedures, bookkeeping, and from the establishment of management procedures.
44.   In its comments on the present report (see Part II, A), the Borrower estimated that Bank
performance in terms of project monitoring and supervision has been very satisfactory. The borrower
highlighted particularly the continuity in the composition of the Bank team which supervised the project,
the regularity of Bank missions and in general, the availability of Bank staff, both during field missions
and from headquarters. Project supervision was also the subject of an audit by the Bank's Quality
Assurance Group, which gave a rating of 2 out of 4 (satisfactory). In particular, its supervision
arrangements were characterized by close coordination with the hospital reform support project, and
productive relationships with other donors, especially UNICEF, which financed the training component.



10
C.    SUSTAINABILITY AND FUTURE STRATEGIC ACTIONS
45.    The increase in MCH-FP activities is in great part attributable to an improved utilization of
existing resources. The gradual annual increase (14% per year between 1990 and 1995) of the recurrent
budget (net of salaries), attests to the system's capacity to sustain its efforts. In addition, Government
subsidy to the system, which represented 86.7% of resources in 1990 is down to 76% in 1996, thanks to
increasing contribution of the social security funds. Project sustainability will depend to a very large
extent on MPH success in adapting the supply of health care services, both public and private, to new
conditions (epidemiology, demography, and financing) and in enhancing the quality and effectiveness of
services. These issues are being addressed within the context of the Ninth Plan.
46.    Two factors will be key to the development of the health sector: the growing importance of the
private sector, and the introduction of health insurance. They will have an impact on the demand for
health care, and, by extension, on the role of the Government in sector development, and on the functions
of health facilities. The leadership of MPH in the management of the health sector, including the
development of national policies and strategies, coordination and monitoring of all sector concerns, and
sector regulation, will undoubtedly expand. On the other hand, the Government will probably be able to
reduce its role as provider of services and as manager of health facilities.
47.    With regard to the delivery of health care services, the health network is now accessible to 95%
of the population, and it is very unlikely that its extension to include the remaining 5% would be cost-
effective. Coverage of that remaining percentage of the population, as scattered as it is, will therefore
require innovative and more flexible strategies. To consolidate progress achieved through this project,
efforts to deploy physical and human resources in the form of personnel and equipment in favor of
underserved areas need to be intensified. Enhancement of the quality of care remains a major concern,
and has rightly been made one of the strategic axes of the Ninth Plan. This is an area in which the
project undoubtedly proved less effective than in that of equity and physical accessibility. Training,
organization of health services, introduction of an appropriate incentive structure, and efficient use of
both human and infrastructure resources are critical points in this regard.
48.    The success of the Population and Family Health project, and the emphasis that the Ninth Plan
gives to regionalization, strengthening regional hospitals, and the referral system in general, create the
right conditions for an in-depth review of the role of BHC. For many years yet, the BHC centers will
retain their primary role in preventive activities. The range of services currently offered is going to have
to be expanded gradually, mainly in order to accommodate the new challenges presented by the increase
in chronic and degenerative diseases. In contrast, the role of the BHC centers as providers of curative
care may well be reduced significantly in the near future owing to the introduction of health insurance
and the growing importance of the private sector. As for district hospitals, their place in the health
system needs to evolve. They do not respond satisfactorily either to the needs of the patients (their
utilization rate is very low, and their role as first referral points is often short-circuited), or to minimum
criteria of quality/reliability, cost-effectiveness, or efficient resource use. Their function and mandate
will need to be reassessed in the near future. A considerable degree of flexibility and a process of
gradual adaptation will be essential if these facilities are to respond adequately to the specific needs of
their region. The future of the rural maternity clinics is also a matter of great concern, from the point of
view of the quality and reliability of the services they provide and also from that of their cost-
effectiveness. Other available options need to be examined, within the context of regionalization and
conversion of the district hospitals.



11
49.    Finally, development of the health system along these lines will have important implications for
the use of financial, human, and physical resources. A flexible approach that enables the regions to adapt
their health system to their needs will be indispensable. Changes in the present system will also have to
be introduced very gradually, and, once again, in accordance with the regions' specific needs and socio-
demographic characteristics. These issues are being addressed as part of the work being carried out in the
Health Sector loan to renovate the referral system and regionalize the health care network.



12
PART IH:    BORROWER'S EVALUATION
A. BORROWER'S COMMENTS ON PART I
The Ministry of Public Health provided extensive comments on an earlier draft of this report and
these comments have already been incorporated. Additional comments from the Ministry, received on
May 4, 1998 are as follows:
1.    Bank Performance
The Bank's performance, in terms of supervision, has been rated very satisfactory by the
government.
Indeed, the Bank's supervisory team displayed continuity and regularity in their visits which
were always well organized and meticulously carried out.
Their understanding of the Tunisian reality and the country's health priorities, as well as their
great interest in supporting Tunisia in its development efforts, were all highly appreciated.
Field visits, carried out by the Bank team with keen interest, enabled it to remain acquainted with
day-to-day activities and to get first-hand understanding of the project's achievements.
The Supervisory team was always available, whether during its visits to Tunisia, or whenever it
was called upon at the Bank's headquarters to provide assistance in solving problems encountered during
project implementation.
2.    Project Implementation
A 1997 opinion survey on perinatal services shows that 67.5% of women surveyed rated
consultation services as appropriate, and 18.8% considered them to be fairly appropriate. The remaining
11.4% considered that they were not appropriate. When the response was negative, it was very rare that
the women's relationship with the midwife was the cause of their dissatisfaction.
It also appears as if these opinions do not significantly affect women's decisions about prenatal
visits. Indeed, 88.6% of women who considered consultation services inappropriate, continued
consultations, compared to 89.6% of those who considered the conditions appropriate.
B. ABSTRACT OF THE REPORT FROM THE INDEPENDENT EVALUATION COMMITTEE
The following document is a translated extract of the report prepared by the independent
evaluation committee upon request of the Ministry of Health. The full document, dated February, 1998,
is available in French, in Project files and includes a description of the project, of the evaluation
methodology and of the project's output.



13
I.   MOTHER AND CHILD HEALTH
1.     Coverage
The indicators measuring maternal and child health care coverage are as follows, according to
the findings of the PAPCHILD survey, which has the advantage of being based on a representative
sample (and therefore of not suffering from the shortcomings of the conventional system of information
gathering):
(1)    Prenatal coverage consisting of at least one prenatal consultation: A national figure of
79% (89% in urban areas and 69% in rural areas).
(2)    Assisted delivery: A national figure of 80% (93% in urban areas and 65% in rural areas).
(3)    Vaccination coverage: These comparative figures, based on monitoring of vaccinations
at public health facilities, reflect the vaccination history of infants approaching their first
birthday:
1995           1991 (national survey)
DPT (3 doses)                 92.2           91
OPV (3 doses)                 92.2           91
HBV (3 doses)                 76.8           ---
BCG                           89.4           99
Measles                       91.0           92
Fully vaccinated on           89.4           89
schedule
The 1995 figures reflect only vaccinations at public sector health facilities. They do not take
account of private sector vaccination activity, estimated at between 3% and 5% according to the 1991
national survey of vaccination coverage. The figures given above for 1991, on the other hand, reflect
both public and private sector vaccination activities.
2.     Infant Mortality
Infant mortality figures are as follows:
Trends in Infant Mortality, by Region
(per 1,000 live births)
. ...                                     '' ''. ''''':'''''   ....... ,- 9 ,, .... g0 w 0 ........... . bt., . .............    ..   .   ..
District of Tunis         37.3              32.2              30.3              21.5
Northeast                 41.3              35.6              33.6               28.4
Northwest                 62.7              54.1              51.0               36.0
Central West              64.1              55.3              52.1               37.8
Central East              43.7              37.7              35.5               26.0
Southwest                 71.0              61.0              57.4               38.8
Southeast                 71.0              61.0              57.3               35.6
National                  51.4                                                   30.6
Source: National Institute of Statistics



14
As this table shows, there has been a steady decline in infant mortality in all regions of the
country, indicating better health care, and better targeting of care, for this age group.
3.     Perinatal Mortality
Perinatal mortality is currently estimated at 30 per 1,000 births nationwide, with the rate being
highest among newborns.
Neonatal mortalitv (based on PAPCHILD survey data):
Neonatal mortality rate over
last five years (per 1,000 live births)
National                            22.3
Urban                               14.0
Rural                               30.7
Perinatal mortality in hospitals: The data available cover maternity clinics in Tunis and Bizerte.
Regardless of the source of information, the neonatal mortality rate is in excess of 20 per 1,000.
Perinatal mortality is high, at over 40 per 1,000.
Neonatal Mortality Rate         Stillbirth Rate         Perinatal
(per 1,000 per year)      (per 1,000 per year)
Tunis                  28                        27                    55.8
(CMNNR)
Bizerte                21.37                      20                    40.8
Tunis                                            12.6
(Habib Thameur)
Medenine      __    X                          _____________40.49
Causes of death of newborns: Perinatal respiratory failure, respiratory infections, and congenital
malformations are the main causes of early neonatal mortality, largely preventable by improving quality
of care.
Causes of Neonatal Deaths
Causes of              Bizerte               CMNNNR               H. Thameur
Death                Hospital              Hospitals              Hospital
Respiratory distress         44.40%                22.39%                 68.96%
Perinatal respiratory        37.50%                14.15%
failure
Neonatal infection           7.89%                 22.50%         _



15
4.     Maternal Mortality
According to national survey data, totals of 140 maternal deaths and 203,193 live births were
registered for the twelve months of 1993. The meanings of the term "maternal death" are consistent with
the definition given in the International Classification of Diseases (ICD - 10), and the corresponding
figures are as follows:
(a)    Death during the course of pregnancy or within 42 days after delivery, regardless
of length of tern or location: 69 per 100,000 live births.
(b)    Death, all causes: 75.79 per 100,000 live births.
(c)    Death occurring more than 42 days after the end of pregnancy, all causes without
assuming link to childbirth: 17.7 per 100,000 live births.
Maternal deaths, by urban/rural area: Deaths in rural areas account for 52% of all deaths,
although the rural population makes up only 39% of the total population.
Maternal mortality, by region: Tunisia's economic regions have been used as the basis for
calculating its maternal mortality rate for the following reasons: the number of matemal deaths
registered varies significantly from year to year, and may be absorbed in the general death rate when the
number of [maternal] deaths recorded is low, which is what occurs in the majority of govemorates; the
likelihood of women who are pregnant or nearing delivery to move, for reasons of transfer or referral,
from more remote areas to the vicinity of regional and university maternity clinics; and the fact that such
transfers are generally to the administrative seat of the home governorate or to another (the nearest)
governorate.
Region               Deaths              Live Births       Maternal Mortality
Rate per 100,000
Live Births
Greater Tunis                 16                  40028                  40
Northeast                     13                  25789                 50.5
Northwest                     24                  25519                  94
Central West                  37                  34993                 105.7
Central East                  25                  43534                 57.4
Southeast           1_3                           20393                 62.4
Southwest                     12                  12937                 92.8
National                      1Z  203193                                 68.9
If one thinks of Tunisia as divided into two macro-regions, the East (Greater Tunis, Northeast,
Central East, and Southeast) and the West (Northwest, Central West, and Southwest), a very clear
disparity becomes evident: the maternal mortality rate in the West is double that in the East.
Region                             Maternal Mortality Rate per
100,000 Live Births
East                                          51.6
West                                          99.4
National                                      69.0



16
Maternal mortality increases with the fertility rate in most regions. However, two regions,
Northwest and Central East, show "discordant" patterns: the Northwest has a relatively low fertility rate
and a high maternal mortality rate, while the reverse is the case in the Central East. High fertility is
certainly a risk factor for maternal mortality, but the latter is also influenced by other factors, of a
socioeconomic and health nature.
Maternal Mortality and Fertility Rates
Region             MM Rate per 100,000 Live           Fertility Rate
Births                    (per 1,000)
Greater Tunis                            40                          80.5
Northeast                               50.4                         83.5
Northwest                                94                          80.5
Central West                           105.7                        112.5
Central East                            57.4                         92.6
Southeast                               62.4                        100.3
Southwest                               92.8                        102.5
National                                 69                           91
Maternal mortality by region compared with infrastructure and personnel (I & F) ratio: The
distribution of regional and university maternity clinics providing a broad range of obstetrical care goes
hand in hand with non-uniform  variation in the maternal mortality rate.  Three groups can be
distinguished among the regions:
-      regions with an MM rate lower than the national average and an I & F ratio higher than
or equal to the national average;
-     regions with an MM rate higher than the national average and an I & F ratio lower than
the national average;
-      regions with an MM rate higher than the national average and an I and F ratio higher
than the national average.
Thus, with the same level of I and F per 500,000 inhabitants, Northeast, Greater Tunis, and
Central East have lower MM rates than Southwest and Northwest.
Region          MM Rate         Reg. & Univ.    Maternity Clinics   Midwives
per 100,000 Live   Maternity Clinics   (3 Levels) per  (10,000)
Births         per 500,000    500,000 inhbtnts.
inhbtnts.
Greater Tunis          40               1.64             2.74             6.02
Northeast              50.4             1.95             7.06              6.70
Northwest              94               2.0              13.0              6.85
Central West          105.7             1.15              8.1              5.59_
Central East           57.4             2.67             9.37              7.82
Southeast             62.4              2.99              9.6              4.95
Southwest             92.8              2.84             14.02            6.00
National               69               1.65              8.7              6.45



17
II.    FAMILY PLANNING
1.    Contraception
Contraceptive prevalence (modern methods) rose from 40% at the beginning of the project to
49.6% in 1994 (IUD, 25.4%; tubal ligation, 12.4%; pill, 7.3%; other modern methods, 4.5%). Among
married women of reproductive age, 9.9% use natural methods. The overall contraceptive prevalence
rate is 59.7%. Over the period 1993-1994, in the Central West and South regions, the rate of recruitment
of new female users of contraception increased by 13.5% compared to 7.8% in the other regions. This
demonstrates the positive impact of efforts in the Center and South.
Region                1994                1988           Relative Deviation
PAPCHILD                EDS              (1) / (2) x 100
(1)                 (2)
Greater Tunis               69.8                 63.9                 109
Northeast                   65.0                 57.1                 113
Northwest                   61.5                 51.3                 119
Central East                60.6                 48.8                 124
Central West                45.6                 31.5                 144
Southeast                   49.6        l
Southwest                   49.7                 41.4                 119
National                    59.7                 49.8                 119
The increase in contraceptive prevalence by socioeconomic region from 1988 to 1994 is seen to
be significant. The relative deviation, estimated at 119% on the national level, reaches 144% in Central
West, which showed the lowest prevalence in 1988. Southwest comes after Central East, with a relative
deviation of 119%. Thus, growth in the contraceptive prevalence rate was greatest in regions that were
disadvantaged in 1988.
2.    Impact
Total fertility rate: An examination of TFR trends by socioeconomic region from 1991 to 1994
reveals those regions that were disadvantaged prior to project start-up to have been those that advanced
most. The disparities referred to cannot be explained solely on the grounds of resource availability,
which was virtually the same as in Northwest and Central West/South.
Birth rate: The birth rate declined from 25.2 per 1,000 inhabitants in 1992 to 22.7 in 1994.
This decline was noted in all regions of the country (Table 6B) but was greater in Central West
(-3.2), Southeast (-3.7), and Southwest (-2.6). These are the regions that had the highest birth rates and
where the family planning effort was intensified under a policy calling for integration of FP activities
and health care, dissemination of information, and allocation of resources (mobile clinics).



18
COMMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
The following comments are based on interpretations of statistical data and information gathered
from health centers, and on discussions with officials interviewed.
1.    It is evident from the information in our possession that execution of the various physical
components of the project was a success, since training, civil engineering, equipping, and vehicle
purchasing activities were completed on schedule and often with implementation rates higher those set in
the official project documents.
2.     The increase in human resources, although below the level planned, appears to us to reflect a
major effort. Recruiting needs to continue, however, and particularly for the priority regions.
3.    In the area of service delivery, despite the additional numbers of doctors and midwives brought
in, we note that: the average number of consultations per inhabitant per year remained virtually
unchanged (0.93 in 1991, 0.98 in 1994); the average number of prenatal consultations rose only from
1.74 in 1993 to 1.78 in 1994; and the average number of FP consultations per working day fell from 5.20
in 1991 to 4.48 in 1994.
These figures can be interpreted as indicators of better coverage in the form of both medical and
prenatal consultations (more doctors and midwives providing the same number of consultations per
patient [but for a higher total number of patients]). In addition, the centers providing these services in
1991 were heavily used, while from 1992 onwards centers were less heavily used, which explains the fall
in average figures.
4.     The integration of FP activities into basic health care clearly resulted in an increase in health
personnel productivity, since ONFP staff could be assigned to cover other centers. This strategy, felt to
be a necessity as far as the regions were concerned, and which led to much more extensive
implementation rates than originally anticipated for the project, should be reinforced. The aims should
be integration of MCH and FP activities at all health centers, and involvement of more public health
physicians in these activities.
5.     Regarding the move to review and standardize data collection practices, it is important to
intensify supervision so as to ensure that instructions are understood and applied properly in real life.
Such supervision, coupled with a strategy of in-service training, is made all the more necessary by the
fact that the turnover in trained personnel is quite high.
6.     At the time of our inspection visits to a number of health centers, we did not observe any lack of
either essential drugs or contraceptives.
7.    As to the final impact of the project, whether in terms of activities or especially of material
results, its outcomes cannot be individualized, since they contributed to a larger policy on basic health
care. Nevertheless, its objectives, especially those for which goals were set, were in general either
achieved or exceeded (infant mortality, FP coverage rates, fertility rates, etc.).



19
8.    In conclusion, our recommendations are to:
8.1    Ensure the sustainability of the gains attributable to this project by setting up an
equipment depreciation program. Since most of the equipment purchased with loan proceeds,
especially motor vehicles, replaced dilapidated equipment, this program should include
maintenance and replacement plans.
8.2    Conduct a critical study of the information system (covering equipment, personnel,
activities), and arrive at a consensus on the documentation to be used. The documents and
information circuits currently in use need to be reviewed, as does the quality (reliability) of basic
data.
8.3   Institute a permanent supervision and in-service training program.
8.4    Draw up more explicit project-specific evaluation criteria that can be used with possible
future projects, at the same time prescribing types of data, frequency, and information sources.
These criteria should not be of the general kind, difficult to interpret.
8.5    Continue to focus efforts on the country's west and south regions, where, despite
undeniable advances, a number of health indicators have still not improved as much as in the
coastal regions.



20
PART m:  STATISTICAL DATA
Table 1:      Summary of Assessment
Table 2:      Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:      Project Timetable
Table 4:      Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5A:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 5B:     Distribution of MPH Non-Salary Budget
Table SC:     Record of Training Activities
Table 6A:    Key Indicators of Project Results
Table 6B:     Evolution of Population and Health Indicators, by Region
Table 7:      Studies Included in the Project
Table 8A:    Project Costs
Table 8B:     Project Financing
Table 9:      Status of Legal Covenants
Table 10:     Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table ll:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 12:     Bank Resources: Missions



21
Table 1: Summary of Assessment
A. Achievementofobjectiye                 Subsal Partial                                           Notappicable
Macro policies                            O0                                    0                    0
Sector policies                           0                  0                  0                    0
Financial objectives                      O                  O                  O                    0
Institutional development                 0                  0                  O                    0
Physical objectives                       0                  0                  0                    0
Poverty reduction                         0                  0                  Cl                   El
Gender issues                             0                  0                  0                    0
Other social objectives                   0                  0                  0                    o
Environmental objectives                  0                  0                  0                    0
Public sector management                  O                  0                  Ol                   0
Private sector development                0                  Ol                 Ol                   0
Population                                0                  0                  0                    0
Health                                    0                  D                  EO                   O
Reduction of disparities                  0                  0                  0                    0
Integration of MCH/FP services            0                  O                  O                    0
B. Projcsuainabiliy                             L y                      Unlikely              Uncertain
0                        0                     0
Higlv
C. Bank performance                            satisfactoa              Satisfactol             Deficien
Identification                                Ol                       0                      0
Preparation assistance                        O                        0                      0
Evaluation                                    O                        0                      Cl
Supervision                                   0                        a                      o         
Hwa
D.  Boffower perfor ance                       satsaol                  Satisvao                Defici
Preparation                                   O                        0                      El
Execution                                     El                       0                      0
Covenant compliance                           E                        0                      El
Operation (if applicable)                     E                        0                      0
igb HiIhy
E. Assessment of outcome                    satiafag=       Satisfwac          Unsatisfaory         unsatisfactory
0                 El                  E                   E



22
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan/Credit Title                      Purpose                          Year of        Status
i________________ ________________________________________________   Approval
Previous Operations
First Population  This project aimed to improve access to FP and MCH      1971       Completed
Project (Credit No.  services by financing: (a) construction of 4 maternity
288-TUN; US$4.8  clinics and 24 MCH centers, and expansion of Avicenne
million           Paramedical Training College; (ii) technical assistance with
paramedical training and the MCH/FP program.
Second Population   This project aimed to integrate FP services with preventive  1982  Completed
and Health Project  and curative care, and nutrition and health/hygiene
(Loan No: 2005;    education services in 8 govemorates.
US$12.5 million)
Components: (i) construction and/or rehabilitation of 140
infirmaries, 325 health centers; (ii) reinforcement of MPH
management through  introduction  of an  MIS; (iii)
implementation of national health education program; and
(iv) creation of a training system (system infrastructure
plus training and deployment of public health personnel in
project target areas).
Operations under way and in preparation
Hospital Reform   This project supports the Government's reform program by  1991     Completion
Support Project    (i) upgrading internal effectiveness and quality of services     expected in
(Loan 3308;       and introducing cost control in the 22 principal hospitals;       March 1999
US$30 million)    (ii) preparing for the introduction of new  financing
mechanisms by developing an ability to generate data
linking utilization of hospital services to contributions from
insured individuals and low-income groups.
Health Sector Loan  This project is designed to extend the objective of   Start-up   Completion
(in preparation,  improving  internal effectiveness and  efficiency  and planned for    expected in
start-up planned  enhancing quality throughout the health system, especially  early 1998  2002
forearly 1998,    its second (i.e. regional) level, and to assist with
US$50 million).    development of the management and health information
system.



23
Table 3 Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle               Date planned        Actual date
identification                                                           6/05/89
Preparation                                                              10/11/89
Appraisal                                                                10/22/90
Negotiations                                                              1/28/91
Board presentation                                                       3/21/91
Signature                                                                5/22/91
Effectiveness                                                             10/2/91
Project completion                                    9/30/96            9/30/97
Loan closing                                          3/31/97            3/31/98
Table 4: Loan Disbursements:
Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(in millions of US$)
FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98
Appraisal estimate                0.2    4.4    12.2   20.2   24.6   26.0   26.0...
Actual                            2.0     2.0    6.8    11.9   16.7   22.5  24.85*
Actual as % of estimate           1000   45.4   53.0   58.9   67.9   86.7   95.6 *
Date of final disbursement                                                 July 30, 1998
* As of may 22,1998.



24
Table 5A: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key implementation indicators in SAR              At project         End of Project              Latest
start-up            Objective                 Data
Percentage of centers with integrated                    16%                  40%                    87.5%
MCH/FP services14
Percentage of participants in in-service            See Table 5C          See Table 5C           See Table 5C
training, by module
Growth in non-salary operating budget               See Table 5B        Positive growth,         See Table 5B
allocated to BHC                                                       higher than growth
in non-salary
operating budget of
MPH
Table 5B: Distribution of MPH Non-Salary Operating Budget
(in millions of DT)
MPH Budget                                          First-Level Budget 
TOTAL            Dist. hosps.         BHCC            Preventive          ONFP
Medicine                       l
TND M     Growth  TND M    Growth  TND M        Growth  TND M   Growth  TND M   Growth TND M    Growth
1990   70.515              23.239               9.185            10.436            2.303            1.315
1991    84.348    19.6%    28.843   24.1%      11.563   25.9%    13.095   25.5%    2.875   24.8%   1.310   -0.4%
1992   92.453      9.6%    31.966    10,8%    13.153    13.8%   14.426   10.2%    3.000      4.3%   1.387    5.9%
1993   104.054    12.5%    35.793    12.0%/o   14.784    12.4%   16.227   12.5%    3.200     6.7%   1.582   14.1%
1994   114.422    10.0%    38.405     7.3%     16.943    14.6%   15.903   -2.0%    3.900   21.9%/e  1.659    4.9%
1995   124.965     9.2%    44.526    15.9%     16.583    -2.1%   20.105   26.4%    6.000   53.8%   1.837   10.7%
Average
Annual               12%                14%                13%               15%              22%                7%
Growth
Source: MPH (DTH)
14   The current level can be ascribed to the combined effect of: (a) transfer of the responsibilities of ONFP midwives to BHC
Directorate midwives at 419 centers instead of the 320 anticipated; (b) expansion of range of services provided by ONFP midwives
to include MCH/FP services; and (c) major efficiency gains following reorganization of mobile-service circuits.



25
Table SC: Record of Training Activities up to September 15, 1997
PUBLIC HEALTH DIPLOMA:                                                                                           ONFP regional directors, heads of   In addition to the regional officials targeted, 50
regional departments, executives, and   public health physicians also took this training
delegated representatives
Goal                                  0         0                  13       19       18       16          69
Actual                                                    9         8                                     17
I ActuaVGoal (%)                                                     52                                     25
MANAGEMENT OF DISTRICTS
* Training of trainers
Goal                                                               20       20                            20
Actual                                                              0       24                            24
Actual/Goal (%/6)                                                   0      120                           120     105 MPH [staff]; 68 sector          This training reached almost all targets and is
executives; 64 pharmacists; 23      regarded as sufficient.
delegated representatives
* Training for District officials (6
days)
Goal                                                     62         0       92       92       41         260
Actual                                                  42          0       96       81                  219
ActuaVGoal (%)                                                             104       88                 84.2
MATERNAL AND CHILD
HEALTH
* Training of trainers (2 weeks)
Goal                                                               20                         20
Actual                                                             Z0                         20
ActuaVGoal (%)                                                    100                        100
* Training MPH (6 days)
Goal                                                    134         0      200      200       54         734    Doctors attached to BHCCs            Initial target of 1200 cut back to 734
Actual                                                  134       127      221      198       73         753
Actual/Goal (%)                                         100                110       99      135         102
PERINATAL CARE                                                                                                   1200 midwives and obstetrical nurses   Training completed. It will now be
incorporated into regional in-service training
programs for midwives.
* Prenatal (3 days)
Goal                                288       400      300        170      120      110                 1200
Actual                              273       304      231        162      113      101                 1210
Actual/goal (%/f)                  94.8        76        77      95.3     91.8     91.8                  101
* Delivery/neonatal care (4 days)
Goal                                          564      300        120      100       50                 1200
Actual                                        561      376        113      121        7                 1314
Actual/Goal (%)                               99.5      125      94.2      121       14                108.5
* Postnatal FP (4 days)
Goal                                                   600        350      140      159                 1200
Actual                                                 707        229      111      153                 1251
ActualGoal (%/6)                                        118      65.4       79     96.2                  104



26
Table 5C : Record of Training Activities up to September 1997 (continued)
.__________________________________    1990  1991     1992      1993      1994     1995      1996    TOTAL              TARGETS                       REMARKS
ORSTIN-SERVICE PRACTICAL TRAINING                                                                                           600 midwives and obstetrical   In view of midwives' professional
(FAMILY PLANNING IN PLACE OF FAMILY                                                                                         nurses                        and family constraints, the goal for
HEALTH)                                                                                                                                                   1996 was limited to 150.
Goal                                                              158        143      120       120       50        600
Actual                                                            106         98       75        62       63        408
Actual/Goal (/)                                                   66         69     62.5       124      126         6S
N-SERVICE PRACTICAL TRAINING IN
NORMAL BIRTHS AND RESUSCITATION
OF NEWBORNS (I month) FOR MPH
Goal                                                     73       IS0        123       20        10                 240    240 doctors
Actual                                                    17       86         69       58        33                 263    Rural matemity clinics
Actual/Goal (%)                                         73.9     47.7         56      290      330                 109.5
TRAINING FOR                                                                                                                Regional and district
inspectors
REGIONAL AND
DISTRICT
SUPERVISORS (48 days)
Goal                                                                          60       70       23                  128                                   Training completed
Actual                                                                        39       76        22                 137
Actual/Goal (%)                                                               65      108        95                 107
X-RAY EXAMINATION TECHNIQUES (2                                                                                             Radiology technicians        Training replaced by recruitment of
months)                                                                                                                                                   qualified technicians
Goal                                                                           7        7
Actual                                                                         0        0
Actual/Goal (%/o)                                                              0        0
LABORATORY TECHNIQUES (11 weeks)                                                                                            Laboratory technicians
Goal                                                                                   10                             10
Actual                                                                                  7                              7
Actual/Goal (%)_                                                                       70                            70
ROLE OF PARAMEDICAL PERSONNEL IN                                                                                            Paramedical personnel (1500)
MCH
Goal                                                    230       460        200                                   1500
Actual                                         266      414       385        448      180                          1647
Actual/Goal (%)                                          180     83.7        224                                    110                                                                      l
INFORMATION FOR SOCIAL WORKERS ON                                                                                           Social workers               Initial target of 250. Social workers
MCH1FP PROGRAMS                                                                                                                                          are provided with information on
MCH by the Ministry of Social
Affairs.l
Goal                                                                         250       40                           250                                                                      l
Actual                                                                       210      826                          1036
Actual/Goal (O/o)                                                             84                                    414
.  ~ _                                                   . -I                             



27
Table 6A: Key Indicators for Project Results
Key operating indicators in SAR            At project       End of Project            Latest
start-up          Objective               Data
1. Contraceptive prevalence (modem                   40                 45                   50.015
methods)
2. Prenatal care coverage (at least one visit)        67                 85                  84.516
3. Proportion of pregnant women receiving at          21                 40                  43.215
least 4 prenatal visits
4. Postnatal care coverage                            39                 50                  53.7'15
5. Proportion of assisted deliveries in rural         59                 70                  68.015
areas
6. Consultations for under-five-year-olds in                             70
75% of centers offering vaccination services
'5  Source: PAPCHILD Survey. Average for 1990-1994.
16  CAP Survey on Perinatal monitoring; DBHC - 1997



28
Table 6B: Evolution of Population and Health Indicators, by Region
Indicators, by region                    Prior to project     Most recent Year
Greater Tunis
Maternal morality rate17                                3.3                    40
Infant mortality rate'9                                2.89                   21.5
Total fertility rate'9                                                        2.46
North East
Maternal mortality rate                                                       50.4
Infant mortality rate                                  33.6                   28.4
Fertility rate                                         2.86                   2.62
North West
Matemal mortality rate                                                          94
Infant mortality rate                                  51.0                     36
Fertility rate                                          3.1                   2.59
Central East
Maternal mortality rate                                                      105.7
Infantile mortality rate                               35.5                   26.0
Total fertility rate                                   3.46                   2.89
Central West
Maternal mortality rate                                                       57,4
Infantile mortality rate                               52.1                   37.8
Total fertility rate                                   4.62                   3.85
South East
Maternal mortality rate                                                       62,4
Infantile mortality rate                               57.3                   35.6
Total fertility rate                                   4.50                   3.34
South West
Maternal mortality rate                                                       92,8
Infantile mortality rate                               57.4                   38.8
Total fertility rate                                   4.25                   3.34
Tunisia
Maternal mortality rate                                                         69
Infantile mortality rate                               45.3                   30.6
Total fertility rate                                   3.38                   2.87
1    Per 100,000 live births. Sources: PAPCHILD average for 1990-1994 and MPH Maternal Mortality Survey 1993-1994.
Is   0/00. Source: National Institute of Statistics, 1991 and 1995
19   Source: Population and Family Health Program: Advances and Perspectives, ONFP, January 1997



29
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Study title/execution
period(s)/funding      Purpose as defined at appraisal/redefined         Status                         Impact of study
Maternal and Perinatal      - Determine maternal mortality rate.   Only one study was carried    This exhaustive study could be carried out
Mortality in Tunisia                                               out, covering 1993-1994.      only once, at the project mid point, and
1991-1992 and 1996          - Identify causes and determining factors                           therefore does not provide a basis for
Funding: WHO, UNICEF,    in matemal deaths.                        Presentation of findings,     assessing the impact of the project.
Tunisia                                                            May 1996.                     However, its findings have proved very
useful, since they: (a) provide a recent
measure of maternal mortality; and (b)
identify the main causes of that mortality.
This exercise also led the Govemment to
decide to institute a permanent system of
l_______________________      recording  maternal deaths.
Prevalence of Disabilities in   Identify and describe the disabilities  A single study was carried out  Diagnostic study based on study on data
Children Aged from 36 to 60   associated with prenatal ischemia and  in conjunction with the     from Project's first year.
Months Associated with      with peri- or postnatal ischemia-      Institute for Promotion of the
Respiratory Failure in the  respiratory failure.                   Handicapped.
Newborn                                                             Final report presented in
1991 and 1996                                                      March 1995.
Funding: Gvt.
Combined Study on           - Determine rates of coverage for the  Because of cost constraints   Although the PAPCHILD data are useful,
MCI/FP, KAP (Know-          different types of MCH/FP activities.  and the BHC Directorate's    they do not provide a foundation on which to
ledge/Attitude/Practice), and   - Evaluate the nutritional status of  inability to carry out many  measure the impact of the project because:
Public Acceptance and       children under five years of age.      studies simultaneously, it was   (i) they are based on 1990-1994 averages
Opinion of Integrated       - Evaluate the quality of services     decided to use the data from  which do not coincide with the project
MCH/FP Services             provided.                              the PAPCHILD survey           execution period (so that the raw data could
1991 and 1996               - Analyze user KAP and user opinion of    conducted by ONFP.        not be utilized); and (ii) the sample size does
Funding: PanArab and WHO    integrated MCH/FP services.            KAP Study: in progress, with   not allow analyses on the regional level, thus
findings anticipated for early   limiting its operational validity.
l _________________________                                         1998.
Analysis of Patient Flows at   Evaluate the impact of the project on  Data collected 1992-1993 and   No analysis of study data was performed as
BHC Centers Types III and   patient flows at type III and type IV BHC   available 1994.          the initial purpose of the study was
IV                          Centers.                                                             considered to have been unclear.
1991 and 1995
Prescription Practices at   Analyze doctors' medical prescription  Execution of this study was
BHC Centers                 practices.                             deferred owing to launching
1993-1994                   Assess prescription costs and the extent    of a comprehensive study on
of user medication needs.              medication use in public
health facilities. Findings are
expected to be available in
l ______________________                                            early   1998.
Evaluation of Vehicle,      The purpose of this study, initially to  The study as redefined was  The impact of this study on the first level of
Equipment, and Building     make a cost-benefit comparison of      incorporated into a broader   care is still not discemible. However, the
Maintenance                 maintenance by MPH itself and          study on the MPH, which was   maintenance function is no longer perceived
1992                        subcontracted maintenance, was later   completed successfully.      as fraught with problems, doubtless because
redefined when the MPH decided to                                   of the greater responsibilities placed on the
make as much use as possible of private                             district authorities in this regard.
sector services. The study was limited to
recommending the principles that should
be followed with respect to BHC Center
maintenance.



30
Table 8A: Project Investment Costs21
DT million                                 DT million
Local       Foreign          Total       Local*      Foreign*           Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works                               3.4            3.4           6.8           4.3            4.2           8.5
B. Equipment                                 2.2            5.2           7.4           3.0            7.0          10.0
C. Vehicles                                  5.8            7.1          12.9           7.9            9.6          17.5
D. Expert Services                           0.2            0.0           0.2              -             -           0.0
E. Training                                   1.0           0.0           1.0                          0.5           0.5
Sub-Total                                   12.6           15.7          28.3                                        NA
Physical contingencies                        0.8           1.1            1.9                                       NA
Price contingencies                          12.6           3.4           6.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                         16.0          20.2           36.2          15.2          21.3           36.5
v Foreign exchange content based on evaluation estimate.
21   Cost increases were due to: (a) construction costs of new centers (1ND 370 per m2 instead of the TND 300 per m2 estimated) and an
increase in their size (former Type II, 100 m2, replaced by new Type A,180 m2; former Type III, 162 m2, replaced by new Type B, 230
m2); and (b) construction costs of diagnostic centers, which were built rather than renovating existing facilities. These increases were
offset by: (a) tight control of civil engineering costs, and maintenance or lowering of initial renovation costs because such programs were
carried out by small contractors; (b) very open competition for procurement of medical equipment, resulting in very competitive prices;
(c) UNICEF's agreeing to finance training; (d) separation of the intermediate centers into two phases, with only the first phase being
funded form project proceeds; (d) a favorable yenlTND exchange rate on purchase of vehicles and (e) a favorable dollar/TND exchange
rate.



31
Table 8B: Project Financing (Investment costs)
Appraisal estimate (US$ million)*        Actual/latest estimate (US$ million)*
Source
Local costs    Foreign        Total       Local costs     Foreign        Total
exchange                                  exchange
costs                                     costs
World Bank                                             26.0          26.0           4.7          21.3          26.0
Govemment                                6.3           10.2          16.5           1.2          1 1.8         13.0
Total                                    6.3           36.2          42.5          5.9           33.1          39.0
Table includes investment costs only for comparison purposes as data on incremental recurrent costs are not available.
- Actual costs expressed in dollars, have been estimated by using the annual average exchange rate and assuming a pattem of disbursement
for local costs similar to Bank loan pattem.
- Foreign exchange content is based on appraisal estimates.



32
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant    Present     Original      Revised                                                     Comments
Section21    type       status23    fulfillment    fulfillment
date         date
3.02        05          C        10/02/1991                Establishment and continuity of     Complied with; great stability of Unit
Project Implementation Unit and    officials throughout course of project.
appointment of its director
3.03/1       12         CD       12/31/1991                 Preparation of TORs for study on   Existence of TORs did not guarantee
BHC medical prescription and       completion of the study on schedule.
dispensary practices
CD      1213111992                 Completion of study
3.03/2       12          C       12/31/1991                 Preparation of TORs for study on
maternal and perinatal mortality
CD       12/31/1992                Completion of study
3.03/3       12         CD       12/31/1991                 Preparation of TORs for study on user   Replaced by PAPCHLD survey; delays
acceptance and perception of FP/MCH   linked to prior completion of population
services as part of BHC            census.
CD      12131/1992                 Completion of study
3.03/4       12          C       12/31/1991                 Preparation of TORs for study on
improved neonatal resuscitation and
measures at maternity clinics to
prevent handicaps
CD       12/31/1992                Completion of study
3.03/5       12          C       12/31/1991                 Preparation of TORs for study on
patient flows
Completion of study
CD      12/31/1992
3.03/6       12         CD       12/31/1991                 Preparation of TORs for study on
maintenance of vehicles, equipment
and plant
CD      12/31/1992                 Completion of study
3.04        09          C         10/31 of    10/31/1997   Remittal of annual report to Bank and   Complied with systematically each
each year                discussion of Bank's conclusions    semester prior to supervision mission
visit.
3.05a        I1          C        12/31 of                 Remittal to Bank of resource        Information on personnel deployment
each year                 allocation arrangements and execution   not provided.
plans annually from 1992 to 1997
4.01        01          CD                                 Audits of accounts                  Although very comprehensive, audit
reports were remitted up to 12 months
after fiscal year closing dates.
21   Section of Loan Agreement
22   1: Accounts/audits; 2: Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries; 3: Flow and utilization of project funds; 4:
Counterpart funding; 5: Management aspects of the project or executing agency; 6: Monitoring, review, and reporting; 7: Project
implementation; 8: Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary allocation; 9: Sectoral or regulatory/institutional action; 10: Other.
23   C: Complied with; CD: Complied with after delay.



33
Table 10: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title            Describe and comment on lack of compliance
Not applicable                                Not applicable
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle        Planned                Revised                Actual
Weeks       US$        Weeks        US$       Weeks       US$
Preparation to appraisal                                                    80      206.9
Appraisal through Board,                                                    19       61.5
approval
Supervision                                                               86.5        268
Completion                  8.5        25.5                                8.0         20
TOTAL                                                                    193.5      556.4
* In view of COS-related changes made in the MIS system, "Planned" and "Revised" figures are not available for the project cycle period.



34
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of project cycle          sly,w    No. of    Days       Specialized staff     Performance rating'                                     Types of problems
staffl5    in field   skills represented26_                _
Imple-     Develop-
mentation      ment
status     objectives                             .
Preparation to appraisal
March 1990 - Preparation                           4                 PS; MD; CO; 10        n/applic.    nlapplic.
July 1990  - Pre-appraisal                         4         18      PS; MD; OA; HE
Appraisal
|AOctoberaisal                                       5         18     PS; MD; OA; Div        n/applic.    n/applic.                                                                                      l
Supervision missionS'
October 1991 (project launching)                   5         11      HE; OA; MD; MD;          S           HS        - Delay in opening of Special Account.
A
|  February 1992                                   3                 HE; MD; OA              HS            HS       - Difficulties with assignment of human resources.
  September 1992                                  3                 HE; MD; OA                                     - Human resource assignments should be incorpoirated in yearly resource allocation plan.
- Delay in launching of training and study components.
- Strengthening of coordination with ONFP necessary.
April 1993                                         4                 OA; MD; MD; A                                  - Problems with start-up of civil works, owing to unfanmiliarity in the regions with contract
financing procedures.
- Lack of capacity of Project Technical Unit.
September 1993                           25        3         10      OA; MD; A                S            HS       - Studies completed only slowly.
- Modification of sites selected for diagnostic centers and the CREPF.
- Cost of mobile clinics in excess of estimate.
April 1994                               25        3         12      OA; MD; A                S           HS        - Introduction of information system. Close monitoring of its use at all levels necessary.
- Project Unit's shortcomings in human resource assignment management partly compromise
success of project,
November 1994 (informal mid-term         30        4         17      OA; MD; A; PS            S            HS       - Difficulties with measurement of project impact owing to delayed completion of studies.
mission for supervision purposes, and for                                                                            - Information system testing in progress.
overall sector analysis in conjunction with                                                                          - Human resource assignment picture not clarified.
Hospital Restructuring project mission and in
context of preparation of Ninth Five-Year
Plan)
June 1995                                15        2         l l     OA; A                    S            HS       - Analysis of activities reports on regions under way.
June 1996                                15        3         14      OA; D; A                 S            HS       - Information system under-utilized.
- Allocation of personnel poorly managed.
- Implementation timetable necessitates extension of loan closing date.
March 1997                               to        2         5       OA; PS                   S            HS
October 1997 (project supervision and    25        3         12      OA; MD; PS               S            HS       - Delay in issuance of report by the independent project evaluation committee.
completion mission)                     I         ___ I             I- Delay in remittal of 1996 audit repot.
24    Staff-weeks devoted to project in the field
25    Number of staff taking part in the mission.
26    CO = Communications Officer; D = Demographer; Div = Division Chief; HE = Health Economist; 10 = Investments Officer; MD = Public Health Physician; OA = Project Analyst; A = Architect; PS = Population
Specialist.
27    This is the rating given the project by the evaluating officer. It measures, among other things, it measures completeness of performance and the likelihood that the project will achieve its development objectives. The
possible ratings are: HS, highly satisfactory; S, satisfactory; U, unsatisfactory; and HU, highly unsatisfactory.
25    These supervision missions were carried out at the same times as missions to supervise the Hospital rRstructuring project, so as to ensure coherency in the dialogue with the MPH and take advantage of the resources
afforded by the two teams.



