R E S T R I C T E D
R e p o r t N o.  P-266
fRELl5    CR  Y IP (IDA) 10
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and the Association. It
may not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
The Bank and the Association accept no responsibility for the accuracy or
completeness of the contents of the report.
TNTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
AND A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
FOR A HIGHWAY PROJECT
October 4, 1961



INTERilATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCT ION AND DEVELOPMENT
ITERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECO114ENDATIONS OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN AND A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA  FCR A HIGHIAY PROJECT
1o       I submit herewith the following report and recommendations on a
proposed Loan from the Bank in an amount in various currencies equivalent
to $5.5 million and a proposed Deve'opment Credit from the Association in
an amount in various currencies equivalent to $5.5 mil]ion, both to the
Republic of Costa Rica to help finance a highway improvemenit, construction
and maintenance project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.       Bank assistance for highway development in Costa Rica has been
under discussion since 1957.  In the summer of 1959 the Government pre-
sented a Highway Development Program and bank missions visited Costa Rica
in 1959 and twice in 1960 to appraise the project. Legislation relating
to highway development was enacted in February 1961. In July 1961 the
Government, which had previously asked for Bank financing, asked the
Association also to consider the project.
3.       Formal negotiations began in Washington on September 19, 1961.
The Borrower was represented by Mr. Espiritu Salas, lKinisWer of Public
IIorks, assisted by Messrs. Ricardo Echandi, Fernando Madrigal and
Fernando Campos.
4.       The proposed Credit would be the first financing by the Associa-
tion in Costa Rica. The proposed Loan would increase the Bank's lending
to Costa Rica from $20O3 million to $25.8 million. Loans made to date
are as follows:



-2-
Year                                                               Amount
of                                                             equivalent
Loan         Borrower                          Purpose          in $ million
1956   Banco Central de Costa Rica   Agricultural development
and light industry           3.0
1959   Banco Central de Costa Rica   Agricultural development
and light industry           3.5
1960   Banco Central de Costa Rica   Industrial equipment           20O
1961   Instituto Costarricense de
Electricidad                 Electric power development     8.8
1961   Banco Central de Costa Rica   Industrial equipment           3.0
Total (net of cancellations and refundings)                 20,3 1/
of which has been repaid                                  2.7
Total now outstanding                                     17.6
Amount sold                 2.2
of which has been repaid  1,2                             10
ITet amount held by Bank as of October 2, 1961              16.6 2/
1/ Includes $9.1 million not yet disbursed and $3.0 million not yet effective.



- 3 -
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN AND
DEVELOP-174NT CREDIT
The proposed Loan and the proposed Credit would have the following
characteristics:
Borrower:               Republic of Costa Rica.
Loan Amount:            Equivalent in various currencies to
$5.5 million.
Credit Amount:          Equivalent in various currencies to
$5.5 million.
Purpose:                To assist in financing reconstruction of
about 6h0 kmn. of national and regional
highways; construction of about 30 km. of
new highways; a program for improvement of
the highway maintenance organization and
its operation, including the construction
and expansion of workshops and the pur-
chase of maintenance equipment and
materials; studies of future highway
projects; and the purchase of surveying
and testing equipment.
Term and Amortization
of Loan:                15 years; 21[ semi-annual payments begin-
ning 11ay 1, 1965 and ending November 1,
1976.
Term and Amortization
of Credit:              50 years; 80 semi-arnual repayments of the
principal: 1/2% of principal amount to be
repaid semi-annually beginning November 1,
1971, and ending May 1, 1981, and 1-1/2/
semi-annually beginning- November 1, 1981
and ending liay 1, 2011.
Interest Rate of Loan: 5-3/4% per annum, including 1/'O per annum
commission.
Commitment Charge on
Loan:             -      3/4 of 1% per annum.
Service Charge on
Credit:                  3/4 of 1% per annum on the amount dis-
bursed and outstanding, payable semi-
annually,



- 4 -
PART III - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND LEGAL AUTHORITY
6.      Attached are a draft Loan Agreement (No. 1) and a draft Development
Credit Agreement (No. 2).
7.      The draft Loan and Credit Agreements conform generally to the pat-
tern of agreements for projects of this kind.  The followsing provisions
are of special interest:
a.  Section 5.09 (b) of the Loan Agreement and Section 4.07 (b)
of the Development Credit Agreement provide that the Borrower
will rive priority to the Project in its highway program.
b.  The Project Descriptions of both documents (Schedule 2 to the
Loan Agreement and Schedule 1 to the Credit Agreement) are
identical and Sections 2.02 of both documents provide for
pari passu disbursements for each eligible item.
el.     The Report of the Comrnittee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Recommendation of
the Committee provided for ir Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association are attached (Nos. 3 and 4).
PART TV  - APPRAISAL OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
Justification of the Project
A detailed appraisal of the Project (TO 294a/TO -IDA    14h) is
attached (No. 5).
10.      Costa Rica's highwjay system, wi-th a total road length of about
14,000 km., of which about 12,000 km. are local roads, is the principal
facility for transporting passengers and freight, accounting for about
89%,O of the passenger traffic and about 70 of freight. The remaining
traffic is carried mainly by railroads, with relatively small contribu-
tions by domestic airways and coastal shipping.
I12.    The number of road vehicles in Costa Rica has more than tripled in
the past ten vears. The resulting increase in traffic volume has over-
loaded the capacity of a major part of the existing highway network, and
has caused damage to road surfacing and foundations. The situation has
been aggravated by inadequate road maintenance in the past due mainly to
the insufficiency and poor condition of maintenance equipment and shops.
There has been relatively little major new road construction during this
period with the exception of work on the Inter-American Highway.
12.     Extensive reconstruction works and some new highway construction
are thus urgently required to provide adequate facilities for present and
expected future traffic. The 6ho km. of highways to be reconstructed



under the project represent one-third of the present total length of national
and regional highways and the majority of these highways service the densely
populated central plateau containing the bulk of the country's manufacturing
and agricultural wealth.  The 31 km. of highways to be newly constructed
consist of three sections, two of which are designed to reliexe the severe
traffic congestion in the San Jose area and the third to open up a rich
agricultural area.  These works, together with the improvement of the main-
tenance organization, constitute the first and most important stage of a
seven-year highway development program to improve and extend the country's
highway network.
13.     The Project is technically sound and cost estimates are realistic;
it is adequately justified economically by the future savings in vehicle
operating costs which will result from improved road transport conditions.
Organization and Procedure
14.     The execution of the Project will be under the supervision of the
HTinistry of Public Works, assisted by external technical consultants.
About two-thirds of the construction and reconstruction work will be under-
taken by contract and one-third by the M1inistry's own forces.
15.    Contracts for construction and reconstruction work and for purchases
of goods will be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding,
except for minor civil works and purchases.
Arrangements for Financing
16.     The total cost of the highway reconstruction and construction work
is estimated at the equivalent of $13.2 million; of this amount $7.2
million would be the foreign exchange component and would be covered by the
proposed Loan and Credit. The foreign exchange cost of maintenance equip-
ment, spare parts, shop and warehouse materials, and survey equipment and
of special studies and consultantst services would be financed by the
balance of the Loan and Credit.
17.     Local currency requirements of the Project would be adequately
covered by national budget appropriations and by revenues specifically allo-
cated to the highway development program by the Legislature under Law No.
2719 of 1961.
Economic Position and Justification for IDA Assistance
18.     A report "Current Economic Position and Prospects of Costa Rica"
(WH-llla) was distributed on August 29, 1961.



19-o    The unification of exchange rates discussed in that report was
effected on SePtember 1, 1961 when the official rate of the colon was
changed from 5.615 colones to 6,625 colones for 1 U. S. dollar. The report
concluded that this measure would modestly assist the major export pro-
ducers, provide some stimulus to the expansion of minor expor;s, damp down
demand for imports and through the associated taxation proposals reduce, if
riot eliminate, the imbalance in Government finances. Following the devalua-
tion, standby credits of $15 million with the IIH and of $ 6 million with
the U. S. Treasury were signed on September 6, 1961.
20.     The external public debt of Costa Rica repayable in foreign exchange
as of June 30, 1961 reached a total of $62.7 million. Since then, the only
major addition has been Bank Loan 296 CR, of September 6, 1961 amounting
to $330 million. Service on the existing debt reaches a peak of q'010.3
million in 1962, about 9,3% of estimated foreign exchange earnings, and
falls rapidly thereafter.
21.     Costa Rica has the highest standard of living and of literacy in
Central America; it also has political stability, a good administration and
a group of dynamic business leaders. Given its general prospects, its
economic policies and its ow-n contribution to investment, there is no doubt
that the country still has a margin for additional conventional loans.
22.     However, growth in real income in the past few years has not exceeded
the growth of population, which is very rapid (over h',   To meet the needs
of the rising population public investment in new productive facilities and
in social services is being stepped up rapidly and prospective borrowing
abroad is substantial. Despite considerable effort towards a diversifica-
tion of production, Costa Rica is still heavily dependent on two export
products with unfavorable prospects - coffee and bananas. Total foreign
exchange earnings are likely to grow in the next few years at an average
of only 3 - 4% per year but short term prospects for increased per capita
incomes are good because of the import substitution possibilities still re-
maining. Over the longer term, however, the outlook for growing per capita
income is more uncertain and depends on the development of new exports,
Until current efforts to develop new exports bear fruit, it would be im-
prudent to increase debt service too rapidly.
23.     In these circumstances, Costa Rica's development could be consid-
erably slowed down unless the country receives some external financial
assistance on special terms. A blend of assistance from the Association
with a loan from the Bank seems appropriate and justified, and I, therefore,
recommend such financing for the present Project.
Prospects of Fulfillment of Obligations
24.     The organization of the Ministry of Public Wlorks, the responsible
executive agency for the Project, is sound and its staff are generally
competent although somewhat inexperienced in certain aspects of major high-
way work.  WSith the assistance of technical consultants, the Iinistry
should be able to carry out the Project efficiently.



25.     In view of Costa Ricats economic position and prospects, the
country should be able to provide the foreign exchange required to meet
the service of the proposed Loan and Credit in addition to its other ex-
ternal obligations.
PART V  - COM4PLIANTCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
26.     I am satisfied that the proposed Loan and the proposed Development
Credit comply respectively with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and
of the Association.
PART VI - RECOVEPllNDATIONS
27.     I recommend that:
(a) The Bank make a Loan to the Republic of Costa Rica in an
amount in various currencies equivalent to $5.5 million for a term of 15
years, including a 31 year period of grace, at an interest rate of 5-3/LZ
per annum (including commission) and on such other terms as are specified
in the attached draft Loan AG1reernent and that the Executive Directors of
the Bank adopt a Resolution to that effect in the form attached (No. 6);
and
(b) The Association make available to the Republic of Costa R'ica
a Development Credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to T5.5
million for a term of 50 years, with a 10-year grace period, bearing a
service charge of 3/4 of 1% per annum on the amount disbursed and outstand-
ing and on such other terms as are specified in the attached draft
Development Credit Agreement, and that the Executive Directors of the Asso-
ciation adopt a Resolution to that effect in the form attached (No, 7)>
l iashington, DB C.
October  4, 1961                                Eugene R. Black
President



