     RETURN TO                                                                                  ,    ~\   ,
    REPORTS DESI<'                                                          RESTRICTED
       VJITHIN
      ONE \\lEEK                       FILE Copy                            Rep 0 r t No.       TO-294a
                                                                                                TO (IDA) 14




                    This report was prepared for use within the Bank and the Association. It
                    may not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.

.                   The Bank and the Association accept no responsibility for the accuracy or
                    completeness of the contents of the report.




        TNTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                          APPRAISAL OF HIGHWAY PROJECT 


                                            COSTA RICA 





                                         October 4,       1961




    Department of Technical Operations
                              COSTA        RICA

                       APPRAISAL OF A ;UGHl;IAY PRC'JECT
                       ---------------


                              TABLE OF COHTEr.i'TS
       suai\TARY                                                 i-ii
  I.   mTRODUCTION                                                1


 II.   BACKGROUND mFDRl'1ATION                                    1
            Geographic and Demographic                            1

            Occupation and Land Ovmership                         1

            Public Transportation System'                         2

III.   THE HIGHWAY SYSTEN                                        J
             Classification and Condition of Roads               3

             General HighwC'.y Hanagement                         4

             l'finistry of PuL1ic "l'lorks                        5

             Execution, Supervision and 

                Naintenance of Roadworks                         5

             Traffic Growth and Characteristics                  6

             Highway Development Plans                           7

 IV.   THE PROJECT                                                8


             General Description                                 8

             Studies, Design and Documentation                   8

             Estimates of Co:r:struction Cost                    9

             Execution of Project !dorks                         9

             Foreign and Local Components of 

               Construction Cost                                10 

             Construction, I'Iaintenance and Survey 

               Equipment                                        11 

             Technical Advisory Assistance                      12 

             Financing: Composition of Bank and Association 

               Loan/Credit                                      12 

 v. ECOlWNIC JUSTIFICATION                                      14 

            Areas Affected by Road Improvements                 14 

            Direct Economic Returns from Road 

               Improv~aents                                     14 

            Additional Benefits from Road Improvements          16 

            Economic Benefits from Nev-r Road Construction      17 

            Higmlay Haintenance Investment                      18 

VI.    CONCLUSIONS AND RECOHj\IENDATIONS                        18 

                                    ANNEXES


TABlES

 1.        Road Lengths and Classification, December 1960.
 2.        Average Annual Expenditure on Roads and Bridges 

             by Different Authorities, 1956 - 1959 

 3.        MinistF,f of Public vJorks Expenditure" 1955 - 1960
 4.        Vehicle Registration and Gasoline Consurr~tion, 1950 - 1964
 5.        First Stage (Four-Year) Highway Development PJan
 6.        Sources of Local Currency for First stage Highl"ray Development Plan
 7.        Design Standards
 B.        Road Works in First Three Years of Highway Plan
 9.        Foreign Currency Component of Highway Construction Costs
10.        Foreign Currency Investment in Construction, }'Iaintenance
             and Survey Equipment
11.        Application and Sources of Project Funds
120        Direct Economic Benefits of Highway Improvements

FIGUHF.B

 1.        llilinistry of Public vlorks; General Organization
 2.        Directorate of Public 1rJorks; HigmJay Department


M\.PS

 1.        Costa Fica; Road and Rail Systems
 2.        Central Zone and l'letropolitan ~'irea
                                  SUMMARY 



(i)       The Government of Costa Rica has asked the Bank and the Association
to assist in financing the first stage of a seven-year highway development
program for the improvement and extension of the country's highvTay network.
The foreign currency requirements of a suit.able pro~iect amount to US$ll million
equivalent; this wouJd be the first transportation loan to Costa Rica by the
Dank or the Association.

(ii)      The number of road vehicles in Costa Rica has more than tripled in
the past ten yeClI's. The resulting increase in traffic volume has overloaded
the capacity of a major part of the existing highway netvlOrk, and has caused
damage to road surface and foundations. The situation has been aggravated by
inadequate road maintenance in the past due mainly to the insufficier:.cy and poor
condition of maintenance equipment and repair facilities.

(iii)     Extensive improvement "JOrks and some new highway construction vlOrks
are urgently required to provide adequate facilities for present and expected
future traffic. The proposed pro.iect provides for:

          a)  the improvement of 64 0 lun (about one-third of the total)
              of existing nat2.0nal and regional roads, and the construc
              tion of 31 km of new roads; the total estimated cost of
              the lvorks is about US$13,,2 million equivalent of vJhich
              the foreign exchange component is about US$702 million
              equivalent;

          b)  the purchase of mechanical equipment, spare parts and
              materials for high-tolay construction and maintenance to
              an amount of about US$3 million equivalent in foreign
              exchange;

          c)  the foreign exchange cost of surveying instruments, en
              gineering studies, and consulting services, estimated
              at about US$0.5 million equivalent.
(iv)      The pro.iect is technically sound and cost estimates are realistic;
it is adequately .iustified economically by the future savings in vehicle oper
atirg costs which l~ll result from the improved road transport conditions.

(v)         The responsible executive agency is the 11inistry of Public l;orh:s;
the organization is sound and staff are generally competent although perhaps
som81·fhat inexperienced in certain aspects of major high~olay works. The Ninis
try is arranging with the U.S, Bureau of Public Horks to provide technical
assistance on all phases of the projecto

(vi)      About one-third of the pro.iect 1'11orks 1dll be executed by force ac
count and tHo-thirds by contracts to bo awarded through international compe
titive bidding. Although planned for three years, execution of the works "Jill
probably take about three and a half years allowing for customary delays and
extensions of contract periods.
                                        - ii 


     (vii)     Financing arrangements appear satisfactory and as the project forms
     part of a -vn.der highVl'ay development plan to be financed from assigned sources
     of local currency revenue and special budget appropriations, assurances have
     been obtained from the Government that the project liwrks "Jill receive priority
     in the application of funds from these sources ·
·

     (viii)     The proposed project provides a suitable b,asis for a Bank loan of
     US~~5.5 million equivalent and an Association credit of US$5.5 million equiva
     lent e A suitable term for the loan liould be 15 years including a three and
     a half year period of grace~
                                                .
                                       COSTA RICA

                       APPRAISAL OF A HIGHWAY PROJECT


                                I <»   INTRODUCTION

16        The Government of Costa Rica has requested the Bank and the Associ
ation to assist in financing a highway improvement, construction, and mainte
nance project which constitutes the first three-year program of a broader
seven-year development plano The project provides for improving about 640 km
of existing roads; the construction of 31 km of new roads; the equipping of
highway const~lction and maintenance divisions; and for associated engineering
stUdies and advisory services~ Participation by the Bank and Association
w0uld cover the total foreign exchange costs for the project works, equipment
and services amounting to US$11 million, and would be the first loan or credit
to Costa Rica for transportation purposes~

2.        This appraisal of the project is based upon findings of Bank mis
sions to Costa Rica in Decem1~!' 1959, ,Tanuary and December 1960, and upon fi
nancial and technical informat~on subsequently submitted by the costa Rican
Government in March and May of 1961.,

                         IIo      BACKGRO:JND INFORMATION

Geographic and Demographic

3.        Costa Rica (Hap 1) has an area of approximately 51,000 sq. km.. (sli
ghtly larger than Switzerland) and may be divided into three main topographical
regions--the Caribbean coastal plains and hinterland with a tropical climate
and heavy rainfall; the central plateau with a mild temperate climate; and the
Pacific coastal plains and hinterland, again tropical but with much less rain
than the Caribbean region. Most regions except the Caribbean enjoy a relative
ly dry 4-month period from December to Aprilo
40        The population of Costa Rica is approximate~ 102 million and is in
creasing at an annual rate of more than 4%, one of the highest net increments
in the world e About one-third of the total population is urban and two-thirds
rural The central plateau is the most intensively developed and most densely
     0

populated area of the countrJr, accommodating over 60% of the total population
with proportions of urban to rural population being about equal~ San Jose,
the capital, is located in the central plateau at an elevation of about 1200mf
the population of the metropolitan area is almost 250,000.

Occupation and Land Ownership

5.        About half the active population is engaged in agriculture and approx
imately 40% of national income is derived from agricultural produots, princi
pally coffee, bananas, cacao, and beef cattle. The facilities for producing
one of the principal exports, coffee, are owned and operated almost exclusively
by Costa Ricans; production of the second most important export crop, bananas,
is mainly in the hands of foreigners.
                                        - 2 



    6.        Land ownership is widespread among a large number of small holdings;
    70% of farms in Costa Rica are less than 20 hectares in area. Most of the
    small farms are located in the central plateau, while large plantations are
    more common in the less-densely populated Caribbean and Pacific coastal areas.
    Public Transportation System
"
    7.        The road and rail systems (Map 1) meet the country1s main domestic
    transportation requirements. The basic road netl-lork has developed gradually as
    a series of radiations outwards from San Jose, the traditional center of polit
    ical and commercial activities. A relatively recent road development has been
    the extension of the basic network to the north and south (Routes 1 and 2) to
    form part of the Inter-American high1f.Tay; sections of this highway are still
    under construction in the south. The present public road system comprises about
    3,300 km of all-weather roads and about 10,700 km of local earth roads and
    tracks.
    8.        THO independent public railroads link San Jose with the country fS
    main seaports - Puntarenas on the west coast, and Limon on the east coast. A
    third independent system, co~prising isolated lengths of railroad, serves large
    privately mmed banana estates located along the Caribbean and Pacific coastal
    plains.
    9.        The present total length of railroad is about 1,390 km, operated by
    the following three companies:
                                   RAILROAD SYSTEM
                           Company                          Length operated
                                                                 (km)

              1.  Ferrocarril Electrico al Pacifico             140
              2. Northern Raihyay Company                       530
              3.  Compania Bananera de Costa Rica               720
                                                    Total     1,390

    10.       The first two companies are common carriers. The "Ferrocarril Elec
    trico al Pacifico" is an autonomous Government agency which operates the San
    Jose - Puntarenas railway and the port of Puntarenas. The second company
    operates the railway between San Jose and the port of Limon, and is responsible
    for a major part of the port's activities; most of the company stock is foreign
    o't-med.

    11.       The third rail netlrlork is owned by the "Compania Bananera de Costa .
    Rica", a subsidiary of the U.S.-owned "United Fruit Companylt, and operat.es in
    the relatively sparsely populated coastal regions of t,he country primarily as
    a carrier for the company's own produce. The amounts of public freight and
    passengers carried are understood to be relatively small.
                                           - 3 


     12.        The highway system predominates substantially as the countryts princi
     pal facility for transporting passengers and freight, accounting for about 80%
     of the totru_ passenger traffic and about 70% of freight. The remaining traffic
     is carried mainly by the railroads, with relatively small contributions by domes
     tic airways and coastal shipping.
,
   13~       In the five years from 1954-1958, road passenger t.raffic increased by
     over 30% and freight traffic by over 50%. The corresponding increases on the
     railroads llTere less than 7% and 25% respectively.

     14.        A number of airline companies operating in C08ta Rica are carrying
     rapidly incre'lsil1g amounts of domestic freight ar.d paS3C::1gers annually; the t.otal
     amount tran8 1:.orted, however, is still somewhat less thHl1 4% of the passenger and
     1% of the f~eight totals for the countryts domestic traffic. The largest air
     carrier cOTi!p::>.ny regist.ered in Costa Rica is II LAC SA" , a one-third share of VJhich
     is olIDed by the GO'ITernment.

     15.        Coastal shipping, mainly along the Pacific coastline, accounts for less
     than 3% of the tctal qu:mtity of domestic fretght moved. Studies are present.ly
     being made by a UoN. e}qx:~rt c('",,'}cerning the location and construction of more
     small port.s in the Gulf of Niccya and elsewhere in order to develop coast.al
     traffic 3




     16.       Statistical data are not available for other means of tr8nsport in
     Costa Rica. Fe't,r rivers are navigable and consequently there has been little
     development. of inlClnd ';;raterway traffic. Traffic on unpaved local roads consists
     mainly of oxcart and packhorse.


                               III.   THE HIGHHAY SYSTEM


     Classification and Condition of Roads

     17.       Public roads in Costa Rica (excluding streets in municip~l areas) are
     classified into th~ee categories - national, regional and local - according to
     the relative importance of the corr~unities connected or the areas served; within
     each category the type of surface varies (see Table 1).. National and regional
     roads, 90% of Hhich are all-weather, comprise about 15% of the total road length
     of 14,000 krn. Only about 237~ of the total road length is all-1"Jeather.

     18.         National Routes 1 and 2 constitute the 640 km length of the Inter
     .lUnerican HighHay running through Costa Rica (Hap 1). The total length comprises
     tuo modern extensions to the long-established, but. poorly-aligr,ed roads from
     San Jose to San Rrunon and Cartago. The 240 km north-westerly extension from
     San Ramon to the Nicaraguan border was completed and surfaced within the past
     fel>1 years. About half of the 300 krn southerly section from Cartago to the Pana
     manian border is open to traffic but not yet surfaced; the whole section is ex
     nected to be opened "Hithout surfacing tovlard the end of 1962, and to be surfaced
     during 1963.
                                  - 4

19.       With the exception of work on the Inter-American Highway, there has
been relatively little major new road construction in Costa Rica during the
past 10 to 15 years~ Any work has been confined mainly to replacement of in
adequate bridges, realignment and improvement of short sections of some of the
more important and heavily trafficked roads, or to the development of local
roads.
20.       Road maintenance in past years has been insufficient to keep pace
with the rate of deterioration and consequently road surfaces generally are
pooro A contributing factor to surface failure has been the inadequate thick
ness of road foundation material in many places. Moreover, the number of
vehicles using the roads has continued to increase rapidly and is now between
three and four times that of ten years ago, with the result that the present
main highway system is generally overloaded and inadequate to me8t expected
future traffic volumes.
General Highway Management
21.         For all practical purposes roadworks in Costa Rica are limited to
the Ministry of Public {iforke and the Inter-American High'iay Authority. Table 2
compares the average annual 0),:;enditure on roads and bridges by different
autho::cities during the four ysars 1956-1959; about 85% of all hig:niay works
 (excludlng the Inter-American Highway) is undertaken by the ~dnistr-y of Public
lrJorks.

22.       Responsibility for the construction and maintenance of main highways
is vested in the Ministry under the Public RoaQs Law of 1955. The Law confers
the responsibility for maint.aining local roads to the Juntas Cantonales de
Caminos (Canton Councils).
23.       The Inter-American Highway Authority is a joint agency of the
Government of Costa Rica and the U.S. Bureau of Public Roads established in
San Jose for the design and construction supervision of that section of the
Inter-American Highway passing through the country. Ministry personnel tempo
rarily attached to this organization have been provided with a good basic
highway training in design, bidding documentation and construction supervision.
24.       New legislation for the limitation of vehicle weights and loads
was enacted in Harch 1960 and the regulations have been promulgated.. They
replace regulations of 1946, which were too restrictive and impractical
for enforcement. The new ones are based on the recommendations of the Seventh
Pan-American Highway Congress, and permit maximum axle-loads of 8 metric tons
and loaded vehicle weights of 2S tons~ As present highway design standards
are appropriate to the new regUlations the enforcement of weight limitations
would be practicable, and would excuse no overloading of improved or newly
constructed roadse
                                      - 5 -



Minist~   of Public Works

25.       The present organization of the llinist~ of Public'}orks (Figure 1)
is such that activities and expenditures fall roughly into three m;'Jin categories;
road and bridge l.vorks accounting for nearly half of expenditures; architectural
Horks (mainly schools) accounting for about one-third; and water supply vrorks
together 1.vith other miscellaneous functions for the remainder.

26.        Table 3 indicates the total expenditure of the lvJ.inistry for the
period 1955-60 and the corresponding amounts expended on road and bridge Horks,
the latter 8veraging about rJ 18 million (US~;3Q2 millionf annually excluding ad
ministration costs. Budget ap·'Jropriations provide the main source of funds for
the Minist~'s highu,Tay activities~ Revenues from road user taxes and vehicle
import duties are not applied directly to road construction or maintenance costs
but merely supplement national funds; in 1959 such revenues totalled about ¢ 46
rrullion (US(~8? 2 million1~

27.       A comprehensive Civil Service Code governs the employment of the lIin 

istry personnel; operational continuity is maintained independently of changes 

of Government 1\1ith only the posts of l'·iinister and Director of Ad'l1inistrCl.tion 

being subject to change. 


Execution, Supervision and r'lRintena.;.ce of Roadl.vorks

 28..      The executive branch of the Hinistry is the Directorate of Public
·Horks (Figure 2). Most works in the past ha.ve been constructed by force account
 in one of the six regional Zones of the Hinist~, There has been an increasing
tendency recently to execute certain types of high1'Jay vJork - mainly earth1:'Jorks 
by contract; it is the Ministry1s policy to continue transferring more tvork to
contractors and ultL'l1ately to redu~e the highway functions of the Directorate
to those of design, supervision and maintenance only.

29.       A number of small but competent domestic high1·my construction firms
have emerged during the past fe"tv years:J largely due to the impetus provided by
the Inter-Amencan Hightvay construction. Fourteen such firms are presently
registered, tlrJO 1..:rith a capital of over rJ 5 million.

30.         Foreign construction firms may undertake 1.fork in Costa Rica provided
the firm and the senior engineer are registered vrith the requisite local bu
reaus; tT:JO U.S o highl.vay contracting firms are presently working in the country..
The procedures of international cC1lTlpetitive bidding uill be applied to the
project.

31..      Inspection of examples of road and bridge t-1orks designed in the Hin
istry and recently constructed by force account and by contract indicates a
reasonably high standard of technical ability and workmanship. The qualifica
tions of the Minist~fs senior technical personnel are good but their average
age is relatively low, and consequently in certaL~ cases, practical experience
is someHhat limited.

*   AT the then prevailing parity ratio of     t   5 ..615 to the dollar.
                                             - 6 


     32,       Officials from the U.S. Bureau of Public Roads have assisted the rllin
     istry from time to time under the U.S. technical aid program; an Equipment
     Engineer is presently engaged in technical and manual instruction of Costa Rican
     drivers and operators, and a second Engineer is assisting and advising in new
     highway construction financed by the Export-Import Bank. Nore technical ad
     visors are considered necess~J if greater volumes of highway work are unde~n.
.
   33.       The Ministry mechanized its accounting system in 1959. The system is
     now operating efficiently in budget and contract accounting, inventory control,
     and limited maintenance costing; no proper system of costing force account l-l"orks
     is yet in operation, although a recent start was made with U.S. technical as
     sistance.

     34.        The maintenQllce of all public works, including hight-rays, buildings
     and water supply, is carried out by the Zone organizations (Figure 2). The size
     of the country and the amount of work involved does not justify an entirely
     separate organization for highlmy maintenance, but the equipment at least should
     be se~regated. A further distinction should be drawn between highway maintenance
     and high'Hay construction equip:nent which is not now the case - often to the det
     riment of the highway maintenEnce effort. A sound central organization has been
     established for the purchase, control a~d distribution of materials and spare
     parts ..

     35.       Of the six Zone depots, the three at Alajuela., Liberia, and Tibas are
     of fairly recent construction and wouln be adequate to meet future l'squirer:lents
     if plant and equipn:ent were supplemented. The trrree remaining depots vJOuld re
     quire improvement and extension in order to pro\"icJe sat,~.sfactory fut:ll'e
     ards of highway maintenance. A nll.rnber of s1.lbsidi'lr'J regional d.epots -vdthin the
     Zones provide for more efficient execution of vlOrk in areas rC.'TI.ote from the :nain
     depots; most of the regional shops need improvement and refii:'-:ii~lgo

     36.       A new Central depot, including shops and warehouses~ lias recently com
     pleted in San Jose, and work is nOv7 in hand to reha.bilitate old maintenance and
     construction equip~:lent. Standards of serviCing and repair of the equipment are
     high.

     37.          The liinistry has estimated the average annual cost of adequately main
     taining gravel roads at about ¢ 3, 700/km (US$660/k:n.)~ and asph~l t roads (Hith
     periodic seal coat) at ¢ 3,590/km (US$635/la;o.)-l: The estimates ac.:sume the roads
     to be in fair coneb.tien originally and alloifJ for the depreciation and repair of
     equipment, the cost of labor and materials, but not for administrative costs.
     The estimates are reasonable and form the basis for the Hinistry's future high
     lVa~.r maintenance budgeting.


     Traffic Growth and Characteristics

     38.       The total number of motor vehicles registered in Costa Rica has more
     than tripled during the past ten years (Table 4). The rate of grovrth has les
     sened however in the past few years and is now betvreen about 4% and 5% annually
     of a total vehicle fleet around 25,000 (1960 estimate). There are, in addition,
     about 7,000 motorcycles and bicycles in the country. The motor vehicle density
     per capita is about the same as in Hexico.
     * At   the exchange rate   p~evailing   at the time of   esti~ate.
                                      - 7


39.       The bulk of the vehicle fleet is made up of passenger cars and light
trucks of the "pick-upll type v-:rith a load capacity of about 3/4 ton. Heavy
trucks over 2-ton capacity comprise about 20% of the total number of vehicles,
the average type of truck being one of around 4-ton capacity. Both light and
heavy trucks operCite under conditions of high capacity usage, t..rith payload fac
tors normally between 0~65 and 0.90.

Highway Development Plans

40.         As a consequence of the poor condition and general inadequacy of the
existing highNay netvlOrk, the Hinistry of Public 1iJorks has prepared a seven-year
Hight'ray Plan providing for:

           (i)   the improvement of the most important existing roads;

          (ii)  the purchase of constnlction and maintenance equipment
                and the development of the present highNay maintenance
                organization;

         (iii)   the constructi;);.1 of nevI main roads;   and

          (iv)   the construction of a nett..rork of new local or feeder roads.

41.       Estimates of total cost for the seven-year Plan made in 1959 amounted
to ¢ 300 million (US~~54 millionYl due to later modifications and revisions of
cost estimc:tes for narts of the wO:i.~ks and as a consequence of the recent deval
uation of the colon" the total cost will be substantially more than this amount.

42.        The highest priority t,.lOrks v-ut...'1in the seven-year Plan were recently
consolidated by the Ministry into a "First stage ll development plan covering a
four-year periog approximately and estimated to cost about ¢ 170 million
(US~~30 million)"; (Table 5). This program, with its related financing arrange
ments, received Congressional approval in February 1961 and is incorporated in
the Plan Vial 1a1..r, Decree No. 2719.

43,        The relevant law authorizes the Executive to contract foreign loans or
credits for the purpose of financing the highway plan to an amount of US~~15 mil
lion equivalent, or about half t...'1e total cost of the plan. The law also spec
ifies certain sources of local currency revenue, funds from 1'lhich are to be ap
plied towards t...~e cost of the plan and to the servicing of any foreign loans
contracted. These sources are expected to yield about ¢ 25 - 26 million
(US::;3.9 million) annually in local currency (Table 6), but the funds will only
become available after the first foreign loan has been ratified by Congress.


*   At the exchange rate prevailing at the time of estimate.
                                    - 8 

                            IV ·  THE PROJECT

General_Description
44.       The proposed project covers the following items:
             (i)  Those highway improvement and construction works scheduled
                  to be carried out - partly by contract and partly by force
                  account - in the first three yea:::'s of the consolidated
                  four-year development plan (paragraph 42), at an estimated
                  total cost of about US$13.2 million equiv8~ent;
            (ii)  The purchase of mechanical equipment, spare parts and
                  materials for the construction and maintenance division,
                  estimated at about US$3 million equivalent in foreign
                  exchange; and
           (iii)  Th8 foreign exchange cost of surveying instruments, engi
                  neering studies, and consluting services, estimated at
                  about US$O,S million equivalent.
45.       About 95% of the p~oject investment in highway works comprises the
improvement of existing nation~~ and regional roads - 54 in number totalling
640 km~ The remaining part of the project works involves the construction of
3 new roads of high priority, totaling 31 km (Uaps I and 2).
460       The nature of the highway improvement work varies somew"hat in differ
ent localities and terrain but consists mainly in improving existing geometric
alignment, widening and strengthening existing road foundations and shoulders,
widening or re-building existing bridges, paving, and improving drainage.
470        The highway works in the fourth and subsequent years which have been
omitted from the presently proposed project involve mostly new highway con
struction or lower priority improvement worksQ Further engineering and econ
omic studies are required before the new highways could be considered for
possible future Bank or Association participation. It is proposed that such
studies be included in the engilleering services to be financed under the present
projcet.
Studies, Design and Documentation
48.       As a preliminary to design and cost estimating, th~rough studies of
soil and existing pavement conditions have been made by the San Jose University
on behalf of the Public Works Directorate. Comprehensive traffic studies have
been made by the Planning Division of the Directorate over the past few years,
covering such aspects as traffic composition, growth, origin and destination,
weights, etc.
49.       For design purposes, roads have been classified into one of six types
according to the traffic volumes expected after completion (Table 7). The
standards proposed for new construction works are entirely satisfactory; those
for improvement works are generally satisfactoryo The physical limitations
                                         - 9 

     associated with improvements naturally dictate somewhat lower standards; in
     particulaT, the pavement and shoulder widths for improved roads of Types G
     and H are rather limiting and sholud be regarded as minimum standards.

     50.       Designs have been prepared by ~ti.nistry personnel lnth some guidance
     from U.S. Bureau of Public Roads' engineers. The drawings, specifications and
     contract documents appear generally satisfactory, and will be subject to a
     further final review by the Bank prior to the execution of the project works.

     Estima.tes of Construction Cost

     51.       A list of the 57 project roads to be improved or constructed by con
     tract and force account within the three-year scheduled construction period is
     given in Table 8, with proposed design types and estimated construction costs.
     The unit prices used by the Ministry in preparing the cost estimates are based
     upon items of work executed recently by contract, as no accurate figures are
     available for past works executed by force accounto Quantities have been re
     vised recently and are realistic.

     520       The costs for L~provement works vary according to the type of terrain,
     the nature of the existing road, and the expected traffic volume; the average
     cost per km is about ¢ 125,000 (US$20,000). Because of the difficulty in pre
     determining accurately the extent of some of the reconstruction work necessary,
     a contingency allowance of 15% has been included by the iVIinistry in the cost
     estimates; this allowance is reasonable but should be regarded as the minimum
     to provide for uncertainties in the works and for any possible price increases,
     including the effects on the local costs resulting from the devaluation of the
     colon.

     53.       As of June 1961 work had started on only three of the 57 roads. The
     cost estimates in Table 8 relate to total expenditures excepting for these
     three roads, which have been reckoned from January 1, 1961 when about 1% of the
     total project work had been executed.

     Execution of Project 11Torks

     54.        About two-thirds of the project works will be undertaken by contract
     and one-third by the Ministry's own construction forceso The main factors
     vJhich have influenced the apportioning of the works betl.;een contract and force
     account are: the degree of variation or uncertainty associated 1ilith some im
     provement works, making them more amenable to execution by force account; the
     decreasing capacity of the Ministry's construction force using mostly rehabil
     itated old equipment; the capacity of the small but increasing domestic con
     tracting force; and the participation likely by foreign contractorso

     55.       The follolving division of work has been planned for the three years
.
   of the project, and indicates clearly the },Iinistry's policy to undertake grad
     ually a greater volume of future highway work by contract as available contract
     ing forces develop
                                                   - 10 -

                               Execution of Project Works Yearly
                                      (Cost in ¢ Million)
                         1st Year               2nd Year                3rd Year       3-Year Total
                   KIn    Cost %Cost~~    KIn    Cost %Cost-)~    KIn    Cost %COst~k KIn Cost ,%Cost*
Contract       77      8~9      10       137 18 .. 9     22      267    32 0 0    36   481       68
Force Account 54 11.2
             ---'--------       13        88 10~7                 48     6.. 0
                                                                              - .J_
                                                                        38 .. 0
                                                                                       190
                                                                                       671
                                                                                                 32
                                                                                                100
Total        =13=1====20:.i~=1===2=3                             315

     *   % of 3-year total
     56.       The first year works will be started toward the end of 1961 or the
     beginning of 1962.
     57.       Although the sizes of individual road sections proposed for contract
     are relatively small (maximum amount ¢ 701 million or about US$l.l million) the
     scope of the whole development program - if adequately publicized - should be
     sufficient to interest foreign firms in addition to those presently working in
     Costa Rica.
    58.       The execution of the project works will be supervised by IJ.linistry
    personnel, assisted by external tecfu~cal advisors; the extant of advice deemed
    necessary is discussed further in paragraphs 69-71. Although the works have
    been planned for a three-year execution period~ it is probable that this will
    extend to around three and a half years with customary delays and extensions
    of contract timeo
    Foreign and LOCal Components of Construction Cost

    59.       According to the Governme~tls estimates using the old parity ratio of
    5.615 colones to 1 U.s. dollar, the foreign currency component of cost for the
    project highway work would be about 67% if the work is executed by foreign con
    tractors and about 48% if by domestic contractors~ These percentages cover
    equipment depreciation, servicing and repair parts, tires and tubes, fuel and
    lubricants, imported construction materials, and also allow for the administra
    tion costs and profit of foreign contractors (Table 9)£ The figures are reason~
    able and compare with the foreign currency percentages for executing similar
    Bank-financed highway work in other Latin American countries (e.g. 64% for
    foreign contractors and 47% average for domestic contractors in Ecuador, Loan
    176-EC) ·
    60.       For project works to be undertaken by contract, the Ministry haa as
    sumed that about half will be executed by foreign and about half by don~stic
    contractors, resulting in an average foreign currency requirement of 5705% of
    the contract construction costs. Since, as a result of the recent devaluation,
    the foreign exchange cost in terms of colones has to be increased the percentage
    may be adjusted to 62%0
                                              - 11 

        610       For works my force account, the foreign currency cost component
        does not include an allowance for the depreciation of equipment since loan
        funds ~~ll be used for capital purchases of any new equipment required and
        also for the initial rehabilitation of old construction equipment. The
        remaining items which then comprise the foreign component of force account
        work are (Table 9): servicing and repair parts; tires and tubes; fuel and
        lubricants; and imported construction materials; in all, a total of 34.8%
        of the cost of force account ''lork. Again reflecting the effects of the de
        valuation, the percentage may be adjusted upward to 39%.
        62.       Applying the foreign currency percentages discussed in the foregoing
        paragraphs to the total yearly investments in the program (see Paragraph 55),
        the following local and foreign currency amounts are required for execution
        of the project works:
              Local and Foreign Currency Requj.rements for Project Works (-;;,)
             ~-------------cw rnillion and~'usrmil1IOn)-         ..- - - 

             First Year            Secor.d Year     Third Year         Totals
                                                   --         l,"or-            For
                         For-                 For-
             Total Local eign                                              -_.
                                 Total ~~~al eign Total Local eign Total - -  eign
                                                                          Local

Contract       8.9   3.4   0~8   18.9   7.2    1.8    32QO 12.1 3 ..0      59.8    22.7   5.6
Force
Account      11,2    6.8   0.6   1007   6.S    0.6    630   ..:B..   Q~4   27.9   ~7~O    1.6

Total       ¢20.1 %10.2 $1~4 ¢29.6 ¢1307 $2.4 ¢38.0 ¢15,S $3.4 %87.7              ¢39.7 $7.2

(*) Foreign component 62% for contract works and 39% for force account works.
    63.       The requirements of foreign currency would be met out of B&nk and
    Association loan/credit funds, and of local currency mainly from the sources
    of funds designated by the Plan Vial Law, and partly from the allocation for
    general admir.istrative expenses in tha }linistry's annual budget (see para
    graphs 71-73).
     Construction, Maintenance and Survey Equipment
    64.       For the execution of improvemont and cOJ"~truction work by force ac
    count, the Ninis:'ry int-enjs to rehabilitate some of its present old equipment
    and to supplement this with the purchase of a few essontial items of new equip
    ment. The rehabilitation will require repair parts, tires, et~o, to a foreign
    currency value of ¢2"S million equivalent while the new equipment will cost
    about %2.9 million equivalant~ Field workshops for the servicing of the con
    struction equipment on site will require the expenditure of an additional
    ¢0.8 million in foreign currency, making a total of about ¢6&2 million (say
    US$0.9 million equivalent) for the force account works division.
    65.       The old construction equipment is e~pected to have expended its use
    ful life towards the end of the three or four-year period of the development
    plan; the items of new equipment are such that for the most part they can be
    absorbed into the highway maintenance organization:>
                                    - 12 

66..        New highway maintenance equipment to the value of t9.l million
equivalent vull be purchased for distribution to Zone maintenance divisions.
A furtl'1er foreign currency investment of t3.8 million equivalent is proposed
in the construction or extension of Zone buildings, the refitting of workshops,
and the build-up of an adequate initial stock (about one year's supply) of spare
parts and maintenance materials, making a total investment in highway mainte
nance of about ¢12.9 million (say US$200 million equivalent)8
67.       Additicnal laboratory equipment and surveying instruments are re
quired by the ~~stry, also aerial photographs, and special photogrammatic
surveys of road locations in difficult terrain, the latter partly in connection
with the studies of new roads programed for the fourth and later years of the
Highway Plan. Total foreign costs of this equipment and special studies amount
to about tl.l million (say US$Oc2 million equivalent).
68~        Details of the requirements and estimated costs of the equipment re
quired for construction, maintenance} workshops, laboratory and survey, etc.,
are surr~arized in Table 10 0
Technical Advisory Assistance

69.       Technical advisers~ additional to those at present assisting the
}unistry, are considered necessary for the duration of the proposed Bank-Assoc
iation financed project. The further a~visory assistance should be directed
principally towards developing the highway maintenance organization, cost
accounting system, and construction division for force account and contract
works; it should also include studies of future highway development works.
70.         As the United states Bureau of Public Roads has been assisting the
liinistry of Public -liorks on certain phases of its highway program for some
time, ti.12 l'1inist::-y requested t~le D~Ireau to establish a special staff in Costa
Rica to advise on all aspects of the proj90t" The Bureau has ind:Lcated its
willingness to do this and an agreement between the two parties is now being
drafted. This agreement will be subject to the approval of the Bank and the
Association.
71.       The cost of retaining four or five experts is estimated at t2.0
million (US$0.3 million) which is included in the request for financing.
Financing; Composition of Possible Bank and Association      Loan/Er~d~

72.       Breakdowns of annual project expenditures and sources of local cur
rency revenue are given in Table 11. Total local currency requirements would
be adequately covered by national buc~ct appropriations and by the revenues
specifically allocated to the over··all First Stage Highway Development Plan by
the Legislature~

73.       In view of the fact that the execution and financing of highway works
other than the Project are envisaged within the Development Plan, an assurance
has been obtained from the Government that the Project would receive first
priority in the application of local currency funds from the various sources
specified in Decree Law No o 2719/61 0
                                     - 13 

74.       All foreign currency requirements for the project would be met from
Bank and Association loan/credit funds; the components are as follows:
                       Composition of Loan/qr~di~ Funds
      Category                            Total Cost                    Forei~             Component
                                      1TIDillion)               ("!!t"J6-rru~·l...eilonr   (U£$ 1Ilillion)

A.  Road Works §/
    1. Contract                                                         37.1                    5.6
    2. Force Account                                                    10.. 9                  1.6

B.  Mechanical Equipment, Spares,
    Shop and Warehouse Materials
    1. Force Account                                                     6.2                    0.9
    2. Maintenance                                                      1209                     2 ..0

C.  Survey Equipment and Special    Studi~                                1.1                   0.2
D.  Q9nsulting Engineering Services                                       2.0
E..  Additional Contingency Pro'"lision   !:I                             2~5

                                  Total Amount of Loan               !-72., 7

~   I ncluding 15% construction contingency allowance.
£/  This item is intended to rreet any deficiencies in the cost estimates
    for equipment and consulti~g services, and also in the construction cost
    estimates over and above the contingency allowance already included (see
    paragraph 52).
75.       The probable annual disbursement flow from such loan/credit is in
dicated below; the date of commencement of the project program is linked to
the ratification by Congress of the loan and credit.
                  Probable Loan/Credit Disbursement Flow
                     (US$ Million Equivalent)
      Category 
A.  Road \~Jorks
                                      1st Year
                                                       -
                                                   - Year
                                                   2nd                3rd Year               Total
                                                                                                  -
    1. Contract                            0.8         108                3.0                 5.6
    2. Force Account                       0.6         006                0.4                 1,,6
B.  Mechanical Equipment, etc.
    1. Force Account                       0.9                                                0.9
    2. Maintenance                         1.5         OS                                     2.0
C" Survey Equipment, etc ..                0.1         001                                    0.2
D.  Consultants                            0.1         0,,1               0.,1                0.3
E.  Contingencies                          0.2         0,1                Oc,l                0,,4
                       Total               4.2         }..!.?            J:&                 11,,0
                                                                                            -
                                  - 14 ....

                      v. EX:ONOHIC JUSTIFICATIONiI-

Areas Affected by Road Improvements
76.        Over 95% of the 671 kID of road v10rks included in the project in
volves the improvement of existing roads of inadequate standard, and will
affect about one-third of the total present length Df national and regional
rDads o The majDrity of the prDject roads service the densely pDpulated
central plateau which cDntains the bulk Df the countryfs manufacturing and
agricultural wealth. Many Df the roads to' be imprDved link the municipal
center Df San JDse with outlying suburban areas, or connect the capital vrith
nearby centers Df populatiDn such as Heredia and Cartago; these roads carry
heavy volumes of traffic. The San Jose - Alajueli ta road improvement "Jill
serve a future urban develDpment project to provide housing for about 40,000
persDns ..
77 ·       An important aspect of some of the road imprDvement lvorks, such as
that frDm Tilaran to Arenal, is the future social and political integration
of connnuni ties v1hich are nON oi'ten inaccessible during the rainy season l'Jhen
the existing earth roads are impassable.
Direct Economic Returns from Road Improvements
78.       Present vehicle operating costs over the existing roads are high
because of the extremely 10l<T standards of road alignment, vridth, surfacing,
and visibility. The project ~<TDrks ..nIl imprDve these st:lndards and vT.ill
result in a reduction of vehicle operating costs mainly from savings in
fuel, tires, wear and tear of vehicles, trip times, etc.
79.         The saving in vehic18 cperating CDsts is one of the major direct
economic benefits accruing to the nati0oo1 economy from cDmpletion of the
project v1Orks, and has been the principa,l factor considered by the f'linistry
in dral,ring up its highlJray develDpment program. Av-erage operating costs over
the present roads in pODr condition have been estimated by the J1inistry at
abDut ¢ 0.45 (8 US cents) per vehicle-km for light vehicles, such as auto
mobiles and pick-ups, and about ¢ 1.05 (18 US cents) per vehicle-km fDr trucks
Df about 4-ton capacity.      Typical savinl';s resul Hng from the improved road
conditions range from 12% to 25% of the present vehicle operating costs.
80.       For each rDad included in the prDject, the Ministry has estimated
the road user savin~s fDr the projected traffic volumes in 1963, Nhich has
been taken as base year for the economic calculations. These savi ngs, together
with assessed high1.J"ay maintenance savings, have been expressed as a percentage
Df the cost of each road in order to' Dbtain the relevant benefit factors
(column 11 Df Table 12), which form the basis of priority considerations.
* The figures of costs and benefits contained in this section are based
  Dn data supplied by the Costa Rican Government before devaluatiDn of
  the Colon on September 1, 1961. Revised figures are nDt as yet avail
  able, but as the effects of devaluation on the tDtal cost (investment)
  Df the project would be less than the effect on savings to be derived
  from the investment (the savings being mainly in foreign exchange, e.g_,
  for cars, gasoline, tires, spare parts) the economic benefits 1o'JOuld ac
  cordin'g.ly be greater' "than is indicated belovl~
                                   :. 1, 
8J..      The highest priority roads are generally those carrying the
heaviest volumes of traffic, ~mcr the improvement of '~10st of these roads
~s included in the first or second year of the program.      The roads showing
a lower return on investment are usually those with low traffic volumes
in rural areas where economic benefits additional to road user savings
would be forthcoming from the effect on agricultural production. The
inclusion of these roads in the project can be justified however from a
consideration of road user savings alone.
82.       The large number of separate road sections included in the pro
posed project precludes an individual description of the merits of im
proving each particular section. Classification into three broad cate
gories according to traffic volumes is feasible however, and provides
some basis for discussion of the resultant benefits.

83.        About 70 kIn of roads included in the project ,-mrks will carry
volumes of traffic estimated at between 1,000 and 4,000 vehicles per day
in 1963. Most of these roads are of short length and are located around
San Jose, either in the suburban district or linking San Jose to nearby
large community centers. Tot~l investment is about 20% of the project
construction costs, the average investment per kIn being around ¢ 230,000
(us~~40,OOO/km). This portion of the investment yields the highest an
nual rate of return from road user savings alone, amounting to bet'lrJeen
about 20% and 40% for most of the roads in t heir first year of operation
after completion of the improvements. The Ministry proposes improving
almost all these roads in the first and second years of the progr~~.

84.       A second cutegory of roads totalling about 280 km in length
is made up of those estimated to carry between 200 and 1,000 vehicles
per day in 1963. Total invest:neat amounts to about 35% of the project
construction costs, the average expenditure per kID of road being somewhat
less than ¢lOO,OOO per km (US$18,000/km). All roads in this category,
with the exception of one (San Jose-Alajuelita) servicing a future
housing project, will yield a return on investment in the first year of
operation of over 15% from road user saVings. Most of these roads will
be improved in the second and third years of the program.

85.       The third category of roads totalling about 290 km are those
estimated to carry less than 200 vehicles per day in 1963. Investment
in these roads amounts to about 40% of the project construction costs,
and averages about ¢llO,OOO per km (~~20,OOO/km). The exceptionally
poor present condition of these roads will result in relatively higher
road user savings after improvement, and first year rates of return of
not less than 10% on investment are expected from all roads in this
category. Most of these roads are scheduled for improvement in the
second and third years of the program.
                                       - 16 


86~       An indication of the high level of direct economic benefits
deriving annually from the project investment is afforded by cOIDIaring
the total road user and other s8.vings from all roads included in the first,
second and third years of the program with the total investments in those
years. The following table shows the annual rate of return using 1963
traffic volumes as a basis for estimating road user savings, and the
period in which the investment would be amortized assuming the annual
level of savings to remain constant:

             ECONOHIC RETURNS ON nrvEsTHENT IN HIGHHAY n;1PROVEtENTS
                                 , @lUillion)
                                                                         No. of Years
                         Rnad User     Annual       Total                  to Repay
             Total        Savings    Road Naint.   Savings %Return        Investment
Y~.s!I:   ~st"J1'in:t*     12§~_      Se.vings     -19.2L   1963            @ 6%


1st          16.8          5.7          0.4         6.1      36             Jt
2nd          31..6         6 .. 8       0.9         7.7      24              5
3rd          k2.l         ~            B            7.0      12             ~

Total        90.5         18.3          2.5         20.8     23              5

*Includes total construction cost, interest during construction,
 administration, engineering and supel'visory costs.

87.         Road user savings can be expected to iCrJrease annually after
1963 at about 3% or 1.$ in keeping with general traffic growth ter.ding
                                                                     j

to improve somewhat the economic picture presented in the a1:oye table.
j\Totw-lthstanding any increase ir: i'utu:::'e benefits, the project invest:nent
in highv;ay improv'ement works is adequateJ.y just.ified. and will be :C'EJ)aid
well within the rCillaining econo~ic life of any of the improved facilities.
!dditional BenefitB from Road Improvements
88.        The natior~l economy will benefit from the project works for
reasons additional to those discussed in the previous section, but not
all of which can be expressed easily in quantitative for:n. !n:proved'road con
di tions should reflect in reduced transnort costs for p:?ssengers and freight;
incentive Hill :=[180 be aiven to d(welop nw] arricul tur", 1 lands in some areas
or to intensify present production, resulting in iocrG&8cd land and
property values with consequent increases in local tax revenues, etc~
89.       Further benefits will result from the probable decrease in
accident and fatality rates on the present r~rrow and poorly-aligned
roads. Personal benefits, important from their social and psychological
nature, will accrue from the improved convenience and comfort to drivers
and passengers by reason of the greater freedom in vehicle operation
compared with present restricted conditions.
                                    ~   17 

 ~ponornic   Benefits_from New Road Construction

 90.       Three sections of new road construction totalling 31 km- are 

 included in the project works but account for about only 5% of the pro 

 posed investment. Two of the sections are extremely short; the first, 

 "Radial Zapote ll in the ee.stern suburbs of San Jose (Map 2) is only 1.3 km 

 long, but is intended to relieve the severe traffic congestion on exist 

 ing roads leading into the city from the East. Origin and destination 

 studies show that traffic volumes of around 3,000 vpd are likely to use 

 this road in 1963. The second road is 2.5 km       long and forms part of 

 a proposed ring-road around Sun Jose (Nap 2). Traffic origin and 

 destination studies indicate that road user savings in time and distance 

 for traffic likely to divert to this section of the ring-road would 

 yield a return on investment of about 15% in 1963. The construction of 

 these two roads and their inclusion in the Bank-financed project is 

 considered justified. 


 91.        The third section of new road construction is 27 km in length 

 running from Tres Equis to Siquirres in extension of the existing road 

 from Turrialba (Hap 1). Ea~'i;!1works and drainage, accounting for about 

 25% of the total estimated c0St, are now under construction by contract 

 and should be completed during the latter half of 1961. 


 92.            The area around Siquir~es is fairly well developed agriculturally,
 but still has a considerable potential for further development. The grovrth
  rate of agricultural production in the area i~ higher than the national 

 e,verage, the principal produce being cacao, coconuts, cattle and cattle 

 n,..(v'hJ~tfl_ 'W"i th SO~Tle grain a.nd soft fruits. 



930       Siquirres and its hinterlm'ld is nOliT served only by the Northern
~aihJay l:l.ne
             betusan San Jose and Liman on the Caribbean coast; there
~s, hO't-Jever,
             a long record of line blockages over the past fifty years
due to land slides, river flOOding, and bridge washouts. i:'Iost of these
blockages occur between Siquirres and Turrialba at intervals of betvleen
one and two years on an average, vdth delays of up to 37 days before
resumption of normal rail traffic.
94.       The cos!' of slide removal and of repairing damage to rail
track and bridges alone over the past ten years has been more than the
estimated cost (¢4.3 million) of the new road from Tres Equis to Siqui
rres, apart from the additional losses due to spoilage of cattle products
and soft fruit awaiting rail shipment, and to the interruption generally
to the country's economy.
95.       Advice has been sought from eminent soils experts to help
solve the landslide problem, but no practicable solution has yet been
found. The new highway location would be farther to the East, on higher
and more stable ground than the railway) and would not be subject to
serious problems of blockage~ Over 100 vehicles per day are axpected to
use the road immediately after opening. Its construction and inclusion
in the Ban~ and Administration-financed project is considered justified.
                                    - 18 

Highway Maintenance Investment
96Q       The maintenance of the road system has been inadequate in the past
principally because of the insufficiency and poor condition of road mainten
ance equipment and servicing facilities. The proposed investment of US~~
million in new equipment, maintenance materials, and \-rorkshop improvements
will not only reduce the excessive cost of repairing old equipment, but
should result in better road conditions throughout the country, thereby
reducing vehicle operating costs on roads not included in the project works.

                     VI. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOIt,!Er-IDATIONS

97.          The large increase in traffic volume in Costa Rica over the past
ten years has overloaded the capacity of a major part of the existing high
vIay net"tfork, and has caused damage to road surfaCing and foundations. The
situation has been aggravated by inadequate road maintenance in the past due
mainly to the insufficiency and poor condition of the Minist~J IS equipment
and repair facilities.
98..         Ex:tensi ve improvement Horks and some ne1:1 highway construction are
urgently required to provide adequate facilities for present and expected
future traffic. The proposed project for imprOving 640 km of existing nation
al and regional roads, constructing 31 km of new roads, and improving the
maintenance organization constitutes the first and most important stage of a
seven-year highway development program to improve and extend the countryfs
high"(.Jay network.
99.       The project is technically sound and cost estimates are reasonably
realistic; it is adequately justified economically by the future savings in
vehicle operating costs which will result from the improved road transport
conditions.
100.      The organization of the responsible executive agency (the ~flnistry
of Public Works) is sound; staff are generally competent although perhaps
somewhat inexperienced in certain aspects of major highway "lOrks. External
advisory assistance is considered necessary principally in the fields of cost
accounting, hi~hway maintenance and construction supervision. Suitable ar
rangements for such assistance are being made by the Government i4ith the U.S.
Bureau of Public Roads.
101.       Since the proj ect forms ra rt of a "rider highway development plan to
be financed from aSSigned sources of local currency revenue and special budget
appropriations, assurances have been obtained from the Government that the
project tforks ,nIl receive priority in the application of funds from these
sources.

102.      The proposed project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of
us~5.5 million equivalent and an Association credit of uS$5.5 million equiva
lent to the Government of Costa Rica. A sui table term for the loan would be
15 years including a 3}-year period of grace c
                                                                                TABLE (1) 


                             COSTA RICA:   HIGWdAY PROJECT

                     ROAD LENGTHS AND CLASSIFICATION, DEC. 1960
                                           Ckm)

Type of
SurfClce          National        Regional,        Local         Total


Concrete             63              26                0            89
Asphalt             553             328               75 ~         956
Gr.qvel             447             471           1,282          2,200 ~I
Earth               2?6              21           10,508   ~    10,755


Total                               846           ll,865        14,000   9..1




~       B
         ase'~ on latest available estimates.

~I      Roads "Thich are traversable by motor vehicles of the
        "Jeep" type in the dry season.          "--

9..1    The grand total does not include 4,700 km of footpaths
        and mule-tracks.


Source:      Government of Costa Rica, Ninistry of Public Works.
                                                                  TABLE  (2)




                     COSTA  RICA:   HIGHWAY PROJECT



           AVERAGE ANNUAL EXPENDITURE ON ROADS AND BRIDGES
                 BY DIFFERENT AUTHORITIES J 1956 - 59 &/



                                                         Colones
                                                       ( millions ) Percentage of Total
1.  Ministry of Public Works
      a )  National Budget                        18.3      EI
      b)    Other Sources
             (Municipalities, private, etc.)          0.6        18.9           85

2.  Juntas Cantonales de Caminos
     (Local Cantonal. Highway Councils)                           2.1            9

3.  Consejo Nacional de Produccion
     (National Board of Production)                               oS             2

4.  Junta de Proteccion a 1a Agricul tura
      de 1a Cana
     (a private organization to improve 

       sugar cane production)
                                                                 -1.0

    Total Average Annual Expend! ture                            22.5          100%


!I excluding  Inter-American Highwq works executed on basis of
    2/3: 1/3 contribution by U.S. and Costa Rican Governments;
    average Costa Rican investment for period, ~ 13.2 million.
~   excluding Ministry's administrative expeneee.
                                                          COSTA RICA:   HIGHWAY PROJECT


                                               HINISTRY OF PUBLIC ','CRKS EXP3NDITUR.3, 1955 - 60

                                                                 (Colones million)



                        TOVL EXPS'NTIITLqES       IJJ                                ROAD AKD mIDGS   T,J02.K3   m~Y   Q/
Year         Ordinaq          Extraordinary              Total             Studies         Roads         Bridges            Total    Year


1955           27.1               17.6                   4u.7                              12.1             2.0             14.1     1955
1956           25.9                20.2                  46.1                 0.1          19.6             2.8             22.5     1956

1957           2A.5                19.9                  u8.u                 0.1          12.9             2.3             15.3     1957
1958           24.9                13.1                  38.0                 0.2          14.2             :;>.9           17.3     1955
1959           33.5                 8.6                  42.1                 0.3            .0             2.8             18.1     1959
1960           27.2               19.3                   46.5                 o.u          15.2             3~5             19.1     1960
1961           27.7                 -   9../




!I     including administration costs for whole l1inistry
£/     including maintenance expenditure


                                                                                                                                            ~-
                                                                                                                                            ~
r:..I funds not   ye~   appropriated                                                                                                        t<:I

                                                                                                                                            \..oJ



Source:     l'Tinistr:v of Public l'lorks
                                                                                                 TABLE (4) 



                                       COSTA RICA:        HIGHWAY PROJECT 





                                               Annual              Con~mmption                 Vehicle
            y (),1 I'   TotAl Vehicles        Increment            of G,"l.sol tTH~            Movement
                        -  --_._--'-          --fTf--I"                               .)   (million veh.km.)


            19S0              7,007                                        8.1                  162
                                                 IS
            1951              8,100                                        9.3                  166
                                                 20
            195:?             9,770                                       11.2                   224
                                                 20
            1953             11,733                                       13.6                   272
                                                 20
            1954             114,130                                      15.h                  308
                                                 IH
            1955             16,647                                       14.2                  284
                                                 12
            1956             18,626                                       16.2                  324
                                                 14
            1957             21,254                                       19.1+                 338
                                                     5
            1958             22,228                                       20.2                  404
                                                     6-l2
Actual      1959             23,642                                       21.2                  424
                                                     6
Estimated   1960             25,000                                       22.4                  448
                                                     5
Projected   1961·            26,286                                       23.5                  470
                                                     4!
            1962             27,411                                       23.8                  476
                                                     4
            1963             28;472                                       25.4                  508
                                                     3!
            1964             29,421                                       26.5                  530




            Source:      Ministry of Public Works
                                                                                       TABLE (5) 




                                COSTA   RI~AI    HIGHWAY PROJECT
                                                   ,
              FIRST STAGE (FOUR-YEAR) H I G If lIT A Y DEVELOPMENT PLAN


          Description of Works                                            Estimated Cost
                                                                            (rt   million)

1. Highway Improvement                                             74.825                    74.825

2.  New Highway Construction, in following
      regions:
          I    San Carlos                                           3.584
      II Atlantico                                                 15.775
     III  Nicoya                                                     --
                                                                   1. 780 

      IV Pacifico                                                   9.324 

          V . San Jose    ~etropolitan    Area                      8.083
      VI       Other RoadS                                          3.793                    42.339

3.  Highway Maintenance
      4 years @ rt 5 million annually                              20.000                    20.000

4.  LOcal Roads, in followine regions:
          I    Region Central                                       7.960
      II Valle del General                                          3.350
     III       Pacifico                                             2.681
      IV Nicoya                                                     7.100
          V Guanacaste                                             5.250
      VI       San Carlos                                          4.295
     VII Atlantico                                                 1.800                     32.436

5. Tortuguero       La~oori Canalization                           4.000                     4.000
                                                     TOTAL                              173.600
                                                                                         ·······
Source:       Le,y del Plan Vial, Decreto No. 2719, February 10, 1961.
                                                                                      TABLE (6)




                                  COSTA  RICA:     HIGHWAY PROJECT

                 SOURCES OF LOCAL CURRENCY FOR FIRST STAGE (FOUR-YEAR)
                               HIGHWAY DEVELOPMENT PLAN               !I
                                             (ij million)
A.  BUOO'ST SOURCP'B
                                                       1961    1962        1963   1964,    1965
       1.  Minimum Assigned Bud!,!et Allocation
               for Roads and Bridpes                  5.0 £!   18.0        18.0   18.0     18.0
       2.  Ordinary Budget Allocation for
            Planning and Laboratory .~/               0.8       0.8         0.8    0.8      0.8
                                  Subtotal            5.8      18.8        18.8   18.8     18.8

B.   SPECIFIED TAXES AND REVENUES      ~/

       3.    Vehicle Tax                                        2.8         2.8    2.8      2.8
       4.    Sugar Tax                                0.8       0.8         0.8    0.8     0.8
       5.    Liquor Revenue                                    1.0         1.0     1.0     1.0
       6.  Revenues from the National
               Insurance InStitute                    1.8      1.8         1.8     1.8     1.B
       7.    Banana Revenue                                    0.8         0.8     0.8     0.8
       8.  Property Betterment Taxes 

               (Plusvalia)   y

                                  Subtotal            2.6       7.2         7.2    7.2      7.2


                                  TOTAL               8.4      26.0        26.0   26.0     26.0


y    Law No. 2719 specifically assign's Items 1 and 3-B to the Plan. 


£!Maximum av~lable for works in 1961 


£I   For expenditures not included in (1) 


ry   Without taking into account the probable increa.se during the period of theH1ghway Plan.

y    Applicable to all land and properties affE!cted by the Highway Plan; revenues have not
     yet been assessed.


Source:                                              C
            l!inistry of Public Works, Government of  osta Rica
                                                                                TABLE (7) 



                              COSTA RICA HIGffjAY PROJECT
                                       DESIGJ.'J s'rAlmARDS

                                             ---------- Road T,ype-------

Equivalent average
                               D
                           More than           8000
                                                    E
                                                                3000
                                                                    F
                                                                          1000
                                                                               G       H
                                                                                      400
                                                                                                 I
                                                                                              Less than   -
daily traffic a/            8000                '3000           1000       400        100       100
                   -
Design speed (kph)£!
  ( i) Improvements          96-64            96-64            88-56     80-48       72-40      64-32
( ii) New construction      112-64           112-64            96-64     96-64       88-56      72-40
Minimum radius(m)
  (i) Improvements          290-125          290-125          250-95    195-70      160-50    125....30
(ii) New construction       580-160          580-160          350-160   290-125     250-95    160-50
Gradient    (~o)   £!
  (i) Improvements            8-5              8-5              9-6      10-7        12-8       15-8
(ii) New construction         6-4              6-4              7-5       7-5         9-5       10-5
Stopping sight
  distance (m) £!
 (i) Improvements           145-84           145-84           126-73    107-60       96-50      84-46
(ii) New construction       183-84           183-84           145-84    145-84      126-73      96-50
Paving width (m)
 (i) Improvements            13.4             7.3             6.1        5.5         5.0       3.7
(ii) Nel'1 construction      13.4             7.3             6.7        6.1         6.1       5.5
Surfacing c/ 
          High type         High type lied. type        Led. type Low type L01;7 type
Shoulder width (m) E/ 
                                                                  or gravel
 (i) Improvements        3.0-1.8             3.0-1.8           1.5       1.0      10 0      1 .. 0
(ii) New construction    3.. 0-1.8           3.0-1.. 8        3.0-1.8   2.4-1.5 1.8-1.2 1.2
Right-of-way width(m)        24-30            20               20        20          14         14
Bridge width (m)              14              8.3              8.3       7.3         7.3      6.1-3.7
Bridge loading
 (New construction)        H.20-S.16      H.20-S .. 16    H.20-S.16      H.15       H.15      H.15


Y      Buses and trucks over 2 ton capacity have increased weightings as follo\-1s
       according to whether terrain is flat, rolling, or mountainous: x2, x3, x4.

'E./   Varies according to type of terrain - from flat (first figure) to mountainous
       (last figure).

:Y     According to "Asphalt Institute" Publications - Pavement Designs - 1961.
                                                                                                                   TABLE 8

                                                          OOSTA RICA:    HIOHWAY PROJECT
                                                 ROAD WORKS IN FIRST THREE IlWIS OF HIGHWAY PIAN


Prlorlty          Route                   Road Seotion                  Length      Estilnated Oost of Works                 Proposed      Work by
 Rating            No.                                                    (Ian)    Improvement     »_ Roads                  Road Type     OorA::J
                                                                                             (¢ 000) !I                      (Table 1)

   (1)             (2)                         0)                         (4)              ( 5)            (6)                   (7)         (8)


          First Year
   1                      5     San Jose-Santo Domingo-Pirro               9.9              2,000                            D, F            A
   2                   130      Alajuela-San Isidro                        8.4                474                            F, H            A
   3                      6     San Jose-Guadalupe-Ranoho Redondo        16.4               1,889                            D, 1:, G, H     A
   4                   104      Sabana-Pa1T&S                              4.5                    401                        F                0
   5                   12.3     San Joaquin-Santa Barbara                  5.0                  458                          F               A
   6                   211      Y Grlega-Ssn Antonio                       3.8                  522                          F               A
    7                  210      Curridabat-Ssn Antonio                     2·.3                 185                          H                0
    8                     4     Dessmparados-Aoosta                       22.8               2,.392                          E, F, H          0
   9                   21.3     San Jose-Paso Anoho                        1.9                  564                          E               A
  10                      2     Curridabat-Tres Rios                       5.8               3,741                           E               A
  11                   215      Zapote-Curridabat                          2.1                  .318 ~                       F               A
  12                   2.35     Tres Equis-Siquirres                      27 ·.3                         4,198     Y         G                0
  1.3                           Radial Zapote                              1..3                          1,226               E               A
  14                    21      Liberla-Guardia                          18.7               1,698                            G                c
                                      Totals for First Year             1.30.2             14,642        ~
          Seoond Year
   15               20.3        FUentes-Lourdes                           2.0                  22.3                          F, 0             A
   16               214         San Sebastian-San Juan de Dios            .3.7                 .36.3                         F               A
   17                  7        San Jose-Villa Oolon                     18.4               2,182                            E, F, G          A
   18                15         Laguna-Ciudad Quesada                    24.0               1,4.35                           G                0
   19               140         La Marina-Pi tal                         17.1               1,46.3                           H               C
   20                  8        Oart8go-Volcan-Irazu                     29.1               1,127                            F. G, H         A
   21               145         Intersmericana-Las Juntas                 6.4                  538                           H               C
   22                11         San Joseoito-Atenas                      15.9               1,764                            G               C
   23               100         Uruca-Inourables                          .3 ·.3              471                            F               A
   24                10         Cartago-Cer1Tantee                       19.0               2,404                            F, G             0
   25               216         Ipis-San Isidro-Cascajal                 1.3.9              1,261                            F, G, H         A
   26               110         San Jose-llajuel1 ta                      2.5               1,896                            E, F             0
   27               125         Alajuela-Carrlzal                        11.2               1,047                            H                0
   26                  4        San Jose-Dessmparados                     2.4               1,197                            D, E            A
   29                  2        San Jose-Curridabat                       4.6               2,561                            D               A
   .30              20.3        Lourdes-San Ramon de Tree Rios           10.9               1,266                            G               A
   31                           C:!.rcunvalaoion (San Pedro-Guada
                                lupe-Calle Blancos)                        2.5                           1,250               E                C
   .32                  21      Guardi a-Santa Cruz                      .36 ·.3            7,110                            G                C
                                      Totals for Second Year            225.4              26,.354       1,250
          Third Year
   .3.3         201-202        Betan1a-Cluadalupe                         1.7                  1.34                          F               A
   34               144        Interamericana-Miramar                     7.2                  2.3.3                         H               C
   .35              1.31       La Argentina-Grecia                        7.9                  927                           H               C
   .36                  15     Narano-Laguna                             21.0               1,501                            G               C
   37               141        C:!.udad Quesada-Florencia                 9.7                  76.3                          H                G
   .36              141        Florencia-Muelle de San Carlos            14.9               2,0.39                           H                0
   39                10        OBr1Tan tes-TurriaJ.ba                    22.0               2,470                            a                0
   40               2.32       La Suiza-Moravia                           9.4               1,100                            H                0
   41               140        C:!.udad Quesada-La Marina                11.0               1,206                            H                0
   42                10        Turrialba-Tres Equis                      19.7               .3,552                           G                0
   4.3              12.3       Sc:Ita Barbara-llajuela                    6.1                  764                           0                0
   44                  214     San Jose-San Sebastlan                     2.0                  494                           E               A
   45               102        Tibas-San Isidro                           6.2                  999                           F; G             0
   46               212        Desamparados-Patarra                       5.6                  772                           G                0
   47               204        Zapota-San Fco. de Dos Rios                1.0                  165                           F                C
   46               101        Tibas-Llorente                             2.2                     .305                       F                C
   49               113        Heredia-El GaJ.l1to                        6.0                 679                            F, a             C
   50
   51
   52
   53
                      9
                     19
                    120
                      7
                               Keredta-Vara Blanca
                               Tilaran-ArenaJ.
                               Vara Blanca-Poas
                               Villa Colon-PuriscaJ.
                                                                         29.4
                                                                         15.0
                                                                         1~.2
                                                                         16.0
                                                                                            I,: !I
                                                                                            4,497

                                                                                        1,758
                                                                                                                             F, 0,
                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                             H
                                                                                                                             H
                                                                                                                                       R      A
                                                                                                                                              C
                                                                                                                                              A
                                                                                                                                              C
   54                11        Atenas-San Mateo                          14.9           2,571                                H                C
   55                19        Canaa-Tilaran                             22.6           2.16.3                               H                C
   56                21        Santa Cruz-Nicoya                         .34.6          5,.322                               0                C
   57               III        San Francisco-Belen-El Coco                 9.7         ~                                     0                C
                                      Totals for Third Year             315.4          )8,028

                                     GRAlID TO'l'AL                     671.0              61.024        6,676
                                                                                           :::aa.        _:::r==

  ~
           Including a 15% contingency aJ.lowance
           C · Cont.ractl ·A · Administration or Force Account
  y        A.fter Januar;r 1, 1961, when works about 50:( complete
   ill Arter Janulll"1 I, 1961,    vile verb about. 12% oc.pl.eMi
  !I       A.fter January 1, 1961, wilen vorb about. 20% co.pl.te
                                                                           TABLE  (9)


                           COSTA  RICA:    HIGHWAY PROJECT


                           FOREIGN CURRENCY COl1PONENT OF
                            HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION COSTS *



               Item                       %Component of      %Foreign   Component for:
                                           Total Cost         Foreign,       Domestic,
                                                                  Contractors
1.    Mechanic al Equipment
        Depreciation                      13.3
        Servicing and Repair Parts         8.1
        Tires and Tubes                    3.8
        Fuel and Lubricants                8.3    33.5        33.5              33.5

2.    Imported Haterials
         Cement 
                          2.3
         Steel 
                           3.2
       . Explosives 
                      1.8
         Asphalt 
                         7.3    14.6        14.6             14.6

3.    Local Materials                              9.3

4.    SRlaries z Wages and
       Social Beneftts                            19.6

5.    Interest! Insurance and
        Local Taxes                                4.3

6.    Administration                               5.7         5.7

7.    Profit                                      13.0        13.0 


                        TOTAL                    100.0%       66.8%            48.1% 

                                                 --
*   On the basis of the foreign exchange rate of 5.615 colones to IUS dollar
    prevailing at the ti~~ of the estimate.

Source:    Mi rd.stry of Public Works
                                                                                           TABLE (lO)


                                 COSTA RICA:   HIGRWAl PROJECT


                        FOREIGN CURRENCY INVESTMENT IN CONSTRUCTION, 

                              MAINTENANCE AND SURVEY EQUIPMENT 

                                  . (~ iI11ion equivalent) 



1.  Force Account Construction Equipment

  a)    Rehabilitation of old equipment
         (repair parts, tires, etc.)                             2.50 

  b)    New equipment 
                                          2.90 

  c)    Field workshops, fittings, and tools 
                   .:::.,0,L:'8::.,::0:.....-...;;6;.:..-..20---. ( say  US$O. 9 million
                                                                                                       equivalent)
2.  Maintenance Equipment
  a)    New equipment
                                                                 9.10 

  b)   Initial stock of spare parts for equipment (15%) 

                                                                 1.40 

  c)    Initial stock of imported maintenance materials 

         (asphalt, road signs, etc.) 
                           1.30

  d)   Zone shops and warehouses 


        (i)     Imported building materials            0.27
       (11)  New shop equipment                        0.83      1.10 12.90 (say US$2.0 million
                                                                                                        equivalent)


3.  Survey Equipment and SpeCial Studies
  a)   Laboratory testing equipment                               0.33
 b)    Surveying instrument s                                     0.08
  c)   Aerial photographs and special surveys                     0,71           ],.12         (say US$0.2 millin
                                                                                                     equivalent)




SOURCE:       Ministry of Public Works
                                                                              TABLE (11)
                                                                              (Page 2)



B.   SOURC~S    OF LOCAL CURRENCY  (¢ million)


                                                1961       1962     1963    1964     1965
1.   Budget Sources
     a) Assigned I1inimum Allocation
         for Roads and Bridges       !I          5.0       18.0     18.0    18.0     18.0
     b) Planning and Laboratory
        Allocation                               0.8        0.8       0.8     0.8        0.8
     c) Estimated Portion of General
        Administrative Allocation
          applicable to Force Account
        Works
                                                   -        0.7       0.7    0.4         0.4

2.  Specified Taxes and Revenues          !/      2.6.      7.2       7.2     7.2        7.2
                                       TOTAL      8.4      26.7      26.7    26.4    26.4


!I  ll
   A        +and donated free except for one new road      2.5 km   long; costs not yet
     assessed but relatively small;

£/  The     local portion provides for routine and special main highway maintenance,
     plus an allowance for the maintenance of local roads outside the project;

sf Only part is attributable to the project;

.:y  These    figures slightly overestimate the project requirements tlf local currency

     (see    !:I and :/) J
!I   Forming the basis of the p resent loan application;


V  A.ssigned by Law          Decree No. 2719/61 to whole HighwaY' DeveJ.gpment Plan (see Table S),
     betterment revenues, not yet assessed, will supplement item. 2.·
                                                                                                      COSTA IUCAt     HIGHWAY PRWOCT

                                                                                           DIRim ECONOMIC BENEFITS OF HIGlf"AY IMPROVEME!.TS




                                                                                                                                                                                         Annoal        196)
                                !load s.cti..                                                                196)               l              1963 1Ioa!! U.... 5arlJIga (f 000)   Road Maint$_      ~                 Relati""
                                                                  ~
      Route                                                                                                                         Busee
       110.                                                                                              Traffic Volume        and Heavy       L18M. Vehicles Heavy Vehicles        Savings (¢ 000)   Sav1n~8         Benefit !'actors
                                                                                                           (v.p.d.)             Tnlckl!                                                               (¢ (00)

        (I)                           (2)                          OJ            (4)                           (5)                  (6)              (7)               (8)                (9)          (10)                (11)



~
              S       San Jon-Santo ~o-Pi:I'l'o                     9.9        1,810                         2,TIO                  2)               8?9                586                42          1,L57                77
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            76
          1)0         lla,luala-San 101dro                          8.L           4b5                          610                  )5               13)                169                35            337
              6       San J ..... Quadal_-R&nch. Redond.           lU            ,nS                         I,520                  )5               5)2                668                69          1,269
                                                                                                                                                                                                         2L6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            68
          104         se--P.......
                      San                      _,.                  LS            )60                        I,200                  33               105                122                19
          123               J~-Santa
                                                                    5.0          4)0                            770                 )5               100                128                21            249                58
                      ! _ _-San In\an1o                                                                                                              1)6                10)                16            255                52
          2ll                                                       ).8          490                         1,200                  25
          no          OIIr:ridabat-&m Jntani.                       2.)          165                           220                  24                Ll                 )0                 8                 79            b8
              Ii      ~1Ldoa-J.o<>otll                             22.8        2,l6S                           )80                  ))               44S                500.                           1,037                48
          21)         SanJOH-P.... Jnch.                            1.9          .)0                         1,220                  )5                59                 72                              139                26
              2       OIIrrldabat.-fHa 111"
                      %opot;e-OIIrrl_
                                                                    5.8
                                                                    2.1        )'~!I                         2,985                  )5
                                                                                                                                    16
                                                                                                                                                      20S
                                                                                                                                                       62
                                                                                                                                                                        242
                                                                                                                                                                         27
                                                                                                                                                                                                         4n
                                                                                                                                                                                                          97                i~y
          215
                                                                                                             2-'i~                                                                                        IiI?              27 .
           21         Ll.bor:ta~                                   1~.7
                                                                              ~                                                     b6             ...1!!            ..2E
                            'l'otal. tar    nrot   lear           101.6       1),590                                                                2,766             ?,fl:PQ                           6,05)

-!!.!!:
          20)         ~.                                             2.0          210                         1,~6O                  26               10)                 ~)                8             194               92
          214         San Sobut.:l..,-I\an """" de 1110.             ).7          3LO                           60S                  56                39               11)                15             167               b9
                      San .fo....ftl.la Col...                     18.4        2,050                                                 22               739               L87                77           1,303               6)
              7                                                                                               1,570                                                                                                         b6
           15         ~01Udad          Qaeoada                     24.0        1,300                            3SO                  )2               22)               27b               101             598
          140         1.& kina-Pita:!.                             17.1        1,)b0                            1)0                  LO               ~                  m                 60             585               W,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            bl
              8       Qartago-Volc..,-lruu                         29.1        1,060                            280                  35               135               177               11!\!           4lL
          1LS         InteraenOm.....Lu JUIlt.e..w                  6.b          485                            130                  )0                89                88                22             199               41
                                                                                                                                                      )00.              275                62             638               LO
           11         San Jo· ..,ito-4tenu                         15.9        l,~                              )60                  26
                                                                                                                                                                                           14                               46
          100
           III
          216
                      C&nac<>--.
                      Uru.c....luurabl··

                      1pi.-San 1014ro-Cucaj&1
                                                                     3.J
                                                                   19.0
                                                                   13.9
                                                                               2,lH
                                                                               1,lSS
                                                                                                              1,100
                                                                                                                620
                                                                                                                L8S
                                                                                                                                     25
                                                                                                                                     35
                                                                                                                                     35
                                                                                                                                                      110
                                                                                                                                                      252
                                                                                                                                                      128
                                                                                                                                                                         83
                                                                                                                                                                        317
                                                                                                                                                                        137
                                                                                                                                                                         78
                                                                                                                                                                                           80
                                                                                                                                                                                           59
                                                                                                                                                                                           11
                                                                                                                                                                                                          207
                                                                                                                                                                                                          649
                                                                                                                                                                                                           321.
                                                                                                                                                                                                          14~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            )0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R
          1lll        San "....44juel.1ta                            M         1,715                            900                  38                56
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            22
          US          ll~a-o...rh&1                                11.2           9lI.5                         120                  ItO               66               lOb                39              211
                      s... .r....DIo_arlLdoa                                                                                                          III               119                10              2LO              21
              Ii                                                    2.4        1,125                          ),110                  3)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            21
              2       s... .f.a-OIIrrldabat _ .
                                    _     de              1!1..     4.8        2,hlO                          ),970                  35               226               266                20             5:14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            21
                      _ _ _til Cru
                      ~San




                                                                   10.9        1,210_                           bS5                  24               117                88               L6              251
          20'                                                                                                                                                                                              8Sh
           21                                                     ..:!!!.:2   ..2..!1.!!                        180                  b6               2.5               .75              ~                                  13


                      _....-x_
                            'l'otale tor _          Year          222.9       26,020                                                                ),1L6             3,481                880          7,513

!!!!:'!!!..!!!!
    au-202
          W.
          IJl
           15
          141
          141
                      ...-....... - .
                      --.........
                      1.& ...... . . - 
                      01_ QI._-nOX'tOUlia
                      n~11. d. San Carl··
                                                                     1.7
                                                                     7.2
                                                                     7.9
                                                                    21.0
                                                                     9.7
                                                                    :14.9
                                                                                   125
                                                                                   210
                                                                                   w.o
                                                                               1,)60
                                                                                 no
                                                                               1,845
                                                                                                              1,LLO
                                                                                                                1)0
                                                                                                                160
                                                                                                                )50
                                                                                                                190
                                                                                                                120
                                                                                                                                     25
                                                                                                                                     )0
                                                                                                                                     110
                                                                                                                                     )2
                                                                                                                                     40
                                                                                                                                     115
                                                                                                                                                       L6
                                                                                                                                                       29
                                                                                                                                                      118
                                                                                                                                                      IB2
                                                                                                                                                       64
                                                                                                                                                      lIlli
                                                                                                                                                                          56
                                                                                                                                                                         18)
                                                                                                                                                                         206
                                                                                                                                                                          99
                                                                                                                                                                         276
                                                                                                                                                                             )0
                                                                                                                                                                                             7
                                                                                                                                                                                            25
                                                                                                                                                                                            28
                                                                                                                                                                                            B8
                                                                                                                                                                                            41
                                                                                                                                                                                            52
                                                                                                                                                                                                           109
                                                                                                                                                                                                            8L
                                                                                                                                                                                                           329
                                                                                                                                                                                                           .76
                                                                                                                                                                                                           20L
                                                                                                                                                                                                           L12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             81
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Lo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             39
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             35
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             29
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             26
           III        _ t a.._&1ba                                  22.0       2,235                            460                  38               185                25)                92             >30               2.
          2)2         1.& Suioa-llorn1a                               9.4        995                            160                  50                 55               129                26             210               21
          140         01_ QI._-I.& _                                11.0       1,090                                                 ItO                66               1m                 .6             213               20
                                                                                                                170
           III        1'vrlAl.bo-_. Iqa1J                           19.7       3,215                            160                  35                246                )O~               7)             624               19
          123         s..ta _ _-44juela                               6.1        6,5                                                 35                lOb               1)2                :>1            257               39
                                                                                                                250
          214         _    J-son Sobulhn                              2.0        465                            9)S                  38                47                    ~5              9             121               26
          1112        'f1bu-San 101dro                               8.2           905                          660                  2)               107                    7)             15             215               24
          1!1.2       DIo_radoe-Pat.orra                              5.6          695                          )80                  33                57                    64             2)                lIlli          21
          20L         Sopota-Ban 1'00. de 00II 1!1..                  1.0          110                          LSS                  )J                12                  15                L                 31            19
          101         'f1bu-1.lon1Dta                                 2.2          275                          5)0                  24                2)                    17               9                L9            16
          113         B_a-I!l !l&ll1to
                                __                                   8.0           79S                          290                  35                    W,                56             311               1~             17



                      _m_
                      B_~V



                                                                                                                                     L1                                                    124                605            16
           19
          120
             9
                      ~
                      v_     Bl.&Dca-P_
                                                                    29.4
                                                                    15.0
                                                                    1lI.1       1,= 2.1
                                                                                1>.225                          310
                                                                                                                    so
                                                                                                                    50
                                                                                                                                     110
                                                                                                                                     55
                                                                                                                                                       216
                                                                                                                                                        80
                                                                                                                                                        26
                                                                                                                                                                         355
                                                                                                                                                                         126
                                                                                                                                                                          76
                                                                                                                                                                                            M
                                                                                                                                                                                            70
                                                                                                                                                                                             <;~
                                                                                                                                                                                                              274
                                                                                                                                                                                                              172            i~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  y
             7
           lJ.
           19
                      VUl& Col...-hr!.oo&l
                      _Crus-IIl._
                      4-.-San1l&_                                   u..,
                                                                    16.0
                                                                    22.8
                                                                                1,590
                                                                                2,325
                                                                                1,975
                                                                                                                180
                                                                                                                110
                                                                                                                 70
                                                                                                                                     40
                                                                                                                                     29
                                                                                                                                     27
                                                                                                                                                        76
                                                                                                                                                       158
                                                                                                                                                       115
                                                                                                                                                                         122
                                                                                                                                                                         ISO
                                                                                                                                                                           99
                                                                                                                                                                                            52
                                                                                                                                                                                            80
                                                                                                                                                                                                              25h
                                                                                                                                                                                                              )60
                                                                                                                                                                                                              294
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             15
           21                                                       "..6        4,815                           1)0                  31                228                240              122                590            12
                      _ " ".._ _I!lCoo.                                                                                                                                                                                      L2
          III
                             rotalo t .... _       Year
                                                                  2:1         ~                                  SLo                 35             -E.               ....!!!!           --.!!!               2L2
                                                                   315.11     )b,61S                                                                 l,51S             3,)b2             1,226           7,O~3



                             mu:IO to'lJL                          6)9.9      74,225                                                                 8,427             9,709             2,513          20,649




      ~
      ~
      y
              Attar JUJIlM'T 1, 1961, _    100..... about ~ ~
              Bued upon tot.al o..t of IIOrll:o
              uter JUJIlM'T I, 1961, _ _11:0 about 20% ~.te                                                                                                                                                                           I!
                                                                                                                   COSTA RICA

       r-------------------                   MIN1STER                                                   MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS
                                                                                                            GENERAL ORGANIZATION




       ~------------,

       II
       I                      I
                              I   r----------------l
                                            PAN AMERICAN
  PUBLIC WORKS 
         ADMINISTRATION 
    INSTITUTE OF            GEOGRAPHIC 
   · INTER-AMERICAN 
           INTER-AMERICAN 

                                                             1--                         GEODETIC 

   DIRECTORATE 
          DIRECTORATE 
       GEOGRAPHY 
            INSTITUTE 
                               HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT 

                                             AND HISTORY 
                                SERVICE 





See Organization Chart
       Figure 2




                                                                                                                                      ."

                                                                   CENTRAL GARAGE                                                     G'i
                                                                                                                                      c
                                                                                                                                      ::tl
                                                                                                                                      I"l
JULY 1961                                                                                                                 I BRD-870
                                                                                               COSTA RICA
                                                                                     PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTORATE
                                                                                         HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT




                                                                                           EQUIPMENT
                                                                                            CONTROL

                                                                                               1. _____ , 

                                                                                               I




                                                                             I
                                                                             1.._----------------,

                        r.L..,
                        I 4 I
                        ... - ....
             PROJECTS




                                             PROJECTS




                                     ZONES




                        OPlmATION                              WAREHOUSES                                          ."
                                                                                                                   G)
                                                        L ________________________________________ ~               C
                                                                                                                   ;0
                                                                                                                   J1l
JULY 196i                                                                                              IBRO- 869   f\.l
                                                             '~Vll $<14
              .... ,-.-;....~·--...·~:~\~:)~t"';-
                                                ./ ,---=,
                   -'-./ ""- ..... -.      ...., ~
                                         -                                ~"'/L       C'>




                                                                           ."'t.~~-
                                                                                       ".
                                                                                        -;:0

                                           OUpOIa                                           I::P
                                                                                               I::P
                                                                                                 <;<\
                                                                                                      ".
                                                                                                        -z..




p    4    C
               I   F I C

                                                     OC£4/l1
                                                                                                               PANAMA

                   COSTA RICA
ROAD AND RAIL SYSTEMS
    ~

    ---[Wi'-"-'
                   NATIONAL Rou'rES

                   REGIONA], ROUTES 


                   BANK-FINANCED PRO] ECT: 

                                                                                  t
                                                                                  I
    .........       fhghways

                    Highways   t()
                                     he improved 


                                     be ('onstrucied

                   RA{LWA YS

                   ALTITUDES OVER              Mf~T    ERS
                                       COSTA RICA
                   CENTRAL ZONE AND METROPOLITAN AREA
                                             HANK-F'INA.NCED pf(.)J

                                                 Highways to he 11"l:1prov('o
                              ..·..........· 
   Highw.;:lys to

                                                                                +
                                                                                N




                                                                                    Nationa 1 Routes 

                                                                                    Regional Routes 





                                                     San   IgnaCIO
                                                       de Acosta



CENTRAL ZONE OF COSTA RICA
     ~ National Routes
     -....[ill]---- Regional Routes
