LOAN NUMBER 299 CR
Loan Agreement
(Highway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED OCTOBER 13, 1961


﻿LOAN NUMBER 299 CR
Loan Agreement
(Highway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED OCTOBER 13, 1961


﻿AGREEMENT, dated October 13, 1961, between REPUBLIC
OF COSTA RICA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to
make a loan to it in an amount equivalent to $5,500,000
to assist the Borrower in financing a program for recon-
struction, construction and maintenance of certain high-
ways in the territories of the Borrower;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the International
Development Association (hereinafter called the Associa-
tion) to provide additional assistance for the same purpose;
(C) by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Association (hereinafter called the De-
velopment Credit Agreement), the Association is agreeing
to provide such assistance in an amount equivalent to
$5,500,000; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, upon the basis of the fore-
going, to make a loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
Now THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed as follows:
ARTICLE I
Loan Regulations
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Loan Agreement accept
all the provisions of Loan Regulations No. 3 of the Bank
dated February 15, 1961 (said Loan Regulations No. 3 being
hereinafter called the Loan Regulations) with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
The Loan
SECTION 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in this Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to five million five hundred thousand dollars ($5,500,000).
SECTION 2.02. The Bank shall open a Loan Account on
its books in the name of the Borrower and shall credit to
such Loan Account the amount of the Loan. The amount
of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account as
provided in, and subject to the rights of cancellation and
suspension set forth in, the Loan Regulations; provided,
however, that, notwithstanding any provision of the Loan
Regulations or of this Agreement, no amount shall be
withdrawn from the Loan Account at any time if the amount
of such withdrawal and all prior withdrawals from the
Loan Account shall be greater than the aggregate amount
which shall have been, or shall concurrently be, withdrawn
from the Credit Account (as that term is used in the De-
velopment Credit Agreement) pursuant to the Development
Credit Agreement.
SECTION 2.03. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of five and three-fourths per cent (534%o) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan so withdrawn and out-
standing from time to time.
SECTION 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Loan not so withdrawn from time to time.
SECTION 2.05. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the charge payable for special commit-
ments entered into by the Bank at the request of the Bor-
rower pursuant to Section 4.02 of the Loan Regulations
shall be at the rate of one-half of one per cent ('/. of 1%)


﻿5
per annum on the principal amount of any such special
commitments outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be pay-
able semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
SECTION 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Loan
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of
the Loan to be applied exclusively to financing the cost of
goods required to carry out the Project described in Sched-
ule 2 to this Agreement. The specific goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan and the methods and pro-
cedures for procurement of such goods shall be determined
by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, subject
to modification by further agreement between them.
SECTION 3.02. The Borrower shall cause all goods fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used in the
territories of the Borrower exclusively in the carrying out
of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Bonds
SECTION 4.01. The Borrower shall execute and deliver
Bonds representing the principal amount of the Loan as
provided in the Loan Regulations.
SECTION 4.02. The Minister of Economy and Finance of
the Borrower and such person or persons as he shall ap-
point in writing are designated as authorized representa-
tives of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 6.12 of
the Loan Regulations.


﻿6
ARTICLE V
Particular Covenants
SECTION 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project
to be carried out and maintained with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with sound engineering, fi-
nancial and highway practices.
(b) In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall em-
ploy competent and experienced engineering consultants
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank -upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.
(c) Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall other-
wise agree, the Project shall be carried out by contractors
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, employed under
contracts satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.
(d) The general design standards to be used for the
Project shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.
(e) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished
to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, contracts and work schedules for the Project
and any material modifications subsequently made therein,
in such detail as the Bank shall request.
(f) The list of roads to be included in the Project shall
be determined by agreement between the Borrower and the
Bank, subject to modification by further agreement be-
tween them.
SECTION 5.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to identify the goods fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan, to disclose the use
thereof in the Project, to record the progress of the Proj-
ect (including the cost thereof), and to reflect in accord-
ance with consistently maintained sound accounting prac-
tices the operations and financial condition of the agency
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for the carrying
out and operation of the Project or any part thereof; shall


﻿7
enable the Bank's representatives to inspect the Project,
the goods and any relevant records and documents; and
shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request con-
cerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the
Project, and the goods, and the operations and financial
condition of the agency or agencies of the Borrower re-
sponsible for the carrying out and operation of the Project
or any part thereof.
SECTION 5.03. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Loan will
be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall furnish
to the other all such information as it shall reasonably
request with regard to the general status of the Loan. On
the part of the Borrower, such information shall include
information with respect to financial and economic condi-
tions in the territories of the Borrower and the interna-
tional balance of payments position of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time
exchange views through their representatives with regard
to matters relating to the purposes of the Loan and the
maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower shall
promptly inform the Bank of any condition which inter-
feres with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Loan or the maintenance of
the service thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity
for accredited representatives of the Bank to visit any
part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes related
to the Loan.
SECTION 5.04. It is the mutual intention of the Borrower
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any
priority over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental
assets. To that end, the Borrower undertakes that, except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any lien shall be


﻿8
created on any assets of the Borrower as security for any
external debt, such lien will ipso facto equally and ratably
secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan and the Bonds, and that in the
creation of any such lien express provision will be made to
that effect; provided, however, that the foregoing pro-
visions of this Section shall not apply to: (i) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for the payment of the purchase price of such
property; or (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not
more than one year after its date.
As used in this Section, the term "assets of the Bor-
rower" includes assets of the Borrower or of any of its
political subdivisions or of any age acy of the Borrower or
of any such political subdivision, including the Banco
Central de Costa Rica or any other institution performing
the functions of a central bank.
SECTION 5.05. The principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan and the Bonds shall be paid without
deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the
laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories;
provided, however, that the provisions of this Section shall
not apply to taxation of payments under any Bond to a
holder thereof other than the Bank when such Bond is
beneficially owned by an individual or corporate resident
of the Borrower.
SECTION 5.06. The Loan Agreement and the Bonds shall
be free from any taxes that shall be imposed under the laws
of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on or in
connection with the execution, issue, delivery or registra-
tion thereof and the Borrower shall pay all such taxes, if
any, imposed under the laws of the country or countries in
whose currency the Loan and the Bonds are payable or laws
in effect in the territories of such country or countries.


﻿9
SECTION 5.07. The principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan and the Bonds shall be paid free from
all restrictions imposed under the laws of the Borrower or
laws in effect in its territories.
SECTION 5.08. The Borrower shall satisfy the Bank that
adequate arrangements have been made to insure the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against risks inci-
dent to their purchase and importation into the territories
of the Borrower.
SECTION 5.09. (a) The Borrower shall at all times make
available, promptly as they are needed, all funds and other
resources which shall be required for the carrying out of
the Project and the proper maintenance of its highway
system.
(b) The Borrower shall give priority to the Project in its
highway program and, to that end, shall, if necessary to
accomplish the prompt and diligent carrying out of the
Project, make such revisions in the construction schedules
for other highway projects as may be required.
SECTION 5.10. (a) The Borrower shall cause all mainte-
nance equipment and materials, and all spare parts, financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, to be used exclusively for
the purposes of road maintenance.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all its machinery and
equipment for highway construction and maintenance to be
adequately maintained and repaired and shall cause suit-
able workshops to be maintained in suitable places for that
purpose.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
SECTION 6.01. (i) If any event specified in paragraph (a)
or paragraph (b) of Section 5.02 of the Loan Regulations


﻿10
shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days,
or (ii) if any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section
5.02 of the Loan Regulations shall occur and shall continue
for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Bank to the Borrower, or (iii) if any
event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of
Section 6.02 of this Agreement shall occur and shall con-
tinue for a period of sixty days, or (iv) if any event spe-
cified in paragraph (c) of Section 6.02 of this Agreement
shall occur, then at any subsequent time during the con-
tinuance thereof the Bank, at its option, may declare the
principal of the Loan and of all the Bonds then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately, and upon any such
declaration such principal shall become due and payable
immediately, anything in this Agreement or in the Bonds to
the contrary notwithstanding.
SECTION 6.02. The following are specified as additional
events for the purposes of Section 5.02(h) of the Loan
Regulations:
(a) A default has occurred in the payment of principal,
interest, service charge or any other payment re-
quired under any development credit agreement be-
tween the Borrower and the Association.
(b) A default has occurred in the performance of any
other covenant or agreement on the part of the Bor-
rower under the Development Credit Agreement.
(c) The outstanding principal amount of the Credit pro-
vided for in the Development Credit Agreement has
been declared, or become, due and payable in advance
of the agreed maturity thereof.
(d) The Borrower has cancelled any part of the financing
provided for in the Development Credit Agreement
without a cancellation of a corresponding proportion
of the Loan.


﻿11
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 7.01. The following events are specified as ad-
ditional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agree-
ment within the meaning of Section 9.01(b) of the Loan
Regulations:
(a) that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
the Development Credit Agreement have been ful-
filled; and
(b) that the Loan Agreement has been duly ratified by
the Legislative Assembly of the Borrower as re-
quired by Article 4 of Law No. 2719, dated February
10, 1961, of such Legislative Assembly.
SECTIoN 7.02. A date ninety days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
9.04 of the Loan Regulations.
ARTICLE VIII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 8.01. The Closing Date shall be April 30, 1965,
or such other date as may from time to time be agreed
between the Borrower and the Bank.
SECTION 8.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 8.01 of the Loan Regulations:
For the Borrower:
Ministro de Economia y Hacienda
San Jose
Costa Rica
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
Mlineconomia
San Jose


﻿12
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington 25, D. C.
United States of America
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
Intbafrad
Washington, D. C.
SECTION 8.03. The Minister of Economy and Finance of
the Borrower is designated for the purposes of Section 8.03
of the Loan Regulations.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Loan Agreement to be signed in their respective
names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
By s/ E. SALAS
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*
May 1, 1965                          162,000
November 1, 1965                     167,000
May 1, 1966                          172,000
November 1, 1966                     177,000
May 1, 1967                          182,000
November 1, 1967                     187,000
May 1, 1968                          192,000
November 1, 1968                     198,000
May 1, 1969                          204,000
November 1, 1969                     209,000
May 1, 1970                          216,000
November 1, 1970                     222,000
May 1, 1971                          228,000
November 1, 1971                     235,000
May 1, 1972                          241,000
November 1, 1972                     248,000
May 1, 1973                          255,000
November 1, 1973                     263,000
May 1, 1974                          270,000
November 1, 1974                     278,000
May 1, 1975                          286,000
November 1, 1975                     294,000
May 1, 1976                          303,000
November 1, 1976                     311,000
* To the extent that any part of the Loan is repayable in a currency
other than dollars (see Loan Regulations, Section 3.03), the figures in
this column represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes
of withdrawal.


﻿14
Premiums on Prepayment and Redemption
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any part
of the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section
2.05(b) of the Loan Regulations or on the redemption of
any Bond prior to its maturity pursuant to Section 6.16 of
the Loan Regulations:
Time of Prepayment or Redemption     Premium
Not more than three years before
maturity ............................    %
More than three years but not more
than six years before maturity ........  2%
fore than six years but not more
than eleven years before maturity ....  3 %o
More than eleven years but not more
than thirteen years before maturity. . .  43/4
More than thirteen years before
maturity ........................... 53/4


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Project
The Project consists of:
A. The reconstruction and construction of approximately
670 km of national and regional highways.
B. A program for the improvement of the highway main-
tenance organization and its operation, including the
construction and expansion of workshops and the ac-
quisition of maintenance equipment, spare parts and
materials.
C. Studies of future highway projects; and the acquisi-
tion of surveying and testing equipment.


