Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21846-GU
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$62.16 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
FOR THE
UNIVERSALIZATION OF BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
APRIL 25, 2001
Human Development Group (LCSHD)
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 2000)
Currency Unit = Quetzal
Q1.00 = US$0.128
US$1.00 = Q7.795
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AEN           - Association for Girls' Education ((Asociaci6n Eduquemos a la Ninia)
CAS           - Country Assistance Strategy
COEDUCA    - Parent-run School Committee (Comite Educativo de Autogesti6n Educativa)
DIGEBI        - General Directorate of Bilingual Education (Direcci6n General de Educaci6n Bilingue)
DIGEEX        - Direcci6n General de Educaci6n Extra Escolar
EDUMAYA    - Mayan Education Program (USAID)
EMIS          - Education Management Information System
FIS           - Social Investment Fund (Fondo de Inversi6n Social)
FM            - Financial Management
FONAPAZ       - National Fund for Peace (Fondo Nacional para la Paz)
FSDC          - Social Fund for Community Development (Fondo Social para Desarrollo
Comunitario)
FUNRURAL   - Foundation for Rural Development
GOG           - Government of Guatemala
GTZ           - German Technical Cooperation
IDB           - Inter-American Development Bank
[NE           - National Statistics Institute
KfW           - Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (Cooperaci6n Financiera Alemana)
LSMS          - Living Standards Measurement Survey
MCS           - Ministry of Culture and Sports
MEDIR         - Evaluation of Intercultural Bilingual Education
MFP           - Ministry of Public Finance
MINEDUC       - Ministry of Education
PAEBI         - Bilingual Intercultural Education Project in the Quiche area
PCU           - Project Coordination Unit
PEMBI         - Mayan Bilingual Intercultural Education
PIP           - Project Implementation Plan
PMRs          - Project Management Reports
PRONADE       - National Community-managed Program for Educational Development (Programa
Nacional de Autogesti6n para el Desarrollo Educativo)
SIAF          - Integrated System for Financial Administration
SIGEPRO       - Sistema Integrado de Gerencia de Proyectos
UNDP          - United Nations Development Program
UNESCO        - United Nations Educational, Scientific & Cultural Organization
UNICEF        - United Nations Intemational Children's Emergency Fund
UPE           - Unit of Education Planning
URNG          - Uni6n Revolucionaria Nacional Guatemalteca
USAID         - United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:   David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager/Director:   Xavier Coll
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Carlos Rojas



GUATEMALA
UNIVERSALIZATION OF BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page
1. Project development objective                                                        2
2. Key performance indicators                                                            2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project        3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                            4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                    9
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  11
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                        12
3. Benefits and target population                                                       13
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                        15
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                            15
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies           17
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                             19
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                     20
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                          20
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                            20
2. Financial                                                                            21
3. Technical                                                                            21
4. Institutional                                                                        22
5. Environmental                                                                        22
6. Social                                                                               23
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                   26
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      26
2. Critical risks                                                                       26
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                       28



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           28
2. Other                                                                             29
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         29
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        29
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         30
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   38
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        46
Annex 4: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary                                            47
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary   56
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      64
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    76
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  77
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 78
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           80
MAP(S)
IBRD 29282



GUATEMALA
UNIVERSALIZATION OF BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSHE
Date: April 25, 2001                              Team Leader: Carlos A. Rojas
Country Manager/Director: Donna Dowsett-Coirolo   Sector Manager/Director: Xavier Coll
Project ID: P048652                               Sector(s): EP - Primary Education
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Education
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
[X] Loan    [ ] Credit    [] Grant     [ ] Guarantee     [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 62.16
Proposed Terms: Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 4.5                              Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0.85%/0.75%                            Service charge: %
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan:    Source                                   Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                      20.34            0.00         20.34
IBRD                                                          52.86            9.30         62.16
Total:                                                        73.20            9.30         82.50
Borrower:
Responsible agency:
Ministry of Education
Address: 6a Calle 1-87, zona 10, Guatemala City, Guatemala
Contact Person: Lic. Rossana de Hegel. (Director of UCONIME)
Tel: 502-360-3826                Fax: 502-360-3870                Email: rdehegel@mineduc.gob.gt
Other Agency(ies):
Ministry of Culture and Sports
Address: 12 Ave No 12-65, Zona 1, Guatemala City, Guatemala
Contact Person: Lic. Otilia Lux de Coti (Minister of Culture and Sports)
Tel: 502-253-0543              Fax: 502-253-0540                Email: vamicude@guate.net
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/USSM):
FY         2002       2003       2004       2005      2006
Annual    9.77       15.62 I   16.14       15.55      5.08
Cumulative    9.77       25.39     41.53      57.08      62.16
Project implementation period: Four years.
Expected effectiveness date: 10/31/2001  Expected closing date:  04/30/2006
)CS PAD F-Ir  Fv Marl, 2000



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
This project is a continuation of the ongoing Basic Education Reform Project which supports the Ministiy
of Education's (MINEDUC) effort to achieve universal access to primary schooling; to improve equity and
the quality of education primarily in rural, indigenous areas of Guatemala; and to decentralize and
modemize the education administration system.
In the Government's recently published education strategy: Government Plan, Education Sector,
2000-2004, it is clearly stated that increasing coverage and enhancing the quality of services provided are
the main strategies to be followed by MINEDUC as part of the reform process being discussed. In the
same document it has been established that within this framework the following are the main priorities: (i)
literacy and post-literacy actions; (ii) universalization  of primary school; (iii) generalization of
intercultural and bilingual education; (iv) curriculum transformation for improving education quality; (v)
specialization and upgrading of teachers; and (vi) decentralization/modernization of the education system.
To assist the Government with the implementation of said strategy, the proposed project has the following
development objectives:
(a) Improve coverage and equity at the primary school level through the expansion and consolidation
of PRONADE schools (National Community-managed Program for Educational Development) and
by providing scholarships primarily for indigenous girls in rural communities.
(b) Improve efficiency and quality of primary education by supporting bilingual education, providing
textbooks and didactic materials in 18 linguistic areas; expanding multigrade schools; and improving
teacher qualifications.
(c) Facilitate MINEDUC and the Ministry of Culture and Sports (MCS) to jointly design and
execute a program to enhance the goals of cultural diversity and pluralism contained in the National
Constitution, the Guatemalan Peace Accords, and the April 2000 National Congress on Cultural
Policies.
(d) Assist decentralization and modernization of MINEDUC by supporting on-going efforts to
strengthen the organization and management of the education system.
2. Key performnance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Improve Coverage and Equity:
1. Increase coverage of rural primary enrollment in PRONADE schools from 24 percent to 27 percent.
(An additional 40,000 new rural students would be enrolled through the expansion of the PRONADE
program.)
2. Girls primary school enrollment in poor, indigenous areas to reach 48 percent by the end of the project
due to quality enhancement, as well as coverage improvement. (Current enrollment is close to 45
percent.)
-2 -



Improve Quality and Efficiency:
3. Approximately 708,900 primary school children in indigenous communities are using new math and
cultural textbooks printed in their own native language (covering 18 linguistic areas and reaching 3,300
classroom libraries in rural, indigenous areas).
4. Approximately 2,000 new PRONADE teachers selected and appointed by the COEDUCAs and 3,500
non-PRONADE teachers are applying new teaching methodologies for multigrade and bilingual
education in the classroom.
Cultural Diversity and Pluralism:
5. Strengthening of policy framework and institutional capacity of MCS to coordinate activities with
MINEDUC and other government institutions, particularly in promotion of multicultural and
inter-cultural policies and programs within a framework of sustainable human development.
6. Design and implementation of four pilot experiences in deconcentration of MCS cultural education
services (including arts and sports education) to municipal level, carried out in collaboration with local
MINEDUC programs.
7. Design and implementation of a National Cultural Resources Information System (NCRIS) to include
modernization of the current cultural resources information systems within the MCS; improved
services to local museums, libraries, and other cultural institutions; and, establishment of an
computerized data base on the contemporary cultural resources and expressions of the country's diverse
ethnic and linguistic groups.
Decentralization and Modernization of MINEDUC:
8. Staff at the central, departmental and pilot municipal levels are trained and implementing
decentralization and deconcentration policies.
9. A strengthened Educational Training and Development Department with qualified human resources at
both the central and local levels is implementing MINEDUC's new policies of multigrade and bilingual
education.
10. The multi-media communication strategy for supporting MINEDUC activities is designed and
implemented to reach Ministry employees at all levels, as well as communities, parents, teachers, and
students, specifically in targeted areas of the project.
11. The Education Management Information System (EMIS) is upgraded and departments are now using
the new applications and technology as a tool for uniformed educational monitoring, feedback,
reporting, and decision-making.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R98-175, 175/2         Date of latest CAS discussion: 7/14/98
The Guatemala CAS proposes that the bulk of Bank lending support efforts to alleviate poverty through
improving access to sustainable productive opportunities and expanding delivery of basic services. To
expand delivery of basic services the CAS proposed to focus on education in response to the Peace Accords
commitment to attain access of all 7 to 12 year-olds to at least three years of schooling, and reduce
illiteracy to 30 percent of the population by the year 2000, in part by increasing executed public spending
by 50 percent by 2000 relative to 1995. Specifically, the CAS mentions that the Bank will continue to
support implementation of the on-going Basic Education Reform Project which supports the expansion of
coverage in rural areas implemented by community managed schools, and to seek approval of a new Basic
Education project. The proposed project addresses that recommendation.
- 3 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Background/General description.
Guatemala is a country of approximately 11 million people with a young and rapidly growing population,
according to population projections for the year 2000 from the National Statistics Institute, (INE-CELADE
(1998) Estimaciones de Poblaci6n por Departamento segun Edad y Sexo 1990-2010 y Estimaciones de
Poblaci6n por Municipio segun Sexo 1990-2005, Guatemala). About 44 percent of the population is less
than 14 years old, 65 percent is under 25, and the population growth rate stands at 2.61 percent. The
country is divided into 22 Departments with the Department of Guatemala accounting for 22.6 percent of
all inhabitants. Guatemala has a large rural population (about two-thirds), with the majority coming from
indigenous communities or 48 percent of the total (La Encuesta Nacional de Ingresos y Gastos
Familiares, 1998). The nation has a great cultural and linguistic diversity. It is multiethnic, pluri-cultural,
and pluri-lingual, consisting of the Mayas, Ladinos, Xinka, and Garifunas, (Funes 2000).
The social and economic contrasts in Guatemala are noticeable, especially between urban and rural areas.
Similar to most developing countries, public investment tends to favor urban centers while delivery of basic
social services, including primary education, remains either unavailable or beyond the financial reach of
rural and indigenous populations. Indicators of economic and social development have a tendency to be
higher in urban centers, thus attesting to the influence these have over the allocation of national public
resources, (see Instituto Nacional de Estadistica, 1996 Caracteristicas Generales de Poblacion y
Habitaci6n. Guatemala: Guatemala, C.A.) On a national level, the average educational attainment for
Guatemalans is only three years, and it is less than two years in the least urban Departments of Alta
Verapaz, Quiche, Huehuetenango, and Totonicapin. By comparison, in the most urban area, the
Department of Guatemala, the average educational attainment has reached five years.
Guatemala is a country facing transition from over 30 years of civil war to a post-conflict society where the
human rights and basic freedoms of all Guatemalans, including civic participation in decision making are
recognized and supported. On the 29th of December, 1996 the Peace Accords were signed between the
Government of Guatemala (GoG) and the Guaternalan National Revolutionary Union, marking the end of
the war and the beginning of a new national development agenda that would bring the needs of the
indigenous and underserved populations to the forefront. The underpinning principles of the Peace Accords
cut across various sectors and issues: education, health, socioeconomic and agrarian reform, identity and
rights of indigenous peoples, and resettlement agreements.
Education reform was recognized as particularly important for promoting peace and equity and is strongly
emphasized in three of the six Peace Accords. The Accords acknowledge education and training as,
"essential for a strategy of equity and national unity," and "determining factors in economic modemization
and international competitiveness."  (Acuerdo sobre Aspectors Socioecon6micos y Situaci6n Agraria,
p.10).
To fulfill necessary reforms to the education system as well as to achieve a mechanism for fulfilling the
Peace Accords, the Govermment would have to improve their record of very low public investment in
education. In 1995, the Government budgeted only 1.3 percent of GDP for the education sector compared
to an average of 3.6 percent in the region. Intra-sectoral allocations showed that 53 percent of the budget
was allocated to primary education, 15 percent to higher education, 11 percent to secondary education, 9
percent to administration, and 3 percent to preschool education. At the primary level, the distribution of
resources was inequitable favoring urban areas. In 1995, the annual per student expenditure in primary
- 4 -



schools was estimated at US$166 for children in urban areas and US$110 for rural children. (Valerio and
Rojas, 2000). There have been modest increases in the last two years to the education budget. The latest
MINEDUC statistics (1999) calculate the education budget as 1.6 percent of GDP.
The legacy of many years of war left Guatemala with, among others, two serious problems facing society:
poverty and inequality. Approximately 75 percent of the population lives below the poverty line with 58
percent of those earning below the line of extreme poverty, (Funes, 2000). According to the figures from
the National Household Survey, the percentage of households below the poverty line was 85 percent in Alta
Verapaz, 79 percent in Quiche, and 76 percent in Huehuetenango. Currently the Govermnent is conducting
a Living Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS) with the support of the intemational community. It is
expected that updated demographics as well as socioeconomic information will be available during the first
semester of 2001.
The country also has one of the highest illiteracy rates of Latin America at 29.6 percent (1999), even
though this rate has improved significantly from 37.5 percent as measured in 1995. (Ministerio de
Educaci6n, Memoria de Labores 1996-1999.) It is estimated that of the 2.2 million illiterate adults in the
country, 77 percent live in rural areas and 61 percent are from indigenous groups. In urban areas, 89
percent of adults over 15 years of age are literate while the percentage is only 69 percent in rural areas.
Similarly, while 75 percent of women in urban areas are literate, in rural areas only 50 percent are literate.
The highest illiteracy rates occur in the rural areas among women, principally in Departments where the
majority of people are indigenous. In the Departments of Alta Verapaz and Quiche, the percentage of
literate women reaches only a mere 12 percent and 19 percent, respectively. The Departments of Alta and
Baja Verapaz, Quiche, and Huehuetenango have the least access to educational services, highest levels of
poverty, and the highest number of indigenous communities. (See MINEDUC, 1999. Anuario Estadistico
de la Educaci6n. Guatemala City, Guatemala C.A. pp. 48-49.)
The basic education system of Guatemala includes:
3 a preprimary level for children of ages 5 and 6 with two modes of instruction: bilingual and
regular preprimary (Primaria de Pdrvulos);
3 a primary level with six grades for children 7 through 12 years of age. The first three grades
(grades 1-3) comprise the elementary cycle of primary education (Educaci6n Fundamental), and
grades 4 through 6 make up the complementary cycle (Educaci6n complementaria). Adult
primary education (Educaci6n Primaria de Adultos) is offered in a 4-year cycle, usually through
evening classes; and
*   a basic cycle of secondary education (Ciclo Basico de Educaci6n Media) with grades 7-9 for
children of ages 13 to 15. The upper cycle of secondary education (Ciclo Diversificado de
Educaci6n Media), with a diversified curriculum of two to three years, is not part of the basic
education system.
Despite recent efforts by the Government to expand access to basic education for the majority of school-age
children, problems of coverage, equity and poor quality persist in the system. Guatemala ranks among the
lowest in enrollment rates for all of Latin America. In 2000, gross enrollment for primary school children
was 95 percent and net enrollment was only 84 percent (MINEDUC, Anuario Estadistico de la Educaci6n,
2000). These figures represent a significant improvement in access to the system if one considers that the
respective figures were 84 (gross) and 69 (net) in 1995. For girls, the indicators are usually worse than for
boys, a pattern that is common for access to preprimary and primary education in rural and urban areas.
It has also been established that net enrollment for 7 year olds (first grade) was only 75 percent, indicating
that significant improvement is still needed. There are still some departments where the net enrollments are
- 5 -



between 50 and 55 percent (Alta Verapaz, Huehuetenango, Totonicapan and Solola). By contrast, only
three departments have net enrollments above 90 percent (Retalhuleu, Jutiapa, Santa Rosa.) More than 70
percent of students in rural areas are older than their corresponding grade level, compared to 50 percent in
the urban areas, (Funes 2000).
According to MINEDUC's statistics, (2000), there are about 1.87 million children in the age bracket 7-12,
of which 164,032 are girls who have no access to the primary school system. Annual dropout rates
average 11.4 percent and are highest in the first and second grades with 17.3 percent and 10.3 percent
respectively. Grade repetition is also high at an average of 17 percent for boys and 15 percent for girls.
Again the highest level of grade repetition is in the first grade with 30.2 percent and 27.5 percent for boys
and girls respectively. Age-grade correspondence is low: at the national level only 31.6 percent of the
students are enrolled in the grade corresponding to their age. In the rural areas the figure is 26.6 percent.
The current educational situation in Guatemala must be seen within the context of the country's great
ethnic, linguistic and cultural diversity. Over twenty (20) Mayan Indian languages are spoken in
Guatemala. Most of the speakers of these indigenous languages reside in the westem and northem
highlands, where they maintain strong social and historical attachments to their cormmunities of origin,
robust spiritual and cultural traditions, a profound knowledge of the environment and natural resources, a
millenarian agricultural tradition, and a world-renowned arts and crafts tradition.
Along with the majority Mayan-speaking population (Kiche, Kakchiquel, Mam and Keqchi are the largest
ethnolinguistic groups), numerous other peoples and cultures reside in Guatemala. Among these are the
Afro-Caribbean or Garifuna-speaking people on the Atlantic Coast; a small enclave of Xinca-speaking
people near the border with El Salvador; and a large Spanish-speaking or Ladino population which resides
in Guatemala City and throughout the country in both urban and rural areas.
The 1985 Guatemalan Constitution recognizes the rights of all citizens and ethnic groups to participate
freely in the social and cultural life of their communities and the nation, as well as to preserve their specific
cultures, languages and identities. These rights are reaffirmed and stipulated in the various Peace Accords
which were signed by the Guatemalan government and the Guatemalan National Revolutionary Unity
(URNG) during the 1990s, particularly the Accords relating to the Identity and Rights of the Indigenous
Peoples (March 1995) and the Socio-Economic and Agrarian Accord (May 1996). The Accord on the
Identity and Rights of Indigenous Peoples recognizes the multi-ethnic, multi-lingual and pluri-cultural
characteristics of Guatemalan society and calls for several reforms to protect the identities and cultures of
the country's large indigenous population.
Issues
The principal sector issues for both the educational and cultural sectors are well described in the
Government Plan for the Education Sector 2000-2004 (July, 2000) and the Principles, Policies and
Strategies of the Ministry of Culture and Sports: 2000-2004 (September 2000). They can be summarized
as follows:
(a) Coverage. Despite significant improvements during the last four years, access, repetition and
drop-outs are still serious problems faced by MINEDUC. It is estimated that only 70 percent of the adult
population are literate, however, in the rural areas, especially among indigenous groups, literacy can be as
low as 20 percent. Net enrollment at the primary level remains still very low in Jalapa (65 percent),
Huehuetenango (70 percent), Alta Verapaz (70 percent), and Sacatepequez (71 percent). Girls still have
lower enrollment and promotion rates, especially in rural indigenous areas. At the national level,
- 6 -



MINEDUC's statistics for the year 2000 show that net enrollment at the primary level is only 84 percent.
(MINEDUC, Anuario Estadistico de la Educaci6n,2000.) It is estimated that approximately 17 percent of
the students enrolled in primary rural schools are repeating the year and 18 percent are not promoted to the
following grade.
(b) Quality. Most public schools lack basic quality education materials (textbooks, libraries, learning and
teaching aids). Appropriate bilingual materials are not available to rural schools attended by students
whose native language is not Spanish. Most rural schools are multigrade (one or two teachers instructing
several grade levels), yet only a few teachers have been trained in bilingual education and/or multigrade
methodologies. Many of the teachers are of Mayan background but their command of the language is
mostly verbal, leaving few with skills in reading and writing. Teacher training and other higher level
institutions use traditional teacher training processes favoring rote learning and fact memorization. The
education system needs to modernize classroom teaching methods and train teachers in the use of more
participatory teaching methods in the classroom that involves active student learning and development of
cognitive skills.
(c ) Promoting Cultural Diversity and Pluralism. For various historical and socio-political reasons (not
the least of which was the civil strife that affected the country between 1960 and 1990), Guatemala has
found it difficult to benefit from its social and cultural diversity and make it the basis for sustainable
development. One of the major challenges that Guatemala faces is how to build upon its cultural diversity,
making it the basis of its development policies and programs rather than having it serve as a continuing
source of social tension and conflict. As noted in such publications as the World Commission on Culture
and Development report, Our Creative Diversity (lUNESCO, 1996), the recognition and respect for
cultural diversity can serve as an endogenous engine of economic development in multi-ethnic and
multi-lingual countries such as Guatemala and provide the basis for a lasting and enduring peace. The
educational system, with its power of inculcating ethical and civic values in children and youth, has an
extremely important role to play in the recognition and promotion of cultural diversity and pluralism, as
well as in the creation of a "culture of peace" in Guatemala.
(d) Decentralization/Modernization. While progress has been made by MINEDUC, with support from an
on-going Bank-financed project and from other donors, in the decentralization of functions to the
departmental level and modemization of the structure, processes and working tools, several unfinished
tasks remain. MINEDUC's institutional and financial capacity to respond to the country's education
problems is weak. Traditional, centralized, and inefficient decision-making still limits departmental and
local participation in school administration, failing to integrate local concems in the process. The
education system is still hampered by limited managerial, administrative and financial capacity, particularly
at the departmental and local levels. In addition, the national student assessment system, which has
successfully carried out student testing, has yet to devise effective mechanisms to disseminate evaluation
results and provide feedback for education quality improvement.
In spite of improvements in the gathering, processing, analyzing and reporting of key education statistics,
there is a still a need for improving the quality of the process, the instruments used and the dissemination
strategies considered.
In regard to the upgrading of the information system (hardware and software), it is necessary to continue
the provision of the newest technology available and to offer training at the central and departmental levels
to those in charge of implementing the system. At the departmental level all of the directorates will be
connected via intemet with the central level. Special attention will be given to improving the quality of the
process followed to gather the information requested by the statistics unit.
- 7 -



Government Strategy
Given the above issues, MINEDUC's basic education strategy focuses on providing universal coverage for
the first six grades, and pays particular attention to bilingual education and targeting for gender equity,
indigenous populations and those groups affected by decades of conflict; improved quality, internal and
external efficiency; institutional and administrative modernization and decentralization, including greater
participation of NGOs and the local community.
As a result of the above mentioned situation, the Government in accordance with the Peace Accords is fully
committed to: (i) increase the economic resources devoted to education; (ii) make the necessary adjustments
to education content having cultural and pedagogical pertinence; (iii) increase coverage at all levels of the
education system emphasizing bilingual education in rural areas; (iv) train social organizations at the
municipal, regional and national levels to promote participation in socioeconomic development; (v) design
scholarship programs, vouchers and other incentives to allow students with special economic needs to
remain in school; (vi) design and implement continuous in-service teacher training courses aimed at
teachers and education administrators; and (vii) respond to the cultural and linguistic diversity of the
country acknowledging and strengthening the cultural identity and values of the indigenous peoples
including indigenous educational concepts in the national curriculum (see Plan de Gobiemo Sector de
Educaci6n 2000-2004, pp. 5-6; July 2000).
In the same document (page 16) MINEDUC's strategy identifies six priority actions in which most of the
resources will be concentrated: (i) literacy and post-literacy actions; (ii) universalization of primary school;
(iii) generalization of intercultural and bilingual education; (iv) curriculum transformation for improving
education quality; (v) specialization and upgrading of teacher skills; and (vi) decentralization and
modernization of the education system.
It has also been established that the MINEDUC will continue supporting PRONADE schools as the main
model through which the expansion of coverage (universalization) will be accomplished in rural, isolated
communities. The PRONADE program, supported by an on-going Bank loan, is based on an education
delivery model that has been highly effective in increasing access to the first three years of primary
education in rural areas. This model was originally selected by the MINEDUC and the Commission for
Education Reform as a means to accomplish the objectives set forth in the Peace Accords, as well as to
effectively address the poor access levels and educational attainment in the rural areas where the majority
of the population is indigenous. (see Annex 2 for additional background information on PRONADE.)
Along with these educational reform efforts, the Government, through the MCS, has been developing a
more proactive approach to the promotion of cultural diversity and pluralism, as reflected in the National
Constitution and the Peace Accords. The Guatemalan Government recently nominated a well-known
Mayan educator as the new Minister of Culture and Sports. Three months after taking office, the new
Minister, in collaboration with the MINEDUC and with the support of the UNDP, UNESCO and the
World Bank, organized the first National Congress on Cultural Policies in Antigua, Guatemala. The
National Congress brought together over 600 people (many of them school teachers, representatives of
indigenous and civil society organizations, and academic specialists) to discuss several important themes
relating to the social and cultural development of the country.
A major outcome of the National Congress was the recommendation that a national cultural strategy be
prepared, in line with the growing emphasis upon multiculturalism and intercultural understanding among
ethnic groups contained in the Peace Accords. The principles and policies behind this strategy were
- 8 -



formulated in the months following the National Congress, and are currently being discussed with the
MINEDUC and other government ministries. An Advisory Committee (Comite de Seguimiento) has also
been set up comprised of academic, civil society, indigenous, and private sector representatives in order to
monitor the implementation of the MCS strategy. The strategy itself calls for a major institutional
reorientation of the MCS, greater collaboration with other government ministries such as MINEDUC,
more systematic participation of civil society and the private sector in the cultural field, and a
decentralization of a major part of MCS programs to the municipal and local community levels (see,
Principios, Politicas y Estrategias del Ministerio de Cultura y Deportes: 2000-2004 (MCS, September
2000).
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Sector Issue                 Strategic Choices
I. Coverage
Expand enrollment capacity of   Geographically, the project will target mainly rural indigenous areas of the
primary schools in rural and  poorest departments in Guatemala. The project intends to continue
marginalized communities.    supporting the PRONADE program.  Increased school enrollment is
enhanced by parental and community involvement in local school
management through the PRONADE administrative model and the
formation and stimulation of parent-run COEDUCAs. New PRONADE
schools will make use of existing facilities where possible, such as
community centers, churches, municipal buildings, etc. The prerequisite for
the opening of a new school is the availability of students and teachers, not
infrastructure.
Children of poor families,   The project will promote the enrollment and attendance of all children of
especially girls in indigenous    poor families with a special emphasis on girls of school-age 6 -14, through
communities, are unable to   the provision of scholarships or economic assistance to families in need.
attend school due to
opportunity costs and lack of
family resources.
II. Quality
Weak and ineffective         Improved quality of education will help to lower repetition and drop-out
strategies for multigrade    levels which are most prevalent in the first and second grades of primary
teaching (monolingual and    education. The project will support: (i) teacher training for monolingual
bilingual) and bilingual     and bilingual teachers in multi-grade settings, (ii) bilingual teacher training,
education in indigenous      and (iii) provision of textbooks, student guides and didactic materials.
communities.
Lack of educational materials    Educational materials published in 18 linguistic areas plus Spanish will be
and textbooks for monolingual   supplied for all rural schools.
and bilingual students.
-9-



III. Cultural Diversity and
Pluralism
Lack of a comprehensive      The project will establish a Policy and Planning Unit within the MCS;
policy framework and         develop in collaboration with a broad range of governmental, civil society
institutional structure for  and private sector stakeholders a National Cultural Development Plan; and,
coordinating activities between   conduct a review and prepare a proposal for reform of the current legal and
MCS, MINEDUC and other       normative structure of the cultural sector. Systematic training and capacity
government institutions within   strengthening to achieve these goals will be carried out within the MCS and
the new strategic framework of  with the MINEDUC and other government entities and institutions involved
multicultural and inter-cultural  in human and social development activities.
policies contained in the Peace
Accords and Principles,
Policies and Strategies of the
MCS, 2000-2004.
Need to deconcentrate MCS    The MCS has already begun, with support from the government and other
activities and services to the  donor agencies, to expand its local cultural promoters program.  The
municipal level, and promote    project will assist this deconcentration process through designing and
greater synergy at the local  carrying out of four (4) pilot experiences in deconcentrating MCS cultural
level between the formal     education services (including the arts and athletic education) to the
educational system (including    municipal level. Attempts will be made to select areas for the pilots which
the PRONADE and DIGEBI    are not currently served by the MCS and which are representative of some
programs) and MCS activities.  of the country's cultural, linguistic and social diversity.  Systematic
monitoring and evaluation of these pilot experiences will enable the MCS to
expand and scale up the decentralization program at a later date.
Need for the MCS to          The project will enable the MCS to design and put in place a National
systematically gather,       Cultural Resources Information System (NCRIS) which would include
organize, disseminate and    modernization of the current cultural resources information services of the
value information relating to  MCS; increased information services provided to the country's museums
the rich cultural resources,  and libraries; and establishment of a data base on the contemporary
both tangible and intangible,    cultural resources and expressions of the country's diverse ethnic and
which exist in Guatemala and    linguistic groups. The NCRIS would be developed in close collaboration
which could play an important   with other information data bases maintained by the country's academic and
role as cultural knowledge in    research institutions,  MINEDUC, INGUAT and other agencies; and,
both the formal educational  materials arising out of the development of the information system would be
system and the wider society's   disseminated widely to schools and other cultural institutions through
understanding of the         Ministry publications and its web site.
multiethnic, multilingual and
pluricultural reality of the
country.
- 10-



IV. Decentralization /
Modernization
The project will continue to strengthen the planning, organizational and
The Ministry of Education is    managerial capacity of MINEDUC in coordination with the GOG's Public
slow to decentralize authority    Sector Modernization Program  currently under preparation, of which
to the departments,         MINEDUC will be a pilot. The improved PRONADE model, including
municipalities, and local levels.  COEDUCAs and NGOs, will be supported as the principal mechanisms for
the delivery and expansion of school services in rural areas, irrespective of
teaching methodology (multigrade, bilingual).  The project will also
contribute to improve efficiency in the use of educational resources. It will
continue supporting the planning and statistics units within the MINEDUC,
as well as the development and implementation of the EMIS.
Communication of education    The project will target MINEDUC staff at the central and local levels, as
initiatives to the general  well as the general public on the merits of educating their children,
public, especially rural and  particularly girls; the importance of bilingual education; and opportunities
indigenous groups is weak and   to become active members of the groups that organize and manage
should be enriched to include    community schools. The project will also inform communities on the
community participation and    availability of scholarships and the general public on the education reform
consultation.               achievements.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project contains four main components.  The first component, Universalization of Primary
Education, will continue to support the Government's effort to ensure universal access to primary
education for all Guatemalan children. It includes two subcomponents: (i) expansion of enrollment capacity
of primary schools in rural areas and marginalized communities through the PRONADE program; and (ii)
economic assistance\scholarships for girls coming from poor families to attend school. The second
component, Improving the Quality of Education, will focus on augmenting the quality and efficiency of
primary education. This goal is supported by three subcomponents: (i) strengthening of multigrade
strategies and bilingual education primarily in rural communities; (ii) provision of educational materials
(student guides and textbooks) for monolingual and bilingual children; (iii) training of teachers in
multigrade methodologies, as well as in content areas and development of curricula for bilingual schools.
The third component, Cultural Diversity and Pluralism, will support the institutional strengthening of the
MCS in order to coordinate more effectively with the MINEDUC and other government agencies. It
includes three subcomponents: (i) institutional strengthening of the MCS, including establishment of a
Policy and Planning Unit and the preparation, in coordination with the M4INEDUC and other agencies, of a
National Cultural Development Plan; (ii) deconcentration of MCS cultural education services to the
municipal level; and, (iii) development of a National Cultural Resources Information System (NCRIS) to
include modernization of the current cultural resources information systems in the MCS, provision of
information services to museums and libraries, and establishment of a cultural resources database on the
diverse ethnic and linguistic groups of Guatemala. The fourth component is Decentralization and
Modernization. To achieve this goal, the project will continue to support: (i) improvement of the
managerial and administrative capacity of the Ministry of Education, decentralization at the departmental
- 11 -



and local levels, with special emphasis on strengthening the General Directorate of Bilingual Education
(DIGEBI); (ii) training of community associations (COEDUCAs) to manage and organize PRONADE
schools; and (iii) continued development and updating of an Education Management Information System
(EMIS).
hidicative         Bank          k 
Component  Sector       Costs     % of    financ    ~~~ingank-n
I. Universalization of Primary    Primary            40.28       48.8     22.92      36.9
Education.                        Education
II. Improving the Quality of Education.  Primary     25.43       30.8     23.34      37.5
Education
III. Cultural Diversity and Pluralism.    Human       2.30        2.8      2.23       3.6
Development
IV. Decentralization and Modernization  System Reform &    13.87  16.8    13.05      21.0
of MINEDUC.                       Capacity
Building
Total Project Costs                  81.88      99.2     61.54      99.0
Front-end fee                    0.62       0.8      0.62        1.0
Total Financing Required                   82.50      100.0     62.16     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
As a continuation of the ongoing Basic Education Reform Project, the proposed project directly
supports the Peace Accords as well as the Government Plan for the Education Sector 2000-2004, (July
2000). It upholds the Constitutional mandates (articles 74 and 76) which state that all residents have the
right and the obligation to attend pre-primary, primary and basic education; that the administration of the
system should be decentralized; that bilingual education should be offered in indigenous areas; and that the
state will provide and promote scholarships and educational loans. Through the expansion of the
PRONADE schools, the project supports MINEDUC's actions aimed at achieving universalization of the
primary education cycle.
The project also supports key policy reforms to improve the in-service teacher training strategies for
teachers involved with primary education. Recently the Ministry of Education appointed a committee aimed
at analyzing the in-service and preservice teacher training needs and to propose a training plan that should
be carried out immediately. As a result of the situation, the commission has proposed the execution of a
comprehensive "Teacher Development Plan" aimed at training all primary education teachers on specific
content issues as well as on methodological aspects related to teaching in multigrade and bilingual
education settings. Unlike the traditional in-service teacher training programs, characterized by isolated,
short courses offered primarily to urban teachers, the "Teacher Development Plan" calls for an ongoing
training during two years to be conducted during weekends and after school hours. The plan would be
supported by this project primarily focusing on rural teachers working in multi-grade classrooms.
MINEDUC's policies regarding intercultural and bilingual education are at the core of the education
strategies. The proposed project will continue supporting the distribution of available curriculum materials
in most of the linguistic areas.
- 12-



Decentralization and modernization of the system is also of paramount value. The project continues
supporting the creation and institutionalization of community-based organizations at the school level
(COEDUCAs) that are responsible for organizing and managing rural schools. These local community
organizations exemplify the very real process of decentralization in the administration and management of
schools. The project will also support training at the central and departmnental levels on issues related to
the decentralization and modernization of MINEDUC. The project will support construction of the final
phase of the MINEDUC's headquarters site to accommodate the remaining directorates (DIGEBI,
PRONADE, and DIGEEX) that are still off-site and paying rent for their space.
This is the first Bank-financed operation with the MCS, although the Bank did contribute grant
funds and collaborated with UNESCO, UNDP and the Ministry in organizing the National Congress on
Cultural Policies held in Antigua in April 2000. As a result of the National Congress, and subsequent
planning and strategic work done by the MCS, the component of the project on Cultural Diversity and
Pluralism will contribute to the institutional strengthening of the Ministry. It will also include the
establishment of a Policy and Planning Unit and the formulation of a National Cultural Development Plan,
carried out in consultation with MINEDUC, other government agencies, civil society and the private sector.
It will also finance a review of current legislation and normative frameworks in relation to the cultural
sector and any proposed reforms which might be necessary to institutionalize the new strategy of the MCS
as reflected in the Peace Accords and the Principles, Policies and Strategies of the MCS: 2000-2004.
3. Benefits and target population:
Coverage and Equity:
(a)  The proposed project will increase coverage and equity since PRONADE schools will be
established precisely in poor, isolated, rural indigenous communities without schools.
(b)  The expansion of coverage using the PRONADE model will benefit approximately 40,000
rural, mostly indigenous children without access to the education system.
(c)  Rural indigenous girls who are not enrolled in the system, are in first grade, and/or are in
danger of dropping-out will receive a scholarship as an incentive to remain in school and
finish their primary education. Approximately, 50,000 scholarships will be awarded to the
poorest of the poor.
Quality:
(a)  Intercultural Bilingual Education will contribute to the preservation and dissemination of the
vast culture and rich traditions of the different ethnic groups living in Guatemala.
(b)  More and better in-service teacher training coupled with relevant bilingual curriculum
materials will have a positive impact on the quality of the service delivered and on student
achievement. These factors are usually associated with lower repetition rates and an increase
in promotion of students from one grade level to the next.
(c)   At least 3,500 teachers will receive training on issues related to bilingual intercultural
education and use of multigrade techniques.
(d)  Close to 3,300 schools will receive a small school library which would be used by
approximately 99,000 students.
Cultural Diversity and Pluralism:
(a) A Policy and Planning Unit will be established in the MCS to improve the capacity of the
Ministry to cooperate with the MINEDUC and other government agencies. A major training
and capacity-strengthening program will be designed for MCS, MINEDUC and other
government agencies working in the cultural area.
- 13 -



(b)  A National Cultural Development Plan will be developed in consultation with a wide range of
governmental, academic, civil society and private sector actors and form the basis of a national
campaign to raise public awareness and increase understanding of issues relating to
multiculturalism and inter-cultural relations.
(c)  The MCS will conduct a technical review of legislative and normative frameworks in the
cultural sector and recommend reforms for institutionalizing the new strategies and policies of
the MCS, as reflected in the Peace Accords and the Principles, Policies and Strategies of the
MCS for 2000-2004. To facilitate the technical review, the MCS will organize a seminar of
national and international legal experts on the subject of cultural legislation and norms. The
review and the seminar will provide an enabling framework for institutionalizing the MCS's
new policies.
(d)  Four pilot experiences will be designed and implemented in the deconcentration of MCS
cultural educational (including the arts and athletic education) services to municipalities.
These pilot experiences will benefit a wide range of municipal officials, community
representatives and residents, schools teachers and other education sector personnel, and a
large number of children and youth in the selected municipalities for the pilots.
(e)  A National Cultural Resources Information System (NCRIS) will be developed which will
improve the current cultural resources information systems of the MCS and provide access to
cultural information and knowledge to local cultural promoters, school teachers, academic and
research institutes, other government institutions (e.g., INGUAT),  and national and
international NGOs. The NCRIS will be linked to the country's museums and libraries, result
in the production of materials on the country's diverse ethnic and linguistic groups, and
establish the information and knowledge infrastructure for greater inter-cultural understanding
and the creation of a "culture of peace" in Guatemala.
Decentralization/Modernization:
(a)  Direct community involvement will have a positive impact on school management, as well as
on teacher and student absenteeism.
(b)  Approximately, 1,300 local communities will be organized as COEDUCAS to establish and
manage their own PRONADE schools.
(c)   All managers and administrative staff at the central (150) and departmental levels (250) to be
trained on issues related to the decentralization of the system.
(d)   Bilingual education staff at the central and departmental levels will receive on-the-job training
to upgrade their capacity to administer and manage the bilingual education program.
(e)   Departmental directorates (14) will be properly equipped and cental/local staff trained will
know how to use the new technology and statistical information.
(f)   The population in general, as well as targeted rural communities will learn of educational
opportunities and achievements through a social communication campaign that will promote
the project and its key activities.
The economic returns to primary education in Guatemala are high (see Steele, 1994; Patrinos and Velez,
1996). Reduction of repeaters and drop-outs will contribute to the savings. The overall rate of return for
an additional year of education has been estimated at 15 percent. Other benefits would include:
*   Supported efforts to sustain peace through direct response to the Peace Accords signed in 1996 by
the GOG and the URNG;
*   Increased enrollment by about 12 percent annually;
*   Increased equity of educational opportunity for the disadvantaged population (mainly girls and
indigenous children). Increasing the number of females who enroll and remain in the education
- 14 -



system has additional benefits in terms of reducing fertility rates and increasing child health and
nutrition;
* Reduced illiteracy due to greater primary school participation and education completion rates;
* Increased internal efficiency of primary education (lower repetition and drop-out rates), resulting in
resource savings that would contribute to system expansion and improvements;
* Improved efficiency of management and operation of the education system at the central and local
levels, facilitating further investment in education; and
* Improved human capital and a more competitive skilled labor force as a result of an enhanced
education system.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project Management
The Ministry of Education will have the overall responsibility for project implementation. The Project
Coordination Unit (PCU), that is currently coordinating the implementation of the ongoing Basic Education
Reform Project, will continue to function under the same institutional and operational arrangements for the
proposed project. The small group of experts within the PCU already trained in procurement, financial
management and disbursement issues will continue supporting project implementation.
In accordance with the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) to be discussed and approved each year, the
respective line divisions within MINEDUC in close collaboration with the PCU, will be in charge of
executing each of the components. The PCU will also coordinate activities with the MCS, working closely
with the Minister of the MCS and the Policy and Planning Unit in the development of Annual Work Plans
for the Cultural Diversity and Pluralism Component and in the contracting of consultants to carry out
activities. PHRD funds have been used to prepare a report with recommendations for the institutional
strengthening of the MCS and on ways to increase its capacity in the areas of program planning and
coordination with other government agencies, including the MINEDUC. The PCU will also be responsible
for follow-up, monitoring and evaluation of project implementation.
Project financial management and auditing. The PCU has in place adequate financial management
arrangements for the ongoing Basic Education Reform Project. An action plan has been prepared with the
purpose of enhancing these arrangements and adapting them to the proposed new project. Substantial
completion of the financial management action plan will be a condition of loan effectiveness.
Quarterly project management reports (PMRs), in formats to be agreed between the Government and
IBRD, will be prepared and submitted to IBRD 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter.
Shortly after effectiveness, an independent audit firm acceptable to IBRD will be engaged to carry out the
covenanted yearly audit, in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISAs) and terms of
reference to be approved by IBRD. Audited project financial statements would be furnished to IBRD no
later than June 30 of the year following the period under review.
Further details are found in Annex 6.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Several alternatives associated with improving access and retention, the quality of teaching and leaming in
primary school, and the administration of the education system were discussed with the Government. The
- 15-



current approach and components were selected as the most appropriate to achieve the project objectives
and to continue to support the Government as a logical follow-on to the on-going Basic Education Reform
Project (P007223).
(a) Access: In a country where a significant number of children still do not have access to a school and
completion rates in rural areas are less than three years versus urban areas where the completion is rate is
higher, there is a national consensus that priority must be given to providing education services to all
school-age children. It has been decided that this project will continue supporting the Government's
universalization of primary education fising the PRONADE school model in rural areas as the main vehicle
to achieve this goal.
(b) Literacy campaign vs. universalization of primary education. Although an estimated 30 percent of
Guatemalan adults are illiterate, it was decided to continue supporting the universalization of primary
education. The decision was based on the consideration that the Ministry of Education had already
received economic support to start a literacy campaign and that resources for this program from the
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) for a new project had already been discussed.
(c) Monolingual vs. bilingual education and curriculum materials in most linguistic areas. Research on
this subject has consistently demonstrated in Guatemala and elsewhere where bilingual education is an
issue, that students attending bilingual education have higher scores on subject matters and are less likely to
repeat or drop out of the system than their peers who are exposed to a monolingual traditional setting that
does not include their native language. (see, Psacharopoulos and Patrinos: Indigenous People and Poverty
in Latin America, 1994; Velez and Patrinos 1996). It was decided to continue supporting the design,
printing and distribution of curriculum materials available in 18 of the 23 linguistic areas. Limiting the
support to the development of materials for the five major languages was rejected in favor of expanding
resources to as many non-Spanish speaking children as possible. Materials will be financed for 18
languages, plus Spanish. Similarly, it was decided to support the strengthening of the Bilingual Education
Directorate (DIGEBI) with qualified staff, training and technical assistance to bolster their capability to
implement the bilingual education policies.
(d) In-service teacher training versus support to traditional pre-service training in normal schools. The
quality of traditional pre-service teacher training institutions, in Guatemala referred to as "normal schools",
is less than satisfactory and would warrant a comprehensive reform aimed at improving the quality of the
217 schools that offer pre-service training for teachers. Organizations such as GTZ, USAID, the European
Union, and UNESCO are currently supporting training programs aimed at enhancing the qualifications of
future teachers. Recently MINEDUC created an advisory committee (CATEN) to define the policy and
strategies to be followed in order to improve the in-service training offered. This committee has put
forward a Teacher Development Plan for the training of in-service teachers. For the proposed project, the
decision was taken to support in-service teacher training due to its immediate impact in the classroom and
also as a response to the analysis conducted by the committee proposing the Teacher Development Plan" as
the best choice to improve teacher training.
(e) Traditional teacher training versus "multigrade" and bilingual education training. In a country
where most of the rural schools only have two or three teachers, the children speak a language different
from Spanish, many begin school late, and many are not in their age appropriate grade level, it is
imperative to expand the training of teachers on issues dealing with multigrade teaching and bilingual
education. Research in these areas support the expansion of multigrade schools using a monolingual or
bilingual approach, as the case may be.
- 16-



W/ New Physical Construction versus Expanded Use of Existing Facilities: While one possibility for
expanded coverage may have been the financing of new facilities, it was decided that in keeping with the
previous project, expanding access to primary education should not await new school construction.
Schools may function in any of a variety of current facilities, such as community centers, churches,
municipal buildings, etc. The initiative to support the expansion and consolidation of afternoon shifts as an
alternative for increasing coverage in rural and marginal urban areas is being reviewed under the on-going
project. The GOG will provide for some new school construction through the three principal social funds
(FSDC, FONAPAZ, and FIS). Over the last few years, MINEDUC has received support from KfW for
the support of school construction for PRONADE schools. Currently, there is a new operation being put
forth that will continue supporting, among other things, the provision of school infrastructure to
PRONADE schools.
(g) Stand-alone Culture and Development Project vs. Cultural Diversity and Pluralism Component of
Education Loan. Some consideration was given following the National Congress on Cultural Policies to
develop a stand-alone Culture and Development Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) to strengthen the
MCS, as recommended by the Congress. However, it was decided to link the strengthening of the MCS to
the Universalization of Basic Education loan in order to develop synergies between the MINEDUC and
MCS. The two ministries have already established good working relationships as a result of the National
Congress, and both have been directed to carry out reforms relating to the multicultural and inter-cultural
aspects of the Peace Accords. By working together rather than apart, it was felt that the "culture sector"
could become more integrated into the Govemment's overall educational and social reform agenda rather
than remaining institutionally isolated as in the past.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                  (PSR) Ratings
.______________ ______________ .______._____ .______. __ (Bank-financed   projects  only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Basic Education: Expansion of     Basic Education Reform            HS             S
Coverage and Quality Improvements.  Project (P007223).
Social Protection.                FIS: Community-based social        S             S
and economic infrastructure.
FONAPAZ: Reconstruction
and Local Development
Social Protection. (Planned FY02)    Social infrastructure and safety
nets. Early stages of
preparation.
- 17-



Other development agencies
USAID: Improvement of coverage and  EDUMAYA - Support to
quality of basic education with  implementation of the Peace
emphasis on girls and bilingual   Accords. MEDIR - Evaluation
education                         of Intercultural Bilingual
Education.
Girls Education - Improve
quality and access of girls
education programs. PAEBI -
Bilingual Intercultural
Education Project in the Quiche
area.
IDB: Improvement of quality at the  Support to the Education
primary education level           Reform. Curriculum and
teacher improvement
KfW: Improvement of basic education  Support to PRONADE schools
with emphasis on school enrollment   in infrastructure, provision of
libraries, textbooks, and teacher
training.
GTZ: Support to improving teacher   PEMBI - Mayan Bilingual
training and institutional development  Intercultural Education.
Support to the Ministry of
Education for Institutional
Modernization.
European Union: Support for       Support for Educational
Educational development in selected   Development in Selected
departments.                      Departments (Alta and Baja
Verapaz).
Belgian Government                Strengthening Bilingual
Intercultural Education in San
Marcos.
UNICEF                            Support to MCS for: (a)
improvement of Community
Radio and Radio Faro Cultural
(an MCS-managed radio
station); (b) inter-regional youth . 
encounters in areas of culture
and sports; and (c) regional
historical memory project in
Huehuetenango.             _
- 18 -



UNDP                               Support to MCS for: (a)
preparation of National
Congress on cultural policies;
(b) strategic planning and
follow-up to the Congress; and
(c) preparation of international
cooperation program including
training in preparation of
project profiles.
UNESCO - Basic Education.         Improve education quality with
emphasis on the linkage
between school and work and
support to bilingual education.
lP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The main lesson learned with the ongoing Basic Education Reform Project is that a simple, straight forward
project design is fundamental to achieving successful implementation. From an operational point of view,
the PRONADE component of the ongoing project demonstrates that despite high illiteracy levels and low
managerial skills, communities can be empowered to successfully and transparently manage human as well
as economic resources transferred to schools.  The community's children are the beneficiaries of
well-managed schools, thus the enthusiasm and incentive to maintain and manage the PRONADE schools
are a natural combination.
Research has shown consistently (Psacharopoulos and Patrinos, 1994; Velez and Patrinos, 1996) that
language of instruction is a fundamental variable explaining students' achievement and retention
particularly in those settings where students are taught in their native language during the first years and
progressively are introduced to the second language (Spanish). This project will continue supporting
"Intercultural Bilingual Education" by providing appropriate curriculum materials for most linguistic areas,
promoting teacher training in bilingual education, and strengthening the management of the Bilingual
Education Directorate.
It has been demonstrated in developed and developing countries alike that multigrade schools in rural
isolated settings can provide quality education if teachers are well trained in methodologies and strategies
for addressing several grade levels usually in the same classroom and if students have access to student
workbooks and other didactic materials. In Guatemala, a pilot multigrade experience supported by USAID
has demonstrated that it is an altemative worth expanding throughout the country. The proposed project
will expand the pilot including monolingual as well as bilingual multigrade schools.
Reliable and timely information about personnel at the central, departmental and local levels; key education
statistics and their evolution; and financial and accounting systems are essential tools required by any
administration as part of the planing and policy making process. The proposed project will continue
supporting the updating and quality improvement of the EMIS.
Several other lessons learned from the current project include: (i) continuity of policies has an impact on
education, especially when there is a change in government and the Ministry of Education; (ii) the Ministry
of Education does not have to be the executor of the activities. Universities, communities, and contractors
have been successful in implementing activities where it is clear that they have a comparative advantage;
- 19-



(iii) the pilots of monolingual and bilingual multigrade schools have been very effective in introducing more
modem and altemative methods of teaching as well as providing pedagogical answers to the needs of the
schools. The proposed project will build upon the achievements of the pilots and seek to expand the
PRONADE program to provide more children with access to education in the indigenous and rural
communities.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The proposed project is an integral part of the education strategy of the Guatemalan Government and will
continue to support the progress made under first Basic Education Reform Project. The Government has
moved quickly to begin preparation of the new proposed project. With technical assistance financed under
a PHRD Grant, in a few months time the MINEDUC has contracted and produced proposals for
components that would continue and further develop the momentum of the Basic Education Reform Project
that is currently ahead of schedule in its implementation.
Strong govemmental support for the Cultural Diversity and Pluralism component has also been received
from the respective Ministers and Vice Ministers of the MINEDUC and MCS. A second PHRD grant for
technical assistance to the MCS to prepare this component was approved by the Japanese government and
had been instrumental in designing this component. A team of some of the country's most qualified
professionals in the culture and education fields was put together by the MCS and has prepared detailed
studies for the implementation of the component. The results of these studies have been discussed in a
number of workshops to which technical personnel in the MINEDUC and other ministries and civil society
organizations were invited. The MINEDUC and MCS project preparation teams have reached agreements
on costs, time tables for implementation, performance indicators and other related topics.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The World Bank has accumulated vast experience in the region implementing education reforms where
communities play a significant role. The experiences gained in El Salvador and Honduras, where the Bank
is also financing a similar type of strategy, have been and will be of great value in Guatemala.
Furthermore, the World Bank has been quite instrumental in financing multigrade teaching in the region.
Guatemala will benefit from the experience gained by the expansion of multigrade schools in several Latin
American countries such as Chile, Brazil, the Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Honduras, Panama, and
Colombia.
The Peace Accords signed in December 1996 are an on-going process. The World Bank involvement with
the proposed project will reiterate their importance and will continue to contribute to achieving the main
goal established under the Peace Accords for the education sector.
The previous favorable experiences implementing World Bank supported projects within Guatemala,
especially the ongoing Basic Education Reform Project, will help to ensure a relatively smooth
implementation process. Preparation as well as plans for the implementation of the new project have taken
into consideration the lessons learned during the last years of successful project implementation.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
o Cost benefit    NPV=US$377 million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
* Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
- 20 -



The quantifiable economic benefits of the project will be produced by a combination of a) increased
coverage and equity through the expansion of PRONADE, b) the provision of scholarships to needy female
students and c) improving the efficiency and quality of primary education through the provision of teaching
inputs such as textbooks and teacher training. The benefits are measured primarily in terms of the increased
productivity of those who complete basic education, as measured by the increase in their earnings potential.
In addition to project costs, costs also include direct and opportunity costs for children to attend school.
The NPV is computed to be US$377 million, with an IRR of the scholarship and quality improvement
components at 20 percent and the increased coverage at 16 percent. A sensitivity analysis provides evidence
of robustness of the economic viability of the project under alternative assumptions regarding costs and
benefits. Fiscal issues related to the project are treated under a separate heading below.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
During the past five years GDP growth has been moderate in Guatemala, averaging 3.9 percent in the past
5 years. Government education expenditures have increased as a percentage of GDP from 1.6 percent of
GDP in 1996 to 2.6 percent of GDP in 2000, with education expenditures further projected to increase to
3.2 percent of GDP by 2005. The increase in education expenditure has mainly financed a rapid increase
in access to basic education, but important gaps remain in rural areas, which are sought to be addressed by
the project. The analysis of fiscal trends and prospects indicates no major problems regarding future
education expenditures, but a warning regarding further real increases in salaries is indicated.
Fiscal Impact:
The project is seen to have a very small fiscal impact, and the financial viability and fiscal sustainability of
the project is shown by the analysis to be adequate. The results regarding fiscal impact are also robust to a
possible crisis scenario, as detailed in Annex 5.
3. Technical:
The project has been designed based upon experience and lessons learned from the on-going project, as well
as the findings and recommendations obtained from analytical work conducted both during the preparation
of the project and from studies sponsored by other international donors and NGOs, including consultation
with different stakeholders.
Based upon the critical education situation in Guatemala that spans several decades, national and
international organizations have made the claim that the provision of primary education to children in rural
indigenous communities without schools is an urgent moral, political, social and economic responsibility
that deserves inmmediate attention. The proposed project builds upon the experience accumulated during the
last years, and considers that the expansion of primary education using the PRONADE strategy
(community-based) is a sound technical decision supporting the constitutional mandate which establishes
that the system should be decentralized. From the technical point of view, intercultural bilingual education
in multigrade settings is also a sound decision.
The provision of textbooks, libraries, students' guides and other basic pedagogic aides to students who
have never had access to these materials is also undisputed. The best material available and the best
specialists (national and international) will be gathered to produce high quality curriculum materials to be
distributed free of charge to most rural students.
No special technical problems are expected to affect the implementation of the project. Special attention
will be given to two critical issues: (i) selecting and contracting the best institutions and persons who will
- 21 -



organize and deliver the in-service teacher training programs and (ii) strengthening the Bilingual Education
Directorate (DIGEBI)
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The project will be implemented following the same administrative arrangements established for executing
the ongoing Basic Education Reform Project. MINEDUC has demonstrated that it has the administrative
and organizational capacity to implement a project of this nature. The Project Coordination Unit will be
responsible for all financial, administrative and procurement matters, while the technical aspects of the
project will be executed by the respective departments or units at the central and departmental levels within
MINEDUC in close collaboration with the PCU. The Unit will be part of the National and Intemational
Cooperation Unit of the Ministry of Education (UCONIME). The Cultural Diversity and Pluralism
Component will be executed by a new Policy and Planning Unit within the MCS, and draw heavily upon
extemal consultants for implementation of sub-component activities where expertise does not currently
exist in the Ministry.
4.2 Project management:
It has been agreed with MINEDUC that the current PCU, which has been satisfactorily coordinating the
implementation of the ongoing Basic Education Reform Project, will be responsible for managing the new
proposed project. The PCU will be comprised of a project coordinator, a procurement specialist, an
accountant (financial specialist) and the directors of the executing departments or units including a
representative from the Ministry of Culture and Sports. A steering committee comprised of the technical
Vice Minister, the Directors of UCONIME, the PCU and the executing units will facilitate project
implementation. The steering committee composition and responsibilities will be clearly established in the
operational manual.
4.3 Procurement issues:
UNDP is the procurement agency under the current project and it has strengthened the PCU. The current
PCU procurement specialist has been trained by the Bank and as a result has acquired solid experience in
carrying out almost all the procurement procedures. No significant procurement issues are expected. The
Agency Capacity Assessment report provides the action plan to be followed by both the Borrower and the
Bank.  The PCU will handle all procurement matters under the new project for contracts under
US$ 100,000. A procurement agent will be contracted to handle contracts exceeding that amnount.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The Regional Financial Management Team conducted the project financial management assessment,
concluding that the PCU has in place adequate financial management arrangements for the ongoing Basic
Education Reform Project. An action plan has been prepared with the purpose of enhancing these
arrangements and adapting them to the proposed new project.
Financial management arrangements are described in Annex 6.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
It is not expected that the project will have any negative impact on the environment, since it will not finance
rehabilitation or construction of schools.
- 22 -



5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N/A
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
N/A
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
During recent years Guatemala has been the subject of innumerable social studies carried out by national
and international organizations. All of them attribute that critical social issues are associated with the lack
of education services provided, especially to rural indigenous populations. The high levels of illiteracy, low
net enrollments and low intemal efficiency of the education system are mentioned as key issues that the
country has to address as a prerequisite condition for achieving social and economic development.
All the analytical work conducted during the last five years by institutions such as the World Bank, the
Inter-American Development Bank, USAID, GTZ, KfW, as well as by local institutions emphasize the
urgent need to expand enrollment at the basic education level and provide bilingual education in those areas
where it is needed. The National Constitution, the recently signed "Peace Accords" and particularly the
Government's Sector Plans clearly endorse the importance of expanding coverage using bilingual education
and favoring decentralization of the system to the local communities.
The proposed project will continue to support the Peace Accords, expanding enrollment at the primary
education level, especially in rural indigenous areas through the PRONADE school model, as well as by
strengthening bilingual education, girl's education and the promotion of cultural diversity.  Local
communities (COEDUCAs) will continue to be actively involved in the organization and management of
their schools. It is expected that at least 40,000 new students who otherwise will have no access to the
education system will be enrolled.
Females, in particular, girls of indigenous origin are clearly at a disadvantage. Statistics from MINEDUC
show that net and gross enrollments are significantly lower for females. On average girls have less years of
schooling, are more likely to drop-out and less likely to complete the primary cycle. It is estimated that in
some indigenous communities female schooling is on average less than two years. Cultural, social and
primarily economic factors have been identified as possible causes of this situation. The proposed project
will provide scholarship to girls who will register at the beginning of the school year and to those who are
at risk of leaving the system because of their socioeconomic situation. A study analyzing the impact of the
scholarship program supported by the Government and benefiting approximately 50,000 girls in rural
schools was conducted. It sampled a set of beneficiaries, and the findings and recommendations have
helped to design an effective scholarship program supported by this project.
- 23 -



6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
As a continuation of the Basic Education Reform Project, the proposed project has been conceived and
designed by the Ministry of Education in close collaboration with key implementing units such as
(DIGEBI, SIMAC, PRONADE, and UPE). Different Mayan associations and the community at large have
been consulted in regard to the most important issues to be addressed by the education system. The
COEDUCAs will continue to play a management role in the community organization and management of
schools; students will participate through school government; as well as other community groups and
individuals through the parent/teacher associations.
In terms of indigenous people (OD4.20), the chief beneficiaries, but not the only beneficiaries of the
project, are the rural indigenous peoples. Specific aspects of the majority of the project components have
been designed in culturally appropriate fashion with the participation of indigenous educators, civil society
organizations, and community leaders. The project addresses the needs of indigenous peoples and the
Cultural Diversity and Pluralism component is an outcome of the major National Congress on Cultural
Policies in Guatemala to which hundreds of indigenous peoples attended.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Currently, there are 16 NGOs actively involved in implementing the PRONADE program. Under this
project, the PRONADE program will be expanded to reach more rural and indigenous children and provide
them with the opportunity to go to school. The NGOs' role is to train the community associations
(COEDUCAs) and teachers on technical issues and in the management and organization of their own
community school. They also provide support to the decentralization of parent associations.
As part of the PRONADE strategy, NGOs involved in training COEDUCAs have been consulted in regard
to (i) the expansion of the system, (ii) education needs identified in their geographic areas of interest and
(iii) training needs of local teachers. Their experience and assessment of their work have been used by
PRONADE to design the expansion of the system.
It has been agreed that NGOs that specialize in providing education services will continue organizing and
training local communities (COEDUCAS) on key issues related to the administration and management of
the schools. During the past years PRONADE has designed and implemented several instruments to assess
and evaluate the performance of each of the NGOs.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
MINEDUC has created institutions and put in place administrative arrangements at the central,
departnental and local levels necessary for achieving the key objectives. The PRONADE program's
structure (COEDUCAS, NGOs) has demonstrated that it functions as an effective mechanism to increase
coverage in indigenous isolated communities where service was not previously provided. During its last
four years, the program has surpassed its enrollment targets and currently provides basic education to more
than 293,000 students who otherwise would have been left out of Guatemala's education system entirely. It
has been agreed that new schools that will be opened in rural communities will continue to be organized
and managed in a completely decentralized fashion using the local organizations called COEDUCAS. The
provision of scholarships to girls in rural indigenous communities will be executed using the same
- 24 -



mechanisms followed by the PRONADE program. Currently resources are transferred directly to the
COEDUCAS. In addition to the resources transferred to pay the teachers and to buy educational materials,
each COEDUCA will receive the established amount required to cover the girls' scholarships that a given
school will award.
During the last years MINEDUC has conducted a pilot program for multigrade teaching as well as for
intercultural, bilingual education. Based upon the experienced gained, the materials already developed and
the human resources that have been trained, the country is at a stage where expansion of these models could
be supported by the Ministry of Education at its different levels. Notwithstanding these successful
experiences, however, the project has considered strengthening the technical units at the central and
departmental levels directly involved with the implementation of these programs. With resources from the
ongoing project, it was decided to finance a cadre of curriculum developers who at present are developing
the education materials in most of the Mayan languages.
Regarding teacher training, it has been considered that in order for the teacher development plan to be able
to reach most of the teachers, it is imperative that public and private universities, NGOs and interested
institutions are invited to participate and complement the efforts to be made by MINEDUC's teams. The
institutions selected would follow the syllabus established by MINEDUC.
For implementation of the activities under the "Social Diversity and Pluralism" component, it has been
agreed that each Ministry (both Education and Culture) will appoint a liaison who will be responsible for
coordinating the activities to be conducted each year and their corresponding budgets.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The PCU will make the necessary arrangements to guarantee that a sound, systematic and permanent
monitoring system is implemented. The steering committee will discuss and agree on the mechanisms to be
followed in order to monitor the achievement of different outputs and outcomes.
The expansion of primary school coverage, as one of the key objectives of this project, will be closely
monitored by analyzing the statistics periodically updated by the Ministry of Education and specifically by
the PRONADE office. Similarly, the implementation of the girls' scholarship program will be closely
monitored by PRONADE, which will pay special attention to analyzing the impact of the scholarship
program on attendance and reduction of drop-outs.
The directorate in charge of "quality" issues, such as bilingual education, teacher training and multigrade
teaching, will monitor in close collaboration with the state and local levels, the achievement of the
proposed targets and the quality of the service provided. It has been established with MINEDUC that as
part of the services to be contracted with universities, NGOs, or any other institution, they should include
the mechanism to be followed to evaluate the quality of the service delivered.
The MCS will focus major attention on the social development outcomes of the Cultural Diversity and
Pluralism Component, especially the four pilot projects being proposed for the decentralization of Ministry
cultural education services. Independent monitoring will be carried out on the effects of these pilot projects
on participating municipalities; school teachers, parents' committees and students; and local civic
committees and NGOs. In particular, an evaluation of program outcomes will be made at the end of each of
the pilots, based upon a set of social development indicators, and recommendations will be made for
extending and adapting the MCS's deconcentrated service-delivery program to other regions and
municipalities.
- 25 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           0 Yes * No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  O Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   * Yes O No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                             0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)         0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The government's political willingness and ability to maintain required levels of funding for basic education
are the most important factors related to the sustainability of project investments. Increasing enrollment,
even with corresponding improvements in system efficiency, requires important on-going financial
contributions from the central government to cover recurrent expenditures, including provision of learning
materials and the scholarship program to promote the enrollment and maintain the attendance of girls in
school. A second factor that would affect the sustainability of project benefits is inadequate and limited
institutional capacity in the MINEDUC and MCS to provide continuity to project activities, particularly
after a change in administration. Financing of recurrent costs, including PRONADE teacher salaries would
be carried out on a declining basis to ensure that the government gradually assumes these costs. This has
been a successful approach under the existing Basic Education Reform Project, where the Government has
assumed responsibility for salaries at a faster pace than originally expected.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Ratling    i  0 I' 'Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
The Government maintains adequate and      M         Financial Impact Assessment and clear
timely budget resources to finance project           commitment from Government.
activities as well as the necessary
commitment and continuity towards
education sector improvements.
Government resources allocated to           S        Institutionalization of PRONADE which will
PRONADE are sufficient to achieve the                enable it to function as a fully supported
proposed targets regarding coverage                   program within the Government, and worthy
expansion.                                           alone on its technical merits independent of any
political ties.
- 26 -



The Government maintains sufficient       M         Close contact with Ministry of Finances and
counterpart funding and attention to                Congressional Budgetary Committee to
bilingual education and multi-grade                 guarantee adequate financing
schooling.
MINEDUC develops commitment and           M         Communications campaigns and outreach
support for education sector                        efforts aimed at ensuring a wide range of
improvements arnong key stakeholders                stakeholder participation.
(teachers, school directors, parents, and
ministry officials at central and local
levels.
MCS has the institutional capacity to     M         MCS will rely heavily during project
carry out the various activities in the             implementation on the consultant team
Cultural Diversity and Pluralism                    contracted to prepare the component and
component and is able to coordinate its             maintain close conmmunication and collaboration
activities with MINEDUC and other                   with the MINEDUC technical team established
government rninistries and agencies.                under the PHRD. Joint training and sensitizing
of MCS and MINEDUC staff to the new
multicultural and inter-cultural policy directives
of the government will further strengthen such
inter-ministerial collaboration.
At the central level, MINEDUC is fully     S        Central MINEDUC staff is trained and qualified
committed to decentralizing some of its             in how to proceed to implement a sound
functions to the local level.                       education decentralization and modernization
policy.
From Components to Outputs
Communities are receptive to improving    M         Multi-media communications campaigns and
girls education and the opportunities for           community outreach programs.
their daughters.
The scholarship amount provides enough    M         Continue evaluation of scholarship program
of an incentive to parents to send their            impact and reinforcement of importance of
girls to school.                                    educating girls among communities.
PRONADE is given enough support and       M         Adding enough staff to PRONADE enabling
along with COEDUCAs they are willing                them to take on this new responsibility and
to administer the scholarship program.              provide quality management to the scholarship
program at all levels.
Enough trainers are available and want to  S        MINEDUC identifies key qualified resource
participate as trainers of teachers.                people already available in the country to act as
trainers of teachers. Involvement of other
institutions (public, private and NGOs) to offer
training at the central and local levels.
Teachers participate in bilingual and     M         Provide quality training and follow-up support.
multi-grade training and employ these
methods in the classroom.
-27 -



Communities are willing to accept         M         Communication and awareness campaigns
bilingual education for their children.             targeted to teachers, parents and communities
at-large regarding the benefits of bilingual
education as a means towards improving
educational quality and preserve cultural
heritage.
Overall Risk Rating                       M         As with the on-going project, risks are mitigated
by regular Bank and country policy dialogue. A
close working relationship already established
with the new administration will be of
paramount value in open discussions regarding
project implementation.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Budget allocations: Despite the willingness to increase budget allocation to MINEDUC as expressed on
different occasions by the Ministries of Education and Finance, the budget approved by the National
Congress for the year 2001 does not provide the resources needed to fulfill the goals established in the
recently published Govemment Plan for the education sector. Lack of resources may affect directly the
expansion of PRONADE schools and decrease the quality of the service provided to the communities.
Bilingual education: Another controversial issue has to do with the implementation of bilingual education in
some communities where there is open resistance towards teaching and learning in the community's native
language. Despite research findings supporting bilingual education during the first years of schooling, it is
believed by some parents and teachers that Spanish is the only vehicle towards social promotion, job and
education opportunities, and they would like to see schools promote Spanish as early as possible.
Cultural Diversity and Pluralism: In the aftermath of the signing of the 1996 Peace Accords, there has been
intense discussion in Guatemala about the role of pluri-culturalism in public policies, including a highly
controversial national referendum on the subject in May 1998. For this reason, it is difficult to predict
what response public authorities and the general citizenry will have to the new MCS policies.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*  MINEDUC will prepare a Project Operational Manual acceptable to the Bank.
*  MINEDUC will amend the existing Ministerial Resolution No. 597 (December 16, 1997) to allow the
PCU to continue operating during the life of the project.
*  MINEDUC has provided evidence of the creation of the Steering Committee.
*  MINEDUC has provided evidence that the Revolving Fund's existence has been extended and will
continue to be administered by MINEDUC with no less than US$250,000.
*   Project financial management arrangements satisfactory to IBRD are in place and functional.
*  The respective Ministers of the MINEDUC and MCS sign a Memorandum of Understanding which
indicates their willingness to collaborate in the implementation of the Cultural Diversity and Pluralism
Component.
- 28 -



2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
*   MINEDUC has agreed with the Bank on a procurement plan to be executed during the life of the
project.
*  MINEDUC will prepare and have in place a monitoring and evaluation system.
*   MINEDUC (PCU) in close collaboration with each implementing unit will present to the Bank no later
than 15 days after the conclusion of each calendar year, annual reports regarding progress made in the
execution of the project.
*   The Ministries of Education and Culture jointly with the Bank, will conduct annual reviews no later
than March 31 of each calendar year beginning in year 2002.
*   Maintain with adequate staff and resources the Project Coordination Unit.
H. Readiness for Implementation
2 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
D1 1. b) Not applicable.
Z 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
C 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
Z 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Project Operational Manual; Monitoring and evaluation system
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z3 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
OI 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Carlos A. Rojas   /                 ier Coll                       Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Team Leader                      Sector Manager                    Country Manager
- 29 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
GUATEMALA: UNIVERSALIZATION OF BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
1:   Key Performance       X At     :  
Hierah  of Objectives 0IndicatorsMoin     &4 Eval:uation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
To expand delivery of basic   Universal coverage for Grades MTNEDUC statistics.  Significant increase in overall
services, our focus will be  I to 3. (GoG target.)                             expenditure for primary
education, in response to the                        PRONADE records.          education, including poor
Peace Accords commitment to Primary Education enrollment                       rural areas and those with
attain access of all 7 to 12    to increase from 84% to 86%.                   high indigenous populations.
year-olds to at least three years
of schooling.                                                                  The Peace Accords continue to
be implemented.
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
To ensure universal access to  Coverage              MINEDUC statistics.       Government resources
primary education for all  1. Increase coverage of rural                       allocated to PRONADE are
Guatemalan children, to   primary enrollment in      PRONADE records.          sufficient to achieve the
improve the quality and   PRONADE schools from 24%                             proposed targets regarding
efficiency of basic education,  to 27% (an additional 40,000  DICADE records.  coverage expansion.
to enhance cultural diversity  rural PRONADE students).
and pluralism, and to     2. Girls primary school                              The Government maintains
decentralize and strengthen   enrollment in poor,                              commitment and continuity
the capacity of the education  indigenous areas reaches 46%                    towards the education reforn.
system.                   by end of project (EOP).
(Approx. 50,000 scholarships
awarded.)
Quality                                              The Government maintains
3. Approximately 709,800    MINEDUC statistics.      sufficient counterpart funding
primary school children in                           and attention to bilingual
indigenous communities are                           education and multi-grade
using new math and cultural                          schooling.
textbooks in their own
language (covering 18                                Teachers participate in
linguistic areas and 3,300                           bilingual and multi-grade
classroom libraries in rural,                        training and employ these
indigenous areas.)                                   methods in the classroom.
4. Approx. 2,000 new      PRONADE records.           Parents of girls awarded
PRONADE teachers selected                            scholarships use the funds for
and appointed by COEDUCAs                            their intended purposes.
and 3,500 traditional teachers
are applying new teaching                            MINEDUC develops
methodologies for                                    commitment and support
monolingual and bilingual                            among key stakeholders
multigrade education.                                (teachers, directors, parents,
and ministry officials at
central and local levels.
- 30 -



Cultural Diversity &
Pluralism
5. MCS Policy and Planning Project progress reports.  The MCS improves its
Unit is functioning, the                             planning and coordination
National Cultural          Supervision missions,      capacity and establishes
Development Plan is                                  institutionalized relations with
developed and recommended  MCS progress reports.     MINEDUC and other
reforms in current legal and                          government agencies and with
normative aspects of the                              civil society and private sector
cultural sector                                       organizations as part of the
are underway.                                        preparation & implementation
of the National Cultural
Development Plan.
6. Four pilot projects    Independent monitoring and  The deconcentration pilot
designed by MCS in cultural  evaluation reports on the four projects provide needed
education service-delivery are pilot projects.       educational, artistic and
deconcentrated to and                                 cultural services to
implemented.                                         municipalities, demonstrate
positive social and human
development impacts, and
contain lessons for extending
and adapting deconcentration
initiatives to other regions and
municipalities.
7. MCS designs and        Evaluations of MCS         The NCRIS is being used by
implements National Cultural institutional capacity and  the MCS, MINEDUC, and
Resources Information System performance by other donor   other government agencies; by
(NCRIS); improves services to agencies (UNESCO, UNDP,  academic and research
local museums, libraries, and  UNICEF, etc.).        institutions; and by civil
other institutions; and                               society. Such information
establishes a computerized                           provides a needed cultural
database on the contemporary                          knowledge base for the
cultural resources and                                promotion of increased
expressions of the country's                          multicultural and
diverse ethnic and linguistic                        inter-cultural understanding
groups.                                               among the country's diverse
ethnic, linguistic and regional
groups.
-.31 -



Decentralization &        Supervision reports.       At the central level,
Modernization of                                      vINEDUC is fully committed
MINEDUC                   MINEDUC reports.           to decentralizing some of its
8. Staff at the central,                             functions to the local level.
departmental and pilots at the
municipal levels are trained
on decentralization and
deconcentration policies.
9. A strengthened training
group (DIGEBI) with
qualified human resources at
both the central and local
levels is implementing new
policies of multigrade and
bilingual education.
10. The multi-media
communication strategy for
supporting MINEDUC
activities is implemented to
reach Ministry employees at
all levels, as well as
communities, parents,
teachers, and students,
especially in target areas of
the project.
11. The Education
Management Information
System (EMIS) is upgraded
and departments are now
using the applications as a tool
for uniform education
monitoring, feedback,
reporting and
decision-making.
- 32 -



Key Perfornance
Hierarchy of Objectives         Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
I. Coverage               I. Coverage                Project Progress Reports.
1. Enrollment capacity of  1.1 COEDUCAs are formed
primary schools in rural  and trained in management of Supervision missions.
communities is expanded.    their own community school
each year of the project.  PRONADE records.
1.2 A total of 1,300 new
PRONADE schools are set up MINEDUC statistics.
over the course of the project.
1.3 Approx. 40,000 students
are enrolled by EOP.
1.4 Approx. 2,000 teachers
are contracted by the
COEDUCAs at the local level.
2. Scholarships are provided  2.1 Information for                              PRONADE is given enough
to children of poor families   application to the program is                   support and is willing to
attending school.         provided throughout the                              administer the scholarship
targeted rural areas.                                program.
2.2 The first round of
scholarships are awarded by                          The scholarship amount
January 2002 to approx.                              provides enough of an
14,000 girls. This pattern will                     incentive to parents to send
be followed each consecutive                        their girls to school.
year of the project for a total
of 50,000 awarded by EOP.                            Communities are receptive to
improving girls education and
the opportunities for their
daughters.
II. Quality               II. Quality
1. Multigrade strategies and   1.1 School furniture, supplies Supervision reports.
bilingual education in    and didactic materials
indigenous communities are  procured and distributed to    MINEDUC reports.
strengthened.             3,300 multigrade schools.
2. Educational materials and  2.1 By January 2002, Group  Supervision reports.  Qualified curriculum
textbooks are provided for    L.A (649,700 textbooks) and                      specialists are contracted to
monolingual and bilingual    Group 2 (165,900 textbooks)  MINEDUC reports.     design and write appropriate,
children.                 will be printed and distributed                      high quality educational
to students for instruction in                       materials
19 languages, including
Spanish.
- 33 -



2.2 By July 2002, Group 1.B
(404,700 textbooks) and
Group 3 (72,300 textbooks)
will be printed and distributed
to students for instruction in
19 languages.
2.3 By January 2003, Group 4
(40,300 textbooks) will be
printed and distributed to
students for instruction in 19
languages.
2.4 By July 2003, Group 5
(2,800 textbooks) will be
printed and distributed to
students for instruction in 19
languages.
3. Training methodology for  3.1 Teacher trainers are                                   Enough qualified trainers are
teachers in bilingual schools  trained to conduct in-service                           available and want to
and multi-grade (bilingual and teacher training program.                                participate as trainers of
mono-lingual) schools is     3.2 Training in monolingual                                teachers.
developed and teachers are    and bilingual multigrade
fully trained in its delivery.   methodologies provided to                              Communities are willing to
rural schools.                                            accept bilingual education for
3.3 Teachers (-3,500) trained                             their children.
in multigrade (monolingual
and bilingual) methodologies.
-34 -



III. Cultural Diversity and   1.1 The MCS Policy and  Supervision reports.      There is good coordination
Pluralism                 Planning Unit is fully                                between MCS, MINEDUC
functioning by July 2002, and MCS and MINEDUC progress and other governmental
systematically cooperating    reports.               institutions for purposes of
with the MINEDUC, other                              promoting government's
gov't. agencies, civil society  Independent monitoring and  multicultural and intercultural
and private sector institutions. evaluation reports on the four policies.
1.2 A training and capacity  pilot projects.
strengthening program is
initiated by July 2002 for
MCS and MINEDUC staff in
order to improve intra and
inter- institutional
understanding of the
government's multicultural
and inter-cultural policies.
1.3 The MCS prepares a
National Cultural
Development Plan in
consultation with
governmental, academic, civil
society and private sector
actors by July 2002, which
will form the basis of a
national campaign to raise
public awareness and increase
understanding of issues
relating to multicultural and
inter-cultural relations.
1.4 Legal expertise is
contracted and a legal
workshop is held by July 2002
to review national and
intemat'l. legal and normative
frameworks in the cultural
sector. Technical experts
recommend reforms for
institutionalizing the new
strategies and policies of the
MCS, as reflected in the Peace
Accords and the Principles,
Policies and Strategies of the
MCS for 2000-2004.
1.5 Four pilot experiences in
the deconcentration of cultural
education services (including
the arts and sports education)
to municipalities is designed
and implemented by MCS by
_EOP.                      I
-35 -



1.6 A National Cultural
Resources Information System
(NCRIS) is designed by MCS
and utilized to access cultural
information and knowledge by
cultural promoters, teachers,
academic and research
institutes, other government
ministries, civil society
organizations and the private
sector by EOP.
IV. Modernization of
Education System and
Administrative Capacity
Building.
1. The education system is   1. I Seminars and TA for
more decentralized,       strengthening the training
strengthened and modernized. group and DIGEBI staff.
1.2 Workshops (4 national
and 12 regional) for central
and local levels of MINEDUC
are completed and application
of EMIS software and
equipment are in use.
1.3 Statistics yearbook is
printed and distributed
annually.
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
I. Universal Primary      US$40.28 million
Education
A. Expansion of enrollment                           Project Progress Reports  Government provides
(PRONADE).                                                                     sufficient counterpart funds in
Disbursement Reports      a timely manner for each
activity.
B. Economic                                          Audits
Assistance/Scholarships.
II. Improving the Quality of US$25.43 million
Education
A. Strengthening multi-grade
strategies and bilingual
education in primarily rural,
indigenous communities.
B. Distribution of educational
materials for monolingual and
bilingual children.
C. Train teachers in bilingual
and monolingual multigrade
teaching methodologies and
the development of curriculum
for bilingual schools.                                                                                    .
- 36 -



II. Cultural Diversity and   US$2.30 million
Pluralism
A. Institutional strengthening
of the MCS, including
establishment of a Policy and
Planning Unit and the
preparation of a National
Cultural Development Plan.
B. Deconcentration of MCS
cultural education services to
the municipal level.
C. Development of a National
Cultural Resources
Information System to include
modernization of the current
MCS cultural resources
information systems, provision
of information services to
museums and libraries, and
establishment of a cultural
resources data base on the
diverse ethnic and linguistic
groups of Guatemala.
IV. Institutional         US$13.87 million
Strengthening and
Modernization
A. Strengthening
Administrative Capacity at
central and local levels
(Modernization, DIGEBI,
PCU.)
B. Education Management
Information System
C. Communications Strategy
IV. Front-End Fee         US$0.62 million
TOTAL                     US$82.50 million
- 37 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
GUATEMALA: UNIVERSALIZATION OF BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
The proposed project will continue and expand upon the activities supported by the ongoing Basic
Education Reform Project. In addition, it will support a program to enhance the goals of cultural diversity
and pluralism contained in the National Constitution, the Guatemalan Peace Accords of 1996, and the
April 2000 National Congress on Cultural Policies. The project's objectives are to: (i) improve coverage
and equity through the expansion and consolidation of PRONADE schools (National Community-managed
Program for Educational Development) and by providing scholarships, primarily for indigenous girls in
rural communities; (ii) improve efficiency and quality of primary education by supporting bilingual
education, providing textbooks and didactic materials, expanding multigrade schools and improving teacher
qualifications; (iii) create a jointly designed program between the Ministry of Education (MINEDUC) and
the Ministry of Culture and Sports (MCS) to enhance the goals of cultural diversity and pluralism; and (iv)
decentralize and modernize the MINEDUC by supporting on-going efforts to strengthen the organization
and management of the education system.
To achieve these objectives the project will have the following four components: Universalization of
primary education, with two subcomponents: (i) expansion of enrollment capacity of primary schools,
through the PRONADE program; and (ii) scholarships for children of poor rural families. Improving the
quality of education, with three subcomponents: (i) strengthening of multigrade education strategies and
bilingual education in rural communities; (ii) provision of educational materials and textbooks for bilingual
and monolingual children; (iii) training of teachers in multigrade methodologies and content areas, and
development of curricula for bilingual schools.  Cultural diversity and pluralism, with three
subcomponents: (i) strengthening of MCS and MINEDUC to jointly design and implement programs; (ii)
development of a deconcentration plan and community-driven service delivery strategy; and (iii)
fornulation of a National Cultural Development Action Plan to increase cooperation in the cultural field
between the MCS, the MINEDUC and other government ministries, civil society organizations, and the
private sector. Decentralization and modernization, with three subcomponents: (i) improving and
modernizing the management and admninistrative capacity of the MINEDUC to decentralize to the
departmental and local levels, as well as strengthening the General Directorate of Bilingual Education
(DIGEBI); (ii) the continued development and updating of an Education Management Information System
(EMIS); and (iii) formulating and implementing a communications strategy for the education sector.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$40.28 million
UNIVERSALIZATION OF PRIMARY EDUCATION
Subcomponent A: Expansion of enrollment capacity of primary schools, through the PRONADE
program.
PRONADE is a decentralized, community-led program that seeks to increase access and improve the
quality of primary education, especially in rural, indigenous, hard-to-reach areas where there is not a public
school. Under PRONADE, rural communities with no access to education services receive financing
directly from MINEDUC to get a new school off-the-ground. Communities may qualify to participate in the
program if they meet at least four criteria. First, the community must find a site and demonstrate ability
and genuine interest in managing the new school. Second, the community must be located far from the
nearest public school (at least 3 kilometers away). Third, the community must have at least 20 pre-primary
and primary school-age children. Previously, the requirement was 25, but this was changed to 20 in 1999.
Fourth, the community must not have any teachers already on the official government's payroll. Financing
for the program is distributed by the Government to communities to cover teacher salaries, learning
- 38 -



materials and school snacks, as well as to organizaciones de apoyo comunitario (NGOs) to cover
administrative training and, until the end of the year 2000 to cover educational support services. These are
NGOs that specialize in education and community development, and are contracted by PRONADE.
Financing is fully contingent on extensive community participation in all affairs related to the school which
usually range from hiring teachers to setting the local school calendar. Each community is represented by a
COEDUCA, which itself is elected locally and comprised of parents and community members.
At the national level, the program is coordinated by a relatively small implementation unit located in the
capital. The implementation unit is responsible for strategic planning, financial management, monitoring
and evaluation. The unit coordinates closely with staff from FIS on school infrastructure matters and on
educational policy and assessment issues with the respective MINEDUC Directorates. In keeping with the
decentralized nature of the program, the implementation unit leaves all school administration and
managerial decisions in the hands of the COEDUCAs. The COEDUCAs receive technical assistance and
overall advice from participating NGOs.
PRONADE's Implementation Process. MINEDUC underwrites the program and ensures that education
reforms are advanced. In addition, MINEDUC guarantees the disbursement of funds, promotes educational
quality and oversees adherence to the program and its goals. The Departmental Directorates assist with an
initial general identification of communities that have little or no access to education. Moreover, they
provide recognition of the legal status of COEDUCAs, support community analysis of education, and
coordinate educational activities with the central level and other local institutions.
PRONADE is implemented in three stages:
Stage 1 - Community Identification. These activities are performed by the NGOs who receive a contract
from PRONADE. They are granted a time frame of 45 days to identify a community, outline its needs and
submit appropriate information to PRONADE. Once PRONADE verifies the information and the needs of
the community, the NGOs receive an average of US$180 per community identified. In order to control the
identification process, PRONADE establishes a ceiling on the number of communities that may be
identified per NGO.
Stage 2 - Organization and legalization of COEDUCAS. The NGOs enter into another contract with
PRONADE to provide technical support to the communities in establishing the COEDUCA, electing a
provisional Board of Directors, and obtaining legal status. Once the COEDUCA is legally established the
NGOs provide 24 hours of training in administration and financial management. The average time frame to
organize and obtain legal status is 3 months with an average unit cost for the NGOs of US$578 per
COEDUCA established.
Stage 3 - Follow-up services. The third contract between the NGOs and PRONADE is a 12-month
contract to provide follow-up services to the COEDUCA. To participate in this stage, the NGOs must meet
additional requirements, namely, that staff in the NGOs be trained and have experience in teaching and
pedagogical methods, and be fluent in the Mayan language spoken in the locality where the NGO operates.
The COEDUCAs receive a total of nine days of training. Teachers receive 22 days of training during
non-school working periods. The NGOs are required to make periodic visits to the school to ensure
effective implementation of the program and to monitor results that are, in turn, submitted to PRONADE's
monitoring and evaluation unit. Each follow-up contract is paid out in tranches beginning with 10 percent,
followed by three payments of 20 percent and finally a lump sum of 30 percent at the end of the contract
and upon submission of accounting and related reports.
Flow of Funds. PRONADE established a trust fund to administer resources and streamline payments to
COEDUCAs and NGOs. Consistent with the government's agreement that establishes PRONADE as a
legal entity, the Ministry of Public Finance (MFP) disburses funds every three months to a local bank
- 39 -



according to the statements of expenditures submitted by PRONADE. On average it takes 45 days for the
deposit to become effective.
The steps in the disbursement of funds are as follows: (i) PRONADE's administrative unit requests funds
from MINEDUC to make a single purchasing order with payment in the order of the local bank; (ii)
MINEDUC approves request and sends order to MFP; (iii) MFP submits the order to the National
Comptroller's Office for approval; (iv) upon approval, MFP sends notice to PRONADE; (v) PRONADE's
administrative unit presents MFP's notice, along with details on payments to NGOs and COEDUCAs, to
the Bank of Guatemala who issues a check payable to PRONADE's trust account with the local bank; (vi)
the bank deposits approved payments to NGOs and COEDUCAs in local branches; (vii) the bank submits
payment reports to MFP, the Comptroller's office and PRONADE's administrative unit; and (viii)
PRONADE's administrative unit sends MFP at the end of each quarter reports on the execution of funds.
The COEDUCAs receive funds to pay for teacher salaries equivalent to US$240 per teacher per month
plus additional funds to cover bonuses and pension. The COEDUCAs also receive US$7 per student per
year to buy school materials, US$28 per teacher per year to buy teaching supplies and US$12 per child per
year to provide a daily school breakfastlsnack. The transfers to the COEDUCAs are paid out every three
months prior to rendering services. Although funds flow from PRONADE directly to the COEDUCA, the
NGOs provide substantial input in developing the budget and ensuring funds are spent according to the
categories and amounts established with PRONADE. The COEDUCAs make all payments out of their
local checking account while the NGOs and PRONADE's Financial and Administrative unit is responsible
for supervising the process.
Under the Basic Education Reform project, under implementation, primary school enrollment was
expanded by about 150,000 students. As of May of 2000, PRONADE schools represented 33 percent of
primary school enrollment in rural areas and 11 percent of total enrollment in primary education at the
national level.
The project will support the expansion of enrollment to an additional 40,000 students in four years in about
1,300 communities in the most underserved geographic areas of the country. Financing would be on a
declining basis, which has proven to be an effective mechanism to ensure program sustainability, under the
existing loan. It will also support evaluations of the program on a regular basis. Evaluations of the
program would be carried out to determine the impact of the program on student achievement, repetition
and drop-out rates, as well as teacher effectiveness. Similarly, evaluations would be carried out to
determine the effectiveness of the support services afforded to the COEDUCAs and to teachers and point
out specific areas for immediate improvement. In addition, the project will support (i) the pilot testing of
two administrative models leading to the graduation of COEDUCAs in matters related to financial
administration based on established criteria for graduation, and periodic, external monitoring and
evaluation to review progress, achievements, difficulties and efficiency at the local an central levels; (ii)
administrative training of new teachers, and (iii) a pilot program of itinerant teachers to provide education
services to 12 isolated, rural communities and approximately 180 children, where the cost of establishing a
PRONADE school would be too high because of the small number of children in each community. (For a
complete description of the program, its achievements and current issues, see: Education Decentralization in Guatemala;
School Management by Local Communities: The Case of PRONADE. By A Valerio and C. Rojas, July, 2000).
Subcomponent B: Provision of Scholarships for children of poor rural families. The Government of
Guatemala (GOG), through the MINEDUC, established and began implementation of a Scholarship
Program for Girls in Rural Areas in 1996. The program's objectives were to provide economic assistance,
through scholarships, to needy, female students enrolled in 1st through 4th grades of primary school,
- 40 -



principally, to encourage their completion of 6th grade and also to promote parent's involvement in their
children's schooling. These scholarships were targeted to reach geographic areas with the highest desertion
rates of female students, which exceeds those of male students, particularly in indigenous areas. Other
targeting criteria included: priority municipalities, as defined by MINEDUC, based on education indicators;
public schools located in rural areas and offering pre-primary and primary education services; poor female
students between 7 and 14 years old, registered in one of the first fourth grades, with no other sibling
benefiting from a scholarship; and parent's explicit agreement to support their daughter's education.
In 2000, the program offered more than 48,000 scholarships in 13 Departments. MINEDUC plans to
increase the number of scholarships to 200,000 this year, and to include children at risk in rural areas and
urban marginal areas. They will again target children of schools in the poorest municipalities, where
students have the highest desertion rates in the first three grades of schooling, and high repetition and
absenteeism rates. Separately, the proposed project would finance an additional 50,000 scholarships on a
declining basis with MINEDUC over the four years of the project. These scholarships would target
specifically girls in rural isolated communities where new and/or existing PRONADE schools are located.
Each girl's family would receive Q30 per month (approximately US$4) during the school year.
The program's objectives are to reduce economic, social and cultural barriers to enrollment in school, as
well as to increase attendance and completion of education through the sixth grade. These scholarships will
be targeted to the poorest departments and municipalities, using the poverty map of Guatemala
(SEGEPLAN, 2001), and within those, to areas with the lowest education indicators, particularly of female
students.
PRONADE schools to be selected will be those with the lowest education indicators in the municipality and
where the COEDUCAs are interested and willing to commit to the administration of the scholarships. The
beneficiaries in each community will be selected based on the following criteria: (i) the candidate is a needy
female child, between 6 and 14 years of age; (ii) the parents of the child are committed to supporting their
daughter's education (through a formal agreement between the parents and the COEDUCA); (iii) the
candidate is selected by the COEDUCAs leadership and approved by the community in the general
assembly; and (iv) the candidate has passed the previous grade, if the beneficiary is not in pre-primary or
first grade.
The project will also support training of COEDUCAs in the administration and management of the
scholarship program, communications efforts at the local level and technical assistance to ensure a smooth
transition from FUNRURAL management to PRONADE management. The project would also provide
technical assistance, training and equipment to develop and implement a database for the scholarship
program, technical assistance to revise the manual for training of communities, and technical assistance to
carry out periodic evaluations to measure the program's effectiveness in targeting and reaching its
objectives. Finally, it will support social communication activities at the community level.
Implementation Process. Until the end of 2000, the scholarship program was implemented under a
tri-partite agreement between MINEDUC, the Association for Girls Education (Asociaci6n Eduquemos a la
Nifia - AEN), and the Foundation for Rural Development (FUNRURAL). Each institution had high level
representation in a Coordination Committee that meets periodically to ensure effective and efficient
implementation of the program. Under this agreement, the MINEDUC was responsible for approving the
five-year, the annual, and the disbursement plans presented by AEN and FUNRURAL. Presently,
MINEDUC, with some assistance, has the institutional capacity to manage the scholarship program. It
was decided by the Ministry of Education that beginning in 2001, MINEDUC will be the administrator and
executor of the scholarship program. For rural areas it has been decided that the execution of the program
- 41 -



will be through PRONADE, that has the added advantage of having functioning COEDUCAs that can
assume the responsibility for selecting economic assistance/scholarship recipients, and monitoring their
progress. The project would also provide technical assistance for the program's smooth transition from
FUNRURAL management to PRONADE management, and for carrying out periodic evaluations to
measure the program's effectiveness in targeting and reaching its objectives. The transition should be
relatively smooth since PRONADE already has established working mechanisms to transfer funds, monitor
its use, and to train COEDUCAs in the administration of the scholarships.
The Scholarships Unit of MINEDUC and PRONADE will use the poverty map and education indicators to
select the targeted departments and municipalities. PRONADE will use this information to select possible
beneficiary communities and will use its established network to confirm the willingness of communities to
participate in the program. Once these are selected, the beneficiary selection process will be carried out by
the COEDUCAs.
Project Component 2 - US$25.43 million
IMPROVING THE QUALITY OF EDUCATION
Subcomponent A: Strengthening of multigrade education strategies and bilingual education in rural
communities. Almost a third of Guatemalan schools have one, two, or three teachers that provide services
to the six grades of primary education, yet only a small percentage have teachers trained in multigrade
education strategies. In 1993, with USAID financing, the New Unitary School (NEU) program was
established to provide a proven methodology (based on the results of "Escuela Nueva" in Colombia) to
rural schools having one or two teachers. With UNICEF financing, a few bilingual multigrade schools
were also established. Program evaluations after two and three years of implementation showed this
strategy to be a successful one. At present, MINEDUC, in its effort to improve the quality of education,
has placed priority on multigrade education methodologies for monolingual and bilingual schools. The
model requires training of teachers in this methodology, appropriate classroom learning resources and
community participation.
For monolingual and bilingual multigrade schools, this support will include acquisition and distribution of
classroom libraries, along with classroom furniture for multigrade schools that do not have adequate
fumiture to support the multigrade education model. In monolingual multigrade schools, the project will
support revision of existing student workbooks and teacher guides, their printing and distribution. For
bilingual multigrade schools the project will support development, acquisition and distribution of teacher
guides and student workbooks designed specifically with lessons that follow bilingual, multigrade
methodologies for teaching and learning.
Subcomponent B: Provision of educational materials and textbooks for bilingual and monolingual
children. During the last years M1NEDUC has made serious efforts to provide textbooks and learning
materials to its students. The Government has distributed language, mathematics and social studies
textbooks to public schools every two years and will continue to do so. Currently there is a process of
revising existing textbooks to reflect the new curriculum that takes into account and emphasizes
multiculturalism and promotes active learning methodologies. The project's support will focus on
educational materials and textbooks for multigrade bilingual and monolingual schools. This support will
include, design, printing and distribution of textbooks in two subjects (math and culture) in 16 Mayan
languages plus Garifuna, Xinca and Spanish to completely cover all six grades of primary schooling.
Subcomponent C: Training of teachers in multigrade methodologies, and in content areas and
development of curricula for bilingual schools.  MINEDUC has recently completed preparation of a
"Teacher Development Plan" aimed at enhancing the quality of the training provided to their teachers. This
- 42 -



proposal's main objective which is to improve the quality of education imparted in schools, calls for
cooperative agreements between MINEDUC at the central and Departmental levels with public and private
institutions to develop human resources through improved in-service training of teachers.
As part of the "Teacher Development Plan" the project will support training in multigrade methodologies
for about 3,500 teachers of multigrade bilingual and monolingual schools. It will first provide international
technical assistance to design and implement a training of trainers program. These trainers will in turn, be
equipped with the knowledge and necessary materials to deliver intensive training programs to teachers of
monolingual and bilingual multigrade schools, plus Technical Administrative Coordinators (CTAs) and a
limited number of teachers from regular or traditional schools. The program is expected to reach
approximately, 2,200 bilingual multigrade teachers, 1,450 monolingual multigrade teachers, 38 bilingual
CTAs, 26 monolingual CTAs, and 200 traditional teachers. Each of the multigrade teachers will also
receive follow-up visits (2 each year) from their respective CTAs for extra support with the materials and
methods they have been studying and implementing in the classroom.
The program hopes to target, among others, new PRONADE community teachers who will be in the
greatest need for skill building and applying multigrade bilingual or monolingual instruction to their
students.
Finally, to ensure successful subcomponent implementation the project will support contracting of
specialized national and international technical assistance to ensure that DIGEBI and the training
department have the institutional capacity and are afforded training to manage the subcomponent and
evaluate results of the monolingual and bilingual multigrade teaching methods and curriculum program.
MINEDUC staff at the central and departmental levels will receive, through the project, substantial
technical assistance and on-the-job training at the outset to become familiar with multigrade methodologies
and to follow up on implementation. Also, technical assistance will be financed for the review of learning
materials, instructor and teacher training materials and teacher supervision.
Project Component 3 - US$ 2.30 million
CULTURAL DIVERSITY AND PLURALISM
Cultural Diversity and Pluralism has three subcomponents: (i) institutional strengthening of the MCS,
including establishment of a Policy and Planning Unit and the preparation of a National Cultural
Development Plan; (ii) deconcentration of MCS cultural education services; and, (iii) development of a
National Cultural Resources Information System (NCRIS) to include modernization of the MCS's current
cultural resources information systems, provision of information services to museums and libraries, and
establishment of a cultural resources data base on the diverse ethnic and linguistic groups of the country.
Sub-component A: Institutional Strengthening of the MCS. The MCS will establish a Policy and
Planning Unit to improve its capacity to cooperate with the MINEDUC and other government institutions,
civil society organizations and the private sector in the cultural area.   A    training and
capacity-strengthening program will be initiated for MCS and MINEDUC technical staff in order to
improve intra and inter-institutional understanding of the government's multicultural and inter-cultural
policies. The MCS will prepare a National Cultural Development Plan in consultation with a wide range of
governmental, academic, civil society and private sector actors during the first year of the project. In
addition, the MCS will contract legal expertise to review national and international legal and normative
frameworks in the cultural sector and to recommend reforms for institutionalizing the new strategies and
policies of the MCS, as reflected in the Peace Accords and the Principles, Policies and Strategies of the
MCS for 2000-2004.
-43 -



Subcomponent B: Deconcentration of MCS cultural education services. The MCS will design and
implement four pilot experiences in the localization of cultural education services (including the arts and
sports education) to the municipal level. These pilot experiences will be closely monitored and evaluated in
terms of their social and human development impacts on the selected municipalities and for the lessons they
can provide for adapting and extending the deconcentration initiative to other regions and municipalities.
Subcomponent C: Design of a National Cultural Resources Information System. The MCS will design
and put in place a National Cultural Resources Information System (NCRIS) in order to provide access to
cultural information and knowledge to cultural promoters, school teachers, academic and research
institutes, other government institutions (e.g., MINEDUC, INGUAT), civil society organizations, and the
private sector. The NCRIS will evolve over the course of the project and begin with the modernization of
the current cultural resources information services of the MCS. It will be linked to the country's museums
and libraries, and include a cultural resources database on the country's diverse ethnic and linguistic
groups.
Project Component 4 - US$13.87 million
DECENTRALIZATION AND MODERNIZATION
Subcomponent A: Strengthening of the MINEDUC's system management capacity at the local,
departmental and central levels.   MINEDUC has made substantial progress, with external donor
support, including the ongoing Basic Education Reform Project, in the decentralization process and
improvement of its management capacity at the school, departmental and central levels. Schools under the
PRONADE program, that covers 33 percent of rural enrollment in primary schools, are mostly managed by
the community, with NGOs support. The remaining public primary schools have established "Juntas
Escolares" (community associations), which are legal entities that receive government funding annually for
school basic repairs and maintenance. The Departmental Directorates now have their own, albeit limited,
budgets to improve the system in their departments and some managed to obtain additional, direct funding
from donor or private sources. At the central level, MINEDUC, over the past four years, streamlined many
of its functions, and reduced staffing considerably. One of the most important areas of improvement has
been financial management, since MINEDUC was one of the pilot ministries that implemented the
Government's integrated system for financial administration (SIAF). As a result of the improvements,
budget execution was close to 100 percent in the past two fiscal years. The change in administration has
slowed down the process, as expected, but many of the programs and improvements are receiving continued
support.
The project will provide technical assistance and training mainly to continue improving system management
and administrative processes at the central, departmental, and local levels to increase system efficiency and
effectiveness. Specifically, the project will support: (a) strengthening of DIGEBI's management in all
areas and at all levels, to respond to the significant responsibilities it has in the management of a
multilingual, multicultural education program; (b) improvements in the education management information
system to decentralize database management to the remaining departmental directorates through the
provision of equipment to replace existing, outdated equipment, and to equip municipal offices in selected
pilot municipalities, and through technical assistance to improve data collection instruments, data analysis,
and improvement of existing software; (c) strengthening of the policy, planning, and evaluation functions of
MINEDUC at all levels to ensure that policy and plans respond to system needs, and that evaluation results
are utilized; and (d) strengthening of the personnel management function at all levels, and also carrying out
studies to develop adequate human resource policies.
Subcomponent B: Social communication campaigns.  MiNEDUC will seek to inform and change
attitudes toward education in the general population and within the institution. The efforts under this
-44 -



subcomponent will be directed internally to staff of the institution at the central and departmental levels,
and externally to: (i) parents in rural communities to encourage them to send their children, both male and
female, to school until they complete sixth grade, (ii) parents, teachers and the community in rural,
indigenous areas, to inform them of the developmental and educational importance of initial learning in the
mother tongue, and to promote acceptance of bilingual education for their children, and (iii) parents,
teachers and community on the importance of their involvement and participation in school management
and their children's education. In addition, through an improved web page, information will be provided to
the general public on MINEDUCs education plans and priorities, the progress of the program of
universalization of primary education, and other priority programs, as well as education statistics.
The project will finance a communications strategy that will include: (i) workshops at the national,
departmental and local levels; (ii) social communications campaigns using multimedia methods (national
and local radio stations in at least six different languages, posters, bulletins, videos, and cassettes); (iii)
informational teacher conferences; (iv) unconventional means of advertising in towns and rural areas; (v)
improvement and continuous updating of MINEDUC's existing web page; and (vi) technical assistance.
Implementation Process: The Directorate of Social Communications (DSC) is the administrative unit
within MINEDUC that is responsible for development and implementation of a communications strategy.
A highly qualified and experienced communications specialist will be appointed by the Director of Social
Communications to manage this subcomponent on a daily basis. Production of radio, TV spots and
announcements, as well as videos and tapes in several languages will be contracted with local firms. Also,
poster design will be contracted with local firms. Air time will be negotiated with local radio stations and
TV stations. It is expected that MINEDUCs TV and radio stations will provide free air time, and a portion
of the air time will be donated by private operators, but most of it will be paid for by the MINEDUC, with
loan funds. The DSC, in coordination other administrative units at the central and departmental levels, will
organize the periodic informational/motivational workshops for managers, who in turn, are expected to
organize a similar workshop within their units, to extend the messages to school principals and teachers.
Subcomponent C: Education Management Information Systems (EMIS). With support from the
on-going project the ministry has been able to develop software; improve data collection procedures and
statistical analysis; and modernize and expand the hardware, networks, and servers up to the departmental
level of the ministry. The proposed project would support the continued updating of equipment, software
development and data management, as well as provide training and support to the decentralization process
that will reach beyond the departmental level to the local levels of the ministry.
The main objective of this component is to enhance MINEDUC's Education Management Information
System. In order to achieve this goal the project will pay special attention to improving the quality of the
data that is gathered and analyzed; providing on-going training to key staff in charge of data gathering and
analysis; and updating hardware and software at the central and departmental levels. Regarding the quality
of the statistics produced, the subcomponent will pay special attention to reviewing every activity
conducted as part of the process followed. Studies aimed at analyzing the quality of the information will
be supported by the project. Similarly, through national and regional seminars, training will be provided to
users of the infornation. During these seminars, improvements to the system will be discussed as well as
the key findings related to the statistics that have been analyzed. The project will also support enhancement
of the technology used by MINEDUC. Equipment at the central and departmental levels will be upgraded;
communication equipment which will allow internet access from the center and departmental levels will be
purchased. Those departments that have not yet received equipment or software to implement the EMIS
will be outfitted and trained under the project.
- 45 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
GUATEMALA: UNIVERSALIZATION OF BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Local   ~~Foreligni     Total
Project Cost By Ciomponnt                US  $USllIo    US       4iUi      US $million
I. Universalization of Primary Education                   33.21          0.81         34.02
lI. Improving the Quality of Education.                    17.97          3.12         21.09
Il. Cultural Diversity and Pluralism.                       1.64          0.33          1.97
IV. Decentralization and Modernization of MINEDUC.          8.50          3.30         11.80
Total Baseline Cost                                        61.32          7.56         68.88
Physical Contingencies                                     3.14          0.67          3.81
Price Contingencies                                        8.74          0.45          9.19
Total Project Costs              73.20          8.68         81.88
Front-end fee                     0.62          0.62
Total Financing Required               73.20          9.30         82.50
Local       QForeign       Total
Project Cost By Category                 US $X illion    US $miuiori   US $million
Goods                                                        30.12          5.38         35.50
Works                                                         1.10          2.52          3.62
Services                                                     18.68          0.47         19.15
Training                                                      6.68          0.31          6.99
Girls Scholarships                                            4.98          0.00          4.98
Operating costs                                               2.06          0.00          2.06
Salaries                                                      9.58          0.00          9.58
Total Project Costs     73.20           8.68         81.88
Front-end fee                     0.62         0.62
Total Financing Required      73.20           9.30        82.50
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 82.5 (USSrn). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 75.34% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 46 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
GUATEMALA: UNIVERSALIZATION OF BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
The quantifiable economic benefits of the project will be produced by a combination of a) increased
coverage and equity through the expansion of PRONADE, b) the provision of scholarships to needy female
students and c) improving the efficiency and quality of primary education through the provision of teaching
inputs such as textbooks and teacher training. These benefits will be enhanced by d) a qualitative,
facilitating program of cultural diversity and e) the decentralization and modernization of the Ministry of
Education. The Economic Analysis provides details regarding costs and benefits for the first three
components mentioned above, which together account for roughly 80 percent of the project costs.
1.    Context
The Guatemalan Country Assistance Strategy of 1998 indicates that the efforts of the Bank should be
directed to poverty alleviation by improving access to sustainable productive opportunities and by
expanding the delivery of basic services with emphasis on education. The project seeks to achieve this
objective by focusing on education and the expansion of coverage by community-managed schools in
low-income rural areas in continuation of the Basic Education Reform (FY97). This strategy is consistent
with Guatemalan educational policies mentioned in the Ministry of Education's Annual Report, Memoria
de Labores, 1996-1999, and the Plan for Education 2000-2004 which includes modernization and
decentralization, increased educational coverage, improved quality, cultural pertinence, provision of
scholarships to needy students and increased bilingual education. The need for investment in the education
sector is highlighted by the condition of poverty in Guatemala - the Guatemalan Human Development
Report 2000 (Human Development Report, Informe de Desarrollo Humano, 2000) of the United Nations
System in Guatemala, indicates a poverty headcount measure of 56.7 percent in 1998, with 26.7 percent of
the population below the extreme poverty level. The 1999 Living Standard Measurement Survey (LSMS),
Encuesta Nacional de Ingresos y Gastos Familiares, carried out between 1998 and 1999, indicates that
43.5 percent of the rural population, ages 7 and up have had no schooling.
2.    Cost-Benefit Analysis: PRONADE
PRONADE is a community participation strategy designed to rapidly increase the coverage of primary
education in the more distant rural areas of Guatemala that have not been incorporated into the traditional
National Education System because of physical difficulties of access and limited communications.
PRONADE seeks to increase quality and expand primary education coverage to include 40,000 students in
new communities. The Internal Rate of Return (IRR) of the PRONADE component is conservatively
calculated in the base analysis to be 16 percent with a Net Present Value (NPV) of $115.0 million. Detailed
figures are presented in Table Al at the end of this section.
Assumptions underlying Cost-Benefit Analysis
* An annual increment of $690 per student accrues to students with Primary Education. (Calculations are
based on data of the Living Standard Measurement Survey showing annual wages of $583 for those without
schooling and an estimated average of $1273 for those with primary education. The estimation also includes
legislated benefits and wage increases which would be available to those with schooling. Interviews with
large-scale employers in rural areas were held to substantiate the assumptions.)
* No incremental benefit was assigned to students who partially complete the program.
- 47 -



* A 40-year working life was used, with entry into the labor force possible at age 14.
* The existing student completion rate of 70 percent was used as a base and it was assumed that this
would be raised to 80 percent because of quality improvements. (PRONADE, Data on the impact of
school attendance, 2000.)
*   Cost of capital was assumed to be 10 percent.
* An annual cost per student of $317 was used based per student cost for the project, including an
opportunity cost of $29 and average out-of-pocket student costs of $25. (The opportunity cost
computation based on the assumption that 10 percent of school children would work at 50 percent of average
earnings for those without schooling.)
* It was estimated that an average of 25 percent of the graduates from primary schooling will not be
working.
Non-Monetary Benefits
The Project will also produce numerous direct and indirect non-monetary benefits in areas such as health,
nutrition and maternal fertility. A United Nations Human Development Report for 2000 states that 2/3 of
Guatemalan mothers without education and indigenous mothers have children whose growth is retarded.
This is double the percentage for non-indigenous mothers and more than 5 times the percentage for mothers
with at least secondary education. Ministry of Health data reveal that in targeted areas 26 children per
1000 die of diarrhea and bronchial infections before the age of 1 while the national average is 19 and is
about 9 in urban areas. Maternal mortality is 126 per 100,000 live births in targeted areas while the
national average is 97 and in urban areas it is around 20. The birth rate is above 40 per 1000 in targeted
areas while it is about 25 per 1000 in Guatemala City.
3.     Cost-Benefit Analysis: Scholarships for Girls.
The scholarship program is designed to reduce the economic, social and cultural barriers that make it
especially difficult for school-age girls to enroll, study and graduate from pre-primary and primary school.
The program will provide 200,00 scholarships by the year 2004. It will give special consideration to
indigenous girls from rural areas prioritized by PRONADE and to working children living in resettlement
communities. The amount of the scholarship is Q.25 a month for 10 months or Q.250 (U.S. $32.05) a year
plus 10 percent administrative costs (a total per student of $35.26 per year). The analysis indicates an
Internal Rate of Return (IRR) of 20 percent and a Net Present Value (NPV) of $149.8 million for the
project. Detailed figures are presented in Table A2 at the end of this section.
Assumptions underlying Cost-Benefit Analysis
Assumptions are the same as the relevant assumptions used for the analysis of the PRONADE component,
and the following additional elements:-
* An unemployment rate of 40 percent for those with and without schooling due to the low percentage of
economically active women.
* Twenty percent of scholarship recipients would not attend without the scholarship.
* The scholarship leads to lower repetition. (Calculations are based on initial internal efficiency rates
provided by the Administrative Office of PRONADE.) The impact is calculated to be an annual
one-fourth year reduction in total length of schooling.
* The scholarship leads to a 10 percent decrease in dropouts for economic reasons.
* The annual per student cost of schooling is the PRONADE average of $146.15.
- 48 -



* That demand constraints are very important for low educational coverage amongst girls. (See Table 1
and related discussion below.)
According to the Living Standard Measurement Survey of 1999 conducted by the National Institute of
Statistics (INE), 27 percent of school-age girls do not attend school because of lack of money, 14 percent
because their parents don't want them to attend, 6.5 percent because of work obligations and 3.3 percent
because of household chores. Thus, a total of 50.8 percent do not attend school because of problems related
to the demand for schooling rather than the supply of school places.
Table 1
Reasons for Not Attending School
Boys 7-9      Boys 10-14        Girls 7-9     Girls 10-14
Distance                                    3.2%            4.4%             4.1%           1.8%
No school available                         0.3%             0.5%            0.6%           2.1%
Too expensive                              23.9%            26.3%           30.3%          27.6%
Do not want to go                          18.9%           30.8%            21.0%          35.2%
Chores at home                              0.0%             0.5%            4.4%           6.8%
Parents do not approve                     28.6%             5.0%           19.3%          11.6%
Work obligation                             1.4%            13.0%            7.0%           3.3%
Other                                      23.4%            19.4%           13.3%          11.7%
Total                                       100%            100%             100%          100%
Possible economic reasons                  46.2%           57.2%            59.9%          59.9%
Number of students (thousands)                36               75               51            94
Non-Monetary Benefits
Non-monetary benefits are the same as discussed in the section about PRONADE. These benefits have
special relevance for the female gender.
1.    Cost-Benefit Analysis: Improved Efficiency And Quality Of Primary Education
The goal of this component is to increase equity and enrollment and greatly reduce the drop-out rates by
providing an educational focus on gender, culture, language and geographical location in communities
where the mother tongue is Kaqchikel, K'iche, Main and Qeqchi along with Garifuna and Spanish. It
should also increase the quality of the learning experience by making education much more effective from
the beginning for those with Spanish language difficulties and by increasing teacher effectiveness through
the training program. Analysis of the quality component indicates an Internal Rate of Retum (IRR) of 20
percent and a Net Present Value (NPV) of $111.6 million. Detailed figures are presented in Table A3 at the
end of this section.
-49 -



Assumptions underlying Cost-Benefit Analysis
Additional assumptions for this component include:-
*   A reduction in grade repetition leading to one year less schooling. This lowers education costs and
permits the graduate to begin generating income one year earlier
*   A 10 percent decrease in dropouts.
*   A 10 percent increase in incremental income through improved leaming.
As these assumptions are somewhat arbitrary, the sensitivity analysis presented later in this section
especially important for this component.
2.     Sensitivity Analysis
Although the economic return has been shown to be attractive using conservative assumptions, it is
important to apply sensitivity analysis to test for the robustness of the findings to alternative assumptions.
For each of the components, switching values were calculated for how bad the underlying assumption
variables would need to be for the IRR to slip below 10 percent. The results of the sensitivity analysis are
presented below for each component in turn.
PRONADE
The switching value of incremental income taken alone is only slightly above half of the base scenario
income. It can remain near that level while unemployment rises to 30 percent and schooling costs rise 15
percent. If the dropout rate remains the same and does not improve as expected, the estimated 10 percent,
breakeven is still obtained with unemployment at 30 percent and incremental income 2/3 of the base
estimate.
Table 2
Sensitivity Analysis: PRONADE Component
Income Increment|   Emplovment    Schooling Cost  Drovout Rate
Base Case                  $690               75%               $317            20%
Scenario I: Worst Case Scenario for Income Increment (Other 3 the Same)
Switching Value     I      $364               75%         l    $317             20%
Scenario II: Worst Case Income Increment and Employment (Other 2 the Same)
Switching Value            $390               70%               $317            20%
Scenario III: Worst Case Income, Employ. Schooling Cost (Dropout Rate the Same)
Switching Value     l      $440       |       70%               $365            20%
Scenario IV: Worst Case for All Four Assumptions
Switching Value            $460               70%               $340            30%
Scholarships for Girls.
Sensitivity analysis (Table 3) shows that breakeven is achieved even if incremental income drops to 35
percent of the base estimate when taken alone. The employment rate can fall to 40 percent with incremental
- 50 -



income 53 percent of the base when taken together. Schooling costs can increase 35 percent while
employment is only 50 percent and incremental only 57 percent of the base. Worst case switching values
for all elements shows incremental income 60 percent of the base, employment at 50 percent, school costs
rising 15 percent and dropout reduction only improving 5 percent.
Table 3
Sensitivity Analysis: Scholarship Component
Income        Employment        Schooling Cost     Net Dropout Rate
Increment     ______ ____
Base Case                  $690             60%                $200                20%
Scenario 1: Worst Case Scenario for Income Increment (Other 3 the Same)
Switching Value     1     $244              60%        |      $200                 20%
Scenario II: Worst Case Income Increment and Employment (Other 2 the Same)
Switching Values          $366       1      40%        |      $200                 20%
Scenario III: Worst Case Income Incr., Employ., Schooling Cost (Dropout Rate the Same)
Switching Values    1     $390       |      50%               $270        1        20%
Scenario IV: Worst Case for All Four Assumptions
Switching Values          $424              50%                $229                25%
Quality Component
This component would remain profitable even if incremental income were only 30 percent of the base
(Table 4). The breakeven point is reached if the employment rate drops to 60 percent and incremental
income is only 38 percent of the base. Project recurrent schooling costs can rise to $5 million per year with
employment 60 percent and incremental income less than half of the base. The dropout rate can improve
only 4 percent with recurrent costs rising 60 percent employment stabilizing at 65 percent and incremental
income 54 percent of the base.
Table 4
Sensitivity Analysis: Quality Component
S   Income Increment   SEmployment    |            ooling Cost ( oNet DropouR
I                 ~~~~~~(Thousands)      Rate
Base Case                  $690         1        75%                 $2500              20%
Scenario I: Worst Case Scenario for Income lncrem-ent (Other 3 the Same)
Switching Value    I       $210         1        %75         1       $2500        i     %20
Scenario II: Worst Case Income Increment and Employment (Otber 2 the Same)
Switching Values    1      $262         |        60%         |       $2500        |    %20
Scenario III: Worst Case Income Incr., EhmplI. Schooling Cost (Dropout Rate the Same)
Switching Values           $324                  60%                 $5000              20%
Scenario IV: Worst Case for All Four Assumptions
Switching Values           $372         |        65%                 $4000              26%
- 51 -



6.    Project Impact on Poverty
The target area of the project is the rural area with special attention given to the female gender. Table 5
below shows the important connection between education, the geographical setting and poverty. Annual per
capita income in rural areas is $573, 43.5 percent of the population has no schooling and 42.6 percent is
illiterate. Annual per capita income in urban areas is $1491, 15.5 percent of the population has no
schooling and the illiteracy rate is 15.9 percent. Women are at a special disadvantage. In rural areas, 50.9
percent are illiterate and only 29 percent of women age 7 and over are economically active. Illiteracy for
men in rural areas is 34 percent while 69 percent are economically active. The data presented in Table 5
shows that the focus of the project on girls and on rural areas is amply justified in terms of potential impact
on the reduction of poverty.
Table 5
Project Target Area Compared with Urban Area for Poverty-Related Variables Data from Living
Standard Measurement Survey of 1999
Total          % Economically      Income      % With no    % Illiterate
Population         Active            per        schooling
Capita
Rural                  6,370        48.8%            $563         43.5%          42.6%
Men               3,109        69.0%              _                         34.0%
Women              3,261        29.0%              _                         50.9%
Urban                  4,190        52.7%           $1,491        15.9%          15.5%
Men               2,045        63.0%                                        12.6%
Women              2,145        43.0%                                        18.0%
Total            10,550         50.0%            $932                       68.7%
Table Al
Cost and Benefit Streams from PRONADE Component
Year      Direct Cost    Opportunity      Total Project   Total Benefits    Net Benefits
Cost            Costs
2001             $80               $93            $889               0           $1,062
2002            $284              $329          $5,332               0           $5,945
2003            $570              $661          $8,824               0          $10,055
2004            $874            $1,014         $12,608               0          $14,496
2005            $874            $1,014          $9,194               0          $11,082
2006           $1,133           $1,314         $11,919               0          $14,366
2007           $1,392           $1,615         $14,644              $0          $17,651
2008           $1,392           $1,615         $14,644          $1,325          $16,326
2009           $1,392           $1,615         $14,644          $4,968          $12,683
2010           $1,392           $1,615         $14,644         $10,433           $7,218
2011           $1,392           $1,615         $14,644         $16,560           $1,091
2012           $1,392           $1,615         $14,644         $22,687           $5,037
2013           $1,392           $1,615         $14,644         $28,814          $11,164
- 52 -



2014          $1,392           $1,615         $14,644         $34,942         $17,291
2015          $1,392           $1,615         $14,644         $41,069         $23,418
2016          $1,392           $1,615         $14,644         $47,196         $29,545
2017          $1,392           $1,615         $14,644         $53,323         $35,673
2018          $1,392           $1,615         $14,644         $59,450         $41,800
2019          $1,392           $1,615         $14,644         $65,578         $47,927
2020          $1,392           $1,615         $14,644         $71,705         $54,054
2035          $1,392           $1,615         $14,644        $163,613        $145,962
2036          $1,392           $1,615         $14,644        $169,740        $152,089
2037          $1,392           $1,615         $14,644        $175,867        $158,217
2038          $1,392           $1,615         $14,644        $181,994        $164,344
2039          $1,392           $1,615         $14,644        $188,122        $170,471
2040          $1,392           $1,615         $14,644        $194,249        $176,598
Internal Rate of Return                            16%
Net           $114,954
Present
Value in
Thousands
(Discount
Rate of
Note: The series from 2021 to 2035 appears to be broken in order to make this table fit on one page.
Table A2
Cost and Benefit Streams from Scholarship Component
Year      Direct Cost   Opportunity    Total Project    Total Benefits    Net Benefits
Cost          Costs
2001         375               435            9,071           1,462           8,419
2002         375               435            9,071           1,462           8,419
2003         375               435            9,071           1,462           8,419
2004         375               435            9,071           1,462           8,419
2005         375               435            9,071           1,462           8,419
2006         375               435            9,071           1,462           8,419
2007         375               435            9,071           1,462           8,419
2008         375               435            9,071           6,430           3,451
2009         375               435            9,071          11,398           1,517
2010         375               435            9,071          16,366           6,485
2011         375               435            9,071          21,334          11,453
2012         375               435            9,071          26,302          16,421
2013         375               435            9,071          31,270          21,389
2014         375               435            9,071          36,238          26,357
2015         375               435            9,071          41,206          31,325
2016         375               435            9,071          46,174          36,293
2017         375               435            9,071          51,142          41,261
2018         375               435            9,071          56,110          46,229
- 53 -



2019         375               435            9,071          61,078          51,197
2020         375               435            9,071          66,046          56,165
2035         375               435            9,071         129,168         129,168
2036         375               435            9,071         129,168         129,168
2037         375               435            9,071         129,168         129,168
2038         375               435            9,071         129,168         129,168
2039         375               435            9,071         129,168         129,168
2040         375               435            9,071         129,168         129,168
Internal Rate of Return                          20%
Net Present Value                                            $149,803
Note: The series from 2021 to 2035 appears to be broken in order to make this table fit on one page.
- 54 -



Table A3
Cost and Benefit Streams from Quality Component
Year     Direct Cost   Opportunity    Total Project    Total Benefits    Net Benefits
Cost          Costs
2001               0             0            4,700              0            4,700
2002             125           145           10,630              0           10,901
2003             300           348           13,954              0           14,602
2004             500           580           11,023              0           12,103
2005             500           580            5,423              0            6,503
2006             500           580            5,423              0            6,503
2007             500           580            5,423              0            6,503
2008             500           580            5,423          16,196           9,693
2009             500           580            5,423          25,521          19,018
2010             500           580            5,423          32,745          26,242
2011             500           580            5,423          24,342          17,839
2012             500           580            5,423          26,619          20,116
2013             500           580            5,423          28,896          22,393
2014             500           580            5,423          31,173          24,670
2015             500           580            5,423          33,450          26,947
2016             500           580            5,423          35,727          29,224
2017             500           580            5,423          38,004          31,501
2018             500           580            5,423          40,281          33,778
2019             500           580            5,423          42,558          36,055
2020             500           580            5,423          44,835          38,332
2035             500           580            5,423          78,990          72,487
2036             500           580            5,423          81,267          74,764
2037             500           580            5,423          83,544          77,041
2038             500           580            5,423          85,821          79,318
2039             500           580            5,423          88,098          81,595
2040             500           580            5,423          90,375          83,872
Internal Rate of Return                         20%
Net Present Value                            $111,639
Note: The series from 2021 to 2035 appears to be broken in order to make this table fit on one page.
Summary of benefits and costs:
Main Assumptions:
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
- 55 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
GUATEMALA: UNIVERSALIZATION OF BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Years Ending
Year 1I Year 2  I Year 3        Year 4     Year 5    Year 6     Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           15.2      17.6       18.4       19.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.2        1.1        3.3        7.1       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs          15.4      18.7       21.7       26.1        0.0        0.0       0.0
Front-end fee     0.6       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing              16.0      18.7       21.7       26.1        0.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                  14.7       16.1       16.2       15.2       0.0       0.0        0.0
Government                 1.3        2.6        5.6       10.8       0.0        0.0        0.0
Central                 0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     16.0       18.7      21.8       26.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
Fiscal Analysis and Project Financial Impact
The purpose of the analysis is to examine the fiscal impact of the project on the education budget in
Guatemala and to determine the fiscal sustainability of the project under a reasonable set of assumptions.
1.    Historical situation
During the past five years, as can be seen in Table 1, GDP growth has been moderate, averaging 3.9
percent. It peaked in 1998 at 5.1 percent and has declined since then. Government expenditures have slowly
increased as a percentage of GDP. Likewise, educational expenditures have increased as a percentage of
government expenditures. Capital expenditures have averaged around 22 percent and recurrent
expenditures roughly 78 percent of total educational expenditures.
- 56 -



Table 1: Trends in Public Educational Expenditures'
(Amounts in constant Q. Millions, Base Year;-2000)
199f     1997      199f      1991      2001  Averag
GDP                                 125,4-5  130,976   137,65    142,612   147,311
Yearly Real Increase                  3.00/     4.4%      5.1/     3.6%      3.30/     3.9%
Annual Government Expenditures       13,02,   15,320    18,821    20,515    22,311
Govt. Expenditures as % GDP          10.40/    11.7%     13.70/    14.4%     15.10/    13.1%
Annual Educational Expenditures       1,97     2,30      2,96      3,503      3,85
Education Expend. as % of GDP         1.60/     1.80/     2.20/     2.50/     2.60/     2.1%
Educ. Expend. as % of Govt. Expend.    15.20/    15.1    15.70/   17.1%     17.30/    16.1%
Capital Expend. (in Q.millions)        41'       508       601       951        74_
Capital Expend. (% of total)         21.00/    22.10    20.30/    27.1%1    19.40/   22.1%
Recurrent Expend. (in Q.millions)     1,563     1,797    2,35      2,552      3,105
Recurrent Expend. (% of total)       79.00/   77.90/    79.70/    72.9%      80.60/    77.9%
Personnel Exp. (in Q.millions)        1,24      1,426     1,757    2,082      2,59 2
Personnel Exp. (% of total)          63.00/    61.80/    59.40/    59.4%     67.2%/   50.8%
1/ Includes educational expenditures from ministries other than the Ministry of Education. The addition of other ministries requires
approximations - MINEDUC accounts for 75% of Education expenditures.
A breakdown of educational expenditures by educational level is given in Table 2 below. Figures are rough
estimates because of changes in accounting practices during the period, fragmented accounting of
educational expenditures and the variety of programs within which they are located without being specified.
The "other expenditures" include: literacy training, physical education and culture, some common
administrative expenses, scholarships for internal and external study, in-house training programs of various
ministries, uncategorized rural development, school maintenance, adult education and special education
programs. The high expenditure for primary education stands out.
- 57 -



Table 2: Real Educational Ex enditur  by Educational _evel (miL. Q. 2009 %10
Average
% of
1996    1997    1998   1999        2000 otal
Annual Educational Expenditures    1,978   21307    2,960   3,503    3,854
Pre-primary                       159     227      266     219       299       8%
Primary                           973     968    1,226   1,629    1,791      46%
Junior Secondary                  155      112      153     194      203       5%
Senior Secondary                   80     157      162      108       79       2%
Tertiary'                         276     255      371      365      377      10%
Construction2                     201     215      287      335      388      10%
Other3                            134     373      495      653      717      19%
PRONADE
Personnel                                          84.9   114.7    166.2
Non-Personnel Recurrent       _        _4.1                 5.6       8._ _
Capital Expenditures                               13.3    18.0     26. 
1/ San Carios University.
2/ Information not available across levels of education, but would be weighted heavily for Primary Education.
3/ Includes adult education and literacy training, other training programs and special education programs and miscellaneous
expenditures not classified by level of education.
Guatemala is entering into a period of fiscal discipline. The fiscal deficit budgeted for 2001 has been
reduced to 1.5 percent of GDP. The exchange rate has been stabilized at around Q.7.80 to the dollar and
annual inflation has been reduced to 5 percent. Monetary emission (Ml) declined Q.1,454 million in 2000.
Even though the deficit is not inordinately high, the austerity measures would affect public expenditures in
all areas including education - it would be unrealistic to expect a great increase in public education
expenditure in 2001.
2.      Growth in the Education Sector
The high increase in govemment education expenditures shown in Table 1 (from 1.6 percent of GDP in
1996 to 2.6 percent in 2000) have been devoted mainly to increase the coverage of basic education, as can
be seen in Table 3 below. The number of schools went up in this period from roughly 10,000 to 18,500
schools, and the number of teachers from 33,000 to 52,000. With significant unmet needs in rural areas
and indigenous communities, the preliminary version of the National Long-Term Education Plan projects
an annual enrollment growth rate of 4 percent annual growth target for the period 2000-2008.
- 58 -



Table 3: Growth Rates for the Educational Sector
Teachers                     Schools            Official Enrollment
Total                       Total           Total
official                    official        official
regular                     regular         regular
Year  Urban  Rural system Pronade Urban  Rural system Pronade  svstem  Pronade
1996  11,391 21,704 33,095    392  1 121  8699  9,82(      206 1,510,811  15,73
1997  11,26  22,40: 33,672  1,095  1,181  9,18' 10 362     365 1,544,709  48,637
1998  11,351 23,59f 34,9    3,011  1,185  9,68   10,871   1,19  1 ,685,411 104,07
1999   8 752 28,31 E 37 070   5,683  1447 13,341 14,788   281  1,740,32 186,549.
2000  13,041  38,27  51,314   7,405  1,440 13,625 15,065   3,437 1,795,925 231,28
Ave.
growth  3.4%  15.2%   11.6%  108.5%  6.5%  11.9%  11.3%  102.1%   4.4%    95.8%
3.     Projection of Educational Expenditures for the Next 5 Years
Table 4 shows the expenditure projections based on conservative estimates of a) the GDP growth rate, b)
the growth rate of government expenditures as percentage of GDP, and c) the growth rate of public
education expenditures as a percentage of government expenditures. The table shows that public
educational expenditures would increase from Q. 3,880 million in 2001 to Q. 5,600 million in the year
2005. The educational expenditures in 2005 would represent 3.22 percent of the GDP, still quite low by
international standards (the World Development Report 2000 reports an average of 4 percent for Low
Income Countries, the OECD average is close to 5 percent).
Table 4: Projected Education Expenditures Using GDP In 2000 And Real GDP Growth As
The Basis For Calculations (amounts in Q. Millions)
_________ __  2001   2002        2003         2004        2005
Real GDP                      151,700     156,300     161,300      166,800     174,100
GDP Growth Rate                 3.0%         3.0%        3.2%         3.4%        4.4%
Government Expenditure         22,200      23,400      25,000       26,700      28,700
Govt. Expend. I GDP            14.6%        15.0%       15.5%         16%        16.5%
Education Expenditure           3,880       4,220       4,625        5,070       5,600
Educ. Expend./ Gov. Exp        17.5%        18.0%       18.5%         19%        19.5%
Capital Expenditures              860         933        1,022       1,121        1,238
Recurrent Expenditures          3,020       3,287        3,603       3,949       4,362
The total public spending on education was further broken down and the enrollment goals at each level
were compared against the spending at each level to track the movements in unit cost - the expenditures
mentioned in Table 4 above are feasible in terms of the enrollment projections (increase from 1.63 million
Primary students in 2001 to 1.87 million Primary students in 2005, unit cost per Primary student is about
Q. 1,035 or US$ 136 per year; Details are available on Project files)
4.     Wage Increases - Trends and Prospects
An important consideration in the projections regarding educational expenditure is the potential impact of
wage increases on overall education expenditures. The trends regarding wage increase are examined below,
- 59 -



followed by a presentation of potential implications regarding the future. Over the past 6 years, wages in
education have increased an average of 7 percent above the inflation rate as can be seen in Table 5.
Table 5: Increase in Teachers' Salaries compared with the Rate of Inflation'
______ _I   _I   [_                Average
1,994 1995   1996   1997 1998 1999 2000 Increase
Annual Inflation             11.6% 8.6%  10.9%   7.1% 7.5% 4.9% 5.1%
Cumulative Inflation: 1994= 100    100  109    120   129  139  145  153    7.4%
Nominal salaries Pre & Primary    700  700C   985  1J08 1,182 1,382 1,582   14.6%1
Nominal salaries Secondary     784  784  1,069  1,1761,283 1,483 1,683   13.6%/]
1/ Salary data is from the Ministry of Finance. Inflation data is from the Bank of Guatemala.
Table 6 below shows the effect of a real 7 percent increase in personnel expenditures. It is based on the
following assumptions:
*   Wages increase 7% per year above a proportional increase in enrollment.
*   Other expenditures increase in proportion to an increase in enrollment. Although the composition of
coverage will vary slightly with higher growth in pre-primary. junior secondary and the more expensive
senior secondary than in primary, the impact on increasing costs is less than .1 percent per year when
costs per student for each grade level are held constant.
*   Population growth is 2.5% per year.
*   The goal of the preliminary version of the Long-Term Plan for Education is to achieve an additional
1.5% annual increase in coverage (a total of 4%).
The Table shows that it would be problematic to maintain salary increases in real terms as has been the
trend in the past. Using the previously detailed projections of total educational expenditures, there would be
a deficit of Q. 160 million in 2001 and Q. 10 million in 2002, even without additional hiring of teachers. If
teacher hires increase to cope with limited increases in enrollment, the deficit would be Q. 261 million in
2001 and Q. 148 million in 2002. Fulfilling the Plan enrollment goals coupled with the trend increases in
salaries would lead to substantially larger deficits. It is possible that specific wage increases tied to
performance and productivity gains may be fiscally sustainable, but the need to closely monitor further
wage increases is clearly warranted.
- 60 -



Table 6: Effect of a 7% Annual Increase in Personnel Expenditures
(Figures in Q. millions)
2001   2002   2003  2004  2005
Total educational budget available     3,87    4,22   4,625  5,071  5,602
Educational Expenses without growth   _
Personnel Expenditures                 2,773   2,96   3,175  3,397  3,635
Non personal recurrent expenditures     514      514   514   514   514
Investment Expenditures                 74c      74    749   749   749
Total                                  4,036   4,230  4,438  4,660  4,898
Deficit or excess iIn resources (no growth)    (160  (1  188   411   704
Educ. Exp. With 2.5% Population Growth
Personnel Expenditures                 2,842   3,041  3,254  3,482  3,72
Non personal recurrent expenditures     527      540   554   567   582
Investment Expenditures                 76E      787   807   827   847
Total                                  4,13A   4,368  4,614  4,876  5,1559
eficit or excess in resources (2.5% gr.)  (261,   (148  1    195   447
Educ. Exp. With 2.5% Popul. Growth and 1.5% additional coverage
growth
Personnel Expenditures                  2,884   3,086  3,302 3,533  3,780
Non personal recurrent expenditures  |   535    556    578   601   625
Investment Expenditures             I   779    810    843   876   911
Total                               |  4,197   4,452  4,722 5,010  5,31
5.    Fiscal Impact of the Project
Table 7 below shows the fiscal impact of the project - the project accounts for between 2 percent to 5
percent of the Educational Budget. At the end of the project, the recurrent liabilities due to the project
would account for roughly 3.3 percent of the educational budget. The table also shows the small relative
magnitude of the counterpart funds required for the project, ranging from 0.35 to 1.4 percent of the
educational budget. The table indicates that the fiscal impact is small and that sustainability of the project
would not be a major fiscal concern:-
- 61 -



Table 7: Fiscal Impact of the Project
Before   ---Project Implementation Period --   After
Project          (Amounts in Q. millions)         Project
2000     2001      2002      2003      2004       2005
GDP Growth rate        3.3%      3.0%      3.0%      3.2%      3.4%       4.4%
Inflation Rate         5.0%      5.0%      7.0%      7.0%      5.0%       5.0%
Education budget       3,854    3,600     4,210     4,360      5,070      5,300
Project costs                      76       159       222        243        177
Project recurrent                  21        72       118        173        177
costs
Project capital                    55        87       104         70          0
expenditures
Counterpart funds                   9        20        39         69        177
Project costs/total                        3.8%      5.1%      4.8%       3.3%
Education budget                2.1%
Project recurrent                 0.6        1.7       2.7       3.4        3.3
costs/total
education budget
Counterpart                       0.3        0.5       0.9       1.4        3.3
funds/ Total
Educational budget
6.    Sensitivity Analysis
Whereas the fiscal impact of the project has been shown to be small under conservative growth predictions,
it is also important to examine the impact of a possible crisis. The fiscal impact under a crisis scenario,
where GDP growth falls drastically from the trend growth of 4 percent to 2 percent in the current year, and
growth further slides to (-)I percent in the year 2002 is examined below:-
- 62 -



Table 8: Crisis Scenario for Sensitivity Analysis          |
2001  2002         2003      2004     2005
Real GDP                    150,200  148,70    150,200   153,200   159,40
GDP Growth Rate               2.00/   -1.0%      1.OY%     2.00/     4.00/
Government Expend. Q.        21,00C   20,800    21,000   21,40C   22,300
Government Expend. %           14O/     14%       140/      14O/      14/
Education Expend. Q.          3,57C    3,540   3,570       3,64(     3,790
Education Expend. %            170/     17%       170/      170/      17/
Current Educational Expend.    3,854    3,854    3,85      3,854     3,854
Deficit from Current Expend.   (284    (314      284        214'      (64,
With 7% Real Wage Incr.  X          _       X    X    X
No growth Expenditures     4,036   4,230    4,438    4,660    4,898
Deficit                   (466'    (690       (868    (1,020    (1,108
With 2.5% Popul. growth    4,137    4,368    4,614    4,876    5,155
Deficit                    (567      (828)   (1,044    (1,236    (1,365
With 4% combined growth   4,197    4,452    4,722    5,010    5,317
Deficit                    (627'    (912)   (1,152    (1,370    (1,527
Person. Expend. No growth  2,773    2,967    3,175    3,397    3,635
Difference                  797       573       395      24         15c
Project cost/Tot. Educ. Expend  2.1      4.5       6.        6.7       4.7
Ctrpart funds/ Tot. Ed. Expend  0.3      0.6       1.1       1.9       4.7
In such a 'pessimistic' scenario the counterpart funding would be 1.9 percent of the education budget in the
last year of the project and would increase to 4.7 percent of the education budget to meet the recurrent
liabilities due to the project (detailed tables available on project files). The project itself and the counterpart
funding remains a small part of the budget even under a possible economic crisis.
- 63 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
GUATEMALA: UNIVERSALIZATION OF BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Procurement
A) Procurement Arraneements
Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with World Bank Guidelines:
Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, published in January 1995 (revised
January/August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999); and Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers published in January 1997 (revised in
September 1997 and January 1999), and the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement. Standard
bidding documents (SBD) will be used for all Bank financed procurement.
1) Procurement methods: The methods to be used for the procurement described below, and the
estimated amounts for each method, are summarized in Table A. The threshold contract values for
each method used appear in Table B.
Procurement of Works
Works to be procured under this project and totaling about US$3.6 million equivalent include the
extension of the Ministry of Education building. Major contract for these works will be procured
following International Competitive Bidding procedures (ICB), using Bank-issued Standard Bidding
Documents (SBDs). Otherwise, contracts for the extension of the MINEDUC building to cost less
than US$1.5 million equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$1.1 million, may be
procured using National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures, using standard bidding documents
agreed in advance with the Bank.
Procurement of Goods
Goods procured under this project would include textbooks, didactic and training materials, school and
office furniture, school supplies, advertising time, and computer and office equipment totaling US$35.3
million equivalent. To the extent possible, contracts for these goods will be grouped into bidding
packages of more than US$200,000 equivalent and procured following International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) procedures, using Bank-issued Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs). Contracts with
estimated values below this threshold per contract and up to an aggregate amount of US$10.5 million
equivalent may be procured using National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures and standard
biding documents agreed with the Bank. Contracts for goods which cannot be grouped into larger
bidding packages and estimated to cost less than US$50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
of US$5.4 million, may be procured using shopping (National/International) procedures based on a
model request for quotations satisfactory to the Bank and included in the Operations Manual.
Advertising time would be procured through Direct Contracting up to an aggregate amount of US$2.3
million. This would consist of radio campaigns targeted to specific areas in departments where there
are only one or two radio stations that broadcast to the population (Mayan language stations/programs,
plus Spanish stations).
- 64 -



Procurement of Consultin2 Services and Training
Services to be financed under the Loan include: technical assistance; training, fellowships, and study
tours; communication campaigns; research studies; audits and other relevant activities. These services
are estimated to cost US$19.4 million equivalent and will be procured using Bank Standard Request
for Proposals.
Firms
The majority of Bank-financed contracts for firms for Irnproving the Quality of Education, Developing
Cultural Diversity and Pluralism Programs, and Decentralizing and Modernizing the Ministry of
Education would be procured using Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS). Contracts for audits,
fellowships, seminars, and study tours estimated to cost US$200,000 equivalent or less that would be
procured using Least Cost Selection (LCS) up to an aggregate arnount of US$2.3 million equivalent,
and simple contracts for studies and research, specialized technical assistance for the design of
bilingual and multigrade materials estimated to cost US$75,000 equivalent or less would be procured
using Consultant Qualifications (CQ), up to an aggregate amount of US$690,000 equivalent.
Individuals
PCU staff and specialized consultants to strengthen DIGEBE would be provided by individual
consultants selected by comparison of qualifications of three candidates and hired in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultants Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount
of US$1.6 million equivalent.
PRONADE Schools
This includes technical assistance for identification, legalization and follow-up services to PRONADE
schools, plus teacher salaries, educational materials for teachers and schools supplies for students up to
an aggregate amount of US$6.3 million on a declining basis (see Table C for percentages). This
subcomponent will use the same procedures under the existing agreement that establishes PRONADE
as a legal entity, and thus, has established a trust fund to administer resources and payments as
described in Annex 2.
Scholarships
Scholarships will be awarded each year of the project to pre- and primary school candidates meeting
specific selection criteria, reaching a total of 50,000 needy students in poor, rural areas at an aggregate
amount of US$5.0 million. The scholarships will be distributed to the student's family as lump sum
payments during the school year. This subcomponent will follow the same procedures for flow of
funds as established under PRONADE.
Operational Costs: The Loan will not finance operational costs (US$11.6 million). Incremental
recurrent costs are non-Bank financed, and cover incremental operating costs and incremental staff
salaries (PRONADE teachers) on an increasing basis under the PRONADE subcomponent. The
Government of Guatemala will finance all recurrent costs.
2) Prior review thresholds: The proposed thresholds for prior review are based on the procurement
capacity assessment of the project implementing unit approved by the RPA on March 14, 2001 and are
summarized in Table B. In addition to this prior review of individual procurement actions, the plan
and budget for the PCU Operating Costs will be reviewed and approved by the Bank annually. Every
six months, special procurement supervision will conduct the post-review/audit, including field visits.
- 65 -



B) Assessment of the agency's capacity to implement procurement
Procurement activities will be carried out by the PCU based on agreed procurement procedures
reflected in its Operations Manual. An institutional assessment carried out recently by the Bank
confirmed that the PCU's capacity and experience in procurement in accordance with Bank guidelines
is sufficient for project execution. The Procurement Unit is satisfactorily staffed by a Unit Manager, a
second procurement specialist, a procurement assistant and an administrative assistant.
The Operations Manual will describe the relationship among the Procurement Unit, the different units
with in the MINEDUC, the COEDUCAs, and their monitoring and supervision responsibilities. It will
also include the procedures for the internal control of procurement actions, the technical specifications
in each case, as well as reference to the model contracts as per the Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents to be used for each procurement method.
Most of the issues conceming the PCU have been addressed and corrective measures are being
implemented under the ongoing BIRF-supported project that is also managed by this Unit. The
procurement procedures for contracts above US$100,000 under the ongoing project are handled by
UNDP, and UNDP has reinforced the procurement capacity within the Unit. The Government will use
its own resources to extend the current contract between the Ministry of Education and the UNDP to
carry out the procurement procedures following the same threshold. The risks identified in the
assessment include: (i) the current Procurement Law contains some requirements whose application to
small contracts would cause inefficiencies and possible cost increase; (ii) the need to improve
procurement filing in the PCU and, (iii) the development of a contract monitoring system. The PCU is
working to mitigate the identified risks through: (i) promoting a training program for the less
experienced staff and they will participate in the Bank training in March 2001; (ii) creating a
monitoring system; (iii) designing and implementing the new filing system; (iv) agreement on the main
contents of the Procurement Manual under preparation, which will define the procedures for the
various project implementation modalities. The Manual will include SBDs to be agreed with the Bank.
In addition to the abo'. e actions, Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement will explicitly take exception to use
of bracketing as established in the National Procurement Law.
Document filing is to improve after the new system is implemented and is expected to comply with the
Bank's requirements. The system will specify the procurement documents to be filed, the PCU staff
who would have access to the files, and the internal security measures for record-keeping.
The overall project risk for procurement is AVERAGE.
C) Procurement Plan
The Borrower presented a developed procurement plan for project implementation which has provided
the basis for the aggregate amounts for the procurement methods (per Table A). At the beginning of
each calendar year, the Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan with a detailed procurement
schedule for the coming year. An annual plan for individual consultants under standard TORs shall be
also updated.
D) Frequency of Procurement Supervision
In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out by the Bank; the capacity assessment of the
PMU has reconmmended one full supervision mission to visit the field every six months during the
- 66 -



project implementation to carry out post review of procurement actions. Based on the overall risk
assessment (Average) the post-review field analysis should cover a sample of not less than 10 percent
of the signed contracts.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category              ICs             NCB           Other          N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                              2.53             1.09           0.00          0.00         3.62
(2.28)           (0.98)         (0.00)        (0.00)      (3.26)
2. Goods                              17.04            10.51          7.69          0.01        35.25
(15.34)          (9.46)         (6.92)        (0.00)      (31.72)
3. Services                           0.00             0.00          19.36          0.01        19.37
(0.00)           (0.00)        (19.36)       (0.00)       (19.36)
4. Scholarships                       0.00             0.00           4.98          0.00         4.98
(0.00)           (0.00)        (3.93)         (0.00)      (3.93)
5. Front-end fee                      0.00             0.00           0.62          0.00         0.62
(0.00)           (0.00)        (0.62)         (0.00)      (0.62)
6. PRONADE Schools                    0.00             0.00           7.02          0.00         7.02
(0.00)           (0.00)        (3.27)         (0.00)      (3.27)
7. Incremental Recurrent              0.00             0.00           0.00          11.64       11.64
Costs:                               (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Salaries/Operating costs
Total                              19.57            11.60         39.67          11.66       82.50
(17.62)          (10.44)       (34.10)        (0.00)      (62.16)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
vi Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
- 67 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant                                  Selection Method
Services
Expenditure    QCBS    QBS      SFB        LCS         CQ      Other   N.B.F.  Total Cost
Caeoy_______                                           ___ _ _ _____ ____
A. Firms         14.75    0.00    0.00        2.31       0.69     0.00     0.00     17.75
(14.75)  (0.00)   (0.00)     (2.31)     (0.69)   (0.00)   (0.00)   (17.75)
B. Individuals    0.00    0.00    0.00        0.00       0.00      1.61    0.01      1.62
(0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)     (0.00)      (0.00)   (1.61)   (0.00)   (1.61)
Total  14.75    0.00    0.00       2.31        0.69     1.61     0.01     19.37
(14.75)  (0.00)   (0.00)     (2.31)     (0.69)   (1.61)   (0.00)   (19.36)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 68 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value    i                            Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement              Prior Review
Expenditure Category      (US$ thousands)              Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works                        >1,500                    ICB                      All
150 - 1,500                NCB                 First 2 contracts
2. Goods                         >200                     ICB                      All
50 - 200                  NCB                 First 2 contracts
<50                   Shopping              First 2 contracts
3. Services                      >200                    QCBS                      All
Firms:                         75 - 200                  LCS                       All
<75                      CQ                    All TOR
Individuals                      >35            See section V of Guidelines. All (TOR, contract, CVs)
<35            See section V of Guidelines  Annual programs.
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    27.0
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every six months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
reviewing a sample of 1 in 10 contracts signed.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 69 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Financial management assessment
In accordance with IBRD's policy OP/BP 10.02, the Regional Financial Management Team (LCOAA)
reviewed the project's financial management (FM) arrangements. The review was focused on the
assessment of the: accounting and internal control system; financial and management reporting; and
auditing arrangements.
It was concluded that that the PCU has in place adequate FM arrangements for the ongoing Basic
Education Reform Project. An action plan (below) was prepared with the purpose of enhancing these
arrangements and adapting them to the proposed new project.
Substantial completion of the activities relevant to IBRD's minimum FM requirements will be a condition
of loan effectiveness. The action plan, all together, aims at allowing the project to implement FM
arrangements that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely financial information via
Project Management Reports (PMRs).
Financial management action plan
Area / Action                                                             Expected date    C.E.
1. Organization and staff
1.1 If decided by the Borrower, plan for incorporating the UCP to UCONIME,  Jul 01        X
including transitory arrangements.
1.2 If so decided, execution of the plan (1.1).                           Jul - Dec 01
1.3 If needed as a consequence of 1.2, re-design of MINEDUC's organization chart.    Dec 01
1.4 Confirmation of key UCP's financial management staff for the new project.  Jul 01     X
2. Procedural controls
2.1 Updating of the operational manual taking into consideration: (i) new components;  Apr - Sep 01    X
and (ii) new administrative arrangements (e.g., use of SIGEPRO, PMRs).
2.2 Revision of the assets' subsidiary record considering: (i) inventory code number;  Apr - Sep 01
and (ii) responsible officer.
2.3 Written procedures for independent and timely processing of community  Apr - Sep 01    X
allegations.
2.4 Written procedures for review and follow-up of audit (CGR, intemal, extemal)  Apr - Sep 01    X
reports and recommendations.
3. Flow of funds
- 70 -



3.1 Charts for the flow of funds from every financing source and for each project  Apr - Sep 01    X
component.
3.2 Opening of the Special Account in US$.                                Sep 01
3.3 Opening of the bank account for counterpart resources: revolting fund in an  Sep 01   X
amount sufficient to timely cover counterpart's required contribution.
4. Accounting
4.1 Adapting of the accounting manual and chart of accounts, in view of the new   Apr - Sep 01    X
project.
4.2 Entering of the chart of accounts in SIGEPRO.                         Apr - Sep 01    X
4.3 Final implementation of SIGEPRO, including further training, manuals and direct  Apr - Dec 01
link to SIAF.
4.4 Implementation of safeguards for protecting accounting documents from   Apr- Sep 01    X
destruction or unauthorized access.
5. Planning, budgeting and financial reports
5.1 Completion of the annual operational plan and monitoring indicators.  Apr - Sep 01    X
5.2 Preparation of annual budget classified by source/category/ component, in  Apr - Sep 01    X
accordance with the Loan Agreement.
5.3 In conSepction with the MOF, preparation of budget increase proposal sufficient  Apr - Sep 01    X
to cover external and internal funds necessary to properly implement the project
during 2001.
5.4 Budgets broken down quarterly.                                        Apr - Sep 01    X
5.5 Entering of budgets in SIGEPRO.                                       Apr - Sep 01    X
5.6 Written formats for quarterly financial statements (PMRs).            Apr - Sep 01    X
5.7 Written procedures for preparation, review and approval of financial statements  Apr - Sep 01    X
and reports.
5.8 Preparation and submittal of first quarterly PMRs.                    Oct - Dec 01
6. External audit
6.1 Preparation and submittal of audit terms of reference and proposed short list of  Apr - Sep 01    X
fimns.
6.2 Appointment of external auditors.                                     Oct - Dec 01
(*) To be considered for compliance with FM condition of effectiveness
For monitoring purposes, MINEDUC would prepare monthly reports on the progress in execution of the
FM Action Plan.
- 71 -



Proiect Manaeement Reports (PMRs)
Beginning no later than six months after effectiveness, the Borrower would prepare quarterly PMRs to be
submitted to IBRD 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter. In accordance with formats to be agreed
with IBRD, each PMR should comprise at least:
(i) a financial section that: (a) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the project, both
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and projected sources and applications of funds for
the project for the six-month period following the period covered by said report; and (b) shows separately
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the loan during the period covered by said report and
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the loan during the six-month period following
the period covered by said report;
(ii) an output monitoring section that: (a) describes physical progress in project implementation, both
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (b) explains variances between the actual and
previously forecast implementation targets; and
(iii) a procurement section setting forth the status of procurement under the project and expenditures under
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the loan, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
Auditine arraneements
Project accounts will be audited annually by an independent firm acceptable to IBRD, under terms of
reference to be approved by IBRD. Certified copies of the audit reports would be furnished to IBRD no
later than April 30 of the year following the period under review. However, interim auditing activities will
be provided throughout the year (at least biannually).
Disbursements
Allocation of loan proceeds (see Table C). The proposed IBRD loan would be disbursed over an
implementation period of about four years, to be completed by June 30, 2005. The loan closing date would
be December 31, 2005. Disbursements would be in accordance with guidelines set out in the World Bank's
Disbursement Handbook and LACI Implementation Handbook, as applicable.
Disbursements would be made against the following categories of expenditure:
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Categoty        Amio unt in US$miWon         Financting Peentage
1. Works                                   2.77                         90%
2. Goods: to include textbooks,           28.51           100% of foreign expenditures and 90%
didactic and training materials, school                          of local expenditures.
supplies, school furniture, computers
and office equipment.
3. Services:                               14.07                        100%
to include technical assistance, training,
fellowships, social communication
campaigns, research, studies and audits.
-72 -



4. Student scholarships.                    3.54               100% for the first year of the
scholarship; 80% for the second year of
the scholarship; 60% for the third year of
the scholarship; and 40% for the fourth
year of the scholarship.
5. PRONADE's technical assistance for       6.33           80% of expenditures until an aggregate
identification, legalization and                          of US$0.57 million is reached; 60% until
follow-up services to schools, plus                          an aggegate of US$2.32 million is
teacher salaries, educational materials                      reached; 40% until an aggregate of
for teachers and school supplies for                       US$4.90 million is reached; and 20%
students.                                                              thereafter.
Unallocated                                 6.32
Total Project Costs                        61.54
Front-end fee         0.62
Total                                      62.16
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs). Loan withdrawal applications can be supported by SOEs for
expenditures relating to contracts that are not subject to IBRD's prior review (see Table B).
Reimbursement of other expenditures would require submittal to IBRD of full supporting documentation.
Documents in support of SOEs must be maintained by the Government at least until one year after IBRD
has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last loan withdrawal was made. Such
documents must be available to review by the external auditors and IBRD representatives.
Use of Project Management Reports (PMRs). If the Government shall so request, loan disbursements
would be based on quarterly PMRs upon satisfactory implementation of the financial management,
monitoring  and procurement system. Until then, "traditional"  disbursement procedures (e.g.,
reimbursements, direct payments, full documentation, SOEs) would be used for loan disbursements.
Trust Fund and Special Account. A trust fund has already been established in a national banking
institution to administer disbursements to implement the PRONADE program, which will provide
efficiency in the transfer of funds from the Ministry of Finance. Deposits in this trust fund will be made
against quarterly allocations to MINEDUC, as established in yearly budgets. An intemal auditing
mechanism has been established with the on-going project to ensure that funds are used accordingly with
terms and conditions previously agreed between MINEDUC and each COEDUCA. For other expenses in
the project and to facilitate project implementation, MINEDUC would establish, maintain, and operate a
Special Account to be opened in U.S. Dollars at a bank to be selected by MINEDUC, subject to IBRD's
concurrence.
The Special Account is only to be used for eligible expenditures under the loan (under no circumstances
may funds in the Special Account be used to cover the share of expenditures corresponding to the
counterpart and/or other financiers). Transfers from the Special Account to other bank accounts will only
be permitted to meet eligible expenditures for a limited period of less than 30 days.
Under "traditional" disbursement procedures, total advances to the Special Account at any given time
would not exceed the "authorized allocation" of US$4 million.
- 73 -



Under PMR-based disbursement procedures, IBRD would deposit quarterly into the Special Account an
amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested by the Government; and (b) the amount which
IBRD has detenmined, based on the PMR, is required to be deposited in order to finance eligible
expenditures during the six-month period following the date of the PMR; provided, however, that the
arnount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said PMR to be remaining in the Special
Account, shall not exceed an amount equal to US$10 million.
Separate audit opinions on the Special Account, SOEs and PMRs would be provided in conjunction with
the annual independent audit of the project.
- 74 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
GUATEMALA: UNIVERSALIZATION OF BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Schedule                                  Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      12                            9
First Bank mission (identification)             09/25/2000                   09/25/2000
Appraisal mission departure                     02/12/2001                    02/12/2001
Negotiations                                    03/28/2001                    03/28/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   10/31/2001
Prepared by:
Government of Guatemala, Ministry of Education.
Preparation assistance:
Japanese Trust Fund (PHRD Grant).
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Carlos Rojas                      Team Leader, Sr. General Educator
Shelton Davis                     Sector Manager, Social Development
Angela Demas                      Operations Analyst
Maria Lucy Giraldo                Sr. Procurement Specialist
Reynaldo Pastor /                 Sr. Counsel
Marta Molares-Halberg
Manuel Vargas                     Financial Management Officer
Julie Nannucci                    Team Assistant
Madalena dos Santos               Peer Reviewer
Paud Murphy                       Peer Reviewer
Suhas Parandekar                  Education Economist
- 75 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
GUATEMALA: UNIVERSALIZATION OF BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
MINEDUC. 2000. Plan de Gobierno Sector Educaci6n, 2000-2004.
MINEDUC. 2001. Universalizaci6n Integral de la Educaci6n Primaria en Guatemala. 2 vol.
MINEDUC Feb. 2001. Fortalecimiento Institucional de la Direcci6n General de Educaci6n Bilingue
Intercultural (DIGEBI).
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). 1998.
Guatemala: Poverty Assessment. in process.
Guatemala; Universalization of Basic Education. Financial Management Assessment, October, 2000
Guatemala: Universalization of Basic Education. Procurement Capacity Assessment. March, 2001
C. Other
Ministerio de Cultura y Deportes. 2000. Politicas Culturales y Deportivas Nacionales, Guatemala.
Ministerio de Cultura y Deportes. 2000. Congreso Nacional Sobre Lineamientos de Politicas Culturales:
Informe Final, Antigua, Guatemala, 11-14 Abril, 2000.
MINED UC. Aug. 2000. Diagn6stico de Situacion y Propuesta de Expansi6n del Programa de
Educaci6n Multigrado.
MINEDUC. Sept. 2000. Diagn6stico de la Situacion y Propuesta para la Expansi6n del Programa
Nacional de Autogestion para el Desarrollo Educativo - PRONADE.
MINEDUC. Feb 2001. Propuesta Proceso de Modernizaci6n de la Gesti6n y Administraci6n de la
Planta Central del Ministerio de Educacion
MINEDUC. Feb. 2001. Diagn6stico de Situaci6n y Propuesta para la Formaci6n y Profesionalizaci6n
de Docentes Monolingu7es y Bilinguaes para la Generalizacion de la Educaci6n Bilingiue Intercultural en
Aulas Multigrado
MINEDUC. Feb. 2001. Promoci6n y Coordinaci6n de Politicas para la Diversidad Social y
Pluralismo.
MINEDUC. Feb. 2001. Identificaci6n de Necesidades de Elaboraci6n, Reproducci6n y Distribuci6n de
libros de Texto para Educaci6n Bilingdle en Apoyo a la Universalizaci6n de la Educaci6n Primaria
MINEDUC. Feb. 2001. Expansi6n del Programa de Becas para la Nina del Area Rural.
MINEDUC. Feb. 2001. Estudio de la Comunicaci6n del Ministerio de Educaci6n.
MINEDUC. Feb. 2001 Aspectos Financieros de Contrataci6n de las Instituciones de Servicios
Educativos.
MINEDUC. Feb. 2001. Diseijo del Componente de Informatica.
*Including electronic files
- 76 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
GUATEMALA: UNIVERSALIZATION OF BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Apr-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amnount in USS Millions                               disbursements
Projed ID      FY   Purpose                                         IBRD          IDA                           Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Frm Revd
P055084        2001 COMPETITIVENESS                                     20.30       0.00                             0.00      20.30        0.00      0.00
P049386        1999 GT/RECONSTRUCTION & LOCAL DEV.                      30.00       0.00                             0.00      27.27       12.27      0.00
P049616        1999 LAND ADMINISTRATION                                 31.00       0.00                             0.00      24.13       11.01      0.00
P047039        1999 GTJUDICIAL REFORM                                   33.00       0.00                             0.00      29.21       6.71       0.00
P054462        1999 LAND FUND                                           23.00       0.00                             0.00      18.56        6.36      0.00
P040198        1999 GTIFIS II                                           50.00       0.00                             0.00       5.83      -19.99      0.00
P048657        1998 GT INTEG FIN MGMT II                                15.70       0.00                             0.00       3.75        3.75      0.00
P048654        1998 GTTAXADMIN.TAL                                      28.20       0.00                             0.00      23.32       23.32      0.00
P035737        1998 RURAL& MAIN ROADS                                   66.70       0.00                             0.00      41.59        3.89      0.00
P048756        1997 PRIV PRTCPTN INFR TA                                13.00       0.00                             0.00       6.85        6.30      0.00
P007223        1997 GT- BASIC EDUCATION REFORM                          33.00       0.00                             0.00       8.90        0.90      0.00
Total:      343.90        0.00                             0.00      209.70      54.51       0.00
- 77 -



GUATEMALA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Apr-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1997                Aceros                         13.50    0.00     0.00    9.33    13.50    0.00     0.00    9.33
1994                Fabrigas                       2.63     0.00     1.00    0.00     2.63    0.00     1.00    0.00
2000                Frutera                         7.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    7.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998               La Fragua                      20.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    20.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
1997                Orzunil                        12.78    1.17     0.00    14.40    12.78    1.17    0.00    14.40
1996                Pantaleon                      12.50    0.00     0.00    0.00    12.50    0.00     0.00    0.00
1993                Vigua                          4.13     0.00     0.00    0.00     4.13    0.00     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        72.54     1.17     1.00    23.73    72.54    1.17     1.00   23.73
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                            Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitment:          0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
- 78 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
GUATEMALA: UNIVERSALIZATION OF BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Latin    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              America   middle-
Guatemala   & Carib,   income        Development diamond*
1 999
Population, mid-year (millions)                          11.1       509      2,094                   Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Aries method, USS)                      1,660      3.S40      1,200
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                         18.4    1t955        2,513
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Pooulalion (%)                                            2 6        16         1 1
Labor force (%)                                           3.6        2d5        1.2     GNP         ,#<       ffi          Gross
-99)                          ~~~~~per                primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993499                                    capita                         enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverit line)      75
Urban DODulation (% of total Population)                   39         75        43
Life exoectancy at birth (years)                           64         70        69
tnfant mortality (Per 1,000 live births)                   37         31        33
Child malnutrition (St of children under 51                27          a        15                 Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of Pooulationi          67         75        86
Illiteracy (% of population soa  15+)                      32         12        16
Gross orimarv enrollment f% of school-aQg populationi      88        113       114                Guatemala
Male                                                     93                  114                Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                   83          .       116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998       1999    --                 -      -
| Economic ratios'
GOP (US$ billionsi                              6 9       8A4       18.9       18 0
Gross domestic investment/GOP                   18.7     13,5       16,0       15.7                      Trade
Exports of qoods and serviceslGDP              21.3      17,3       16.6       18. 
Gross domestic savinqslGDP                      14,2      8.3        7.7        8.3
Gross national savings/GDP                      16.1      60        105        11,5
Current account balancelGDP                     -3.0     -5.4        -5.5      -5.3                        j
Interest Dayments/GDP                           0.7       1.3        0.7        0 8     SDongs                        Investment
Total debt/GDP                                  15.2     31.5       20.9       22.6      S
Total debt servicelexports                      7.3      19.6        9.8        9.6
PreSent value of debt/GDP                                           22.6
Present value of debt/exports                                      105.2
Indebtedness
1979-49  1989-99      1998       1999   1999-03
(average annual growtf)
GOP                                    0.4      4.1       5 1        3 5        5.0     !      - ,DGuatemala
GNP per capita                        -2.3      1.5       2.8        0.6        24                 Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services         -3,7      6.5       6.0        4.8        7.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998       1999      Growth of investment and GDP (%)
1% of GOP)                                                                              30
Agriculture                                    25.4      25.6       23.4       23.1        T
Industrv                                       21.5      20.1       20.0       20,1     15 t
Manufacturinq                                 16.3     15 2        13.5      13.4
Services                                       53.1      54 3       56.6       56.8      0
5 4    955i~        tO   StZ97 9    99
Private consumption                            78.7      83.8       86 8       85.9     .5 l                V
General covernment consumption                  7.1       7.9        5.6        5.8               >---GDI        -GDP
ImDorts of goods and services                  25 9      22.5       26.9       26.2
1979-89  1989-99       1998       1999      Growth of exports and Imports (O)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                      0.7      2.9        3.5        2.2    30
Industry                                       -0.6       4.2        5.2        4.1     20
Manufacturinq                                 -0.3       2.8        3.6       2 6
Services                                         0.6      4.6        5.8        3.7     101-
Private consumption                             0.8       4 3        5.5        3.0      o                   I
General qovernment consumption                  2.8       4 5       10.6        4.8             97    9
Gross domestic investment                       -3.3      5.2       21.9       -4.0      
Imports of qoods and services                   -4.2      9.0       23.0       -1.7               -.-E.ports      a0- Imports
Gross national Product                          0.1       4.2        5.5        3.2
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
T The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-aroup averaqe. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomDlete.
- 79 -



Guatemala
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                              1979     1989       1998      1999     Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                          15
Consumer prces, average                       11.3     11.4        7.0      4.9    10
Implicit GOP deflator                          8.6     10.9       6.8       6.6
Central Govemment finance                                                            s
(% of GDP, includes cuffent grants)                                                  0
Current revenue                                 ..                9.9       9.8             94    95   96   97    98    9
Current budget balance                          ..       ..       2.4       1.6              --GDP deflator    *  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..       ..      -2.5      -3.1
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1979     1989       1998      1999      Export and import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                             ..   1,126      2,847     2,488     s,000
Coffee                                        ..    380         581       561
Sugar                                          ..      92       314       192    4.000
Manufactures                                  ..       ..       929       839     3,000             * 
Total imports (cif)                             ..   1,641      4,651     4,558     2,000                J     011111111111
Food                                          ..      231       969       960                                           9
Fuel and energy                                       212       284       321     1,000
Capital goods                                 ..    352        1,373     1,289       0
Export price index (1995=100)                   ..      84         89        81
Importpriceindex(1995=100)                      ..    101          93        91                  nExports       HImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       ..      84         96        90
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979     1989      1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP (')
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                1,449    1,465     3,455     3,475      0
Imports of goods and services                1,784    1,869     5,028     5,005
Resource balance                              -335     -404     -1,573    -1,530    -2
Net income                                      3      -195      -169      -200
Net current transfers                         123      148        705       783    -4
Current account balance                      -209      -451     -1,037     -947
Financing items (net)                         183      364      1,279       822
Changes in net reserves                        26       88       -243       125      3
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        718      329      1,209     1,084
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)               1.0      2.8       6.4       7.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                       Composition of 1999 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         1,050    2,651     3,944     4,061
IBRD                                        108      261        203       258                          A: 258
IDA                                           0        0          0         0
Total debt service                            113      304        396       386     |    G:1,268
IBRD                                         10       48         26        31
IDA                                           0        0          0         0
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                    D: 1,299
Official grants                              20      127        152        71
Official creditors                          126       16        124        58
Private creditors                            61        7        -52       -46
Foreign direct investment                   117       76        673       155             F.5
Portfolio equity                              0        0          0         0                           E: 682
World Bank program
Commitments                                   0       29        154        23     A-IBRD                       E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                47       14         30        70    B-IDA    0-Other mulllateral  F-Private
Principal repayments                          2       27         14        15     C - IMF                      G- Short-term
Netflows                                     44       -13        15        55
Interest payments                             8       21         12        17
Net transfers                                36       -34         3        38
Development Economics                                                                                                  9/12/00
- 80 -



MAP SECTION






IBRD 29282
,88
Mexio            7-- :/                                                                                                                     ( 
MEXICO J   1 ;  - u  ' ' ::: :::, i6.;'X                0       25      50       75 Kiloxneters                                            -
ME       iB                                          II                      II
XGUA1TEIALA                                            _            .       ,     :      -      ,:.  I  I  I  I                             i.
*    c HONDURAS.      ;.                         0            25            50           75 Miles                                         I
r                                                                       - - - - I
PACIFIC      .C       A    e,,//                                                                       l        ll:    e,
OCEAN  e             - et| >F                                                                                                         Xvdazi
Thin -ep -n prodooed by- - 
the M.op D.eni Unit of The .                                  ,  -                                        I    _-.'
Wo-ld B.Ak. Th ho-d-ris,
colors denominations ond                                                                                              BELIZE                   N
onfhi mop do not mply on                                                    L PetOn I1z6
Gmoop any7 j,dQm-t 00 the                                                   lreO.
legol stotu of ony territory                                              Flores 
oay endorsement or                                                 p
occept-ne of -ok                                   N                 P   E   T   E   N
hoondorEsXsII C<-
~~~~~~~-'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~W
l      / 1 h  '  !,fOU
/    i   '~~   _ K           d       ALIA  VLRApA              /              1                          '
,HUEHUOTENANGO                  I-C  
\   MkRCOS      ' ' ~'   '              l-        B A LIA     ERAPAZ /
/  .                    ~~~~~~~QUICHE   \r --                                 IZA BAL      ~
/            Hoelitenango31        4f       ,:                        .-* '~ "lrtfo\
*    'lHSAN
TOTONICA9Am                        Soluj    3  Y            ZACAPAi'
MO Manco  o                 /-  Sont CruzEL
rcs t     Tgonicopcino Q4j                      ,-'PROGRE So.           0Zc
C,0~~~~~~~~~~7
Q u Qoe4jlte  ,k.)                                                                iquiulo . 
: X o 1*EL                                               :' |
GUALT. ;L                                                            HONDURAS
r*            Ma~zatenooa, o( .j.UTE$L
r   'gte4hueu @'                            4 *  J. i O JTY         JAAP
RETALHUtU        ,,.,\                                                                              s
~~4O                              Escuir~~~~~~~~t/~uiap  N.   J TIAPA  ,_*
(        ES~~CUINTLA    Y7SANTA J   Q A,           F*n~1
EL SALVADOR)s,
JULY 1998



