Report No. PID9726
Project Name                     Guatemala-Universalization of Basic (@)
Education Project
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Primary Education
Project ID                       GTPE48652
Implementing Agency
Ministry of Education
6a Calle 1-87, zona 10, Guatemala City,
Guatemala
Contact Person: Lic. Rossana de Hegel.
(Director of UCONIME)
Tel: 502-360-3826
Fax: 502-360-3870
Email: rdehegel@mineduc.gob.gt
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                May 3, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         February 22, 2001
Projected Board Date             May 22, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Background/General description.Guatemala is a country of approximately 11
million people with a young and rapidly growing population, according to
population projections for the year 2000 from the National Statistics
Institute, (INE-CELADE (1998) Estimaciones de Poblaci6n por Departamento
segun Edad y Sexo 1990-2010 y Estimaciones de Poblaci6n por Municipio
segun Sexo 1990-2005, Guatemala). About 44 percent of the population is
less than 14 years old, 65 percent is under 25, and the population growth
rate stands at 2.61 percent. The country is divided into 22 Departments
with the Department of Guatemala accounting for 22.6 percent of all
inhabitants. Guatemala has a large rural population (about two-thirds),
with the majority coming from indigenous communities or 48 percent of the
total (La Encuesta Nacional de Ingresos y Gastos Familiares, 1998). The
nation has a great cultural and linguistic diversity. It is multiethnic,
pluri-cultural, and pluri-lingual, consisting of the Mayas, Ladinos,
Xinka, and Garifunas, (Funes 2000).The social and economic contrasts in
Guatemala are noticeable, especially between urban and rural areas.
Similar to most developing countries, public investment tends to favor
urban centers while delivery of basic social services, including primary
education, remains either unavailable or beyond the financial reach of
rural and indigenous populations. Indicators of economic and social
development have a tendency to be higher in urban centers, thus attesting
to the influence these have over the allocation of national public
resources, (see Instituto Nacional de EstadUstica, 1996 CaracterUsticas
Generales de Poblaci6n y Habitaci6n. Guatemala: Guatemala, C.A.) On a
national level, the average educational attainment for Guatemalans is only
three years, and it is less than two years in the least urban Departments
of Alta Verapaz, Quiche, Huehuetenango, and Totonicapan. By comparison, in
the most urban area, the Department of Guatemala, the average educational



attainment has reached five years. Guatemala is a country facing
transition from over 30 years of civil war to a post-conflict society
where the human rights and basic freedoms of all Guatemalans, including
civic participation in decision making are recognized and supported. On
the 29th of December, 1996 the Peace Accords were signed between the
Government of Guatemala (GoG) and the Guatemalan National Revolutionary
Union, marking the end of the war and the beginning of a new national
development agenda that would bring the needs of the indigenous and
underserved populations to the forefront. The underpinning principles of
the Peace Accords cut across various sectors and issues: education,
health, socioeconomic and agrarian reform, identity and rights of
indigenous peoples, and resettlement agreements. Education reform was
recognized as particularly important for promoting peace and equity and is
strongly emphasized in three of the six Peace Accords. The Accords
acknowledge education and training as, "essential for a strategy of equity
and national unity," and "determining factors in economic modernization
and international competitiveness."     (Acuerdo sobre Aspectors
Socioecon6micos y Situaci6n Agraria, p.10).To fulfill necessary reforms
to the education system as well as to achieve a mechanism for fulfilling
the Peace Accords, the Government would have to improve their record of
very low public investment in education. In 1995, the Government budgeted
only 1.3 percent of GDP for the education sector compared to an average of
3.6 percent in the region. Intra-sectoral allocations showed that 53
percent of the budget was allocated to primary education, 15 percent to
higher education, 11 percent to secondary education, 9 percent to
administration, and 3 percent to preschool education. At the primary
level, the distribution of resources was inequitable favoring urban areas.
In 1995, the annual per student expenditure in primary schools was
estimated at US$166 for children in urban areas and US$110 for rural
children. (Valerio and Rojas, 2000). There have been modest increases in
the last two years to the education budget. The latest MINEDUC statistics
(1999) calculate the education budget as 1.6 percent of GDP. The legacy
of many years of war left Guatemala with, among others, two serious
problems facing society: poverty and inequality. Approximately 75
percent of the population lives below the poverty line with 58 percent of
those earning below the line of extreme poverty, (Funes, 2000). According
to the figures from the National Household Survey, the percentage of
households below the poverty line was 85 percent in Alta Verapaz, 79
percent in Quiche, and 76 percent in Huehuetenango. Currently the
Government is conducting a Living Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS) with
the support of the international community. It is expected that updated
demographics as well as socioeconomic information will be available during
the first semester of 2001. The country also has one of the highest
illiteracy rates of Latin America at 29.6 percent (1999), even though this
rate has improved significantly from 37.5 percent as measured in 1995.
(Ministerio de Educaci6n, Memoria de Labores 1996-1999.) It is estimated
that of the 2.2 million illiterate adults in the country, 77 percent live
in rural areas and 61 percent are from indigenous groups. In urban areas,
89 percent of adults over 15 years of age are literate while the
percentage is only 69 percent in rural areas. Similarly, while 75 percent
of women in urban areas are literate, in rural areas only 50 percent are
literate. The highest illiteracy rates occur in the rural areas among
women, principally in Departments where the majority of people are
indigenous. In the Departments of Alta Verapaz and Quiche, the percentage
of literate women reaches only a mere 12 percent and 19 percent,
-2 -



respectively. The Departments of Alta and Baja Verapaz, Quiche, and
Huehuetenango have the least access to educational services, highest
levels of poverty, and the highest number of indigenous communities. (See
MINEDUC, 1999. Anuario EstadUstico de la Educaci6n. Guatemala City,
Guatemala C.A. pp. 48-49.)The basic education system of Guatemala
includes:a preprimary level for children of ages 5 and 6 with two modes of
instruction: bilingual and regular preprimary (Primaria de Parvulos); a
primary level with six grades for children 7 through 12 years of age. The
first three grades (grades 1-3) comprise the elementary cycle of primary
education (Educaci6n Fundamental), and grades 4 through 6 make up the
complementary cycle (Educaci6n complementaria). Adult primary education
(Educaci6n Primaria de Adultos) is offered in a 4-year cycle, usually
through evening classes; anda basic cycle of secondary education (Ciclo
Basico de Educaci6n Media) with grades 7-9 for children of ages 13 to 15.
The upper cycle of secondary education (Ciclo Diversificado de Educaci6n
Media), with a diversified curriculum of two to three years, is not part
of the basic education system.Despite recent efforts by the Government to
expand access to basic education for the majority of school-age children,
problems of coverage, equity and poor quality persist in the system.
Guatemala ranks among the lowest in enrollment rates for all of Latin
America. In 2000, gross enrollment for primary school children was 95
percent and net enrollment was only 84 percent (MINEDUC, Anuario
EstadUstico de la Educaci6n, 2000). These figures represent a significant
improvement in access to the system if one considers that the respective
figures were 84 (gross) and 69 (net) in 1995. For girls, the indicators
are usually worse than for boys, a pattern that is common for access to
preprimary and primary education in rural and urban areas. It has also
been established that net enrollment for 7 year olds (first grade) was
only 75 percent, indicating that significant improvement is still needed.
There are still some departments where the net enrollments are between 50
and 55 percent (Alta Verapaz, Huehuetenango, Totonicapan and Solola).       By
contrast, only three departments have net enrollments above 90 percent
(Retalhuleu, Jutiapa, Santa Rosa.) More than 70 percent of students in
rural areas are older than their corresponding grade level, compared to 50
percent in the urban areas, (Funes 2000).According to MINEDUC's
statistics, (2000), there are about 1.87 million children in the age
bracket 7-12, of which 164,032 are girls who have no access to the primary
school system. Annual dropout rates average 11.4 percent and are highest
in the first and second grades with 17.3 percent and 10.3 percent
respectively. Grade repetition is also high at an average of 17 percent
for boys and 15 percent for girls. Again the highest level of grade
repetition is in the first grade with 30.2 percent and 27.5 percent for
boys and girls respectively. Age-grade correspondence is low: at the
national level only 31.6 percent of the students are enrolled in the grade
corresponding to their age. In the rural areas the figure is 26.6
percent. The current educational situation in Guatemala must be seen
within the context of the country's great ethnic, linguistic and cultural
diversity. Over twenty (20) Mayan Indian languages are spoken in
Guatemala. Most of the speakers of these indigenous languages reside in
the western and northern highlands, where they maintain strong social and
historical attachments to their communities of origin, robust spiritual
and cultural traditions, a profound knowledge of the environment and
natural resources, a millenarian agricultural tradition, and a
world-renowned arts and crafts tradition.Along with the majority
Mayan-speaking population (Kiche, Kakchiquel, Mam and Keqchi are the
- 3 -



largest ethnolinguistic groups), numerous other peoples and cultures
reside in Guatemala. Among these are the Afro-Caribbean or
Garifuna-speaking people on the Atlantic Coast; a small enclave of
Xinca-speaking people near the border with El Salvador; and a large
Spanish-speaking or Ladino population which resides in Guatemala City and
throughout the country in both urban and rural areas.The 1985 Guatemalan
Constitution recognizes the rights of all citizens and ethnic groups to
participate freely in the social and cultural life of their communities
and the nation, as well as to preserve their specific cultures, languages
and identities. These rights are reaffirmed and stipulated in the various
Peace Accords which were signed by the Guatemalan government and the
Guatemalan National Revolutionary Unity (URNG) during the 1990s,
particularly the Accords relating to the Identity and Rights of the
Indigenous Peoples (March 1995) and the Socio-Economic and Agrarian Accord
(May 1996). The Accord on the Identity and Rights of Indigenous Peoples
recognizes the multi-ethnic, multi-lingual and pluri-cultural
characteristics of Guatemalan society and calls for several reforms to
protect the identities and cultures of the country's large indigenous
population. IssuesThe principal sector issues for both the educational and
cultural sectors are well described in the Government Plan for the
Education Sector 2000-2004 (July, 2000) and the Principles, Policies and
Strategies of the Ministry of Culture and Sports: 2000-2004 (September
2000). They can be summarized as follows:(a)    Coverage.   Despite
significant improvements during the last four years, access, repetition
and drop-outs are still serious problems faced by MINEDUC. It is
estimated that only 70 percent of the adult population are literate,
however, in the rural areas, especially among indigenous groups, literacy
can be as low as 20 percent. Net enrollment at the primary level remains
still very low in Jalapa (65 percent), Huehuetenango (70 percent), Alta
Verapaz (70 percent), and Sacatepequez (71 percent). Girls still have
lower enrollment and promotion rates, especially in rural indigenous
areas. At the national level, MINEDUC's statistics for the year 2000 show
that net enrollment at the primary level is only 84 percent. (MINEDUC,
Anuario EstadUstico de la Educaci6n,2000.) It is estimated that
approximately 17 percent of the students enrolled in primary rural schools
are repeating the year and 18 percent are not promoted to the following
grade. (b) Quality. Most public schools lack basic quality education
materials (textbooks, libraries, learning and teaching aids). Appropriate
bilingual materials are not available to rural schools attended by
students whose native language is not Spanish. Most rural schools are
multigrade (one or two teachers instructing several grade levels), yet
only a few teachers have been trained in bilingual education and/or
multigrade methodologies. Many of the teachers are of Mayan background but
their command of the language is mostly verbal, leaving few with skills in
reading and writing. Teacher training and other higher level institutions
use traditional teacher training processes favoring rote learning and fact
memorization. The education system needs to modernize classroom teaching
methods and train teachers in the use of more participatory teaching
methods in the classroom that involves active student learning and
development of cognitive skills. (c ) Promoting Cultural Diversity and
Pluralism. For various historical and socio-political reasons (not the
least of which was the civil strife that affected the country between 1960
and 1990), Guatemala has found it difficult to benefit from its social and
cultural diversity and make it the basis for sustainable development. One
of the major challenges that Guatemala faces is how to build upon its
- 4 -



cultural diversity, making it the basis of its development policies and
programs rather than having it serve as a continuing source of social
tension and conflict. As noted in such publications as the World
Commission on Culture and Development report, Our Creative Diversity
(UNESCO, 1996), the recognition and respect for cultural diversity can
serve as an endogenous engine of economic development in multi-ethnic and
multi-lingual countries such as Guatemala and provide the basis for a
lasting and enduring peace. The educational system, with its power of
inculcating ethical and civic values in children and youth, has an
extremely important role to play in the recognition and promotion of
cultural diversity and pluralism, as well as in the creation of a "culture
of peace" in Guatemala.(d)    Decentralization/Modernization. While
progress has been made by MINEDUC, with support from an on-going
Bank-financed project and from other donors, in the decentralization of
functions to the departmental level and modernization of the structure,
processes and working tools, several unfinished tasks remain. MINEDUC's
institutional and financial capacity to respond to the country's education
problems is weak. Traditional, centralized, and inefficient
decision-making still limits departmental and local participation in
school administration, failing to integrate local concerns in the
process. The education system is still hampered by limited managerial,
administrative and financial capacity, particularly at the departmental
and local levels. In addition, the national student assessment system,
which has successfully carried out student testing, has yet to devise
effective mechanisms to disseminate evaluation results and provide
feedback for education quality improvement. In spite of improvements in
the gathering, processing, analyzing and reporting of key education
statistics, there is a still a need for improving the quality of the
process, the instruments used and the dissemination strategies considered.
In regard to the upgrading of the information system (hardware and
software), it is necessary to continue the provision of the newest
technology available and to offer training at the central and departmental
levels to those in charge of implementing the system. At the departmental
level all of the directorates will be connected via internet with the
central level. Special attention will be given to improving the quality
of the process followed to gather the information requested by the
statistics unit.Government StrategyGiven the above issues, MINEDUC's basic
education strategy focuses on providing universal coverage for the first
six grades, and pays particular attention to bilingual education and
targeting for gender equity, indigenous populations and those groups
affected by decades of conflict; improved quality, internal and external
efficiency; institutional and administrative modernization and
decentralization, including greater participation of NGOs and the local
community. As a result of the above mentioned situation, the Government in
accordance with the Peace Accords is fully committed to: (i) increase the
economic resources devoted to education; (ii) make the necessary
adjustments to education content having cultural and pedagogical
pertinence; (iii) increase coverage at all levels of the education system
emphasizing bilingual education in rural areas; (iv) train social
organizations at the municipal, regional and national levels to promote
participation in socioeconomic development; (v) design scholarship
programs, vouchers and other incentives to allow students with special
economic needs to remain in school; (vi) design and implement continuous
in-service teacher training courses aimed at teachers and education
administrators; and (vii) respond to the cultural and linguistic diversity
- 5 -



of the country acknowledging and strengthening the cultural identity and
values of the indigenous peoples including indigenous educational concepts
in the national curriculum (see Plan de Gobierno Sector de Educaci6n
2000-2004, pp. 5-6; July 2000) .   In the same document (page 16) MINEDUC's
strategy identifies six priority actions in which most of the resources
will be concentrated: (i) literacy and post-literacy actions; (ii)
universalization of primary school; (iii) generalization of intercultural
and bilingual education; (iv) curriculum transformation for improving
education quality; (v) specialization and upgrading of teacher skills; and
(vi) decentralization and modernization of the education system.    It has
also been established that the MINEDUC will continue supporting PRONADE
schools as the main model through which the expansion of coverage
(universalization) will be accomplished in rural, isolated communities.
The PRONADE program, supported by an on-going Bank loan, is based on an
education delivery model that has been highly effective in increasing
access to the first three years of primary education in rural areas. This
model was originally selected by the MINEDUC and the Commission for
Education Reform as a means to accomplish the objectives set forth in the
Peace Accords, as well as to effectively address the poor access levels
and educational attainment in the rural areas where the majority of the
population is indigenous. (see Annex 2 for additional background
information on PRONADE.)Along with these educational reform efforts, the
Government, through the MCS, has been developing a more proactive approach
to the promotion of cultural diversity and pluralism, as reflected in the
National Constitution and the Peace Accords. The Guatemalan Government
recently nominated a well-known Mayan educator as the new Minister of
Culture and Sports. Three months after taking office, the new Minister,
in collaboration with the MINEDUC and with the support of the UNDP, UNESCO
and the World Bank, organized the first National Congress on Cultural
Policies in Antigua, Guatemala. The National Congress brought together
over 600 people (many of them school teachers, representatives of
indigenous and civil society organizations, and academic specialists) to
discuss several important themes relating to the social and cultural
development of the country.A major outcome of the National Congress was
the recommendation that a national cultural strategy be prepared, in line
with the growing emphasis upon multiculturalism and intercultural
understanding among ethnic groups contained in the Peace Accords. The
principles and policies behind this strategy were formulated in the months
following the National Congress, and are currently being discussed with
the MINEDUC and other government ministries. An Advisory Committee
(Comite de Seguimiento) has also been set up comprised of academic, civil
society, indigenous, and private sector representatives in order to
monitor the implementation of the MCS strategy. The strategy itself calls
for a major institutional reorientation of the MCS, greater collaboration
with other government ministries such as MINEDUC, more systematic
participation of civil society and the private sector in the cultural
field, and a decentralization of a major part of MCS programs to the
municipal and local community levels (see, Principios, PolUticas y
Estrategias del Ministerio de Cultura y Deportes: 2000-2004 (MCS,
September 2000).
2. Objectives
This project is a continuation of the ongoing Basic Education Reform
Project which supports the Ministry of Education's (MINEDUC) effort to
achieve universal access to primary schooling; to improve equity and the
- 6 -



quality of education primarily in rural, indigenous areas of Guatemala;
and to decentralize and modernize the education administration system.In
the Government's recently published education strategy: Government Plan,
Education Sector, 2000-2004, it is clearly stated that increasing
coverage and enhancing the quality of services provided are the main
strategies to be followed by MINEDUC as part of the reform process being
discussed. In the same document it has been established that within this
framework the following are the main priorities: (i) literacy and
post-literacy actions; (ii) universalization of primary school; (iii)
generalization of intercultural and bilingual education; (iv) curriculum
transformation for improving education quality; (v) specialization and
upgrading of teachers; and (vi) decentralization/modernization of the
education system.To assist the Government with the implementation of said
strategy, the proposed project has the following development
objectives:(a) Improve coverage and equity at the primary school level
through the expansion and consolidation of PRONADE schools (National
Community-managed Program for Educational Development) and by providing
scholarships primarily for indigenous girls in rural communities.(b)
Improve efficiency and quality of primary education by supporting
bilingual education, providing textbooks and didactic materials in 18
linguistic areas; expanding multigrade schools; and improving teacher
qualifications. (c) Facilitate MINEDUC and the Ministry of Culture and
Sports (MCS) to jointly design and execute a program to enhance the goals
of cultural diversity and pluralism contained in the National
Constitution, the Guatemalan Peace Accords, and the April 2000 National
Congress on Cultural Policies. (d) Assist decentralization and
modernization of MINEDUC by supporting on-going efforts to strengthen the
organization and management of the education system.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The World Bank has accumulated vast experience in the region implementing
education reforms where communities play a significant role. The
experiences gained in El Salvador and Honduras, where the Bank is also
financing a similar type of strategy, have been and will be of great value
in Guatemala. Furthermore, the World Bank has been quite instrumental in
financing multigrade teaching in the region. Guatemala will benefit from
the experience gained by the expansion of multigrade schools in several
Latin American countries such as Chile, Brazil, the Dominican Republic, El
Salvador, Honduras, Panama, and Colombia.The Peace Accords signed in
December 1996 are an on-going process. The World Bank involvement with
the proposed project will reiterate their importance and will continue to
contribute to achieving the main goal established under the Peace Accords
for the education sector. The previous favorable experiences implementing
World Bank supported projects within Guatemala, especially the ongoing
Basic Education Reform Project, will help to ensure a relatively smooth
implementation process. Preparation as well as plans for the
implementation of the new project have taken into consideration the
lessons learned during the last years of successful project
implementation.
4. Description
The project contains four main components. The first component,
Universalization of Primary Education, will continue to support the
Government's effort to ensure universal access to primary education for
all Guatemalan children. It includes two subcomponents: (i) expansion of
- 7 -



enrollment capacity of primary schools in rural areas and marginalized
communities through the PRONADE program; and (ii) economic
assistance\scholarships for girls coming from poor families to attend
school. The second component, Improving the Quality of Education, will
focus on augmenting the quality and efficiency of primary education. This
goal is supported by three subcomponents: (i) strengthening of multigrade
strategies and bilingual education primarily in rural communities; (ii)
provision of educational materials (student guides and textbooks) for
monolingual and bilingual children; (iii) training of teachers in
multigrade methodologies, as well as in content areas and development of
curricula for bilingual schools. The third component, Cultural Diversity
and Pluralism, will support the institutional strengthening of the MCS in
order to coordinate more effectively with the MINEDUC and other government
agencies. It includes three subcomponents: (i) institutional
strengthening of the MCS, including establishment of a Policy and Planning
Unit and the preparation, in coordination with the MINEDUC and other
agencies, of a National Cultural Development Plan; (ii) deconcentration of
MCS cultural education services to the municipal level; and, (iii)
development of a National Cultural Resources Information System (NCRIS) to
include modernization of the current cultural resources information
systems in the MCS, provision of information services to museums and
libraries, and establishment of a cultural resources database on the
diverse ethnic and linguistic groups of Guatemala. The fourth component
is Decentralization and Modernization. To achieve this goal, the project
will continue to support: (i) improvement of the managerial and
administrative capacity of the Ministry of Education, decentralization at
the departmental and local levels, with special emphasis on strengthening
the General Directorate of Bilingual Education (DIGEBI); (ii) training of
community associations (COEDUCAs) to manage and organize PRONADE schools;
and (iii) continued development and updating of an Education Management
Information System (EMIS).
I. Universalization of Primary Education.
II. Improving the Quality of Education.
III. Cultural Diversity and Pluralism.
IV. Decentralization and Modernization of MINEDUC.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost 82.5
6. Implementation
Project ManagementThe Ministry of Education will have the overall
responsibility for project implementation. The Project Coordination Unit
(PCU), that is currently coordinating the implementation of the ongoing
Basic Education Reform Project, will continue to function under the same
institutional and operational arrangements for the proposed project. The
small group of experts within the PCU already trained in procurement,
financial management and disbursement issues will continue supporting
project implementation. In accordance with the Project Implementation Plan
(PIP) to be discussed and approved each year, the respective line
divisions within MINEDUC in close collaboration with the PCU, will be in
charge of executing each of the components. The PCU will also coordinate
activities with the MCS, working closely with the Minister of the MCS and
the Policy and Planning Unit in the development of Annual Work Plans for
the Cultural Diversity and Pluralism Component and in the contracting of
- 8 -



consultants to carry out activities. PHRD funds have been used to prepare
a report with recommendations for the institutional strengthening of the
MCS and on ways to increase its capacity in the areas of program planning
and coordination with other government agencies, including the MINEDUC.
The PCU will also be responsible for follow-up, monitoring and evaluation
of project implementation. Project financial management and auditing. The
PCU has in place adequate financial management arrangements for the
ongoing Basic Education Reform Project. An action plan has been prepared
with the purpose of enhancing these arrangements and adapting them to the
proposed new project. Substantial completion of the financial management
action plan will be a condition of loan effectiveness.Quarterly project
management reports (PMRs), in formats to be agreed between the Government
and IBRD, will be prepared and submitted to IBRD 45 days after the end of
each calendar quarter. Shortly after effectiveness, an independent audit
firm acceptable to IBRD will be engaged to carry out the covenanted yearly
audit, in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISAs) and
terms of reference to be approved by IBRD. Audited project financial
statements would be furnished to IBRD no later than June 30 of the year
following the period under review.Further details are found in Annex 6.
7. Sustainability
The government's political willingness and ability to maintain required
levels of funding for basic education are the most important factors
related to the sustainability of project investments. Increasing
enrollment, even with corresponding improvements in system efficiency,
requires important on-going financial contributions from the central
government to cover recurrent expenditures, including provision of
learning materials and the scholarship program to promote the enrollment
and maintain the attendance of girls in school. A second factor that
would affect the sustainability of project benefits is inadequate and
limited institutional capacity in the MINEDUC and MCS to provide
continuity to project activities, particularly after a change in
administration. Financing of recurrent costs, including PRONADE teacher
salaries would be carried out on a declining basis to ensure that the
government gradually assumes these costs. This has been a successful
approach under the existing Basic Education Reform Project, where the
Government has assumed responsibility for salaries at a faster pace than
originally expected.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The main lesson learned with the ongoing Basic Education Reform Project is
that a simple, straight forward project design is fundamental to achieving
successful implementation. From an operational point of view, the PRONADE
component of the ongoing project demonstrates that despite high illiteracy
levels and low managerial skills, communities can be empowered to
successfully and transparently manage human as well as economic resources
transferred to schools. The community's children are the beneficiaries of
well-managed schools, thus the enthusiasm and incentive to maintain and
manage the PRONADE schools are a natural combination. Research has shown
consistently (Psacharopoulos and Patrinos, 1994; Velez and Patrinos, 1996)
that language of instruction is a fundamental variable explaining
students' achievement and retention particularly in those settings where
students are taught in their native language during the first years and
progressively are introduced to the second language (Spanish). This
project will continue supporting "Intercultural Bilingual Education" by
-9-



providing appropriate curriculum materials for most linguistic areas,
promoting teacher training in bilingual education, and strengthening the
management of the Bilingual Education Directorate.It has been demonstrated
in developed and developing countries alike that multigrade schools in
rural isolated settings can provide quality education if teachers are well
trained in methodologies and strategies for addressing several grade
levels usually in the same classroom and if students have access to
student workbooks and other didactic materials. In Guatemala, a pilot
multigrade experience supported by USAID has demonstrated that it is an
alternative worth expanding throughout the country. The proposed project
will expand the pilot including monolingual as well as bilingual
multigrade schools.Reliable and timely information about personnel at the
central, departmental and local levels; key education statistics and their
evolution; and financial and accounting systems are essential tools
required by any administration as part of the planing and policy making
process. The proposed project will continue supporting the updating and
quality improvement of the EMIS.      Several other lessons learned from
the current project include: (i) continuity of policies has an impact on
education, especially when there is a change in government and the
Ministry of Education; (ii) the Ministry of Education does not have to be
the executor of the activities. Universities, communities, and
contractors have been successful in implementing activities where it is
clear that they have a comparative advantage; (iii) the pilots of
monolingual and bilingual multigrade schools have been very effective in
introducing more modern and alternative methods of teaching as well as
providing pedagogical answers to the needs of the schools. The proposed
project will build upon the achievements of the pilots and seek to expand
the PRONADE program to provide more children with access to education in
the indigenous and rural communities.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  It is not expected that the project will have any
negative impact on the environment, since it will not finance
rehabilitation or construction of schools.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Carlos A. Rojas
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-6452
Fax: 202-522-1202
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
- 10 -



Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending May 11, 2001.
- 11 -



