Page  1
January, 12 2000
Mr. Manuel Maza Castellanos
Minister of Public Finance
Ministry of Finance
8a Avenida y 25 Calle
Zona 1, Centro Cívico
Guatemala City, Guatemala
Mr. Arturo Montenegro
Secretary of Planning and Programming of the Presidency
Secretariat of Planning and Programming of the Presidency
9 Calle, 1044 Zona 1
Guatemala City, Guatemala
Re:
Supplemental Japanese Grant for the Preparation of Second Basic 
Education Reform Project - Grant No. 
TF026535
Dear Sirs:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant 
funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding three hundred 
fifty thousand two hundred U.S. Dollars (US$350,200) (the Grant) to the Republic of 
Guatemala (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient hereby confirms its request that the Bank 
carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said 
purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon 
receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this 
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK 
   FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Director
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
By /s/ Arturo Montenegro
Authorized Representative
Date:
January 25, 2001
By /s/ Manuel Hiram Maza Castellanos
Authorized Representative
Date:
January 24, 2001
ANNEX
Page  2
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist with the preparation of a social diversity 
and pluralism component for the proposed Second Education Reform Project (the 
Project).  The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as 
follows:
(a)
development of a strategy aimed at systematizing current anthropological, 
linguistic and other knowledge about diversity and pluralism in the Recipient’s 
territory (these activities are estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent);
(b)
design and preparation of a decentralization plan and a community-driven 
service delivery strategy for the Recipient’s Ministry of Culture and Sports (these 
activities are estimated to cost US$190,200 equivalent); and
(c)
design and preparation of a policy framework and inter-institutional 
cooperation plan between the Ministry of Culture and Sports, government agencies, 
private sector institutions and civil society organizations to promote social 
diversity and pluralism agenda (these activities are estimated to cost US$60,000 
equivalent).
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services required for the 
Activities.
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient.  The 
Recipient shall cooperate with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit the Bank to 
carry out the Activities promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the results of the 
Activities.  The Recipient shall indemnify the Bank against any costs or liabilities 
incurred by the Bank as a result of claims against the Bank in connection with the 
Activities, except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of 
its staff or external consultants.
4.
The Activities shall be completed by not later than May 31, 2001, or such later 
date as the Bank may establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date).  Except 
in special circumstances, no proceeds of the Grant shall be used to fund Activities 
after Bank approval of financing for the Project, and the Closing Date shall not be 
extended beyond the expected date of such approval.  After the Closing Date, the Bank 
may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to 
assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the 
Bank and shall be governed, except as otherwise decided by the Bank by the provisions 
of the Attachment to this Annex.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of, the Recipient on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ 
personnel (other than nationals or permanent residents thereof) in connection with the 
Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the 
Activities. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may at any 
time suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the following events has 
occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any 
other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to 
make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit 
agreement with the International Development Association shall have been suspended.  
The Bank may also terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds if: (a) 
the Bank has decided, at any time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw 
its support to the Project; or (b) the Recipient has withdrawn its request for the 
Bank’s assistance in the financing of the Project.
8.
The Bank is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and shall not have 
any fiduciary relationship with the Recipient.  The Recipient shall have no right to 
any portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Bank pursuant to this Letter 
Agreement.
Page  3
Attachment
Consultants' Services
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Statement 15.00 of the Bank's Administrative Manual, dated July 1997 
(the Administrative Manual), the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank 
in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Attachment.
2.
Services rendered by consulting firms for the Activities under paragraph 1 (a), 
(b) and (c) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions, which are consistent with the provisions of 
the Administrative Manual, of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines applicable to 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection of Consultants.
3.
Services rendered by individual consultants for the Activities under paragraph 1 
(a), (b) and (c) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions, which 
are consistent with the provisions of the Administrative Manual, of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
