                                                                                                       92440
Ensuring All Children Can Go to School in Guatemala                                                    April 24, 2006
Universalization of Basic Education Project

Background                                                     President Wolfowitz visits an
                                                               elementary school in Chimaltenango -
Guatemala has one of the highest illiteracy rates              Apr. 28, 2006
and one of the lowest school enrollment rates in                Photos | Video
Latin America.  Despite the Government’s efforts,
                                                               President Wolfowitz visits Guatemala
many children, especially girls, still do not have             Full coverage
access to a good primary education.  These                      
problems are particularly acute in rural areas with
                                                            
high indigenous populations.
                                                            
The World Bank has been involved in the education
sector in Guatemala for more than a decade.  It             
has supported efforts to increase the number of
children in primary schools and improve the quality         
of education in rural areas, largely through the
PRONADE program of community-led schools and                   Financing
multi-grade, bilingual, and intercultural education.
                                                               Total cost : US$82 million
Under PRONADE, rural communities with no
                                                               IBRD loan amount: US$62 million
access to education services receive financing
directly from the Ministry of Education to get a new           Government of Guatemala: US$20
school off the ground.                                         million

The World Bank is supporting PRONADE through                   Implementation period: Expected
the Universalization of Basic Education Project, the           November 2002 - December 2007

second World Bank project in support of primary                Geographical area: the whole country
education in Guatemala.  
                                                               Implementing agency: Ministry of
                                                               Education (MINEDUC)
Project objective
                                                               More details
To ensure that all children have access to primary
                                                                Full project information & documents
education, and to improve the quality, efficiency,
and cultural diversity of Guatemala’s school system.        

Project design                                              

The Project aims to:                                        

        Increase primary enrollment in PRONADE              
        schools.
        Provide bilingual materials, suitable for multi-
        grade classes, to primary education children
                                                            
        in rural areas.
        Support cooperation between the Ministries          
        of Education and Culture to increase
        awareness of cultural diversity in the country.     
        Support institutional strengthening of the
        Ministry of Education.                              

Project achievements so far:

Providing universal access to primary education:

        The number of new students in the
        PRONADE Program is 90,000, more than
        double the 40,000 originally expected. 
        The project is supporting nearly 5,000 multi-
        grade schools and has helped provide
        primary education textbooks in the four main
       Mayan languages and other bilingual
       materials.

Cultural diversity, decentralization and             CLASSROOM - Children at a rural school in
modernization:                                       Santo Domingo Xenacoj, Chimaltenango.

       More than 1,000 staff from the Ministry of
       Education have received training in areas
       such as pedagogical, management and
       organizational development.
       The project has assisted the Ministries of
       Education and Culture in developing
       websites and other systems to manage
       information.

Improving the quality of education:

       The project has supported the ongoing
       education reform in the country through
       improvements in PRONADE, primary
       education teaching and learning quality,
       bilingual and intercultural education, and
       multi-grade teaching (all supported by key
       inputs in teacher training, educational
       materials, and learning evaluations).

A follow-up project is currently being prepared to
support needed expansion in lower secondary
education, to assist Guatemala in reaching the
Education for All goals of universal access and
completion of at least nine basic grades.

 



April 2006
