Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7463-CA
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
November 18, 1988
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Country Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The CFA franc (CFAF) is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio of FF 1 to
CFAF 50. The French Franc is currently floating. The exchange rate of US$ 1
= CFAF 305 is used in this report.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB        African Development Bank
ANEAC       National Association of Central African Entrepreneurs and Artisans
AVDP        Assisted Voluntary Departure Program
CAADE       Debt Amortization Agency
CAREP       Ce.iter for Redeployment into the Private Sector
CPRAC       Permanent Council for Public Administration Reform
DGFP        General Directorate of MCS
DTAC        Division for Technical Assistance Coordination (SEP)
EMP         Economic Management Project
ENERCA      National Electric Energy Company
FAC         Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
GTZ         Gesellschaft fuer Technische Zusammenarbeit (Germwny)
HCPE        High Commission, for Public Enterprises
MCI         Ministry of Commerce and Industry
MCS         Ministry of Civil Service and Administrative Reform
MDR         Ministry of Rural Development
MEH        1Ministry of Energy and Mines
MFPCI       Ministry of Finance, Plan, and International Cooperation
MTAC        Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation
MTPAT       Ministry of Public Works
NDP         National Development Plan (1991-95)
OCPT        Posts and Telecommunications Office
OCSS        Social Security Office
ONI         National Computer Office
PD.         Payroll Division, MFPCI
PETROCA     National Petroleum Company
PIP         Public Investment Program
PWTC        Public Works Training Center (MTAC/MTPAT)
SAL         Structural Adjustment Loan
SEP         State Secretariat of Planning (MFPCI)
UDEAC       Customs Union of Central African States
UNDP        United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL AND PROJECT YEAR
January 1 - Decemiber 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMKARY ................  ... .......................
I.    BACKGROUND ..............................  1
A.    Introduction .............................. *.*..* ..........   . ***1
B.    The Structural Adjustment Program       ...........................  1
C.    Economic Management Issues and Reforms .......................  2
D.    Toward Institutional Developments The Government Strategy.... 14
E.    The Bank's Role:  Technical Assistance Operations .... ....... 16
II. THE PROJECT .......18
A.    Objectives ................ .18
B.    Description
- Strengthening Macroeconomic Management.                        19
- Public Administration Reform.                                  20
- Reorganization of the Public Enterprise Sector                 21
- Promotion of Private Sector Activity.                          22
- Economic and Sector Studies .......... ..................... 22
III.  PROJECT COST, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT, AND DISBURSEMENT .....22
A.    Prolect Cost and Financing Plan.........  22
B.    Procurement, Disbursement, Accounts and Auditing .         ...  24
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT               . .25
A.    Project Implementation and Monitoring .            .             25
B.    Project Management and Coordination               .      .       26
C.    Donor collaboration in Management of Technical Assistance        27
D.    Status of Project Preparation                 ... 27
This report is based on the findings of missions which visited Central African
Republic in February, May, and July 1988.  The missions comprised Messrs. C.
M. Blackden (Task Manager), A. Duburch, and Ms. B. Buyck (Bank), and Messrs.
J-C. Bosse, and Marriott (Consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Contd.)
Page
V.   BENEFITS AND RISKS  ........................................ 28
VI.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ..................................... 28
A.   Conditions and Agreements  ................................... 28
B.   Recommendation      ..................................... 29
ANNEXES
Annex   I  :    Project Implementation Matrix of Activities by Component
Annex  II  :    Project Costs by Component
Annex  III  :    Project Financing by Component
Annex  IV  :    The Macroeconomic Management Component
Annex   V  :    The Diamond Sector
Annex  VI  :    Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Annex VII  :    Selected Documents in Project File
Annex VIII  :    Timetable of Key Processing Events
Map : IBRD No.   18095R1



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower                 Central African Republic
Beneficiaries           H Ministry of Finance, Plan and International
Cooperation; Ministry of Civil Service, Ministry of
Commerce and Industry; Ministries of Transport/Public
Works; High Commissiou for Public Enterprises;
Ministry of Energy and Mines.
Credit amount      s     SDR 10.3 million (US$ 13.2 million equivalent)
Terms              :     Standard, with 40 years maturity
Description        :    To improve eccnomic management and reinforce
implementation of the adjustment program, the Project
will: (i) strengthen the core ministries responsible
for managing the economy, particularly in the areas of
economic and social sector planning, investment
programming and debt management, (ii) support
implementation of the civil service staff reduction
program, including operation of the Personnel Bank and
the AssiE.ed Voluntary Departure Program, as well as
longer-term efficiency improvement measures; (iii)
assist in the rationalization of the state enterprise
sector; (iv) provide institutional support to
premotion of private sector activity; and (v) provide
for sectoral, pre-investment, and planning studies.
The project will provide funds for high-level
expertise (long- and short-term), vehicles, computer
and office equipment and minor renovation, and
training.
Benefits           :    The Project's principal benefit would be to lay the
foundation for development of sustainable and
efficient institutions in charge of economic policy
formulation and management. By focussing on capacity-
building, and skills mobilization through clcsely
integrated packages of assistance and training, the
project would provide a cohesive framework for
institutional reform, and an essential underpinning to
the structural adjustment program. It would also
strengthen TA management and coordination while
redirecting it toward institutional development goals.
Risks                    The project faces three important risks:  (i) the
weakness of CAR's administrative structure; (ii) the
low motivation and high degree of mobility of civil
service staff; and (iii) weak management and
coordination problems that have beset past technical
assistance programs. These risks are being addressed



- ii -
in project design through (a) careful definition of
tasks, outputs and institutional linkages incorporated
into monitorable '*iork programs; (b) designation of
national teams to work with experts throughout the
implementation period; and (c) establishment of a TA
coordination office in SEP and a substantial
strengthening of project management capacity.
Project  Costs *                            Local        Foreign      Total
--------(US$ million)----
Macroeconomic Management                    2.8            6.4          9.2
Civil. Service Reform                       0.2            1.0          1.2
State Enterprise Reform                     0.0            1.2          1.2
Private Sector Promotion                    0.5            0.9          1.4
Economic and Sector Studies                 0.0            2.0          2.0
Project Management Unit                     0.2            0.1          0.3
Base Costs                                  3.7           11.6         15.3
Contingencies                               0.3            1.0          1.3
Total Cost                            4.0           12.6        16.6
* Net-of-taxes
Financing Plan           s                  Local        Foreigr      Total
--------(US$ million)--------
Government  1.4            0.0         1.4
IDA         1.6           11.6        13.2
UNDP        1.0            1.0         2.0
TOTAL       4.0           12.6        16.6
Estimated Disbursements (in US$ millions)
IDA FY                         89    90    9'    92    93    94
Annual                          0.7   3.3   3.8   3.5   1.2   O.0
Cumulative                     0.7   4.0   7.8  11.3  12.5  13.2
Economic Rate
Of Return                      Not applicable
ME                       :      IBRD 18095R1



CENTRAI AFRICAN REPUBLIC
ECONOMIC' MANAGEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
A.    Introduction
1.    The Government of the Central African Republic has requested IDA
assistance for a program to strengthen the institutions responsible for
managing the economy, and to provide further support for implementation of the
structural adjustment program. The proposed Economic Management Project (EMP)
was prepared by the Government with the assistance of IDA preparation missions
in February and May 1988; appraisal was completed in August 1988. The
objectives and policy actions cf the Second Structural Adjustment (SAL II)
program are contained in the Government's Letter of Development Policy of May
1988, attached to the President's Report for SAL II (Report No. P-4183-CA).
The Government has also requested cofinancing from the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) to improve coordination and management of
technical assistance and to support the program of assistance to the economic
management institutions. IDA and France will coordinate their assistance in
the area of macroeconomic management within the framework of the Government's
institutional development strategy.
B.    The Structural Adjustment Program
2.    In an attempt to reverse the deteriorating trends in the CAR economy,
the Government launched the first phase of its structural adjustment program
in the second half of 1986 and followed up with the second phase in June 1988,
supported by SAL I and SAL II, respectively. The broad objective of the
program is to set the basis for achieving positive economic growth while
containing the current account deficit within a sustainable limit. The basic
elements of the Government's strategy are: an agricultural-led growth based
on comparative advantage; the creation of a favorable environment for the
private sector through the liberalization of price and trade regimes, the
retrenchment of the public sector, and public investments in support of
productive activities; and strengthening public sector resource management.
3.    The major achievements of SAL I cover five areas:  first, the
progressive liberalization of prices and trade has taken place on schedule;
second, current expenditure growth was curtailed in agreement with IMF targets
mainly by tight control of the wage bill and non-concessional debt; third,
while hampered by a limited data base arid weak administrative capacity,
progress was made toward rationalization of the parapublic sector; fourth, in
agriculture, incentives were increased in the coffee sector through higher
prpducer prices and quality premia; the production of food crops benefited
from the liberalization of the marketing of local produce and the financial
performance of the cotton sector improved; and fifth, policies to stimulate
the forestry sector were put into place.
4.    The main slippages in program implementation have been:  the delay in
preparing and adopting a three-year rolling public investment programming



- 2 -
system, delays in introducing resource mobilization measures, failure to
settle cross debts between parastatal enterprises and the State and among the
parastatals themselves, and slow progress in implementing the civil service
reform. Both the Government and IDA staff were optimistic in their evaluation
of the administrative capacity of the institutions involved it, implementing an
ambitious and comprehensive SAL program, and these slippages are in part
explained by the heavy load placed on a relatively weak administration.
5.    During SAL II, the Government continues to pursue a coherent set of
policies for macroeconomic management, agriculture, mining, the civil service
and public administration, parapublic enterprise ref3rm, and private sector
and SME promotion. These policies will strengthen the measures taken during
SAL I, co.rect slippages that have occurred and introduce reforms in a number
of new areas to widen and deepen the adjustment program.   The main elements
of the Government's adjustment program to improve macroeconomic management
are: reinforcing public investment programming, especially consolidating the
three-year rolling public investment programming system and strengthening
project selection procedures; continuing the review of the pricing and trade
regimes in order better to allocate domestic resources, as well as reforming
and strengthening institutions promoting private sector activities; increasing
domestic resource mobilization, containing current expenditures and improving
budgetary management; and strengthening external debt management. Since the
program was approved in June 1988, the Government has further reduced the
number of goods and services under price controls, rationalized the tax and
commission system for road transport services, taken measures to increase tax
revenues and improve customs administration, and revised policy guidelines
regarding Government loan guarantees and on-lending. Overall, the program is
on track, although implementation has been slower than expected as a result of
the newly instituted parliamentary approval for key legislation of the civil
service reform, and continued overstretched administrative capacity.
6.    Measures to increase the volume of diamond exports and to raise unit
values are, along with encouraging the use of official channels for exports,
important elements of the Government's strategy for developing the diamond
sector. In addition to further reducing diamond export tax rates, the
Government intends to strengthen diamond evaluation procedures, reinforce the
mining brigades and establish a national inventory of mining resources. Since
June 1988, the Government has established a fund for the promotion of diamond
exports and organized a Diamond Evaluati.n Commission.
C.    Economic Management Issues and Reforms
(i)   Macroeconomic Management
7.    In early 1988, the Government requested IDA assistance to undertake
detailed reorganization studies of the Ministry of Finance, Planning and
International. Cooperation (MFPCI) and its Planning Secretariat (SEP). These
studies were financed, as part of the SAL II-supported program to prepare and
implement new staffing plans for key ministries, under the Second Technical
Assistance Project (TA II), and built on earlier studies financed in the
framework of the UNDP technical assistance planning exercise, NATCAP.



- 3 -
Completed in September 1988, the studies include a detailed evaluation of the
ministries' missions, objectives, structure and staffing. Institutional
issues were diagnosed, and an in-depth evaluation of TA needs was also
conducted. The analyses show that a number of critical weaknesses need to be
addressed: (a) the absence of well-established management systems, operating
procedures and methodologies; (b) an inadequate information base for economic
policy making and analysis, including the absence of functional information
systems; (c) inadequate personnel management, reflected in low motivation and
high mobU.lity of civil servants; and (d) lack of interdepartmental and overall
coordination. In SEP and key technical ministries, permanent organization
units and staffing for public sector investment programming need to be
developed.
8.    To implement the adjustment program and to create sustainable economic
management functions, the Government developed an action program of priority
measures for the next three years, to be supported by the EMP and other
donors. The program concentrates on three areas: improving technical systems
and procedures, building management and information systems, and
strengthening administrative structures.
9.    Investment Planning and Programming. The formulation of the Public
TIvestment Program (PIP) and the investment budget is the responsibility of
the State secretariat for Planning (SEP) within HFPCI. SEP also: (i) prepares
the medium-term development plan; (ii) coordinates national and regional
development planning; (iii) monitors plan and project execution; (iv)
coordinates and monitors international cooperation agreements; and (v)
collects central statistics. In 1986, with TA II support, SEP was reinforced
by creating project units to assist in preparation and negotiation of
development projects. As a result, the project portfolio was improved, and
annual investment budgets were prepared for 1985 and 1986. In the 1986/87
period, a five-year plan was prepared which included macroeconomic and
sectoral strategies, and a three-year rolling investment programming mechanism
was introduced. An investment program was prepared for the parapublic sector.
The 1987 budget was the first to incorporate current expenditures and revenues
as well as development outlays and their financing. These features began to
improve analysis and control of central Government financial transactions.
10.   To refine these institutional changes, the adjustment program aims to
consolidate the three-year rolling investment programming system. Semi-annual
reports on the physical and financial implementation of the PIP and reviews on
the financial and economic situation are required. The Government also needs
to rationalize and prioritize public investment decisions; a policy document
will be prepared, detailing the technical, financial, economic, and
management criteria to be used in determining project priorities and the
responsibilities of the various public institutions in performing project
analysis. Only projects meeting these criteria will be approved for
financing.
11.   However, to attain these goals and to build up a sustainable planning
capacity, corrective actions in the following areas are required: returns on
investment are low, and public investment declined in 1986 and 1987. This is



- 4 -
due in part to the difficult internal resource position and the decline in
foreign-financed development expenditures, but also to the persisting weakness
of the planning process. The pipeline of projects is weak, with the majority
of proposals embryonic, or with questionable economic, technical and social
foundations. Technical capabilities to identify, prepare and select projects
are limited, and screening procedures deficient; as a result, most investment
decisions are determined by donors who finance the bulk of the investment
program. The administrative structures for a planning system do not exist: of
all technical ministries, only the Ministry of Education is equipped with a
planning cell. SEP does not have a functional statistics office. There is no
unit equipped to monitor economic indicators and to develop a medium-term
macroeconomic scenario. Aid flows to the country are not monitored or
coordinated, resulting in less than optimal delivery and effectiveness of
investments and TA. The PIP mechanism is not yet a tool for economic
decision-making, the procedures and methodologies for programming, recurrent
cost analysis, and disaggregation of development outlays need to be
rationalized and institutionalized. Attempts at setting up a project
monitoring system have failed; data are imeomplete and information does not
flow regularly. The distribution of functions within SEP, and between
institutions (MFPCI, the debt agency CAADE; technical ministries) is not
organized efficiently.
12.   To address the above shortcomings, the Government intends to carry out
the following action program through the EMP:
(a)   SEP will be restructured, and by 1991 its technical staff will have
doubled. The proposed structure and staffing is presented ir, Annex IV.
The statistics office will be re-established. A new Planning and
Strategies Department will be created, with macroeconomic and social
development divisions, to integrate the PIP in a macroeconomic
framework, and to reinforce the analytical basis for addressing the
sociel dimensions of the adjustment process. The projects cell will ba
expanded into a Projects and Programs Department. This department will
take the lead in sectoral analysis, investment programming, project
evaluation, project monitoring, and integrating the PIP with the annual
budget. Operational systems, established in this department, will be
extended to the new planning units in the technical ministries, so as to
limit SEP's role, over time, to quality control, priority setting and
coordination. The reorganization plan has been completed, and should be
adopted by decree later this year.
(b)   A Division for Technical Assistance Coordination (DTAC) will be
established. DTAC will be responsible for collection and centralization
of data on TA in the country, and for coordination of TA activities,
with the assistance of a TA information system to be developed. DTAC
would have responsibility for developing a TA policy aimed at meeting
the Government's objective of substantially reducing long-term TA over
time, while strengthening its management and coordination. The
Government intends to manage allocation and deployment of TA through
this unit. UNDP would take the lead in supporting the activities of
DTAC, as part of its support to national TA programming and planning



- 5 -
efforts initiated through the NATCAI eicercise.
(c)   Working methods, procedures and distribution of functions between SEP
and other institutions and within SEP will be defined concretely, and
information circuits established.
(d)   Preparation activities for the second National Development Plan (NDP),
covering 1991-95, will start in 1989-90. To achieve the Government's
goal of raising the ratio of investment to GDP, substantial efforts need
to be made to strengthen the pipeline of projects in the PIP. To
improve the portfolio of project proposals, and to define sound
macroeconomic and sectoral development policies and strategies for the
medium-term, resources will be provided through the EMP for
macroeconomic, sector and pre-investment studies.
(e)   A macroeconomic committee will be established, composed of technicians
from SEP, central bank experts in charge of the balance of payments, and
CAADE. This mechanism will ensure that implications for external debt
management and macroeconomic policy are taken into consideration in the
investment plan.
13.   Financial Management and Budgeting.  Strengthening of Government
finances, the responsibility of MFPCI, is critical to the success of the
adjustment program. In 1987 the fiscal deficit (commitment basis, grants
excluded) stood at 14.4Z of GDP; this ratio should be reduced gradually by
1990 by enhancing revenue mobilization and restructuring recurrent
expenditures. Under SAL II, measures are being introduced to reinforce tax
administration, reduce tax arrears, and revise the general income tax system.
une management of customs is being strengthened; procedures revised, and an
enhanced effort made to combat fraud and reduce customs exemptions. On the
expernditure side, the continued reduction of the wage bill, a long-standing
Government objective since 1982, will be a central element in the process of
public resource management, along with the reorganization of current
expenditures, to finance priority sectors and higher levels of materials,
supplies and services. Extra-budgetary expenditure will be avoided.
14.   Overall, the structure and staffing level of MFPCI are adequate and
require only minor modifications; critical weaknesses are the absence of
established management and information systems, formal operating procedures,
insufficient inter-departmental coordination, and inadequate personnel
management. Staff deployment is inefficient. In the absence of individual
staff control and a stimulating working environment, absenteeism is a
persisting problem. The personnel structure is not balanced; promotions and
financial incentives are not distributed on the basis of responsibility and
performance, resulting in a disproportionately high number of top-level staff.
Staff mobility is high. Personnel data are incomplete and not linked to the
payroll or CPRAC (para. 19) files, and the precise number of staff,
departmental distribution, its adequacy and training needs, are therefore
difficult to determine. In the absence of operational manuals, work is
conducted unsystematically. Many tasks are carried out manually, with files
traveling back and forth between departments. This leads to duplicate



- 6 -
controls, and an inefficient use of staff time. There is a lack of
coordination between the technical services (revenue, budget, financial
control, treasury), and between these departments and the coordinating organs
of the ministry. The financial and economic decision-making process is not
transparent, in the absence of systems and data bases which provide managers
with the information needed to carry out their tasks.
15.   To address these problems facing MFPCI, the Government will implement
the following action programs
(a)   The organization plan will be implemented.  In the new struLture (Annex
IV.3), provision is made for a separate Budget and Financial Control
Department which will also have responsibility for the payroll. Overall
staffing levels, reduced from approximately 1,100 to 833 over the last
year, are to be further reduced to 796 under the plan. Staff will be
redeployed between departments, and a significant further retrenchment
can be expected as improved managemen"t and information systems are put
in place.
(b)   The coordination mechanism will be institutionalized.  A  clear
framework will be established to monitor resources and expenditures of
the Government, activities of the technical departments, and economic
and financial performance indicators.
(c)   An integrated budget and financial control framework will be develeped.
Budgetary procedures and classifications will be revised. A realistic
budget preparation mechanism will be established, and extended to
technical ministries; the link with CAADE and SEP will be
institutionalized. The office in charge of financial control and
budgetary expenditure will be equipped with a system to monitor the
projected treasury cashflow more closely. Commitment and disbursement
procedures for material expenditures will be rationalized and the
payroll fully computerized.
(d)   Within the tax administration department, improved procedures and a
computerized management and control system are being developed. Links
with the Treasury Department will be reinforced and measures recommended
by IMF tax missions will be implemented.
(e)   In the area of computerized customs administration, the customs
administration system newly acquired from France will be installed. A
special unit equipped to train users has been established. Enforcement
of control procedures will be continued with the help of French customs
officials, and additional manpower and material resources provided. A
diagnostic study of the customs administration will be completed after
which a specific rehabilitation program will be put into place.
(f)   The accounting system will be rationalized and fully computerized, to
ensure more reliable, faster information on the status of budget
execution, public accounts and the liquidity situation. Controls will
be simplified, the UDEAC accounting framework will be implemented, and a



simple expenditure recording and monitoring system established.
(g)   A pilot personnel management system will be established, within the
framework of civil service reform of the structural adjustment program.
The personnel data base will be updated and consolidated.
16.   External Debt Management.  Over the past year the Government has pursued
a prudent external debt management policy and strengthened CAADE. During the
next three years, the Government will continue its efforts to reinforce the
managerial capacity of CAADE. The debt data base will be systematically
computerized; and the debt monitoring system further strengthened; internal
financial controls will be reinforced by drawing on the ongoing internal audit
and by setting up an improved accounting system; staff training will be
vigorously pursued, so that the need for a resident TA expert may be
eliminated.
17.   Transport Sector Planning and Institutional Strengthening.  In view of
the importance of the transport sector in CAR's economy, the Government
intends to strengthen the Transport Sector Planning Cell, established jointly
by the Ministries of Transport (MTAC) and Public Works (MTPAT), and to carry
out a program to strengthen these ministries' capacities to train and manage
staff, as the lack of adequately trained personnel is a critical obstacle to
sector policy and planning, to the formulation of sectoral investments, and to
the adequate maintenance of the sectors' existing assets. The Planning Cell
would collaborate closely with SEP in preparation of the investment budget for
the transport sector, which comprises about one-third of total public
investment. The Government will strengthen institutional capacity in this
sector by improving personnel management as part of the ongoing civil service
reform program, and by reinvigorating the now largely non-operative Public
Works Training Center, so as to consolidate gains made in training under
earlier IDA-supported projects, and to build essential skills and training
capacity at the Center in maintenance, management, and planning.
18.   External Assistance.  All major TA and training requirements to
implement the Government's action programs outlined in paras. 12 and 15 are
summarized in Annex IV.4.  Annex IV.2 and Annex IV.3 place these inputs in the
proposed new organization of SEP and MFPCI; Annex IV.5 and Annex IV.6 provide
further detailed breakdowns by type of assistance, duration, nature of the
assignment, and support to training. In absolute terms the external
assistance requirements over the next three years are considerable. This
reflects the ambitiousness of the program and its objective of initiating a
long-term program of institutional development while facilitating
implementation of the macroeconomic management meansures of the adjustment
program. The overall program to strengthen the planning system, build the
statistical base, and improve aid coordination, will require 52 staff years of
long-term TA experts and 5 staff years of short-term consulting. To improve
financial and budgetary management in MFPCI requires 45 staff years of long-
term TA experts, 5 staff years of short-term international consulting, and 12
staff years of local consulting which is available in CAR. In the area of
external debt management, 1 long-term adviser and 6 months of short-term
assistance are required.   The proposed EMP will provide only a relatively



- 8 -
small part of this overall requirement, as reflected in the summary table of
Annex IV.4. Except for support to new units - the Statistics Department of
SEP, and planning cells within technical ministries, long-term assistance for
operational support is kept at its present level. It is complemented by a
substantial amount of short-term consulting and training to equip the core
ministries with appropriate analytical tools, working methods and procedures.
These,are essential if the Government's goal of progressively and
substantially reducing the amount of long-term TA is to be realized.
(ii) Civil Service Reform
19.   Since the early 19809, the Government has been aware that long-term
development of the CAR would be impossible without reform of the overstaffed,
ineffective and unproductive civil service.  In 1982, the Government created a
Permanent Committee on Administrative Reform (CPRAC), under the direct
authority of the Presidency, with responsibility to define and initiate
measures to reduce the number of civil servants, to reorganize Government
departments, and to bring order to personnel files and management. CPRAC has
been assisted throughout this process with assistance under IDA-funded TA
operations. More recently, the Government has decided to assign
responsibility for the implementation phase of the reform program and the
implementation of longer-term reforms aimed at improving efficiency to the
Ministry of Civil Service (MCS). The proposed EMP will provide further
assistance to this Ministry in carrying out the program.
20.   A key objective of the adjustment program is to implement a reform of
the civil service which would lead to increases in its efficiency and to a
reduction of the wage bill. Other important elements are to review benefits
policy and improve financial and personnel management. Since Board approval
of SAL II, key measures taken by the Government are: approval by Parliament of
legislation on the establishment and organization of the Personnel Bank (PB)
and the Assisted Voluntary Departure Program (AVDP); completion of staffing
plans for the Ministries of Finance, Plan and Foreign Affairs; and review of
benefits to civil servants aimed at further reducing the wage bill.
Staff Reduction Program
21.   The staff reduction program aims to streamline the civil service by
facilitating the departure or reabsorption of civil servants not retained
within the new staffing plans drawn up for the various ministries. Staff
would be encouraged to leave the civil service with the benefit of a
separati3n package, on a voluntary basis, and further assistance would be
provided to assist those who opt to establish themselves in the private
sector.
22.    Definition and implementation of Staffing Plans.  Staffing Plans will
have been drawn up for 7 ministries by end-1988, and a further 6 will be
completed by April 1989. Each plan defines a new organizational structure for
the ministry, based on a clear statement of its mandate, and comprises job
descriptions and position profiles to facilitate selection of appropriately
qualified staff. The Government would oversee implementation of the plans. In



- 9 -
a first phase, an Inter-Ministerial committee is being established, and the
Government has requested an adviser to the Committee throughout the
implementation process, to help define the methodology of staff selection and
to implement the new organizational structures within the ministries. This
adviser would be financed under the ongoing TA II Project.
23.   Establishment of the Personnel Bank.  A Personnel Bank (PB) was created
by law 88-013 following approval by the Parliament. The PB, placed under the
authority of MCS, will oversee the reassignment of redundant staff from
reorganized ministries, following the selection process, or assist the
departure of such staff and manage redundancy payments. Those who after six
months have not been offered a new position will leave the civil service. The
PB would be closed by end-June 1990. The PB will comprise three units to: (i)
inform civil servants of the PB/AVDP operation and receive the staff assigned
to it; (ii) prepare the severance documents and payments, and the redeployment
operations; and (iii) manage the allocated funds. Part of the PB's
organizational costs and start-up activities are being financed under TA II,
notably the development of the P.3/AVDP management software.
24.   Implementation of the AVDP.  The AVDP was created by law 88-012.  It
aims to assist departing civil servants who intend to embark on creating their
own business by providing information and orientation services; organizing
consulting services to help them design projects, request bank credits, and
start up the new business. Such assistance will be provided by the small
enterprise promotion agency, CAPMEA, and by local consulting firms; specific
training programs will be carried out with local training institutions. AVDP
would be closed by end-1990. This program will be carried out as part of the
Government's efforts to promote expanded private sector activity and job
creation (para. 38).
25.   The AVDP's activities would be organized and managed by a small unit,
the Center for Redeployment into the Private Sector (CAREP). Given the
orientation of this program, the Government has decided to place the CAREP
under the authority of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry (MCI) in order to
obtain the maximum participation of private sector representatives (Chamber of
Commerce, Association of Banks, employers associations, etc). The CAREP would
bring together Government and private sector agents, and enjoy considerable
autonomy; it would include a management unit comprising the Program
Coordinator, his adviser (a high-level expert), and management capacities to
fulfill the above-described operations. The CAREP would share computerized
personnel management software developed for the PB. To facilitate
implementation of the AVDP, a study is being undertaken to assess potential
growth markets and growth sectors in CAR, the possibilities for developing
exports through joint-ventures with foreign partners, and potential projects
already identified by various donors. This kind of analysis would be updated
periodically.
Strengthening of Civil Service Management
26.   Regulatory Framework.  The present framework, which includes the Civil
Service Code and numerous special statutes and ad-hoc internal regulations,



- 10 -
was first enacted in 1962. Since many of its measures are now outdated or
contain extravagant and inequitable privileges that are unsustainable given
the present economic situation of the country, the whole framework should be
reviewed. In particular, the various special arrangements corresponding to
specific categories of personnel should be harmonized, and the distribution of
salary premia should be closely linked to individual performance evaluation.
While some progress has been made in collecting these various regulations into
a single operations book, the Government would complete further work to
analyze the present framework and to make recommendations for a lasting reform
of the Code by September 30, 1989.
27. Reform of the Wage System. The texts governing the wage scale,
payments, indemnities, premia and a series of non-monetary benefits, need to
be thoroughly reviewed in order to offer motivated people more incentives for
efficiency and to link premia to performance criteria. The Government has
already embarked on a reform of the costly family allowances system. This
reform is closely linked to the review of the regulatory framework which
defines the wage scale and the criteria for salary supplements. Aware of the
problems posed by poor motivation in the civil service, the Government is
committed to reviewing the wage and indemnity system, and to introduce
performance-based criteria for bonuses. The Government intends to design a
new wage and incentive system as well as a new allocation system to improve
efficiency and performance by September 30, 1989, compatible with budget
constraints and consistent with the Government's objective of reducing the
wage bill to not more than 50 percent of current expenditures.
28.   Improvement of Professional Training Capacities.   Given the lack of
skilled human resources, there is an obvious need for basic and in-service
training. However, these needs have not thus far been examined 3ystematically
or integrated into a broader context of personnel and career management. As
part of the adjustment program, the Government has decided to strengthen human
resources skills development and efficiency, in particular through
articulation and implementation of a comprehensive civil service training
policy. The HCS is seeking to strengthen the Direction des Textes et Reformes
within the General Directorate of the Civil Service, (DGFP), to develop
institutional capacities for assessing training needs and organizing programs.
The Government will prepare a national civil service training policy and
relatPu action plan, with assistance provided under the proposed EMP, by
December 31, 1989.
29.   Reform of Personnel Administration.  The DGFP is in charge of career
management, of which the key aspects are recruitment, promotion and
retirement. The present personnel management institutional structures and
procedures are very weak and need to be strengthened and adapted to the
staffing control objectives. The difficulties DGFP faces for its management
are twofold: the weakness of its management capacity, including poor human
resources, and insufficient information from the sectoral ministries which are
responsible for everyday management of their personnel. Some reform measures
are already underway, such as the reorganization of individual personnel
files, which contain basic career management information. To strengthen DGFP
requirest (i) a reform of its administrative procedures and internal



- 11 -
information flows, and introduction of internal controls; (ii) completion of
the personnel files reorganization; (iii) updating and computerization of
these files; (iv) development of a computerized management system installed
within DGFP; (v) transfer from CPRAC of the computerized wage bill control
system; and (vi) marked improvement of DGFP's personnel qualifications and
skills through in-service training on the new administrative and filing
procedures and data processing systems.
30. Reform of Payroll Management. The computerized payroll management is
outdated and functions poorly: though civil servants are paid mostly in time,
payroll files are no longer reliable; updating a civil servant's record might
take from 6 to 12 months; issuing monthly payment lists needs successive
iterations between the Payroll Division (PD) in MFPCI and the Centre National
d'Informutique (CNI, the national data processing center), and these are still
prone to errors.   Financial management reform requires: (i) a reform of PD's
administrative procedures and information flows, and introduction of internal
controls; (ii) cleaning-up, restructuring and update of the computerized
personnel payroll files; (iii) development of a new data processing system to
process monthly payment programs, installed in the PD; and (iv) marked
improvement in PD personnel qualifications and skills through in-service
training on the new administrative procedures and data processing system.
31.   Strengthening of Institutional Linkages.  The institutional relations
are very weak between the DGFP, the PD and the sectoral ministries. In the
CAR's administrative system, sectoral ministries are required to provide: (i)
DGFP with administrative information to update civil servants' files and to
activate career management, and (ii) the P) with information needed to issue
the monthly payroll. The DGFP is required to provide the PD with individual
career or collective information affecting payroll management. In return, the
PD should provide DGFP with statistical information. However, this is largely
not done. To address this problem, and in conjunction with strengthening
administrative and financial management practices, the Government will
undertake the following measures: (i) strengthening the institutional links
between MCS, MFPCI (Payroll and Financial Control Divisions), the rresidency
and sectoral ministries; (ii) clarification and rationalization of these
bodies' respective responsibilities; (iii) preparation of procedures guides
and annual work programs for these services- (iv) strengthening the management
capacities of the personnel divisions within sectoral ministries, including
data processing facilities and micro-computer equipment; and (v) in-service
training for management personnel.
32.   Development of Analytical Budgeting and Management Systems.  The present
system does not plan future recruitment into the civil service systematically,
nor does it establish any linkage between these requirements and the likely
evolution of budget resources available for this purpose. Analytical tools to
forecast personnel requirements, placed in a budget planning framework that
takes accQunt of the evolution of the macroecunomic situation, are an
essential component of longer-term civil service management and efficiency
improvement. An institutional planning framework needs to be studied and set
up in each ministry. This would provide annual assessments of personnel needs
(number and qualifications), to be used within the annual budgeting process,



- 12 -
and eventually providing forward-looking data that would help to direct
professionnal training programs toward specifically meeting these
requirements.
(iii) Parastatal Enterprise Reform
33.   With 45 public. enterprises (PEs), the parastatal sector occupies a key
position in the CAR economic system. The sector is characterized by poor
performance with heavy losses, overstaffing, low productivity and poor cost
control. In addition, because of severe budgetary constraints, Government
subsidies were cut drastically as of 1986, and the liquidity crisis in
parastatals is becoming increasingly severe with cross debts among them and
between them and the State not yet settled.   The Government created a High
Ccmmission for Public Enterprises (HCPE) which is responsible for overseeing
the PE sector and defining Government policy and programs.
34.   To date, the reform program has made progress in a number of areas.
Supervisiu4t The Government has classified the enterprises and offices
according o their importance in meeting national objectives (5 strategic PEs,
12 priority and other PEs). In addition, the HCPE publishes annually the
consolidated accounts of the sector and detailed accounts of all the main PEs.
Liquidation and Privatization: A National Liquidation Commission was created
Which has so far closed 3 banks and 4 important PEs. In addition, an agro-
processing firm (SICPAD) was privatized and negotiations with the private
sector concerning the national slaughterhouse (SEGA) and an insurance company
(SIRIRI) are underway. Financial Restructuring and Discipline: The Government
has clearly restated its intention not to set up any new enterprises where the
State would hold a majority of shares. Moreover, several financial measures
(strict control on PE borrowings, subsid'es, budgetary allocations) have been
undertaken. Rehabilitation of the PE Sector: The Government has nearly
completed a study of the institutional and legal framework, to be implemented
in the 1989-90 period; it has also started a program of audits, and begun a
rolling three-year investment and financial plan for the main PEs.
35.   In order to improve the efficiency of the parastatal sector. the
Government intends to: strengthen the supervision of the sector through HCPE
by reinforcing accounting and auditing practices, and revising the legal and
institutional framework of the sector; reduce the size of the parapublic
sector through liquidation and privatization; promote financial restructuring
and discipline through strict controls on PE borrowings and subsidies,
settlement of cross debts and reviewing tariff policy of PEs; and rehabilitate
strategic and priority PEs. As part of the adjustment program, the Government
will pursue this reform program, while laying the foundation for longer-term
strengthening of the institutions responsible for overseeing the PE sector and
of the PEs themselves. This will aim both to reduce the financial burden of
PEs on the national economy and to improve the efficiency of the PE sector.
The proposed EMP will assist the Government in implementing these actions in
the next two to three years; at the same time, the Baak and the Government
will develop a strategy for more sustained and longer-term support to the
parastatal sector, which will serve as a basis for an enterprise
rehabilitation and SME promotion project.



- 13 -
(iv) Promotion of the Private Sector
36.   The institutional infrastructure for private sector and SME promotion
remains embryonic. Only two institutions, the CAPMEA and, to a lesser extent,
the Chamber of Commerce, provide services for SME development. CAPMEA, in
operation for about one year, is a semi-autonomous body under the jurisdiction
of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry (MCI). It has had only a limited
impact in establishing links with commercial banks; it relies on a UNDP-funded
team of two ILO experts for technical services and remains dependent on
Government financial support. Similarly, the Chamber of Commerce has to-date
been funded by the Government and has not provided a platform for articulation
of private sector interests. Under SAL II, the Government has agreed to allow
membership of the Chamber to be voluntary and for it to seek its own sources
of financing. There is one fully autonomous agency representing the interests
of artisans and smaller entrepreneurs in general, the ANEAC. Established in
1986 at the initiative of local entrepreneurs, it has about 100 members which
finance its activities, and has been quite successful at promoting and
organizing the indigenous private sector.
37.   The MCI is the focal point for all Government efforts to promote the
private sector, a mandate which has been reinforced in the current
reorganization of MCI, undertaken as part of the civil service reform program,
and following the abolition of the separate High Commission for SME promotion.
MCI would be responsible for simplifying and rationalizing such procedures as
company registration, the "carte de comercants' for private traders, revision
of the commercial code, and for conducting SAL-related studies on customs
tariffs, SME promotion, financial intermediation in the SME sector, and on the
domestic trading and distribution systems aimed at formulating new laws that
would reduce barriers to entry and enhance domestic competition. While other
ministries, notably Energy and Mines, Transport/Public Works, and Rural
Development, will have important contributions to make in promoting private
sector activity, MCI will have prime responsibility for ensuring that a sound
regulatory and incentive environment exists for private sector growth.
38.   The Government attaches considerable importance to the role of the
private sector in the country's economic and social development. It is firmly
committed to further liberalizing the incentive structure and to strengthening
the institutional framework for promotion of the private sector.
Specifically, the Government intends to: (i) pursue the phased abolition of
price controls; (ii) review and simplify licensing procedures for private
traders; (iii) formulate a new law to rationalize the domestic trade of
manufactures; (iv) prepare a program of reform of the tariff system and a
program to simplify and strengthen customs procedures; (v) identify remedial
actions for improving the financial situation of commercial banks and their
ability to extend credit to SMEs; (vi) review the industrial and commercial
code and revitalize the Chamber of Commerce by making it more autonomous: and
(vii) create a one-stop investment office ("guichet unique") which will
initially constitute a source of information for potential foreign investors
and joint venture partners wanting to familiarize themselves with the
country's policies, procedures, and regulatory framework--the office would



- 14 -
subsequently participate in drafting a foreign investment code and engage in
more active promotion of foreign investment. The proposed EMP will help the
Government in implementing these actions, while developing a cohesive
institutional framework through a clearer definitiun of roles and
responsibilities among agencies active in this area. The EMP will also help
to pursue employment promotion in the private sector both in conjunction with
the AVDP and through promotion activities in a number of key sectors, such as
agriculture and mining.
D.    Toward Institutional Development: The Government Strategy
39.   Traditionally, CAR has relAed heavily on TA for planning and management
of economic affairs, including public investment, foreign trade, public
enterprises, fiscal and budgetary management, customs and tax administration,
and debt management. Precise data on the volume and distribution of TA in
other key sectors of the economy are difficult to obtain, though it is
estimated that in the aggregate about 40 years of TA are provided in
agriculture and forestry, about 20 years in the infrastructure sectors and
about 12 years in the energy/mining sector. One of the principal tasks of the
new DTAC (para. 12) will be to collect and analyze comprehensive data on TA
deployment in the country. So far, TA is largely substituting for missing
local capabilities and absorbed by current operational tasks, with little
transfer of responsibility to nationals. In an atmosphere of crisis
management, tasks often are carried out in an ad-hoc manner, without
well-established procedures and working methods. Little institution-building
takes place. Donors operate in a vacuum with little interaction; this results
in inefficient overall utilization of TA.
40.   Determined to avoid the pitfalls of previous TA programs, the Government
is adopting a radical new strategy, to be applied initially in the
macroeconomic management component of the proposed EMP and subsequently in
other areas. The key elements of the strategy are: (i) establishment of the
DTAC, (para. 12) through which assistance will be provided by donors in a
coordinated, complementary manner to support the action programs presented
above, and through which a policy for systematically reducing both the volume
and the cost of long-term TA will be developed; (ii) long-term and short-term
TA will be provided in an integrated framework with increasing reliance on
local consultants; (iii) concrete programs for training and unit development
will be defined, and the interaction between TA and national staff will be
clearly established; (iv) as part of the wage system reform effort, an
appropriate incentive system will be developed to motivate national staff; (v:'
all inputs will be provided and measured on the basis of pragmatic, monitored
work plans.
41.   Technical Assistance Instruments.  Under the macroeconomic management
component of the EMP, two different TA instruments will be deployed:
short-term output' consulting to develop and install systems and
methodologies, and long-term resident expertise, working within government
departments to implement the departmental work program and help them adopt the
improved systems and procedures. Both short- and long-term TA will engage in
staff training. Long-term TA will no longer be placed in advisory positions



- 15 -
to a minister with an assigned counterpart; rather, these advisers will be
integrated in a cell or unit, working as part of a team to execute a unit work
program. A different profile of long-term advisers will be required: people
with a clearly demonstrated ability for teamwork, committed to using their
experience and technical knowhow to enhance national capabilities. The
experts will be assessed on their training achievement as well as on systems
outputs, to ensure that training will not be neglected under the weight of
pressing operational tasks.
42.   Country Commitment.  The Government intends to ensure that qualified
national staff is assigned and retained in responsible positions. During
appraisal, the Government proposed that experts not be fielded until critical
local staff is appointed to relevant units or cells. The Government has
reaffirmed its determination to establish high-quality teams of nationals
alongside resident experts and to ensure continuity in their assignments. In
addition, the Government intends to improve working conditions in the civil
service. This includes appropriate personnel management systems, career
development policies, and adequate incentives to performance. Many of these
elements will be developed in the context of the Civil Service reform
component of the EMP (para. 25ff). During negotiations, the Government
confirmed its agreement to implement the reorganization plans for the MFPCI,
SEP, MCS and MCI. Signature of decrees adopting the reorganization plans for
these ministries will be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
43.   Training.  The principal professional training institutions in CAR are
the National School of Administration and Magistracy (ENAM), and the National
Professional Training Center (ONIFOP). ENAM trains about 350 civil servants
each year in administrative law and writing, economics, public finance, and
management.  While its training activities are generally adequate, the general
weakness of the administration and the lack of a broader civil service
training policy limit its impact on performance. ONIFOP provides essentially
technical training and re-training in mechanical and engineering skills; there
is scope for expanding ONIFOP's and other institutions currently limited
programs in management, accounting, and computer and office skills.
Professional staff in the core ministries has historically benefitted from
substantial formal training. In the MFPCI alone, 28 persons received training
at the Ecole Nationale du Tresor in France. In previous TA programs,
on-the-job training has often been neglected. Skills acquired in overseas
training programs received little practical application, as the policy of
providing grants for study within the CAR and abroad was not oriented toward
supplying the country with the skills most needed to support social and
economic development. Under the macroeconomic management component, training
will be focussed on strengthening operational skills, in working methods,
procedures, technical systems. This would be supported essentially through:
(a) recruitment of experts with coaching ability and clearly delineated
responsivility for on-the-job training; (b) workshops for core and line
ministries to discuss and disseminate knowledge of systems and methodologies.
These seminars are an important vehicle for skill enhancement, consensus and
commitment building, and essential for success of the program. A first series
of seminars will be organized by the short-term consultants to discuss the



- 16 -
concepts, the nature and extent of the reforms, and key elements of the
proposed system or methodology. A second 'hands-on' series of seminars would
be held at the time of establishment of the system or methodology to acquaint
and train a core group of national staff, who in turn become trainers for
further system users. The number and content of the workshops are summarized
in Annex IV.5 and IV.6. These actions would be carried out in conjunction
with the Government's plans to develop a civil service training plan and to
integrate training into career management (para. 28).
44.   Implementation of the Action Program: Annual Work Plans.   The
macromanagement strengthening program will be adopted and implemented
gradually, tailored to the capacity of the responsible institution. A series
of pragmatic annual work programs with concrete measurable tasks and outputs,
and a timetable for preparation and implementation will be prepared for each
department by national staff and TA. Donors participating in the economic
management program and the Government would agree on relevant annual work
plans and on terms-of-reference for related TA. At the end of each year a
major review, with the Government and donors involved, would be conducted at
which implementation and plans for the next year would be reviewed.   At that
time, allocations would be reviewed and, if need be, revised to maximize the
impact of the component as a whole. The performance of the work teams
comprising TA and local staff would also be reviewed, and, where necessary,
corrective measures acceptable to the Association would be taken (para. 76).
E.    The Bank's Role:  Past Technical Assistance Credits
Technical Assistance Projects I and II
45.   Bank free-standing TA projects to CAR began with an emergency operation,
Cr. 1150-CA (US$4.0 million approved in 1981) aimed to: (i) help the
Government get the economy moving again; and (ii) increase external financing
absorptive capacity. It contained provision for: (i) the preparation of a
roads rehabilitation program and a rural development project focussed on
cotton and food crops; (ii) organizational studies of the key diamond and
forestry sectors; (iii) assistance in the preparation of viable development
projects and monitoring of the external debt; (iv) an organizational review of
the Civil Service; and (v) studies, short-term consultancies and training.
It was fully disbursed and closed in 1988.
46.   The Second T.A. Project, Cr. 1581-CA (US$ 10.0 million equivalent
approved 1985) grew out of discussions with Government on the need for a
unified approach to the economy's problems through recruitment of high-level
expertise to design coherent policies for the major sectors and the Civil
Service and train national staff to implement them. These experts played a
key cole is, preparing the 1986-90 Development Plan, on which the adjustment
program was based. During identification of SAL I, the Bank and Government
agreed to gear the resident experts' work programs to suppo-t implementation
and monitoring of the adjustment program. Resident expertise has been
provided in the key diamond and forestry sectors, for public debt management,
for economic planning and public investment programming, and for civil service
and public enterprise reform. A legal counsellor for SEP was cofinanced with



- 17 -
GTZ.   TA II is expected to close in December 1989.   There are also two IDA-
only TA positions currently in CAR: an adviser to the Minister of Finance in
macroeconomic policy coordination, and an adviser to the Minister of Transport
in sector plannning and management.
47.     The overall res:ts of TA II have been positive.  Appropriate new
diamond and forestry legislation has led to significant increases in
Government receipts. National diamond evaluators have been trained, a basic
strategy for increasing external investment in the diamond industry is being
developed, and the archives of the Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM) have
been put in order. A corps of forest guards is in training, reliable forestry
statistics are produced monthly, and a forest inventory is under preparation.
48.   Public Administration.  Initial IDA assistance focussed on helping CPRAC
develop netter control of the payroll and personnel files and was provided
through a contract with the Quebec Ecole Nationale d'Administration Publique
(ENAP). Initial results under TA I were good: about 1,300 "ghost" workers
were taken off the payroll, the wage bill was from 86 percent of budgetary
receipts in 1981 to 58 percent in 1985 and a civil service census was largely
completed. TA II set more ambitious goals which were included in the SAL I
package of reform conditionalities and which continue under SAL II. Nominal
civil service wages have been frozen, the complex system of allowances has
been streamlined and payment of such allowances is under control; the civil
service archives are being reorganized and payroll computerization initiated.
A strict policy of one franc of recruitment expense to three francs of wage
bill savings has been maintained. TA II has financed five of the new staffing
plans being drawn to go into effect in late 1988. In conjunction with the
AVDP, they are expected to result in a net reduction of about 2,000 civil
servants. The adviser to the Director of the CAREP is being funded initially
under TA II.
49.   Macroeconomic Management.  In economic management and planning and the
training of national staff, project results are mixed. TA jointly provided
with GTZ to the Legal Service of SEP made valuable contributions to the
renegotiation of CAR's bilateral debts and negotiation of new concessional
financing for investments. Lawyers trained by the legal expert are now
negotiating loans with external donors. Debt management hxas improved in
CAADE, but the introduction of an improved accounting system and staff
training remain to be done. The projects unit in SEP concentrated on urgent
ad-hoc tasks and overall TA II macroeconomic assistance has been one of
substitution with little real institution-building.
50.   Public Sector Enterprises and SMEs.  State divestiture from the
productive sectors, the establishment of consolidated, updated accounts for
the parastatal sector, and promotion of an environment conducive to expansion
of SMEs and private sector enterprise, are major elements of the adjustment
program, to which the TA II Project began to respond. In the parastatal
sector, TA II has provided two advisers to the HCPE. They have principally
substituted for local shortages of trained manpower in day-to-day running of
the HCPE and implementation of SAL measures, and good progress has been made
(para. 33). In the SME sector, additional advisers, one to MFPCI and one to



- 18 -
MCI were recruited in 1987, to work together to help the Government create a
more favorable environment for private enterprise and reorient MCI to the
promotion, rather than the regulation, of trade, following the abolition of
export/import licensing. However, institutional mandates were unclear and the
results have been limited. Now that the reorganization plan for MCI has
clarified the Goverrnment's intention to focus private sector promotion within
MCI, efforts to redirect private sector promotion and to reinforce its
institutional bases will be pursued under the proposed project.
51.   Project Management and Training.  Project management under TA I was
satisfactory. This was an emergency operation and training was not emphasized
ini the initial phase. Under TA II, however, training was central to the
project. Givsn the CAR's shortage of trained manpower and the strain of
implementing an ambitious adjustment program on a weak administration, the
training component, to succeed, required forceful direction from project
management. This was not forthcoming and TA II training activities have
achieved significantly less than expected in the two key areas, debt
management and macroeconomic planning. The training activities that were
successful (forestry analysis, diamond evaluators, and the Legal Unit in SEP)
are largely the result of the initiative of the particular agency, expert, or
national staff involved. Areas of failure can be attributed in part to the
inadequacy of the experts involved, including the training expert, but also to
the fact that TA II set ambitious goals, while the management approach and
mechanisms remained essentially those established :Eor TA I. The Government
and the Bank did not give sufficient priority to training in the project
management unit, management information was left largely in the hands of the
national coordinator and, by default, of visiting supervision missions. Weak
project management also reflected a relatively low priority on Government's
part with regard to project monitoring and management. Little was done to
select appropriate national staff for training or to facilitate their
integration into the work programs of resident experts, who, in turn, lsrgely
concentrated on priority tasks at hand. The proposed EMP will seek to address
the probhems of poor management, coordination, an-' the weakness of the
training effort through a redesign of the approach adopted by the TA program,
and through a substantial reorientation and strengthening of project
management capacity. (paras. 40 and 77).
IT. THE PROJECT
A.    Objectives
52.   The EMP's principal objective is to strengthen the core ministries
responsible for managing the country's economy and for implementing the
structural adjustment program. Through an integrated package of assistance
and training, the EMP aims to put in place organizational structures in which
tasks and resource requirements are clearly specified, methods and procedures
for carrying out these tasks are developed, codified, and applied, and in
which functional linkages among and within these institutions are delineated
and understood. The project also aims to help the Government begin to address
the social dimensions of the adjustment process, to strengthen the



- 19 -
coordination and management of technical assistance more generally, and, in
collaboration with the principal other donors, redirect such assistance toward
training and capacity-building in beneficiary institutions.
B.    Description
53.   The EMP would: (i) strengthen the core ministries responsible for
managing the economy, particularly in the areas of economic and social
development planning, investment programming and debt management, (ii) support
implementation of the civil service staff reduction program, including
operation of the PB and the AVDP, as well as measures to strengthen civil
service efficiency; (iii) continue assistance for the rationalization of the
state enterprise sector; (iv) provide institutional support to promotion of
private sector activity; and (v) carry out macroeconomic, sector and pre-
investment studies. The EMP would provide funds for high-level expertise
(long- and short-term), vehicles, computer and office equipment and minor
renovation, and training.
(i)   Strengthening Macroeconomic Management  (US$ 9.2 million)
54.   The activities financed under the EMP form an integral part of the
Government's action program presented i' paras. 12, 15, and Annex IV.4.  The
assistance provided under the EMP focuses on system development: on
strengthening management systems, developing technical procedures, installing
information systems to facilitate analysis, and training key staff in these
areas. Under the investment planning and programming component, the EMP would
provide (i) one long-term high level macroeconomist (3 years) for the new
macroeconomic unit and 12 months of international short-term consulting in
developing macroeconomic planning capability; (ii) one long-term resident
expert (3 years), an economist with experience in strengthening sectoral
analysis, investment project analysis and programming for the Projects and
Programs Department of SEP; (ii) 30 months of short-term consulting would be
allocated to develop and institutionalize the public investment and budgeting
mechanism, install a project monitoring system, and develop methodologies for
project evaluation and analysis; (iv) two months of international consulting
for development of the component monitoring system, with the macroeconomist
acting as component coordinator; (v) 10 technical workshops for SEP staff; and
(vi) 6 microcomputers.
55.   In MFPCI, the EMP would finance: (i) 58 months of short-term
international consulting, of which 6 would be used to analyze the existing
financial management practices (budget, government accounts, payroll), 30 to
develop and install a comprehensive computerized financial management and
accounting system, and 22 to implement MFPCI's reorganization plan and develop
a personnel management system; (ii) 107 man-months of national consulting to
computerize the systems; (iii) a series of 10 training workshops in these
areas; and (iv) a microcomputer for the component monitoring system.
56.   In the area of external debt management, the EMP would finance: (i) one
year of a long-term external debt adviser; (ii) 6 months of short-term
international consulting to develop and install a debt monitoring system and



- 20 -
an improved internal accounting system; and (iii) 2 microcomputers.
57.   In MTAC/MTPAT, the EMP would provide: (i) 10 months of short-term
consulting to guide the work of the Planning Cell and to strengthen the
ministries' Studies Divisions as well as some training and equipment fnr the
Cell; (ii) 6 staff years of long-- arm resident expertise to assist in the
organization and management of the PWTC, in human resource management, in
organization of maintenance and technical training in Bangui and in the
regional maintenance workshop in Bambari; (iii) teaching equipment, overseas
training, and seminars for senior management staff of these ministries.
58.   To assist the Government in achieving its fiscal objectives in the
diamond sector, the EMP will provide financing for: (i) the services of a
resident expert in the Ministry of Mines; (ii) 12 months of short-term
assistance of a valuer to strengthen capacity of the Diamond Valuation Unit;
and (iii) continuation of training for national diamond valuers. Annex V
discusses the diamond sector.
59.   To help the Government coordinate the adoption of computer applications,
presently developed on an ad-hoc basis by users, the EMP will provide four
months of consulting services to define a Computerization Master Plan. The
Plan, which will be carried out under the authority of the Ministry of
Finance, the principal user of such systems, will comprise four spucific
elements: (a) formulation of a general policy and establishment of the
objectives of policy options; (b) definition of priorities and of the
information system architecture; (c) assessment of the organization and
resource requirements for implementation of the computerization plan; and (d)
Implementation program and short-term priorities.
(ii) Civil Service Reform (US$ 1.2 million)
(a) Civil Service Reorganization and Staff Reduction Program
60.   To provide further support to the operation of the Personnel Bank, the
EMP will finance computer equipment, furniture and supplies, office
rehabilitation and equipment.
(b)   Civil Service Management Strengthening
61.   To strengthen institutional performance, the EMP will finances (i) the
services of a high-level expert in MCS, an experienced civil service
specialist for a period of two years; (ii) 2 months of consulting services to
analyze the Civil Service Code and related documents and to establish a basis
for improving the capacity of the Studies Directorate of the DGFP to address
regulatory issues in the longer term; (iii) 4 months of consulting services to
analyze the wage structure, premia, supplements, and indemnities and to define
a revised wage and indemnity system; and (iv) 3 months of consulting services
to help the Direction des Textes et Methodes in assessing training needs, in
developing a systematic approach to training in the civil service, and in
organizing in-service training programs.



- 21 -
62.   To help strengthen personnel administration anc' financial management,
the EMP will finance: (i) short-term consultancies to study the existing
management framework and to set up new administrative and institutional
structures, procedures, and data processing systems within the DGFP, the PD
(under the macro management component) and key sectoral ministriec; (ii)
studies for organization of management and computerization: 3 months for DGFP;
(iii) establishment and start-up of data processing systems (DGFP personnel
files and procedures, sectoral ministries' management): 12 months; (iv)
training of management personnel within DGFP, and key sectoral ministries: 4
months; (v) micro-computer equipment: 5 to 6 systems for DGFP, and 5 Lo 6
systems for key sectoral ministries; (vi) office refurbishing as needed within
DGFP, and sector ministries as required; and (vii) 2 months of consulting
services for an expert to design and develop a computerized analytical
budgeting and management system.
(iii) Reorganization of the Public Enterprise Sector (US$ 1.2 million)
63.   To implement the Government program in the PE sector described in para.
35 above, and to strengthen the institutional and analytical foundation for a
deeper-rooted reform effort in this sector, the EMP will finance: (i) one year
of long-term advisory services for the HCSE; the EMP will also provide for a
long-term adviser for twro further years, subject to formal review of sector
strategy and requirements in the light of a planned Strategy Paper to be
prepared in 1989; (ii) 25 months of short-term consultancy services in support
of sector rehabilitation activities, specifically, (a) reform of the legal and
institutional framework, (b) preparation of certified accounts for seven
priority PEs (ENERCA, SNE, OCPT, PETROCA, UCATEX, SOCADA, OCSS), (c)
implementation of rehabilitation plans, investment programs, and tariff policy
for the three utilities (SNE, ENERCA, OCPT) and OCSS; (iii) 10 months of
short-term consultancy services to provide legal and accounting assistance to
the liquidation and privatization programs, specifically, (a) completion of
negotiations on SEGA and SIRIRI, (b) pursuing negotiations on six other
identified PEs (SNCT, CICI, SOGEBA, EFBACA, CENTRACJIRS, NMCA), and studying
possibilities for privatizing other PEs; (iv) 12 months of short-term
consultancy services to study training and redeployment needs in management
an! accountancy, and to implement an agreed training program. During
negotiations, the '.overnment Ogre-i to submit the proposed training program
for IDA approval by December 31, 1989; and (v) computer and office equipment,
maintenance, and minor office renovation.
(iv) Promotion of Private Sector Activity (US$ 1.4 million)
64.   To provide further support to implementation of the AVDP (paras. 24-25),
the EMP will finances (a) consulting services: the adviser to the AVDP
Coordinator, over an estimated period of 24 man-months and specialized experts
as required in orientation, organization, training, and law, with a maximum of
12 man-months for each specialty, most of whom are expected to be local
consultants available in CAR; and (b) additional computer equipment, minor
office refurbishing, and office furniture and supplies for this program. To
help carry out the Government's action program for private sector promotion,
presented in para. 37 above, the EMP will finance: (i) the services of an



- 22 -
adviser to MCI for a period of two years to assist in defining the
institutional framework and the simplification of the regulatory environment,
to guide the revision of the commerce code rnd to review implementation of the
investment code, and to strengthen the statistical and information capacities
of the ministry. The adviser will be expected to play a coordinating role for
the various SAL-supported activities being pursued in this area; (ii) 14
months of consulting cervices for studies, specifically, promotion of SMEs,
analysis of the constraints affecting access to credit in the financial sector
and promotion of more efficient artisanal diamond production; (iii)
establishment of a one-stop investment registration office, attached to MCI;
and (iv) directing training provided by ONIPOP toward business-oriented
activities: basic accounting, financial management, business administration
and entrepreneurship skills, market analysis, project evaluation, and
preparation of dossiers for financing proposals.
(v)   Macroeconomic, Sector and Pre-Investment Studies (US$ 2.0 million)
65.   The EHP will finance short-term consultancy services for macroeconomic,
sector and pre-investment studies. The purpose of these studies is to: (i)
strengthen the planning system by improving the PIP pipeline and the sectoral
content of the NDP and ensure consistency between them; (ii) define better
sectoral development policies and strategies, thus setting priorities to guide
resource allocation; and (iii) remedy the shortage of local appraisal skills
and improve the content of the PIP by providing assistance to help identify
and prepare feasible projects. These studies will be managed by the Programs
and Projects Division of SEP. Procedures for preparing and submitting a study
program in line with these objectives were agreed during negotiations.
III PROJECT COST, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
A.    Project Cost and Financing Plan
Proiect Cost
66.   The total project cost is estimated at US$ 16.6 million equivalent, with
a foreign exchange component of US$ 12.6 million (76 percent). The break-down
of costs and the financing plan are shown in Annexes II and III. Base cost
estimates are in September 1988 prices and converted into US dollars at the
exchange rate of CFAF 305 = US$1. Physical contingencies amounting to 5
percent of equipment costs are included; price contingencies for foreign costs
amounting to 3 percent in 1989 and 1990 and 4 percent thereafter, and, for
local costs, of 2 percent in 1989, 3 percent in 1990, 3.5 percent in 1991 and
1992, and 4 percent thereafter, are also included. Project costs are
presented on a net-of-tax basis.
67. About 19 years of long-term specialists and about 40 years of short-term
consultants would be provided under the EMP. An estimated 124 months of
support for training activities would also be provided. Equipment would
consist of microcomputers (including peripherals and appropriate software),
vehicles, and office machines. Minor office renovation would also be financed
under the project.



- 23 -
Project Costs * :                     Local        Foreign     Total
--------(USS million)--------
Macroeconomic Management              2.8            6.4          9.2
Civil Service Reform                  0.2            1.0         1.2
State Enterprise Reform               0.0            1.2         1.2
Private Sector Promotion              0.5            0.9         1.4
Economic and Sector Studies           0.0            2.0         2.0
Project Management Unit               0.2            0.1         0.3
Base Costs                            3.7           11.6        15.3
Contingencies                         0.3            1.0         1.3
Total Cost                     4.0           12.6         16.6
* Net-of-taxes
Financing Plan
68.   The proposed IDA credit of SDR 10.3 million (US$ 13.2 million
equivalent) would finance approximately 80 percent of project costs,
comprising approximately US$ 11.6 million of foreign costs and US$ 1.6 million
of local costs. Costs for local staff salaries, office space and 50 percent
of incremental operating expenditures will be borne by the Government. UNDP
is expected to cofinance the project, on a parallel basis, by providing about
US$ 2.0 million equivalent in support of the macroeconomic management
component of the project.   Specifically, the UNDP contribution will develop
TA coordination through the DTAC and will strengthen the Government's capacity
to address the social dimensions of adjustment through support to the Social
Development Planning Unit of SEP. Signature of UNDP cofinancing will be a
condition of Credit effectiveness. The proposed financing plan is presented
below.
Financing Plan
Local      Foreign         Total
-------(US$ million)--------
Government                      1.4         0.0            1.4
UNDP                            1.0         1.0            2.0              1
IDA                            1.6         11.6           13.2
Totatl                 4.0         12.6          16.6



- 24 -
B.    Procurement, Disbursement, Accounts and Audit
Procurement
Procurement Method
Procurement Method
Project Element              ICB               LCB         Other         TOTAL
Technical Acesistance                                       11.5          11.5
(9.9)        (9.9)
Vehicles, Furniture, and                         0.7         0.4           1.1
Equipmert                                       (0.7)       (0.2)         (0.9)
Training                                                     2.0           2.0
(2.0)        (2.0)
Incremental Operating Costs                                  2.0           2.0
(0.4)        (0.4)
TOTAL                                           0.7         15.9          16.6
(0.7)      (12.5)        (13.2)
Note: Figures in parentheses denote the respective amounts financed by IDA.
69.   Services  Government would recruit directly under individual contracts
or through consulting firms the specialists to be funded for technical
assistance and for studies. The qualifications, experience, terms and
conditions of employment of all specialists and consultants would be
satisfactory to the Association and in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines
for the use of consultants.   To ensure compatibility in the treatment of
specialists financed under the project, a standard contract and salary scale
would be applied, and the short list of firms and the letter of invitation
would receive prior approval from IDA.
70.   Goods  Purchases of vehicles, computer and office equipment and supplies
would amount to about US$ 0.9 million equivalent over the three-year
implementation period; where possible, these would be grouped in lots equal to
or over US$ 30,000 equivalent, and procured through local competitive bidding
as provided in paragraph 3.3 of the Procurement Guidelines aggregating to US$
0.7 million; lots of less than US$ 30,000 equivalent would be procured on the
basis of price quotations from at least three qualified suppliers, national or
international, aggregating to US$ 0.2 million.
71.   Disbursement  Disbursement from the Credit would be made on the
following basist (a) 100 percent of expenditures for long- and short-term



- 25 -
consultants' services; (b) 100 percent of expenditures for vehicles,
furniture, and equipment; (c) 100 percent of training activities; and (d) 50
percent of office running costs, maintenance and supplies. All disbursements
would be fully documented except payments against contracts of less than US$
30,000 equivalent, financed out of the Specia,. Account, which would be made
against statements of expenditure; this documentatio.. would be made avail',ble
to IDA supervision missions and independent auditors. Disbursements would be
made over a six-year period; while this is somewhat less than the Regional
profile for TA projects of 7.5 years, this is feasible as disbursement
experience under the ongoing TA II Project has shown a more rapid pace than
indicated by profile estimates.
72.   Special Account  The Government will establish a Special Account at a
commercial bank to facilitate timely implementation of project activities, on
terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. After effectiveness and upon
Governnen_ request, IDA would make an advance payment of USS 300,000
equivalent, corresponding to about four months expenditures. The account
would be replenished upon receipt and approval of satisfactory documented
evidence of expenditures, to be provided by the Project Director. Should
disbursements be made for ineligible expenditures, the Government would
deposit the corresponding amount into the Special Account. To ensure timely
availability of the Government contribution to the project, the Government
will establish a Project Account in a commercial bank, and deposit into it at
the beginning of each quarter the amount necessary to finance the Government's
share of project expenditures. The establishment of this account and the
deposit by Government of US$ 30,000 equivalent would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness. The Project Director would be responsible for the management
of the Special and Project Accounts.
73.   Accounts and Audits  Separate accounts would be kept for all
expenditures made under the Project, and the PHU (para. 77) would maintain
records and accounts for all Project activities. The accounts and statements
of expenditure would be audited each year by independent auditors acceptable
to IDA and submitted to IDA not later than six months after the end of the
financial year. Agreement to this effect was confirmed during negotiations.
IV PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT
A.    Project Implementation and Monitoring
74.   The project will be implemented over a three and one half year period.
The estimated completion date is December 31, 1992, and the closing date is
December 31, 1993.   Each project component will be implemented directly by
the agency or department concerned: MFPCI, SEP, CAADE, and MEM for the
macroeconomic management component; the MCS for the civil service reform
component; the HCPE for the parastatal sector reform component; and MCI, in
collaboration with technical ministries and the MFPCI, for the private sector
promotion component. Within each Ministry, supervision of the component would
be the responsibility of a high-level official designated by the Minister, and
these Component Managers would work closely with the PMU in SEP (para. 77) to



- 26 -
ensure effective implementation.
75.   The Government has also confirmed its intention to establish a Steering
Committee, composed of the designated Component Managers, and chaired by the
Project Director. The Committee will meet once a month to supervise the
project and review implementation progress, to propose changes or revisions
required for each component, to assess results and outcomes of project
activities in relation to initial project and Government adjustment program
objectives, to coordinate project implementation with the SAL Steering
Committee, and to prepare for supervision missions.   Minutes of Committee
meetings would be prepared by the Pro4ict Director and communicated regularly
to IDA. The composition of the Committee, its mandate, and operating
procedures, were agreed during Credit negotiations, and its establishment will
be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
76.   To facilitate project implementation and monitoring, and to provide a
framework for timely review of progress, annual work programs, including
quarterly output targets, would be established for each project component and
submitted to IDA by October 31 of the preceding year. The programs for the
first year would be submitted to IDA for approval within three months of the
arrival of the respective long-term experts. Monitoring systems for the
investment planning and programming, and the financial and budgetary
management systems would be installed with EMP financing.  It was agreed
during neRotiations that the Government and the Association will undertake a
formal annual review of the status of project implementation to ensure that
adequate pro gress in carrying out the current year's program has been made and
to approve the work program for the following year. This will include a
formal review of the performance of the work teams established to implement
the project, and the taking of corrective measures agreed with IDA where
necessary. A matrix of key project activities is presented in Annex I.
B.    Project Management and Coordination
77.   The Secretary of State for Planning would be responsible for the overall
management of the project, and a Project Management Unit, directly under his
authority, would be responsible for technical coordination, administration,
and financial management. The PMU will consist of a full-time Director,
assisted by a small staff. A Director, who is acceptable to the Association,
has been selected by the Government and participated in Credit negotiations.
The PMU will: (i) help implementing agencies draw up their annual work
programs and quarterly progress reports; (ii) assist in the procurement of
goods and services to be financed under the Project, in particular by ensuring
that planned activities fall within the scope of the project and by verifying
that procurement is consistent with the agreed procurement procedures; (iii)
ensure coordination among implementing agencies and with the ongoing
structural adjustment program; (iv) track project activities with the
assistance of the management information sys,.em to be put in place in the PMU,
particularly commitments under the credit, and monitoring of the
implementation schedule; (v) prepare disbursement requests and administer the
Special Account; (vi) manage the project's physical assets, notably the pool



- 27 -
of vehicles and computer equipment; and (vii) prepare consolidated quarterly
progress reports on all aspects of project implementation and its financial
status, based on submissions from Component Managers, and prepare a
consolidated Project Annual Work Program for review by Government and the
Association by October 31 of each year.   Upon completion of the Project, the
Director will prepare a completion report, providing a comprehensive
evaluation of the results of the project. To help the PMU carry out these
responsibilities, a procedures manual for implementing the EMP will be drawn
up with the assistance of IDA, and a computerized management information
system is to be put in place in the unit before Credit effectiveness.   The
procedures manual will specify appropriate coordination arrangements and
information flows between the PMU, the Bank's Resident Mission in CAR, and the
CAR team in Washington. The PMU will report directly to the Secretary of
State for Planning; the effective establishment and staffing of the PHU will
be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
C.    Donor Collaboration in Management of Technical Assistance
78.   During project preparation and appraisal, extensive discussions were
held with the other principal financial partners providing TA to CAR, notably
the UNDP and the French bilateral cooperation program. These discussions have
facilitated the development of a common and coordinated approach to the
delivery of TA for economic management, which is reflected in the respective
contributions of these parties to the institutions concerned. French
bilateral assistance will continue to be provided to MFPCI in a framework that
assures coherence in institutional development goals pursued by the EMP.
UNDF, for its part, will cofinance, on a parallel basis, the provision of
assistance to these institutions, and will, in addition, be the principal
external partner to assist the DTAC in SEP. One of the key objectives of this
Division, through which all technical assistance assignments will be
coordinated and managed, will be to develop a Government TA policy and to
assure maximum benefits from its investment in TA. Conditions of employment
of experts financed by UNDP and IDA will be harmonized and differentials in
compensation packages reduced. Arrangements for joint donor reviews of
project implementation and for coordination of their respective contributions
to various elements of the EMP were made during negotiations. Upon
effectiveness, these will be confirmed by exchange of letters with UNDP and
France.
D.    Status of Project Preparation
79.   Several project components are already in progress, as the proposed EMP
will provide further support to the civil service reorganization, the AVDP,
reform of the parastatal sector, macroeconomic and debt management, and
private sector promotion, for which assistance is presently being provided in
the framework of the SAL II and TA II operations. About 50 percent of the
resident specialists to be financed through the EMP involve the expected
continuation of existing assignments with which the Government and the
Association are satisfied. The remaining 50 percent is expected to be
identified in December 1988/January 1989, with the intention of filling these
positions at about the time of Credit effectiveness In February 1989. The



- 28 -
Reorganization Plan of the MFPCI and SEP has been completed and is expected to
be adopted by January 1989, which will enable prompt start-up of the
macroeconomic management strengthening activities of the EMP.
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
80.   The project's principal benefit would be to lay the foundation for
development of sustainable and efficient institutions in charge of economic
policy formulation and management. The project would define and implement an
integrated approach to strengthening these institutions. It would bring out
important linkages in complementary elements of the Government's adjustment
and reform programs, (macro-management and sectoral planning, civil service
reduction and promotion of private sector employment expansion, and measures
to improve the stability and performance of economic management institutions
and the plan to reassess pay and incentive policies). By focussing on
institutions and training, coupled with clearly defined tasks and end-
products, the EMP should make an important contribution to improving delivery
and effectiveness of TA generally, and provide a basis for better integrating
project actions into a framework conducive to bringing about real and lasting
improvements in institutional performance.
81.    The project faces three important risks:  (i) the relative weakness of
CAR's administrative structure; (ii) the low motivation and high degree of
mobility of civil service staff; and (iii) weak management and coordination
problems that have beset past TA projects. These risks are being addressed in
project design through (a) careful definition of tasks and outputs
incorporated into monitorable work programs; (b) designation of national
teams to work with experts throughout the implementation period; and (c)
establishment of a TA coordination office in SEP. and substantial
strengthening of project management capacity.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
A.    Conditions and Agreements
82. Agreements confirmed during negotiations:
(a)   Each year, by October 31, the Project Director will submit to the
Association for approval, draft annual work programs for the following
year, for each project component (para. 76);
(b)   Procedures for macroeconomic, sector, and pre-investment studies (para.
65);
(c)   Establishment and organization of the Project Management Unit within
SEP, and of the Project Coordination Committee (para. 77);
(d)   Selection, qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment of all resident experts and short-term consultants financed



- 29 -
by IDA, will be acceptable to the Asnociation (para 69);
(e)   Designation of the national work groups with which long-term experts are
to be associated (para. 42);
(f)   Arrangements for donor coordination of the macroeconomic management
strengthening program (para. 78);
(g)   HCPE will submit its training program to IDA by December 31, 1989
(para. 63);
(h)   MCS will submit its planned in-service training policy for the civil
service for review by the Association by December 31, 1989 (para. 28).
83.   Conditions for Credit effectiveness will be:
(a)   Enactment of decrees implementing staffing plans for MFPCI, SEP, MCS,
MCI (para. 42);
(b)   Establishment and adequate staffing of the Project Management Unit
(para. 77);
(c)   Establishment of the Project Steering Committee (para. 75);
(d)   The UNDP Grant Agreement has been signed (para. 68);
-e)   Opening of a Project Account, and initial deposit of Government's
contribution (para. 72).
B.    Recommendation
84.   With the above assurances, the proposed project is suitable for an IDA
credit of SDR 10.3 million (US$ 13.2 million equivalent) to the Central
African Republic on standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity.



- 31 -
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ANNEXES
Annex I:    Matrix of Project Activities by Component
Annex II:   Summary Project Costs by Component
Annex IIIt Proposed Financing Plan
Annex IV:   Macroeconomic Management Strengthening Component
1.    Present Structure of SEP (June 1988)  (*)
2.    Proposed Structure of SEP and Operational Support  (*)
3.    Proposed Structure of MFPCI and Operational Support  (*)
4.    Action Program and E ternal Inputs
5.    Assistance to SEP (Long and Short Term, Training)
6.    Assistance to MFPCI (Long and Short Term, Training)
Annex Vs    The Diamond Sector
Annex VI:   Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Annex VIIt  Selected Documents in the Project File
Annex VIII: Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
(*)   In French



An~ne% I
Page 1 of 7
CeWRAL AFRICAN RE3ULIC
17-dv-88                                                    ECONOUC l4ANIET PROJELr
:Person :Reeponsi-                    ObJectives                          Starting Date/
Project Component                     Type of Asistanc*/Activity          :.onthm    bility                   Expected Rwulte                     Implementation Period
:1  MIIdU40MIC M        EME4T
:Financial. Budgetary, and Debt           :A. Long-Term Experts                             12
:Management                                ---       -
:Debt Managoment Expert                           12    CAADE   :Inpleaentation of computerized debt monitoring        Jan - Dec 1989
: .        :aystea; training of local stff.
:8. Short-Toro Consultants                      171
CDiagnostic Study: Financial Management           6    FKI   :Baaelino study                                             3/89-S10/89
Syatem Design and Development                                   E :Eabbli shment of  nnagesmnt and informtion
Budget                                    .     6    WPCI   :qyste_a; formal operating procedure-; adequate           10/89-8/90
Accounts/Finance                          .     S : PCI   personnel mnageent, and iaproved inter-                        3/90
Non Wage Recurrent Expenditures                 S :PCI    miniterial coordination                            ./90
Wages/Payroll                                  8     FPCI                                                               3/90
-FPCI Monitoring System                         2    iFPCI                                                              by 6/90
:System Implemntation
-Budget                                           8    FPCI                                                                1990
Accounts/Finance                               965    FPCI                                                          asof mid 1990        :
Non Wage Recurrent Expenditures           :     5    KWPCI                                                         -asaf mid 1990        :
Wagne/Payrol I                                 25   iFPaCI                                                              of mid IM
MFPCI Monitoring System                         4    MFPCI                                                            1910. 199
Htsman Rources Developmnt (MFPCI)    :Establishment of Procedures. Databan                 10   IFPCI                                                                9/89
:Devt. System of Peraonnel Mana*gment            10   IFPCI                                                                 1990
:Impleaentetion Restructuring Plan                2    MfPCI                                                                3/89
:Strengthening of CAADE                   :Strengthening of Actng and Debt Monitoring:       6    CAADIE  :Improved actng and debt aonitoring procedures           as of 6/89
:C. Equipmnt/Furniture
:Hicro Computer
Computer Equipmant
:D. Training Activities                           4
Consulting and organization of            Seminars (Consulting)                              4            :Seminars and workshops in each program area to            1989-91
:10 seminars: Budget Procedures (3);      Seminara (Organie.tion)                                         :support system  development and iple-nentation
:Recurrent Expenditure. (2);
.Public Accounts (1); Monitoring System
:DOeign and Iplem_ntation (2);
:lu  n Resource Devalopment (2)           :E. Operating Costs
: ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~  ~   ~  ~  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -       -   -- -- -    ---     -----_                            __    _  _   ___           _      __



Annex I
Page 2 of 7
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
16isNO-89                                                  EUOMIC KANAOBG41 PROJECT
Person  Respon-i-                  PObjective-                         Starting Date/
Project Component                    Type of Assistance/Activity         :months   bility                  Expected ReAults                   I Aple-sntation Period
:I  M    ECNMC MANAIS:NT
iInvestment Planning and Programing      :A. Long Term Experts                           72
:Macroeoonosi,t/Project Coordinator             36   SEP/PSG  :EEtabliah *mcroeconomic unit; develop fore-        Nor 1989 3 years
-Casting, planning tools; train staff
:Sector Planning Export                         86  SEP/DPP  :Strsngthen projects and program development;        mIr 1989 8 ye,s
:improve PIP and budget floss
:B. Short-Toro Consultanti                      44
:Methodological Support/Economic Planning       12  SE/PS0  :Modeling
:Tnchnical and Ecnomic Programing Systs:   14  SEP/DFP  :Symteo design. development. ispintstion             :     Mr - Sep 1969
:for Program and Projecto (PIP)
:PIP Project Monitoring Systsn                  14  SEPJ/OPP  System d eign, developmnt. implemntation             Oct 89 - Phr 90
:PIP and Project Monitoring System               2  SEP/PP  :Integration of systems                                   Jan 1991
:Coeponent Monitoring Systum                     2   SEPJDOP  :Systm design. implementation; corrective mss. :Jun 69/ Annual Review
:C. Equipment/Furniture
:Micro Computers
:Computer Equipment
:0. Training Activities                        :12
Seminars: Consultants                           7    SEP     :
OPS: Strategies. Overall Planning             8  SE/PS  :
DPP: Programing. Proj. Eval             :    2 : SEP/DPP  :
Coast: Organization
:E. Operating Costs                                :
:Incremental Local Staff for SEP
Maintenance of Computer Equipmnt



Annex I
Page 3 of 7
C8ETRAL ARICAN RBI IC
17 M  -88                                                  ECOlMIC  MAQ8ST PR0JTr
:Pereon :RaPonasi-                    Objectives                           Starting Date/
Projoect Component                   Type of AeeintsncelActivity         :mothth    bility                   Expected Results                    Implesentation Period
--- ---------------- ----                 ------------ -  -  -------------__ -__ . _ _ _ _ _ - ___ -----  - -_-:_------------ ----- - -------:  -- --           -    ---
:1   MACROCONOMIC _MlNABT
.1. Strengthening of Institutional        -A. Long-Toro Exporte                          116
capacity in the diamondd  ctor        ----------------------------                                                                 -  - ---------------
:Geologist in Valuation Office                 S3    Mi inee  :Inproevd peroromnce in collecting budget                    19S9-91
:2. Development of Planning Capacity in                                                                  :revenues from taxation of exports of
the Ministrios of Traneport and                                                                      :diamond-; and improved capacity of the
Public Work.                                                                      .                   Volustion Office to value diamnd-.
:3. Program of Support to Revitalize the  Training Experte                                S0     PWTC    Develop Training Capacity in Maintenance.                   1989-90
Public Work- Training Center          ::Mnage"nt. and Planning
:d. Short-Term Consultant                       22
:                              ~~~~~~~~~~:-------------_ ---  -- -  -_____ ____ _____ ____   ____  __ _- _   __ --- -_ _   - ---- -----   - -- - - ---- --:
:1. Miniatry of Mine.                     :Servicee of Valuation Adviser                  12 :lineo  :Copacity *trengthening of Valuation Office                     1989-91
:2. Ministries of Transport/Public Work- :Plennning Call end Studies Divisions            10 :MTACJ/TPAT:Support to eteblieh_ent af sector planning                 1/89-8/90
:capability for inve_sent in reod and river
:traneport; preparation of annual investment
:budeet and project coordination; improved
:personnel mnagement
:C. Equipmnt/Furniture                     :       :
:                              : _~~~~~~~~~- ----------------_---------------___ _ __ __ _  -_ _  -_- _    ----__   --- - - - -------   -  -- -:    - --- --- --- - -
:2. Ministries of Transport/Public Worke, Computer and Office Equipmnt for Plenning:          :MTAC/MPAT:
:Call and Studies Divisions
:Equipaent for PWTC                                :PTC
:0. Training Activiti-s
:                              : ~~~~~~~~~- -- - - - -- - - ----  -   - -- - - - -    --_-   --___ __ __  ______:_____ -_ -_  ---   - __ _ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ----  -  -
:1. Support to Training Program of CR   :Continuation of Training Program of                     Win"  :Improvemant in valuation system through intro-               1989-01
diamond valuers                       :Staff of th- Diamond Valuation Office               :duction of a more comprehensive valuation and
:classification system
:2. Traneport/Public Works Planning Cell :Staff Training for Planning Coll/Studioe,          :MTACfTPAT:
:3. PxTC                                 :Development of Training Program.                       PYTC                                                                199-90
:E. Operating Coets
: ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~  ~  ~     : - - - -:- - -         --- - _-- ___________-   --__-_  -  _ - _  --- - - -- - - ---  -  -- - -: - - - - - ---
:1. Diamond Sector                       hRhabilitation of Valuation Office          :             inem  :Zmproved security of Valuation Office                     June 1969
:2. Transport/Public Works Planning Call :Running Costs of the Call



Annex I
Page 4 of 7
Ce4rRA. SA ICAN fELIC
17-8ov-OS                                                    Ec@IC  NANeT FMOJwT
Person  Re_pons;-                     Ob;ectives                           Starting Date/
Project Component                     Type of Asix-tsnce/Activity           mnths    bility                    Expeted Reculte                      lmplementation Period
-  -  -- - - -^ -           -     - -- - - - -     - - - - - -         --_--   __ __ _   __ __ --       __ -- --  -- ---_-__--__--- -- -- -- -___ ------ -----_--- -  -: - - - - - - - - -  --
:It CIVIL SEVICE REFS
:Civi I Sc-v.ce Reorganization and         -A. Long-Term Experts                            24
:Longer Term Efficiency I_provement                                                                                              ______
:Adw;nisWrsix RPefom Epeort                      24     MS    :1 atitoonal support to NCS to guide reform             1Mar 199  2 years
:       .          :proeeee. and to facilitate implemntation of
lner term efficiency improvemnt meaures
:8. Short-Term Consultants                       25
:                               ~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~:-                   _    _    __    _  _   _   _ _ _        _ _ _ _    _   _  - _   _  _  ------ --   - --- -:
:L1el FrSSesork                            Analysis of RPgulmtory Fr_mmork                  2      ..    :Pr-poels for har onization of statut-                        by 9/es
Pereonnel Administration                  :Reform of Wage *nd Salary Syetem                  4   IfP/DCFP :yage sa  Incent;v  Pol icy; performnen  based               by 9/89
:Organimtion *nd Computerization Study           S   W/WDFP :System design, development, implementation                      9/9
:Development of computeri;ed systems              S :   P/WPM :Systes design, developnt. impleentstion                     9/99/90
:lMnag5@nt Syst-:    4   WlP/DCFP  System dsi&n. development, implne_ntation                                                  22/89
:Payroll System                                   4   M: PMQ/   :System design. devlopme_nt. impluentut;ein                   12/90
:Forecast Budgeting                         :    2    FP/lCFP Systes design, developent, implesmntation                   6/91-22/91
:C. Equipuent/Furniture                     :
Computer Equipmnt for DCFP
:Office Equipment
Contirmed Support to the Personnel Bnh :Coamputer Equipment for Pereonnl Bank l                                                                                         to S/90
:Office Equipment for Pereonnel Bank                                                                                        to 6/90
:0. Training Activities                           S
:Training Policy Developmnt                       2             :In Service Training Policy end Action Prores              by 12/89
Profem ionel skill- deIvelpomnt in KCS           S
:E. Operating Ce ts
:  :                                  ------:       -_--   ______:  ________                      --_____--       ~   ~~~~~~~~~~      ~    ~~~~~ :- -----------
:Imintenncne of Computer Equipment
:Minor Office Rehabilitation MMC and Po
Operation of the Personnel Oank



Annex I
Page S of I
CEdMAL AMICAN RfetLXC
17-Nev-88                                                  FWONOFIC IW4NGNT PROJErT
Pereon :PResponsi-                    Objectives                          Sterting vote/
Project Component                    Type of Assistance/Activity         :mnth    bi I ity                    Expected Renults                    Iopl_mnttion Period
:;   PARASTATAL EflEPISE SBTR   tF:M
:Intitutional Support to the High        *a. Long-Term Experts                             6
Comission reeponsible for Oublic                 ----:--_----____---
:Enterpri-e                              :PE Sector Expert                                12       Mc    :Puruit af rehabilitation. liiquidetion. ed             Jon - Dec  1989
24            :privatization esseree; reform of legal             (Aeeistence streteg  to
nsnd institutional freseeork of PE sector          be reviewed at end 196):
B8. Short-Term Conultents                        35
:Privatization activities                                M FC    Privatization of 8 enterprises in 1989-91                 19991
:Legal ond Accounting Aesietence                 10      HC     prepermtion Of rehabi I itetion plane for 4                19t9-91
Rehabilitation Sector end of PE-                 25      HC    :enterprie; certified acceunto for 7 PEs;                   1969-91
:implesentation of revised legal freaaork;                  1989
:tsriff studies; other privatization prop ect
:C. Equip_ent/Furniture
:                             ~~~~~~ ~~                                                  ~~:--- -  ---  - - - -: 
:Coeputer Equipment                                      M HC
:lffice Equipment                               -        HC
:D. Training Activi ti oo                        12
:Staff of the High Commiesion            :Study of Training Need                           2       NC    :Training Proogr   to IDa                                    12/8  
:Implementation of Training Program              10      HC    :Implementation of training activities in                   1O9/091
:  :  :  :p:priority are"
:E. Operating Costs
:Rehabilitetion of Secretariat                  -        HC
DIprovement of Archive.                                 M HC



Annex I
Page 6 of 7
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPJLOIC
leNew-88                            ~ECMNIC MAMAQ lr PRDJET
-Person :Reeponoi-                    Objectves                            Starting Dato/
Project Component                      Type of Ae;stance,/Activity          :onth      b i ity                  Expocted Relb-                   :      iementation Period
:- -------  - --:--- - -- -_-:--_---- - --_  ----   -                  ---:- ------ -
SV PRDMOTIN OF THE PRIVATE SETDR
.Support to the institution  of Govern-  :A. Long-Term Experte                               48
:_ent responsible for promoting private                                                                                                             -----------_ _
and awl I-ecalo enterprise  ector          Adviser to Minister of Comerce                   24      tCI    :Definition of institautional roles; formulation            198940
:development.   Implmntation of the                                                                         :of a private oectos prom otion policy; coordin-
Aeieted Vol itary DOparture Progra                                                                        :ation of Government etion  in SIE sector
:(AVDP) through support to CAREP           :Advser to Director of CAFEP                      24      4CI    :Organizationi ef CAE  as advisory unit to                  1969-90
:.facilitate redeployment of deperti ng c; il
. :servnts into the private sector
:8. Short-Tarm Consultante                        62
:                               ~~~~~~~~~~:--                            -- ---   -- -- - -- -  _- ------ -  ___ -_ _ -_        _ _   _   __-_                _
:Studies and short-tare activities         :Creation of  0One-StopO Investment Offico         4     MCI    :Ers  regulatory frassori; encorag  investment:               6/89
:Study of SHE system                               4     MCI                                                                 9/89
:Study of Banking/Credit sywt-n                    2     MCI                                                                 S/90
Other Studioc                                     4     MCI                                                      :1969/91
:Local Consultants for CARE?                      48    CAEP   :Advimory Services to departing civil servants                1969/90
C. Equipment/Furniture
:~~~~~~~~~~~~- - -    ---                                --   -    ---- -  :---    --- ---_- -- -___------          __                            :  _ _ - - 
:Computer Equipment for CAREP                           CAREP
*Of;ic* Equipment for CARtEP                            CAEP
:D. Training Activities                            4
:Training/Orientstion for CAIEP                    4             :Provid- services to departing civil sorants                1919/90
:to facilitate preparation of viablo projecto
:E. Operating Coete
Office Rshsb;litation for CAfP:



Akmne I
Pago 7 of 7
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPLIC
ld-14v-,                                                      ECONlIC  1BEE   PROJET
:P.reon :Reaponai-                     Objictives                          Starting D.t./
:          Project Coeonent                       Type of Aei-tence/Activity             monthe    bility                   Expected R_ult Is                   Implementation Period
:V BNC NO ST STWIE:
:B. Short-Term Consultants                       125
Consultents Services for Econoeic. Sector.:   12         SEP    :Iproved planning, and preparation of 4uvelop-              19099
:Feaeibility, and Detailed Engineering                          _:mnt projects. in line with _ectaral mn  econ-
:Studies. Program of Studi_e to be deter-                        :omiC priorities; improvemnt of the quali$4 of
mined on the basis of priorities                                -.the PIP portfolio for aubaiaion to external
masocinted with definition of the PIP and                       :donors
-formulation of 1991-98 development plan
:VI PJET MANAGEMET U1IT
:Strengthening of Project  nng_ement      :B. Short-Term Consultants                          3
:Capacity                                                                                              ___ - -----------                                       __________
:mudit of project accounts                         S     FM                                                             Annually: April
:C. Equipment/Furn;tujre/Vehicle l-
~~~~~~~~~~~:-                       - - - - - - - -  -  -- --    -  -- - -  -   ---    ---  ---   -- --- -: - --- - - -          -----     
Ceoputer Equipmnt
:Vehicle
:0. Training Activities
:                              ~~~                                                         ~     ~~~~~:-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  -- - -  -- - -- -  ----  ---  -- --- - - - - -:
:Training for Staff of P1.                               P1J    :computerizad projct menagemnt informtion                  3/89 - 1991
:E. Operating Costs
:  :---------------  -  --:-------------------- -----                                                              :  -------
:Office Operating Costs                      .1969



- 39 -
17-Nov-8S
CEiNRAL AFRICAN RPU8C  -  ECONOMIC MANAGBENT PROJECT                    Annex II
PROJECT COSTS BY COMOENT
US  '000)
Short-   E4uipment  Incromen-                                                 (3)
Resident     Term    Furniture  tav  Oper-                         Contin-    Total      Total
Component            Expert.  Consultante A Vehicles sting Costs  Training   Bo" Coat.  g nein     Coats      coat.
I:   MACRO MANAOGEET             ,S9.2       2,663        873       1,010      1.21       9.159      811      9,970    60.1%
II:  CVIL SRVICE REFORH             283        330        295         182         79       1,170      116      1,285      7.71
III: STATE ENTERPRISE REFORM        425        8Sd         1S          23        189       1.234      106       1,389     8.1V
IV:  PRIVATE SECTOR PROMOTION       867        31S         29         466         63       1,439      124       1,868     9.43
V:   ECONOMIC SECTOR STUDIES          0      2,000          0           0          0       2,000      170      2,170    13.1S
VI:  PROJECT MANAElENT UNIT           0         47         34         14S         24         261       2S        274      1.71
BASE COSTS                  4,667      8,939         944      1,827       1,878     16.283
Physical Contingenctee        0          0          47          0          0          47
Prico Contingencies         397         NO0         84        1i5         160      1,302
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS          8,064       8.44S      1,076      1,982       2,03S     16,602    1.349      1S,602   100.011



- 40 -
Annex III
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
ECONOMIC MANAGEUENT PROJECT
PROPOSED FINANCING PLAN (IN USS THOUSANDS)
--------------------------------------------------------------__-------------_
Total
Component               Cost   Government    IDA        UNDP
I:   MACRO MANAGEMENT                 9,970       668      7,802      2,000
II:  CIVIL SERVICE REFORM             1,286       126      1,160
III:  STATE ENTERPRISE REFORM         1,889        18      1,827
IV:  PRIVATE SECTOR PROMOTION         1,688       608      1,060
V:   ECONOMIC SECTOR STUDIES          2,170         0      2,170
VI:  PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT            274        59        216
TOTAL COSTS                    16,602     1,889    18,28&       2,000
-------------------o---Total---Financin-----:-1-----0----------79.------12---_
Percent of Total Financing:     lOO.OX      8.2X      79.7X      12.OX



Structure actuele du SEP Ijui 1988)
Effci, sitat ecnqes
Seer6taire d'Etat
| ~DAF                                                     Cabi l
kocumentation
Cordiation                                                                      I e
r~                               1CMi0B 
Natale du Pla                          Planification                         Extdrieures
Centrale,des
swiget    ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~~ICelhule Jw'idiqueI
I___________                  I  ~ sec AT  4 aeteCR
IAT4CE
Bueau Technique de PlanlficatiUo
5EN+2AS 1AT                7
4 AT Assistants    nEectif nationaux res 
3 CM Charg6s de mission         x
5 EN Experts nationaux          H
7 CE Charg6s d'6tude
2 AST Assistants
17



SEP: structure propos6e, effectifs nationaux et appui op6rationnel
.    ~~~iiItr          I        
particulier
Service                Coordlaat.ur               Dkmetlooi dt.
Informatique                du PNM                b De       son
dekbfil
.                                    -'-'-    I  -         -          ~~~~~~~~~1CM
v m PW                         D>ivon Prq_ eV                                                      Is _8CC
ipDr                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 AT
3 VSNA
5 VNU
CeTlul. planification du        -Cellule d6veloppemnt
d6veloppement 6conomi-            rur-l
quo                                                                -Cellule coop6rotion bilb-
-Cellule infrastructure.             Urals
Celule plaification du            6conomiquem
d6veloppement social                                                -Celule ceeperation n           CN  Codinateur natiorrl
-Cellule industris                   tilat6re                      CM  Charg s de mission
Cellule d6veloppement                                                                               cc  Chefd ceflul.
r6gional                         -Cellule infrastructures            Cellule coop6ration ONG       CE: Charg6s d'dtude
lcCm                    cociale~Ceflule gestien do lass                                  AT: Asistants technique.                  x
4CE                        Cellule programme et               tance tehnique etde do
2AT                        budget dinveatiserment             formations & rVeztrieur
4 CM                             1CU
5CC                              6CC
8CE                              8CE
2 AT                             I AT
_    _ _ _ _ __p_dotDI8DP,DIE                                         A      b      -      int DSIN  DP P, DIRE
ICN                                                                    16AT etV          6 AT
4CM          3 CM
16 CC        13 CC
29CE         ISCE
a            3



SEP: structure proposee et appui op6rationnel,
d6veloppement, formation
Ia.,. Secr6tauiszrativee
.,lier            Fancikre
(2 Hz x mo________Diectam  Enma
I                                        d.~~~~~~~~~~heionSbAbdqe
(2 AT)
Celuiu  jaicatin dui             -Cfule  VPCellule juridique
PFveOMPImet 6conomi-            rural
quo (IAT)                       FCellule coopdration bila-
_    CdIale,(d T                     6conomiques __
que~~soa (1 ATT)                                                 CeSlMe aaio   b-
-Cdhzle inustri                     tilat6l
r6gional                          Cellule irstrucures              -Cellulu coop6ratiam ONG                            5
(12 H x mois cosulting )          sociales
(3 u6min_fres                                                        c (eis gesti  de rassis (1 AT)
~Celhle program    et (1 AT             technieee et des
budget d'ivesusement (1 AT)       formations & l'ezt6rieur
(30 H x maa consumting })         (13 H z mois consulting)
(8 u6ninaires *)                  (4 a6minai)
t) Ranamust PAGE



DGSEE: organigramme proposM
Direction G6n6rale
|     Secrbtariat                  -r- iv
I Service infonnatique                                             Servc carographie
:Directon de la -                      Direction des Slatistiques                  Direction dcs Statistiques
Direction de Ia                                                P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dmagraiphiq'ues et
Synthese Economique                            Economiques
.. .__  _  _ _-
Conptabiit    at                                Produaction      | Dlographique
. PriPrimaire                                                                           Indicateurs statisti-
. Secondaire                                Industrielle                                ques
. Tertiaire                                 Autres                                      Projection demogra-
Conjoncture   .chags
. Analyse et comptes                        Commerce ext6rieur                          Emploi
provisoires                                Echanges interieurs                         Education
. Enqu8tes conjoncture                                                                  Sante
Rdgional                                     Prix
D6tail, gros



45 -                                         ANNEX IV.3
MPCI : structure propos6e et appuI
operationnel, developpement et formation
Ministre|
(2 ezprt info)
Inspection
Centrale                              _Cabinet.
(1 .onmlflr)
(4 H z mobn =MnUln 0)
Serdariat d3tat
SecAterist dEtat                                       du Plan et de In
au Budget                                            Coopeaffon
Internationale
i    =We conutina)
(2  uiuH sX )
1 eerdtariat
| aneral
_           Dh_e_tion   *        Diretbon                                 Direwtion
Persnel.n ot des      G4n6MI du           Gen6ralede           Trsorrie             e6nerale der
dBudgetau                                    G4I Dou ede  Gnerale  Imp8a et
ContrOle financier  D|oDro Indir                                 Domaines
(  H a m_l  _mmig *)  (1 eo_nuw fin.)        (a douneu)           (1 onmller)         (1 anuer)
(2 sidnele  )   (IN Hz amob eonsulftg C1)  (1 coumia)        (1 eptqtI .)         (Iexpuu "p.)
(6 aime *)         (1 ezpet Bouds)    (1 expet 2ecMe.)      (1 xpet info.)
(1 expc o)                          (40 H z mob consuti  )
(1 "Pat inb.)
O PMamwm*PAG.



- 46 -
ANNEX IV.4 1
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
MACROECONOMIC MANAGEMENT: NATURE AND DURATION OF EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
SUMMARY OF INPUTS
of which        X
Type of Assistance                   Volume           EMP         EMP
---------------------------------------------------------------------__------__---------
:1. Investment Planning and Programing
:- ----------- ----------------------------
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:Long Term Operational Support (MY)                      52              6        11.5b:
:Short-Term Consulting: System  Development (MY)          5              4        60.03X
aTraining (Number of Workshops)                          15             11        78.83:
:II. Financial and Budgotary Managwent
:Long Term Operational Support (MY)                      46             -          OOX:
:Short-Term Consulting: Systems Dovolopment (MY)         17             14        62.4X:
of which    International                         (5)            (5)      100.0%:
-                 NNational                             (12)            (9)       75.0X:
:Train!ng (Number of Workehops)                          10             10       100.0X:
:                                                                                      :
:III. Debt Management
:Long Term Operatlonal Support (MY)                       1              1       100.0X:
:Short-Term System Development (MY)                     0.6            0.6       100.0X:



- 47 -
ANNEX IV .4
CAR: ECONOMIC MANAEPENT PROJECT
IACROECONOMIC  ANAGSEMENT
ACTION PROGRAN AND EXTERNAL INPUTS
A.  INVESTIENT PLANNING AND PROGRAMMING
EXTERNAL INPUTS
AREAIACTION PROGRAN                       NINISTRY          Long-Turn TA (ay)                   Short-tere Consulting  ms)
National     Int'l           Source
1. Development of Statistical Dase                SEP
. Reestablish stats office                                         I econ statistician ISD) 3aY         -             -              FAC
. Develop socio econosic data base and                             I statistician (OS)(SD) 30y          -             -              FAC
analytical capability                                            7 asst statisticians (OS)15y         -             -              FAC, UNDP
2. Macro conoeic and Social Planning             SEP
. Establish macroeconomic unit                                     I eacrotconomist IOS; 30Y            -             -              IDA
. Establish social dvvt unit                                       : sociodevt  conomist (OSsmy         -             -              UNDP
, Devlop forecasting, planning tools                                                                    -             12um (SD)      IDA
train staff                                                                                           -             3 workshops
3. Investmnt Programming, sectoral prograning
* Strengthen projects & prograns dept            SEP               I planning expert (0I) 3 my          -             -              IDA
 Improve PSIP and budget flows                  SEP               I fin expert (OS) 3em                -             -              FAC
 Create planning units vith PSIP,               Rural Dtvt        2 agric sector spec (OS) 3ey         -             -              FAC
projct evaluation, suctorl analysis            Rural Devt        I project/prog. expert (0S)3ey       -             -              UNDP
capability. Implement new systems              Transport, P4    I projict/prog expert (OS) 3my        -             -              FAC
and links with SEP                             Health            I sector/invest expert (OS) 3ey    -               -              UNDP
Education         I sector/invnt expurt (OS) 2ey    -               -              UNDP
 Consolidate PSIP, budgeting                    SEP, Line Min.                                         -             14m (SD)       IDA
eechanisel install system; train users                                                                              2 workshops   IDA
Develop; install comprehensive project          SEP, Line lin.                                                       14m  (SD)      IDA
eonitoring systes, train users                                                                                      2 workshops   IDA
J Develop, apply project evaluation              SEP, Line lin.                                                       2um (SD)       IDA
methodology                                                                                                         4 workshops   IDA
4. Technical Assistance Coordination             SEP
. Create TA coordination office                                    I TA administrator (OS) 3ey          -             -              UNDP
. Develop TA policy, aid info system,                                                                                 6nm (SD)       UNOP
install; train users                                                                                                2 workshops   UNOP
. Develop training policy, info system                                                                  -             tu  (SD)       UNDP
install; train users                                                                                                2 workshops   UNDP
5. Component Monitoring                          2-m (SD)                                                                            IDA
TOTAL                                                           20 experts, (7 volunteers)           -             57u,
1May volunteers)                                  15 workshops
52 my (624 so)                                    (bmy)
S. FINANCIAL AND AR1IARY MANAEMNENT
1. Policy Waking, loplementation
. Ieplment adjustment program                    CABINET           I public fin specialist 1S0130y    -               -              IDA
. Ipronve  FPCI coordination                     CABINET           1 public fin specialist (O1S3my
. Install financial menitoring systeeX           CABINET           -                                    4mISID)    4momlSD)          IDA
train staff                                                      _                                                  2 workshops  I1a



- 48 -
ANNEX IV.4
EXTERNAL INPUTS
AREA/ACTION PROARAM                        MINISTRY           Long-Term TA (my)                    Short-tere Consulting (as)
National      Int'l           Source
2. Budgetary, Financial Control
. Manage budgetary process                         CABINET           I public fin specialist (OSlImy    -                 -              FAC
. Execute financial control                        Budget, Fin       I fin controller (OS  3ey              -             -              FAC
Improve budget preparation, execution            Budget, Fin       -                                      Beell (SD)   Best (SD)       IDA
procedures, system; train staff                                    -                                                    3 workshops   IDA
. Isprove programming, control of                  Budget, Fin       -                                      35sell (SD)  7asm  (SD)      IDA
recurrent expenditures; train staff                                                                                     2 workshops   IDA
. Reform payroll managemnt                         Budget, Fin       -                                      25mell (SD)  9msl (SD)       IDA
3. Revenue Collection
 Strengthen tax administration dept              Tax admin          I public fin specialist (0S)3sy    -                 -              Ft
 Strengthen collection/recovery                   Treasury          1 technical expert (OS) 3sy            -             -              f_
 Implement improved tax adsin systes              Tax admin         I 0IM expert (SDI 3my                 -              -              FAC
and procedures, train stdff                      Tax admin          I inforeatics expert (SD) 3ey         1O10SS(SD)   -               FAC
 Improve custoss collections                      Customs Dept      8 customs officers (OS) Say           -              -              FAC
 Reduce fraud                                     Customs Dept      1 technical expert (OS) 3my            -             -              FAC
 StrengtUz customs administration                 Customs Dept      I public fin expert (OS) 3ey           -             -              FAC
 install nen computerized customs                 Customs Dept      I &D1 specialist (SD) 3ey              -             -              FAC
administration system; train users                                 I inforeatics expert (SD) OSey    -                 -              FAC
4. Public Resniurce Accounting
 Improve departmental administration              Treasury          I public fin specialist (OS) 3ey   -                 -              FAC
. Manage accounting system                         Treasury           I public accountant (OS) 3ev          -             -              FAC
 Develop, install, improved computerized          Treasury          -                                     35eell (SD)  Beat (SD)        IDA
accounting systes, train staff                                                                                          I workshop
5. Personnel Management
Update database, procedures                      Personnel         -                                      -             10e ISD)       IDA
. Develop, install new personnel                   Personnel         -                                      -             lOee (SD)      IDA
manage ment system, train staff                                                                                         2 workshops
lple ment reorganization plan                  CABINET            -                                     -               o             IDA
TOTAL                                                           22 experts; 45.5 my                   147 me         58msn
0546m)                          112ev)        10 workshoos
(5mY I
C. EXTERNAL DEBT MANAGEMENT
Improve CAADE functioning                       CAADE              I debt agst specialist (OS) lev    -                -               IDA
Install debt monitoring system,                  CAADE             -                                     -              6ae (SD)       IDA
improved acc. system, train staff
na - man-months
ay - man-years
OS - operational support
SD - Systems development
I -  Team consisting of one organization and sethods specialist, one financial auditor, one public finance expert, and a civil service exper
St - Computer prograssers



EXTERNAL FROGRAM FINANCIN6
1. D. A. iENF)                           U. N. D. F.                               F. A. C.
A.  INVESTMENT FLANNIN6,                                                                    _           _      __   __                _       __       _
PROSRANMING                            Lanq-Tera  ST Consultina  Iraining   Lona-Term  ST Consultinq  Traininq   Lonq-Tera  ST Consultina  Trainina
TA       Intl. Natl.  Workshop           TA       Intl. Nat 1.  Workshog           TA       Int 1. Nat I   Wortshop
(avy         (me)                        favi           isli                       (lmy          ijci
1.  Develocment of Statistical Base             -          -      -          -            9               -              -          12
2    acroecononic Plannina                      3           12    -           3           3               -              -           -
3.  Investment Proorassina                      3          30    -           8                            -              -           1-
4.  Technical Assistance Coord.                 -            -     -         -            3               12             4           -
5.  Nonitorinq Svstem                           -            2     -          -           - s                            -           -         -       -         -
SUB-TOTAL                              6           44     -          11          24              12             4           24
B. FINANCIAL AND
BUDGETARY MANAGEMENT
1.  Policv makinq, impleaentation               -             4      4         2           -               -             -           3
2.  Budgetary, Sovernment Control               -            24    68          5           -               -             -           4
3.  Revenue Collection                          -             -    -           -           -                                        45          -      40 
4.  Public Resource Accounting                  -             8    35          1           -               -             -           2           -      -          -
5.  Personnel Management                        -            22    -           2           -               -             -           -           -       -         -
SUB-TOTAL                              -            58    107        10           -               -             -          54           -       40        -
C.  EXTERNAL DEBT NANAGEMENT                      I           b                 -             -           -              -           -         -              -
TOTAL                                   7           108   107         21          24               12           4          78                  40         -



- 50 -
ANNEX IV.5 1
CENRA AFRICAN REPWELIC
ECONOMIC MAUWYE3ENT PROJECT
MACROECONOMIC MANAGEMENT : NATURE, VOLIE,
AND W RATION Or EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
Investment Plamlng and Progralng: Long Term Operational Support
Experts             :         :  Man   :  of
:Duratl  : Months  : whIch
:       Department        :No.  :         Positlon         :1989/91 : (mm)   :  EMP
SEP: Statistical Office  :
:EconomIc Analysis Dlvislon:    1 :Economlst/Statisticlan     3 Yrs  :      36      -
:EconomIc Statistics Dlv   :   1 :Statisticlan                3 Yrs  :      36      -
:   7 :Assistant Statisticians   : 3 Yrs  :    180       -
SEP            :
Plan and Strategles Ulv  :   1 :Soclo. Devt. Economist    : 3 Yrs  :      36:   -
1:Macroeconomist               : 3Yrs  :       36:       38:
:Projects/Programs Dlvislon:    1 :Planning Economlst      * 3 Yrs  .       36 *      36
1 :Flnanclal Expert         : 3 Yrs          38:    -
:External RelatIons Dlv    :   1 :TA Managrment Expert        3 Yrs  :      36 :   -
Technical Ministries   :     :
Rural Development         2 :Ag Sector Speclailsts        3 Yrs        72 :   -
1 - ProJectVPrograu Economist:  3 Yrs  :     36 :   -
Transport/PtbiIc Works  *   1 :Sectoral Econowmst
-         Health          :   1 :Sectoral/investment Expert: 3 Yrs  :       36 :   -
-       Educat Ion             1 :Sectoral/investIfent Expert: 2 Yrs  :     48      -
:TOTAL OPERATIONAL SUPPORT    20                                           624:       72:
52 y      6 my:



- 51 -
ANNEX IV.5 2
CEDNTRL AFRICAN REPULIC
E(ONO4IC MAUNMEENT PROJECT
MACROECONOMIC MAAGEENT : NAtURE, VOLUWME.
AND MIRATION OF EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
Investment Plamwing and Programfin: Short-Tera Output Consultirg
Man Monthe per Year   : of   :
: .hlch :
Cycle         ;     System;                1989: 1990 :1991 :TOTAL : EMP  :
Plamlng of  :Macroeconloul Planinig          :      :
:Soclal and Econ- :MDdellng                          4:   4:   4:   12:   12:
:omic Development:                               :    :
:Sectoral Develop-:PtbAlc Inmvestment Project                 :          :
:ment Actlons:  :ProgrammingSyst              :     :      :   2:   14:   14:
Investment    :                              :      :
Programming:                                 :      :      :
:Project nMitorlngWosteo       ;   6:    6;    2:   14:    14:
:EvalhtIon Md Study of Into-  :       :      :
:gratlon of thescSysteW s      :      :      :   2:    2:       2:
:Management of TA :Information Systoe and Data    :     :
-an BEternal  :Base on Tect'ical Assistanc    :   6:          :      :   6:    -:
Training     :                              :      :
:I.nformatIon Syste and  ata    :     :      :      :     :
-:.w  on Ext     'r;ns r  .isaie;            ;      ;
External    :Short-Ters Assletance to the   :      :      :
Assistanc     :Legal ltnit                   : 0.5:  0.5:         :   1:    -
:Actlon Progra Monitorlng Sys  :   1:  0.5:  0.5:    2:         2:
:TOTAL CONSULTING SUPPORT (umn mths)             :29.5:   17: 10.5:   57:   44:



-  52  -
ANNEX IV.5 3
CENTRAL AFRICAN REBLKIC
ECONOMIC MANUA9EENT PROJECT
MARECONOMIC MANW   ENT: NATURE, VOL1WE,
AND DUJATION OF EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
Investment Plaming and Programlng: Suwort to Training
*                :                               :     Nusber of Slnars    : of    :
Cycle      :                                                           :which :
:(DlvIsion of SEP):     Technilcal Seminars       :1989 :1990 :1991 :TOTAL : EMP  :
:PlannIng of Eoon-:Strategles                     :   1:       :      :   1:       1:
: omic and Soclal :
:Development (OPS):Macroecornoilc Plaming             1    :          :   1:       1:
:1991-5 Oevelpsent Plan                    1    :        1:      1:
:Sectoral BeveIoP-:EStabIIsIMent of tecwilcal and
* ment ActIons:  :economlc programming system for:
-  Investment    :proJects and programs          :
-  Programming       -System DeLan                    1    :          :   1:       1:
-  impleentation, Training:        :   1:             1:      1:
:Development of Multl-Resource
:fInanclal management system for:
*                :the Pbi lc Investment Program  :             :
A  -  System Desi I                 1g:      :      :   1:       1:
-  Implementatlon, Training:       :   1:        :   1:      1:
:Methodology for ProJect
E:vaiuatIn:                    :      : o
:                : -  Resrrent Cost Calculation:    2:         :           2:      2:
- Related Techical Subjects:    2:          :      :   2:      2:
:  .nd TralnIng :Informatlon System and Data              :      :       :
:Mnagement (ORE) :Base an TA                     :      :
:                :  -  Policy Fornulatlm         :   1:        :      :   1:    -
m- lplementatlon, Tralning:    1:         :      :   1:    -
:Informatlon System and Data          :
:                :Base an External Tralning      :      :      :
:                :  - Pollcy Formulatloi         :      :   1:        :   1:    -
:                :  -  Implesentatlin, Training :       :   1:        :   1:    -
:TOTAL SPRT TO TRAINING IN SEP                   :  10:    5:    0:   15:    11:



- 53 -
ANNEX IV.8 1
CEN1RAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
ECON(MIC MWNA3MENT PROJECT
MACROECONOMIC YMAGA&ENT : NATURE, VOLLUE,
AND DURATION OF EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
Flnancial, Budgetary and Debt Management: Operatiloal Suwport
:  Man   :  of
:*       : Mmnths  : which:
;       Department        ; No.           Positlon         :Duratlon : (m)   :  EMP
:        Cabinet                1:Senior Adviser           : 3 Yr   :      38 :   -
1:SAL Adviser              : 3 Yre  :      38 :   -
:                         :           1  B Adviser         : 1 Yr   :      12 :   -
:MFPCI: Tax Administration:    1 :Tax Admin Adviser        : 3 Yrs  :      38 :   -
:      Directorate            1 :0 & M Speclailst          : 3 Yrs         38 :   -
1:CoXputer Speciallst      : 3 Yrs  :      38 :   -
: MFPCI: E>SFa     rwn    :   1 :Fl     al Cntroller       : 3Yrs  :       3:   -
D iDrectorat ne           :                         :         :        :
:                -. .     :-     :                         :::                         -
:MFPCI: Customs Dlrectorate:    1 :Custoos Adviser         : 3 Yrs  :      38:   -
:0 & M Speciallst         : 3 Yrs  :       38:   -
:1Customs Fraud Expert     : I Yr   :       6:    -
1 :Computer Speciallst        : 3 Yrs  :       3B:   -
:     :Customs Collection Offcrs : 3 Yrs  :      98:    -
IFPCi: TreayrY      :   1 :Treasury Atv'iser         * 3Yrs  :       38:    -
I :1Pbilc Accounts Expert    : 3 Yrs  :     38:   -
:   1 Pbiic Finance Specialist : 3 Yrs  :        38:   -
:         CAADE           :   1 :Debt Expert               : 1Yr   :       12 :      12:
:TOTAL LONG-TEN SUPPORT      23:                           :        :    558 :       12:
:  :  :                          :         :     m 4 :    1   :



- 54 -
ANNEX IV.6 2
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
ECOXNOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
MAROECONOMIC MANAGEMENT  NATURE, VOLUdE,
AND OllATION OF EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
Flnaneial, BWdgetary and Debt Management: Systems Development
Volume In Mbths Per Year: of
:uhlch:
SysteTVArea              Activity              1989  1990  1991 :TOTAL :EP
Castoms    :Computerization                     40                   40      -
Budget     :Dagnostie Study of Required
Preparatlon  :Modifications to System             2                   2       2
and Monitorlrg
:Detalled Conceptlon of New
System and Organizatlon            2      4            6       6
:System Deslgn, Computerizatlon
:and liplementation                        8: 8         .8      8
PubIIc Aceowuts :DiagnostIc Study                   1                   1       1
:Detalled Ccxnptlon                 1      5     1      7       7
:implementation, Coxiterizatlon:          15    20    35       35
:Recurrent Exver- Dlag osti  Study                  1                    1       1
dltures (matls) :
:Detalled Carmcptlon                1      4     1      6       6
:Implementatlon, Comguterizatlon:         15    20    35       35
:Recurrent Bxe- :Dlagnostic Study                :   1:       :      :   1:       1:
WdItures (salaries:                              :      :     :
,wages, payroll) :Detalled Cnceptlon             :   1:    6:    1:    8:         8:
:aplementatlon, Computer,zation:          15 *  10 .  25 *   25
Debt Mnagemet :Stre ning Aointing and   :             :      :
:   :Dbt Megnt System          :   6:        :       :   6:     6:
:  Monitoring    :D otc Stu:   1:                             :      :   1:       1:
:    System      :
:SystemDesign                       3:       :          3       3
:Iplementation (m )            :      :   2:    2:    4:        4:
:     iWMn       :lIpleentatlon Restruc. Plan   :   2:        :      :   2:       2:
:   Resorce      :                               :     :      :
::date Info. BaSe/Procecres   :  10:         :      :  10:    10:
:Personnel Managment System    *      *  10 *       *  10 *   10
:TOTAL CNSIUTING                                    72:  84:  55: 211:   171:
:of Phich: InternatIoal Consulting 64 m  5 my)                         19 my 14 m:
:         National ConsultIng (9) 147 o (2 y)



- 55 -
ANNEX IV.6 3
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
ECONOMIC 1AANAGEMENT PROJECT
MACROECONOMIC WANEMENT : NATURE, VOLKUE,
AND DRATION OF EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
Financial, BuKgetary and Debt Mgnagement: Support to Training
Nunb erof SemInars    : of
: whlch:
System/Area           Techical Seminar        :1989 :1990: 1991  ITOTAL : EMP
Customs     :ImpIementatlon SYDONIA System                         tbd
Taxes      :ImP IeentatIon of New Systems         :      :      : tbd
:    Budget      :Procecures for Budget Prepar-  :      :      :
:atlonandMonitoring                 1:    1:    1:    3:    3:
Rewrrent   :Procedures, ocueflnts           :   1:        :      :   1:      1:
Expenditures   :
:CoapWter Syste                 :     :   1:        :   1:       1:
Accounting    :Management Infornatlon Syste      :        1    :       1:      1:
Mon I torIng    :Seminar on Content                1:       :      :   1:       1:
System
:                :InPlementation and Interpre-   :      :      :
:tatlon of Reslts                          1:       :   1:       1:
:     Humanm     :Rules and Techilques of        :
Resources    :Perswonri     gmt                   t:       .           1: 
*liPiementation of Persolsl                  :
:                . 4Management Systca            :      :   1:        :   1:       1:
:TOTAL SIPRT TO TRAINING                              4:    5:    1:   10:    10:



- 56 -
Annex V
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
THE DIAMOND SECTOR
I.          Introduction
1.          Diamond mining constitutes an important sector of economic activity
in the Central African Republic, accounting for about 39 percent of the value
of exports in 1987, and providing employment for about 35,000 artisanal diggers.
As part of the structural adjustment program, the Government has sought to
increase the volume and unit value of diamond exports and to encourage operators
to use the official production and export channels. Under SAL II, the Government
intends to pursue these activities by enacting legislation to lower export
taxation, to reinforce the surveillance brigades (brigades minieres), to
strengthen the valuation commission (Bureau d'Evaluation), to step up the
training of evaluators, and to reinforce capacity to plan mining sector activity
and to promote greater private investment in the sector.
II.         Background to the Sector
2.          Extensive low-grade deposits of alluvial diamonds exist in rivers,
streams, and terraces in the central areas of the East and West of the country.
These are currently being mined by some 35,000 local diggers or artisans and by
a few samll local mining companies. The deposits represent a dwindling resource,
and production must tend to decline as the areas with the best grades are mined
out. The diggers operate with very simple tools and technology, with little
prospecting, removing overburden and recovering diamondifercus gravels with
buckets and spades.   The gravels are then washed on simple jigs and the
concentrate is then hand picked for diamonds. Such prospecting as there is is
done by a sounding rod: more often than not holes are merely dug in the proximity
of previous successful diggings. The process might be termed subsistence mining.
3.          Production in 1987 was over 400,000 carats, with exports valued at
US$ 43.0 million. The artisans are often financed by intermediaries known as
collectors, of whom there are 135, who buy the production from artisans and sell
it on to the four buying offices that are licensed to export to the world market.
In turn, the buying offices also finance the collectors. License fees are paid
by the collectors and the buying offices to secure the right to operate.
III.        Government Revenues from the Sector
4.          The main Government revenue from the sector arises from a 12 percent
export tax, a rate of taxation that is high in comparison with taxes levied in
other diamond exporting countries. Artisans and collectors are exempt irom tax,
and in practice none is paid by the buying offices as their profits are made
abroad. The export tax was reduced from 20 percent to 14 percent in 1984, and
to 12 percent in 1985. It is difficult to evaluate the impact of these changes,
as there are no reliable figures for the amount of smuggling that takes place,
and because firm information on the impact of price increases on production,



- 57 -
itself s.-bject to composition and volume variations, is also difficult to obtain.
Exports from CAR in the 1982-88 period are presented in Table 1 below.
Table 1: CAR Diamond Exports 1982-86
Year        Carats                Value           Tax Paid          Value
----(CFAF million)----         (US$m)
1982        264,834               8,413.0         1,215.0              25.6
1983        282,506               9,818.0         1,561.0              25.7
1984        326,408              12,847.0         1,577.0              29.4
1985        342,654              13,452.0         1,441.0              29.6
1986        353,166              11,700.0         1,253.0              33.6
1987        408,960              14,414.0         1,544.0              47.9
1988 (*)    195,380               8,112.0           869.0             25.3
(*)  First six months
Note: Values Include Export Tax
Source: Ministry of Economy and Finance and Bureau d'Evaluation data.
5.          Since the end of 1985, Central Selling Office (CSO) prices have
risen by 43 percent, whereas the average export p.ice of CAR production has
risen by 66 percent; this suggests that exports are being valued at more
realistic levels than previously.
IV.         Diamond Valuation
6.          Valuation of diamonds cannot be precise, and an accuracy of +/- 5
percent is expected, although variances can be far greater when large stones
are involved.  The experts financed under the TA II Project have developed a
broad basic assortment for the use of the valuation office in Bangui, which has
only 25 categories for diamonds below 5 carats. The prices applied to these
categories are based on the average prices for the type and proportion of goods
normally presented for export in Bangui, and this provides a reasonable basis
for valuation, though not one that is within the normal bounds for valuing
accuracy. The Government posts prices based on this assortment, and the buying
offices must use this assortment and a minimum of the posted prices when
submitting goods for valuation prior to export. Posted prices are estimated to
be set at some 25 percent below the current open market prices. Nonetheless,
implementation of the valuation system appears to have eliminated an
undervaluation of about 20 percent, and valuations can be carried out quickly.
While the present valuation system is an improvement over what existed before,
and has, along with other measures to improve collection, contributed to
increasing the revenues accruing to the Government from this sector, it could
be subject to manipulation by exporters, and consequently detrimental to
valuation system and to set a more solid basis for diamond valuation in the
future.
7.          Central African valuers have been trained in the use of this
assortment, although the development and implementation of a more extensive and
more accurate valuation system will require further training of Central African



- 58 -
valuers. Valuers receive a bonus based on the amount of tax collected, which
provides a usefil incentive to them and discourages pressure for low valuation
from exporters.
8.          Collectors and buying offices must keep a record of their purchases
and sales, and provide duplicate copies of their purchases to the Department of
Minee in the Ministry of Energy and Mines. Under the supervision of the IDA-
financed resident adviser, these documents are analyzed by the valuers; this
analysis highlights any variation between purchases and sales, thus providing
useful pointers  to the existence of fraud.   At present, collection and
exploitation of statistical data of this kind is at an embryonic stage, though
its potential contribution to the overall package of incentives designed to
encourage production and exports through official channels is considerable.
V.          Policing of the Diamond Sector
9.          The Brigade Miniere is charged with the task of policing the mining
of diamonds and gold and of preventing smuggling. It has been strengthened under
the SAL II program, through passage of legislation to improve incentives to the
Brigade, and by instituting a system of bonuses based on the levies on seizures.
More investigative work by the Brigade could also improve performance in this
area.
VI.         Promotion of Increased External Investment in the Sector
10.         One of the tasks of the IDA-funded resident adviser to the Minister
of Mines is to promote increased external investment in the mining sector. Past
prospecting work by multinational corporations has indicated that there is not
much scope for this. Nonetheless, the Government has begun to map out a strategy
for development of the sector and to reorganize the records of past geological
prospection work, and intends, under SAL II to strengthen the services of the
Prospection Unit in the Ministry of Mines and to draw up an inventory of mining
resources with a view to preparing a national mining plan to encourage expanded
investment and diversification of exports in the sector.
VII.        Role of the Bank in the Economic Management Prolict
11.         Under the proposed Economic Management Project, two objectives would
be pursued: (i) improvement of revenue performance through strengthening of
valuation and monitoring of diamond exports; and (ii) establishment of a unit
in the Ministry of Mines aimed at developing a program of assistance to expand
and to improve the efficiency of artisanal diamond production.
(i) Ip rovement of revenue performance
12.         One avenue now being explored by the Government for improvement of
valuation would be to make a twinning arrangement with the Central Selling Office
(CSO) in London, which is responsible for marketing about 80 percent of the
world's diamond production, and which operates an elaborate assortment of its
own. Under this arrangement, a CSO buyer would be seconded to the Government
of CAR to serve as a visiting valuer in Bangui and to provide training to Central
African valuers.   The valuer would continue to work on the basis of the present
posted prices, but would value each category on the basis of the CSO assortment.
The valuer would receive regular price and market information from the CSO, which



- 59 -
would in turn facilitate subsequent revisisions in the posted prices as required.
At the same time, CSO would accept Central African valuers into its training
school for induction into their sorting and valuation methods. It is estimated
that within about two to three years, the local valuers would be able to manage
the entir  valuation process, provided that they continued to receive price and
market information from the CSO.
13.         During this same period, the resident adviser funded under the IDA-
supported TA II Project would be retained in his overall supervisory role of the
Valuation Office, and would work with the CSO valuer and with the local valuers
in developing and refining the system of statistical data collection and
analysis.  Once a more effective valuation system is in place, consideration
could be given to reducing the export tax on diamonds, itself one of the
Government's objectives under the SAL program.
14.         As part of the macroeconomic management component, the project would:
(a) continue to finance the services of a resident adviser to the Minister of
Mines, who would have overall responsibility for developing the capacity of the
Ministry to carry out statistical analyses of diamond sector activity and to
pursue policing and monitoring activities; (ii) finance 12 months of short-term
consultants' services for a visiting valuer from the CSO as part of a twinning
arrangements between these institutions; and (iii) continue to provide training
for Central African diamond valuers.
(ii) Expansion of diamond production
15.         At present, artisanal diamond diggers are inefficient and lack
equipment.  In particular, there is very little scope for them to carry out
prospecting.   The Government therefore intends to establish a unit in the
Department of Mines to explore ways in which artisanal production could be made
more efficient. Under the private sector promotion component, the Project would
finance three months of short-term consultancy services, once the unit has been
established by the Ministry of Mines to define a specific program of actions,
probably involving the establishment of pilot diggings under the supervision of
local geologists, to provide a package of technology and inputs to artisanal
producers of diamonds.



- 60 -
ANNEX VI
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
s IDA                                                                      Cumulative
a Semesters          Semesters     Cumulative          Cumulative         Reg. Profile
t                    -------(US$000) ---------         (Percentage)        (Percentage)
a 1989  I
II               700             700                5.32                  1.0?
- 1990  I               1,600          2,300                17.4?                  5.0?
--      II              1,700          4,000                30.3?                 11.0Z
t 1991  I               1,800          5,800                43.92                 20.0?
s        II             2,000          7,800                59.1?                 29.0?
1 1992  I               1,800           9,600               72.7?                 39.02
s        II             1,700         11,300                85.6?                 49.O0
1 1993  I                 700         12,000                90.9?                 59.0z
s        II               500         12,500                94.7?                 68.0?
s 1994  I                 400         12,900                97.72                 77.02
3        II               300         13,200               100.0?                 84.02
1995  I                                                                        90.0?
a        II                                                                       99.O0
1                                                                                         s
a 1996  I                                                                        100.0? 
s                                                                                         s



- 61 -
ANNEX VII
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
List of Documents in Project File
Reorganization Plan for the Ministry of Finance, Plan, and International
Cooperation
-     Synthese et Plan d'Effectifs
-     Les cycles de Planification, Diagnostic et Recommandations
-     Diagnostic, Recommandations, Projet de Structure, Analyse des effectifs
-     Plan d'Effectifs, Mise en Place de la Structure
-     Identification des projets, dvaluation
-     Organisation et nature de l'assistance
L. Adamolekun, World Bank Support for Public Administration Programs in the
Central African Republic, EDI working Papaer, April 1988.
Report of Mr. Marriott (Consultant) on the diamond sector.
Terms of reference of long-term experts.
Republique Centrafricaine, Gestion de l'Assistance Technique et Plan d'Action
(Berlin/IDE, Mai 1988)
UNDP "Reorganisation du Systeme de Planiiication", March 1988
UNDP "Appuis Necessaires au Systeme de Planification", April 1988



- 62 -
ANNEX VIII
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
A.    First IDA mission:                           August 1987
B.    Identification mission:                     November 1987
C.    Prepared by:                                 Government
with IDA assistance
D.    Appraisal mission:                           July 1988
E.    Negotiations:                                October/November 1988
F.    Board Presentation:                         December 1988
G.    Planned date of effectiveness:               February 1989



_____________________                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 18095RI
N IGER                                                                                                                                          If 2*              ' CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
- --'--                                               / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A F R I C A                                                    REPUBLIQUJE CENTRAFRICAINE
C H  D                SU D AN                                                                               TRANSPORTATION AND POPULATION DENSITY
NIGERIA  CHAD                                                                                        '.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~TRANSPRT ET DENS/TE DE POPULATF/ON
___ / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-'    \                                                                                                 GHA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRA  ESITY, INHABITANTS PER 0 KM.
... bi.,                                                                   D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E'NSITEt HABITANT PAR KM.
./   ) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 1)LESS THAN 1.0 MOtSG .
A-  2.                                                                               0 A\ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IURBAN ZONE POPULATION    0
TRAL,                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POPUJLATION LJRBAINE  31 S 0
AFRICAN  REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                                          5.17J0
2 C.AMEROGN                                                              __ __ __7___0___
B. ong--    REOADS :OU,S noA-If
0                                                                                                                                              occz RIVERS PLELLV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SCIi   ODS  Df- E
~~~~ RODA ORIAL                                                                                                                                     SRINSHSS VDSSMS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.RAD 
~~  OUINRAJ  ~~~~  THPR             ZARE0  -.luEnoRlAL EU ORT
-~~  ~~     ,,    NGO,~~~ FSOOTLLENOPA
CAMEOONA                                    MROSDSS                                                                                                                                                        .nE. MUT  OTT
-,                                                                                                                                                                            -  Oj*SRS~~~~~~~', Dj..  c-1WM
AIIITEBO   InROIS  R                           Z  PLO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROICEPR   CTM   AITI
ZAIERES.-AF
CAMFROON~~RERR AT
onSbSsIO ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~       ~        ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~r
OUHA                                                                                                       S U D A N~~~
j  PEOPLES  REP.                                          50~A    A5        50 2A              5        0                      SUC  AEEUinREoSMN GNRLG L OUAIO  R90
abou'l                      IBUT                           SAMBA*N"&~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00 ea SS, PSo PMI S lpDILDSNIT NSCparC T~SItwS,e
A'A                                                            86~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IE
20'                                                         24~~~~~~~~~~ngt
maro~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARL18



