Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1971 CA
(Economic Management Project)
between
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 6, 1989
CREDIT NUMBER 1971 CA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 6, 1989, between CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has  requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)  the Borrower intends to receive from the United Nations Development Program 
(UNDP) a grant (the UNDP Grant) in an amount of two million dollars to  assist in 
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an  agreement (the UNDP 
Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and UNDP; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence  of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have  the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(b)
"CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
 
(c)
"MEFPCI" means the Ministere de l'Economie, des Finances, du Plan  et de 
la Cooperation Internationale of the Borrower;
(d)
"SEP" means the Secretariat d'Etat au Plan, established within MEFPCI;
 
(e)
"CAADE" means the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement de la Dette, an 
etablissement public of the Borrower, established and operating pursuant to Ordinance 
No. 82/017 dated April 8, 1982 of the Borrower;
(f)
"MCI" means the Ministere du Commerce et de l'Industrie of the Borrower;
 
(g)
"MEM" means the Ministere de l'Energie et des Mines of the Borrower;
 
(h)
"MFP" means the Ministere de la Fonction Publique of the Borrower;
 
(i)
"DGFP" means the Direction Generale de la Fonction Publique established 
within MFP;
(j)
"DP" means the Direction du Personnel established within MFP;
 
(k)
"PMU" means the Project Management Unit referred to in Section 3.03 (a) 
(i) of this Agreement;
(l)
"PMC" means the Project Monitoring Committee referred to in Section 3.03 
(a) (ii) of this Agreement;
(m)
"MTAC" means the Ministere des Transport, et de l'Aviation Civile of the 
Borrower; and
(n)
"MTPAT" means the Ministere des Travaux Publics et de l'Amenagement du 
Territoire of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit  Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to ten million three  hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 10,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the  Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this  Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Page  3
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain a 
special account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1994 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from a date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which  amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or  cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied as of the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06  of this Agreement, except that the rate set as of 
June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places as the  
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency  specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the  principal amount 
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
June 1 and December 1 commencing June 1, 1999 and ending  December 1, 2028. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on December 1, 2008, shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the  Borrower creditworthy 
for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof 
by the Executive Directors of the Association and  after due consideration by them of 
the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of 
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the 
amount of each such installment not  yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, 
the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal 
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in 
the judgment of the Association, such  revision shall not change the grant element 
obtained under the above-mentioned  repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph  (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition  has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Page  4
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified  for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end,  shall carry 
out the Project through PMU under the overall supervision of the Secretary of State 
for Planning, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation to the generality of the provisions of paragraph (a) 
above with regard to the provisions of funds, the Borrower shall:
(i)
open and thereafter maintain in CFAF and in the name of SEP an 
account (the 
Project Account) in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to 
the Association; and
 
(ii)
thereafter, deposit into the Project Account on the first day of 
every 
calendar quarter commencing on April 1, 1989, the amount 
required to restore 
the account balance to its initial level of 
9,000,000 CFAF.
(c)
Amounts deposited into the Project Account pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above shall be used only to make payments to meet expenditures made or to be made in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed  by the provisions of Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. To assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower 
shall:
(a)
establish and thereafter maintain: (i) PMU with functions and  
responsibilities satisfactory to the Association; and with a director and staff in 
adequate numbers with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association; 
and (ii) PMC with functions and membership satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
prepare detailed draft annual work programs for each Part of the Project 
and related draft budgets and submit them by October 31 of each year to the 
Association for its approval;
(c)
(i)
constitute and thereafter maintain working teams comprising 
qualified local 
staff with professional experience of at least two 
years, and resident 
experts;
 
(ii)
ensure, in particular, that the resident experts included in the 
working teams 
mentioned above provide adequate on-the-job training 
to the local staff; and
             (iii)
evaluate each year the performance of said working teams, and take 
all 
necessary measures agreed upon with the Association as 
required to increase 
the performance of said working teams; and
 
(d)
maintain within SEP a unit responsible for coordinating technical 
assistance and for developing a long-term strategy aimed at reducing the   Borrower's 
need for long-term technical assistance.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)
by September 30, 1989, examine with the Association the new compensation 
Page  5
and benefits scheme referred to under Part B (2) (a) (ii) of the  Project and 
thereafter implement said scheme as agreed upon with the Association; and
(b)
by December 31, 1989, examine with the Association the draft training 
policy referred to under Part B (2) (b) of the Project and the training program 
referred to under Part C (5) of the Project, and thereafter execute them promptly.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting  practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project  of the departments 
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the 
report of such audit by  said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that:
(a)
Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section, the right of the Borrower to 
withdraw the proceeds of the UNDP Grant made to the Borrower for the  financing of the 
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in  whole or in part, 
Page  6
pursuant to the terms of the UNDP Grant.
(b)
Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such suspension, cancellation or 
termination is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to  perform any of its 
obligations under the UNDP Grant Agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of  Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
decrees authorizing implementation of staffing plans for the following 
ministries: MEFPCI, MFP and MCI have been enacted;
(b)
PMU has been established in accordance with the provisions of Section 
3.03 (a) of this Agreement;
(c)
PMC has been established;
 
(d)
the UNDP Grant Agreement has been signed; and
 
(e)
the Project Account referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this  Agreement 
has been opened and an initial amount of CFAF 9,000,000 has been deposited therein.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.O4 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.O3 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.O2. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning
P.O. Box 912
Bangui
Central African Republic
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINECA
5280 RC
 
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 2O433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
44OO98 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
Page  7
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of  the day and year first 
above written.
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
By /s/ Christian Lingama-Toleque
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Caio Koch-Weser
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to  each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Resident experts            2,800,000       100%
(2)  Short-term                  2,740,000       100%
     consultants'
     services
(3)  Furniture, equip-             650,000       100%
     ment and vehicles
(4)  Operating costs               300,000       50%
(5)  Macroeconomic               1,400,000       100%
     sectoral and
     pre-feasibility
     studies
(6)  Training and                1,380,000       100%
     fellowships
(7)  Unallocated                 1,030,000
                                __________
     TOTAL                      10,300,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "operating costs" means expenditures 
incurred for items such as fuel, lubricants, vehicle maintenance costs, and expenses 
Page  8
for travel related to the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall  be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to strengthen the capability of the 
various institutions of the Borrower responsible for managing its economy, 
particularly, in the areas of planning, investment programming and execution,  
external debt management, improvement of civil service efficiency, rationalization of 
the public enterprise sector, and promotion of private  sector development activities; 
and (b) to upgrade technical skills of local staff, inter alia, through promotion of 
on-the-job training.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Macroeconomic Management
 
I.
SEP
 
1.
Establishment of a macroeconomic planning unit within SEP and strengthening the 
capability of SEP to:
(a)
formulate and monitor the execution of national development plans; and
 
(b)
analyze and program investment projects.
 
2.
(a)
Development and implementation of appropriate mechanisms for public 
investment programming and for preparing and monitoring the execution of the  budget; 
and development and installation of computer systems required for the purpose; and
(b)
development and implementation of a practical guide for project 
evaluation and analysis.
II.
MEFPCI
 
1.
Development and introduction of a comprehensive financial management, and 
accounting and payroll management system within MEFPCI.
2.
Development and implementation of an appropriate personnel management system.
 
3.
Acquisition and installation of microcomputer equipment and acquisition of 
related software.
4.
Computerization of the financial, personnel, and payroll management systems.
 
5.
Development of a Master Plan for future computerization of various services of 
the Borrower.
III.
CAADE
 
1.
Reinforcement of CAADE's debt management and monitoring system.
 
2.
Improvement of CAADE's internal accounting system.
 
3.
Acquisition and installation of two microcomputers and acquisition of the 
required software.
IV.
MEM
 
Reinforcement of the capacity of the Diamond Evaluation Unit, inter alia, 
through provision of practical training for diamond valuers.
Page  9
V.
MTPA/MTAC
 
Strengthening the capability of MTPA/MTAC to analyze programs and execute 
investment projects in the transport sector through:
(a)
reinforcement of the interministerial planning unit and the study  
directorates, acquisition and installation of a microcomputer and acquisition of the 
required software;
(b)
development and implementation of an appropriate personnel management 
system at MTPA;
(c)
enhancement of the training capability at MTPA through acquisition of 
training equipment and materials for the training center; and
(d)
organization of workshops and seminars for MTPA/MTAC senior staff  on 
topics related to transport planning and management.
Part B:
Civil Service Reform
 
1.
Pursuit of the redeployment of civil servants through implementation of  
measures provided for in Law No. 88/012 of August 27, 1988, and Law No. 88/013 of 
August 27, 1988.
2.
(a)
Reinforcement of the capability of the Direction des etudes to: (i)  
streamline and harmonize current laws and regulations governing civil service  
employment; and (ii) define and implement a new compensation and benefits scheme for 
the civil service.
(b)
Development and execution of an appropriate in-service training policy.
 
3.
Strengthening the units responsible for personnel management within MEFPCI, MFP 
and other ministries agreed upon with the Association through, inter alia:
(a)
improvement of the flow of information regarding personnel management 
between all ministries concerned;
(b)
establishment of appropriate computerized data processing systems for 
DGFP and for the payroll directorate;
(c)
introduction of new operational procedures; and 
 
(d)
acquisition of micro-computer equipment, furniture and supplies.
 
Part C:
Restructuring of the Public Enterprise Sector
 
1.
Improvement of the current legal and institutional framework governing the 
functioning of public enterprises.
2.
Auditing of the accounts of the following public enterprises: Energie  
Centrafricaine, Societe Nationale des Eaux, Office Centrafricain des Postes et 
Telecommunications, Petroliere Centrafricaine, Societe Centrafricaine de Developpement 
Agricole et Office Centrafricain de Securite Sociale.
3.
Execution of the rehabilitation plans drawn up for the following  enterprises: 
Societe Nationale des Eaux, Energie Centrafricaine, Office Centrafricain des Postes et 
Telecommunications et Office Centrafricain de Securite Sociale.
4.
Preparation and execution of privatization packages for the following public 
enterprises: Societe Nationale Centrafricaine des Travaux, Centre Industriel 
Centrafricano-Israelien, Societe Generale du Batiment, Entreprise  Forestiere des Bois 
Africains en Centrafrique, Societe Centrafricaine des Cuirs, Nouvelle Messagerie 
Centrafricaine, and other public enterprises to be
identified.
5.
Preparation and execution of a training program to strengthen management 
Page  10
capabilities and enhance the performance of the sector.
Part D:
Promotion of Private Sector Activities
 
1.
Formulation of an institutional framework and definition and execution of 
measures aimed at promoting private businesses.
2.
Assistance to establish within MCI a small unit responsible to fulfill on behalf 
of investors all administrative formalities, to obtain from all administrative 
services concerned all the authorizations required to allow investors to start up 
their ventures and to provide potential investors with basic information on investment 
opportunities in the Borrower's territory.
3.
Establishment and equipping of a unit within MEM responsible for developing and 
managing pilot diggings aimed at increasing the production of artisanal diamond and 
precious metals.
Part E:
Studies
 
Execution of macroeconomic and sectoral studies, and of prefeasibility and 
engineering studies.
Part F:
Training
 
Carrying out of an on-the-job training program, execution of seminars,  
workshops, study tours and short-term training to upgrade the skills of selected staff 
responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
*   *   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
Procurement Methods
 
1.
Purchases of vehicles, spare parts, office equipment and supplies may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised 
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for items referred to in paragraph 1 above 
shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more 
each.
3.
Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $30,000 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent  of $200,000, may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations, 
solicited from a list of at least three reputable suppliers eligible under the 
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part B:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of  
$30,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1  to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
Page  11
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of  the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract, together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3, shall be furnished to the Association as 
part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall  not 
apply to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from 
the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.  Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of  this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the  Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms  and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such  consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the  eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to CFAF  
100,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the  Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the  basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
 
             (ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule  for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
Page  12
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
made 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such  payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all  further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General  Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the  
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment  entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with 
respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn  amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such  procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; and (ii) was not  justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal  to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or  justified. Unless 
the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has  provided such evidence or made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further  payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent  withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
