Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17266-IND
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF USS103.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
WEST JAVA BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
MARCH 10, 1998
Education Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 1998 - est.)
Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp)
Rp 1 = US$0.0002
US$ 1.00 = Rp 5,000
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BP3 Parent-teacher organization
Bangda Directorate for regional development, MOHA
Bappeda I Provincial government's development planning agency
Bappeda II District government's development planning agency
Bappenas National development plarning agency
Dikdas Directorate for primary education, MOEC
Dikdasmen  Directorate-general for primary and secondary
education, MOEC
Dikmenum  Directorate for secondary education, MOEC
Dinas PdanK I Provincial government's education agency
Dinas PdanK II District government's education agency
Dinas PUK  District government's public works agency
Jabar, Jawa Barat West Java province
Kanwil (Depdikbud Jabar) Provincial office, MOEC
Kandep Agama, Kandepag  District religious affairs agency, MORA
Kandep or Kanin Dikbud, District education agency, MOEC
LKMD  Village development council
MOEC  Ministry of Education and Culture
MOHA  Ministry of Home Affairs
MORA  Ministry of Religious Affairs
SD  Primary school, grades 1-6
SLTP  Junior secondary school, grades 7-9
Vice President: Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director: Dennis de Tray
Sector Manager: Alan Ruby
Task Team Leader: Alfonso de Guzman



INDONESIA
West Java Basic Education Project
CONTENTS
Page
A. Project Development Objective                                     2
B. Strategic Context                                                 2
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project               2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                     2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices  4
C. Project Description Summary                                       6
1. Project components                                             6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project  6
3. Benefits and target population                                 6
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                  7
D. Project Rationale                                                 9
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection      9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other
development agencies                                           9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design      10
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership              11
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                   11
E. Summary Project Analyses                                         11
1. Economic                                                      11
2. Financial                                                     12
3. Technical                                                     12
4. Institutional                                                 12
5. Social                                                        12
6. Environmental assessment                                      13
7. Participatory approach                                        13



Page
F. Sustainability and Risks                                         13
1. Sustainability                                                13
2. Critical risks                                                14
3. Possible controversial aspects                                14
G. Main Loan Conditions                                             15
1. Effectiveness conditions                                      15
2. Other                                                    .    15
H. Readiness for Implementation                                     15
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                    15
Annexes
1  Project Design Summary                                           16
2  Detailed Project Description                                     19
3  Estimated Project Costs                                          25
4  Economic Analysis                                                26
5  Fiscal Analysis                                                  35
6  Procurement, Disbursement and Financial Managemenrt
Arrangements                                                     39
Table A   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements              39
Table B Thresholds for Procurement Methods and
Prior Review                                           42
Table C   Allocation of Loan Proceeds                            42
7  Project Processing, Budget and Schedule                          51
8  Documents in Project File                                        52
9  Statement of Loans and Credits                                   54
10 Indonesia at a Glance                                            56
Map IBRD 29344



Indonesia
West Java Basic Education Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
Date: March 10, 1998                                     Task Team Leader: Alfonso de Guzman
Country Director: Dennis de Tray                        Sector Manager: Alan Ruby
Project ID: ID-PE-39644   Sector: Education             Program Objective Category: Institutional development
Lending Instrument: SIL                                  Program of Targeted Intervention:  []  Yes  [xl No
Project Financing Data                  [x] Loan         [I Credit        [] Guarantee       [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$mISDRm): 103.5
Proposed terms:                           [    Multicurrency       [x]  Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 3            [ ]   Standard Variable   [x]  Fixed           []    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0. 75
Service charge: 0%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                Local               Foreign             Total
Goverrnment                                                       26.6                 0.1               26.7
Cofinanciers
IBRD                                                              85.5                 18.0             103.5
IDA
Other (specify)
Total          112.1                 18.1             130.2
Borrowrer: Republic of Indonesia
Guaranrtor:
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):        FY99      FY00      FY01      FY02      FY03      FY04   FY05
Annual       2.0       8.0      15.0      21.0      26.0      21.0      10.5
Cumulative      2.0       10.0     25.0      46.0      72.0      93.0      103.5
For Guarantees:                                    []   Partial credit     [] Partial risk
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of financing:
Principal amount (US$)
Final maturity
Amortization profile
Financing available without guarantee?:                []    Yes                [    No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Project implementation period:  6 years Expected effectiveness date: 5/1/98    Expected closing date: 12/31/04



2
A. Project Development Objective
1.  Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The development objectives of the project are: (i) improved quality of basic education (grades 1-9)
and expanded access to junior secondary education (grades 7-9) at the district level; and (ii) improved
educational planning and management as well as developed institutional and interagency capacity, with
clearer assignment of responsibility, at the provincial and district levels to deliver the nine-year program.
Increased reliance on strengthened local educational institutions assumes greater importance as the
country undergoes difficult economic and financial transition. At the same time, national leadership
changes are occurring, and a new five-year development program (Repelita) is beginning.
The project is designed to raise institutional and human capacily at the district level by introducing a
bottom-up, integrated approach to education planning in the district.1 The project adopts a learning-
oriented implementation strategy: annual performance will be reviewed so that district plans may be
adjusted to address problems encountered during implementation. To help reduce disparities in the
quality of technical staff and level of provision of education services in the district, technical assistance
and training will be provided.
By funding education development proposals prepared by the dlistricts, the project takes an important
step in the decentralization process in education. It would harness the resources of governmental agencies
of the district and assign responsibility for achieving results in basic education and financial
accountability to the head of district of city (Bupati/Walikota) and other local officials. Furthermore, the
project would pilot ways of channeling larger volumes of funds from the national government and of
progressively raising and retaining funds from local sources toward local educational development.
In the light of the current economic difficulties, the project will address the threat of dropouts by poor
students at the primary and junior secondary levels. This project will provide scholarships, build junior
secondary schools in rural and remote areas, and channel funds for primary school rehabilitation directly
to communities where incomes may be augmented through these project-supported minor works.
B.  Strategic Context
1.  Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1): Enhanced
human resource development through investment projects to improve quality of basic education
CAS document number: 16691 -IND   Date of latest CAS discussion: 7/10/97
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main sector issues
Vulnerability of the poor. The effects on household incomes of country's economic and financial
troubles which heightened beginning in late January 1998 and which threatens to persist over time will
disable many families, especially the poor in the rural areas, from sending their children to school.
Development interventions need to focus on providing assistance so that lower income groups can meet
school expenses or that such economic activities as school rehabilitation may become available to
communities able to undertake them.
' This process has already begun. During project preparation, districts were assisted in preparing integrated
proposals.



3
Low quality of basic education. Student achievement test results and other studies show that quality
remains a serious issue in West Java because of: (i) dilapidated and unsafe primary school buildings; (ii)
poorly trained and motivated teachers and school heads; and (iii) inadequate learning environment
(notably lack of appropriate materials, insufficient learning time, inappropriate assessment of learning
outcomes).
Lack of student places in junior secondary schools. At only 60% of the 13-15 age group, West Java's
gross enrollment at this level is among the lowest in the country. The facilities that are currently available
are inadequate. Empirical research on schooling decisions among the rural poor of Java points to the
following major constraints: (i) lack of student places, especially in remote and low-income areas; (ii)
unavailability of teachers; (iii) high costs (both immediate and opportunity); and (iv) low benefit of
education.
Diffuse and ineffective management. Quality and access issues persist largely because of poor
educational management. As the responsibility for providing basic education services is shared among
several government agencies--the Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC), Ministry of Home Affairs
(MOHA), Ministry of Religious Affairs (MORA)--there is a lack of accountability for results. Each
agency responsible for education reports to its respective central authority in Jakarta, with no effective
system in place in the district or the province to coordinate education objectives, services, processes or
outcomes. There is no collaborative planning of public and private provision of education, and the
community has little or no involvement in school affairs (see below). On the other hand, local
government, specifically at the district level under the leadership of the head of district or city
(Bupati/Walikota) which has been given the responsibility of implementing the Government's nine-year
boasic education program has little authority over the sector agencies (MOEC, MORA) and almost no
capacity to plan, manage, or control basic education in the district.
Limited community involvement. At present, participative efforts at the community level are mainly
through the parent-teacher organization (BP3). Except in some communities, such efforts are not well
organized and are mainly centered around collection of school fees. There is potential for more organized
community involvement for the benefit of schools.
Government strategy
The national five-year development plan, Repelita VI (1994/99), set the goal of extending access to
high quality junior secondary education. In May 1996 a presidential decision was made to accelerate the
universalization and complete it by 2004, the end of the next five-year national development plan
(Repelita VII). In pursuit of the above goal, the Government abolished junior secondary school fees and
aLdopted a policy of free textbooks at public primary and junior secondary schools. The Government has
a[lso kept the following policies in place:
Concern for the poor. In 1993, villages which conformed to a poverty profile (IDT) were identified.
As part of a larger antipoverty campaign, a school feeding program for schools in IDT villages was
launched in 1996. Moreover, it is a practice among many communities to bear the cost of school fees of
the children of the poorest families.
Improved quality. Achievement tests for both primary and secondary students are conducted yearly.
Teacher qualification requirements have been upgraded to a two-year postsecondary diploma (D-II) for
primary education and D-III for junior secondary education. In West Java, a longer school day of four
hours for grades 1 and 2 is being piloted in selected schools.
Increased access to junior secondary education. The Government's strategy is to provide both
schooling facilities and scholarships for the poor. About 60 junior secondary schools are built yearly,
vhile SMP terbuka ("open" junior secondary school delivered by means of distance education), kelas



4
jauh (junior secondary instruction using primary school classrooms), SMP kecil (small junior secondary
school), and Paket B (nonformal education) extend education beyond the walls of the conventional
school. The private sector also contributes significantly, at 40% of national enrollment.
Decentralization. The success in primary education coverage derives from a 1951 ordinance to
devolve to the provinces many of the educational responsibilities of central government: school
construction and maintenance, teacher recruitment, placement and promotion, budget administration, as
well as provision of school furniture and teaching materials. In 1995, devolution to the district of more
governmental functions, including education, began on a pilot basis for 26 districts, one in each province
of the country. In 1996, the Government assigned the responsibility of implementing the basic education
program, which involves several Government agencies at the center, to local governments under the
leadership of the head of district or city (Bupati/Walikota), advancing the decentralization process in
education.
Increased resources. Between 1994/95 and 96/97, public expenditure increased by 33% for primary
education and by 44% for junior secondary education. The presidential special fund for primary schools
(Inpres SD) also increased by 26% during the same period. Subsidies to private junior secondary
education have continued, mostly through the provision of teachers and administrators provided to private
schools. The current economic and financial difficulties will threaten the Government's ability to
maintain current levels of budgetary provision to basic education.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Sector issues to be addressed by the project
The project would be a departure from conventional projects in the past, which sought to address
specific issues in the sector (student places, teachers, textbooks, and such). Instead, the project would
require all agencies involved in basic education in a district to jointly analyze their district's basic
education performance, set common goals, calculate the cost of (and the capacity for) attaining those
goals, and prepare and implement annual operational plans, with clear responsibilities for each agency.
The head of district or city (BupatilWalikota) would be responsible for implementing those plans and
would hold each agency accountable (the Bupati/Walikota, in turn is responsible to the Governor). The
project would also support the provision of training and technical assistance to develop the management
and technical capacity needed to manage effectively the district's basic education program. The proposals
prepared by the districts would contain a variety of items, as each locality addresses specific issues in
basic education. The items that the project would support include the following:
Poverty as barrier to education access. As a. response to the current crisis, the number of scholarships
to junior secondary schools under the project was increased from the original 85,000 to 145,000 at
appraisal. The scholarships will be provided to poor students to reduce the cost of schooling, since the
annual cost to the family of a child in junior secondary school was Rp269,000 in 1995, almost three times
the cost of primary education and an onerous 43% of per-capita household expenditures for the lowest
income quartile. Under the project, junior secondary school scholars will receive Rp300,000; primary
school scholars will receive Rp240,000 per year.
Low instructional quality. Teachers, grouped in clusters comprising about eight primary schools (1O
junior secondary schools), will be trained in classroom processes to improve learning. In addition, the
project will support curriculum implementation through the introduction of innovative activities to
support the West Java initiative to lengthen the school day for early grades to 4.0 hours (2.5 hours
nationally). The project would further support the acquisition of reacling books and other teaching
materials, to augment the provision of free textbooks under the Book and Reading Development Project
(Loan 3887). The teaching-learning process improvements have been proven effective from the Bank's
own experience: fellowships for upgrading teacher qualifications are patterned after those in the primary



5
and secondary teachers development projects (Loans 3496, 3979); support to teachers' cluster activities is
a concept successfully developed under PEQIP (3448); contract teacher arrangements follow those of the
jtnior secondary education projects in East Java-NTT (4042), Central Indonesia (4062), and Sumatra
(4095).
Inadequate physical facilities. To address the serious problem of primary school dilapidation (West
Java's reports 25% of primary schools in serious disrepair, the highest nationwide) about 1,200 three-
classroom units for about 800 schools will be rehabilitated. Further, maintenance programs and initiatives
for enlisting the support of the school community in preventive maintenance and routine repairs will be
introduced. The project would also construct and provide furniture to about 300 junior secondary schools
in rural and remote areas.
Low management capacity. To promote the sharing and transfer of skills, the project will support an
annual, integrative planning process among district agencies involved in basic education. It will also
p:rovide technical assistance in the areas of management, school construction, and education, support the
capacity assessments and the evaluation of institutional and staffing arrangements, provide training for
key planning, budgeting, and monitoring activities, and support policy studies and evaluation of
outcomes.
Strategic choices
Decentralization. The project supports the Government's efforts to decentralize delivery of basic
education services. Decentralization will bring two major benefits to the education system: (i) a more
direct interaction between the providers and the recipients of basic education services; and (ii) a greater
proximity of decision makers to the source of the problems. The project also draws on experience from
Bank-assisted decentralization efforts elsewhere in Asia (India, Pakistan) and in Latin America (Chile,
Colombia). Innovative approaches to project design in Bank-financed operations (water and sanitation,
jtnior secondary education, village infrastructure) show beneficial results because needs, problems, and
solutions were identified by beneficiaries themselves.
Empowerment of local authorities and other stakeholders. Evidence from PEQIP (Loan 3448) shows
that bringing together individuals and groups interested in, responsible for, benefiting from or affected by
basic education results in better ownership of the initiatives taken and increased responsibility for
managing the process. Activities to improve school quality, especially those for primary schools derived
fiom successful PEQIP districts, will be conducted in consultation with teachers, parents, and other
members of the community. Activities to empower local stakeholders were successfully undertaken under
the UNESCO-supported Coplanner project (1991-93), which showed that community involvement
brought about better use of limited educational resources and enhanced education quality. Recent Bank-
supported projects in other sectors, notably in the Village Infrastructure II Project (Loan 4100) and the
Water Supply and Sanitation Project (Loan 3269) report similar results.
Institutionalizing self-analytical processes. The project would: (i) introduce a systematic approach to
education development planning by local officials; and (ii) localize control of education resources
through district grants based on proposals and performance. This long-term approach to capacity
development was chosen over what could well have been quicker, more efficient analyses by external
experts because its effects were considered longer lasting: once routinized, the local planning,
management, and monitoring of education can be sustained indefinitely, and resources would be used
more efficiently and with greater impact.
Capacity development. District capacity will be enhanced by the process of proposal preparation, the
responsibility for managing the process and through the interinstitutional collaboration required for
irnplementing the project. In addition, training and technical assistance will be provided to all districts in
order to improve capacity. In some instances, additional support will be provided to the weakest districts:



6
those districts which evidence the greatest difficulty in developing acceptable proposals will receive
special assistance, and annual development objectives will be matched to existing capacity. By the end of
the project, initial disparities in capacity should be substantially recluced. Emphasis will be placed on
improving planning, management, supervision, and assessment, as well as in strengthening training,
instructional quality, and community consultation.
C. Project Description Summary
1.   Project components (detailed description in Annex 2, detailed costs in Annex 3):
Cost Incl.                Bank      % of Bank
Component                 Category          Contingencies    % of    Financing    Financing
(US$M)        Total     (US$M)
1: Improving basic education   Physical                 107.3       82.4        83.6        77.9
in the district          Policy
Institution building
2: Management capacity  Institution building             22.9       17.6        19.9        86.9
building in district and
province
Total        130.2       100.0       103.5       79.5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project represents a strategic step toward the goal of a responsive and responsible district
government providing nine years of quality basic education to all childreii aged 7-15. The project
supports the Government's policy of gradual decentralization in the management of basic education from
the center to the district, with technical support by the province. The project also supports the
Government's policy of building capacity at the district level by shifting responsibility for education
management and accountability for educational outcomes from national sectoral agencies (education,
home affairs, religious affairs) to the district government.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits
*  Improved quality and outcomes of basic education; and expanded access to junior secondary
education, especially for children of poor families;
*  Enhanced management capacity of district and provincial government agencies to plan, implement,
and monitor an integrated basic education program; more effective and efficient use of education
resources through coordination among government agencies concerned at the provincial and district
levels;
*  Improved incentive structure: resources provided to districts on the basis of self-assessed needs,
capacities, and targets; rational planning and prioritization of objectives;
*  High levels of education service delivery by districts, maintained through year-end assessments.
Target population
The project's major investments are placed where the need is most acute: provision of student places
at junior secondary level and support to primary school quality improvement through teacher training.
The construction of junior secondary schools in rural and remote areas (about 24% of project cost) will
meet about 80% of the Government target of providing 383 schools needed to provide access to 85% of
the school-age population at that level. The establishment of cluster support groups for primary school
teachers (about 34% of project cost) has the potential to provide training to every teacher in the province
over the life of the project.



7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
The project will be implemented over six years: 12 of the 26 districts would start implementation of
their five-year plan during the first year of the project. The other 14 districts would start their five-year
program during the project's second year. The initial 12 districts were selected on the basis of the
following criteria: (i) incidence of poverty (IDT) in the district; (ii) district commitment to basic
education as indicated by the percentage of local budget allocated to education during the previous year;
and (iii) evidence of compliance with the Governor's order on the efficient use of buildings. Most project
activities would be implemented at the district level, with technical support provided by the province and
policy oversight by the center (see institutional arrangements chart in Annex 6).
Institutional arrangements
District level. Project Implementation Units (PIU) at district level would be established at the MOEC
district office (Kandep/Kanin Dikbud), the local government's district education office (Dinas P&K II),
and MORA district office (Kandep Agama). Each PIU, headed by a project submanager (Pimbagpro),
will be responsible for procurement, disbursements, and accounting for the activities assigned to the
district agency concerned.
The Bupati/Walikota (head of district or city) will be accountable for implementing the district's
nine-year basic education program. The Bupati/Walikota will establish a District Project Implementation
Committee, with members from relevant district offices, among them, Dinas PUK II (the district's
public works agency), Kandep/Kanin Depdikbud, Dinas P&K II, Kandep Agama and other relevant
district agencies. The committee will be responsible for coordinating project planning, budgeting,
iimplementation, monitoring, and reporting at the district level. A technical team, headed by the district's
local development planning agency (Bappeda II), will support the committee.
Province level. A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) would be established at the Kanwil Depdikbud
(MOEC) in Bandung. The PCU will be headed by a project coordinator who is an official of the
provincial office and would be supported by education, planning, engineering, procurement, and
acecounting services and staff of that office. The project coordinator will also serve as project manager
(Pimpro) for the province's own project activities carried out at the provincial level. This provincial unit
wvill be supported by national and international consultants and would: (i) provide technical guidance to
the districts in the preparation of their five-year proposals and annual implementation plans; (ii) evaluate
clistrict five-year proposals and annual implementation plans; (iii) provide implementation assistance,
e specially in coordinating agencies at the district level; and (iv) monitor and evaluate district performance
against agreed criteria. The unit will also carry out regular reviews at the district level, including reviews
of procurement and disbursement.
A Provincial Coordinating Committee (PCC) would be established at the provincial level, with
membership from MOEC, MOHA, MOF, and MORA and other relevant agencies. This committee would
be supported by Kanwil Depdikbud's PCU serving as secretariat. The committee will be responsible for
coordinating project planning, budgeting, implementation, monitoring, and reporting at the provincial
level. A technical team headed by the provincial development planning agency (Bappeda I) will support
the committee.
National level. A small Central Projects Coordination Unit (CPCU) would be established at the
MOEC Directorate-General of Primary and Secondary Education (Dikdasmen). The CPCU would be
headed by a national coordinator who will also serve as Pimpro. A central Project Steering Committee
will also be established at the national level, chaired by the Bappenas, with members from the MOEC
Directorate of Primary and Secondary Education (Dikdasmen), the finance ministry (MOF), home affairs
ministry (MOHA), religious affairs ministry (MORA) and other relevant agencies. The committee
would: (i) provide policy guidance to the project; (ii) review the provincial project proposal for project



8
financing; and (iii) periodically review project performance. A technical team headed by Dikdasmen will
support the committee.
Implementation arrangements
The Government's long-term plan is to develop the district, specifically the Dinas P&K II, as the
main implementation agency for basic education. As a first step in that direction, an interim
organizational structure for implementing this project has been agreed by all relevant agencies (Bappenas,
MOEC, MOHA and MORA) and reflected in a joint ministerial decree (SKB) issued on March 4, 1998.
As the lead agency for project implementation, the MOEC would provide technical support to all
agencies at the provincial and district levels.
Under the interim structure: (i) Planning and budgeting (five-year rolling programs and annual
operating plans) would be coordinated by Bappeda II at the district level among the participating agencies
(Kandep/Kanin Dikbud, Dinas P&K II, Kandep Agama). An integrated annual district plan, reflecting the
priorities of the district and incorporating the planned activities of each of the agencies, would be
developed and submitted to the province under the signature (responsibility and accountability) of the
Bupati/Walikota. The integrated planning under the project will formn part of and reinforce the
Government's annual bottom-up consultation (Rakorbang) which starts from the village through the
subdistrict to the district (and to the province and the center). (ii) Implementation would be undertaken at
the district by each agency, in accordance with its responsibilities under the integrated plan. Funds would
flow from national and local sources directly to the district agencies concerned. Project coordination
would be based at Kanwil Depdikbud at the provincial level. (iii) Monitoring and reporting will be
coordinated by Bappeda II, and the integrated district report would be submitted to the Bupati/Walikota.
The above interim structure for project implementation represents a transition, and further steps
toward decentralization would be taken, when the agencies are ready. During project implementation,
these arrangements would be reviewed at two-year stages so that needed changes can be effected. The
aspects to be reviewed include the multiple implementing units at the district level, organizational
structures, including rules and regulations that could be modified to facilitate the development of the
Dinas P&K II.
Performance will be assessed annually, first by the District Project Implementation Committee, in the
form of an implementation review in which progress toward objectives, as defined in the annual
implementation plan, will be measured. The findings will be reviewed by the provincial Project
Coordinating Committee. While the allocation of budgetary funds to the districts would not be
competitive in nature (all districts would be provided budgets), funding would be performance-related, as
progress (or lack thereof) will form part of the basis for assessing the viability of the next year's
implementation plan, with project allocations and action agenda scaled up or down depending upon the
level of accomplishment of the preceding year's objectives. The funding of further district activities will
be based on the previous year's performance and the soundness of the plan for the coming year. As the
accountable official, the Bupati/Walikota reports the annual district performance to the provincial
Governor, who in turn reports to the relevant agencies at central leveil including Bappenas, MOHA,
MOEC, MORA, and MOF.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements (see Annex 6):
The Government accounting system will be used. In addition, technical implementation guidelines
(Juknis) issued by the CPCU will provide further directives on procedures for project accounting. Each
PIU, including the provincial PCU and the CPCU in Jakarta will maintain separate sub-project accounting
records for their respective project activities. At the district level, Kandep/Kanin Dikbud will consolidate
the financial reports from the PIUs and submit the consolidated report to the provincial PCU on a
quarterly basis. The PCU will consolidate district reports. These quarterly progress reports will be used



9
as the basis for preparing the financial statement of project accounts to be submitted in annual audit. The
annual audit at district and provincial levels will be carried out by the BPKP, the MOF regional office in
Bandung. The CPCU will prepare the consolidated accounts for audit by the BPKP central office which
will provide the audit opinion. The Financial Statement of Special Account and Statements of
Expenditures (SOE) will be prepared by the Directorate-General (DG) of the Budget as custodian of the
project Special Account, which agency is also responsible for disbursing funds from the Bank, audited
by BPKP. The audits by BPKP auditors would be in accordance with the terms of reference for the audit
of project accounts, Special Account, and SOEs acceptable to the Bank. The annual audit reports will be
firnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of the Government's fiscal year, i.e., not
later than September 30.
El. Project Rationale
1.  Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Management of the project at the national level. Although basic education problems are generic in
nature (lack of materials, ineffective teacher deployment, inadequate building maintenance), they differ in
magnitude and gravity depending on the location--and even on the individual village and school.
Solutions to those problems are therefore effective if they have benefited from a deeper appreciation of
problems which are close at hand, designed to the specific problem (and not to a generic one), and
effected immediately--impossible from a far-off national center. In line with decentralization measures
initiated in recent years (notably the nine-year basic education program and the pilot district education
aanagement program), the Government requested a project focused at the district level.
Management of the project by one sectoral agency. Problems in basic education arise out of shared
responsibilities among several agencies acting with little or no coordination. Vertically operating sector
aLgencies (MOEC, MOHA, MORA) or separately managed subsectors (primary education under MOHA,
junior secondary education under MOEC) are unable to focus on the single continuum that is nine years
of basic education. Providing basic education of high quality is feasible only under conditions of focused
management and concentrated resources of many agencies brought to bear against the many quality and
access issues confronting the system at the district level.
Separating primary education from junior secondary education. This alternative was considered,
ostensibly for ease of project administration. This alternative was rejected as it would strengthen only
MOEC's provincially based management of junior secondary education to the detriment of integrated
planning of all grades of basic education and the focus on the developing the district's own view of
identifying appropriate local solutions to local problems.
Starting project implementation in all 26 districts. Lack of management and technical capacity
prevents the Government from launching a decentralized education program on a larger, national scale.
Phased implementation would increase the opportunities of provincial governments to learn from past
experiences and would increase the chances of success in project management and local capacity-
building. In this project, a two-step approach will be taken: 12 districts would begin implementation on
the first year, the remaining 14 districts would start on the next year.
2.  Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
Latest Supervision (Form 590) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Sector Issue                    Project          Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
LPrimary education quality            PEQIP (Loan 3448)             S               S



10
Secondary education quality           Second Secondary               S                S
Education (3158)
Junior secondary education quality and  East Java-NTT Junior
access                                 Secondary Education           S               S
(4042)                       S                S
Central Indonesia (4062)       S               S
Sumatra (4095)
Teacher training quality and teacher  Primary School Teacher         S                S
distribution                           Development (3496)            S               S
Secondary School Teacher
Development (3979)
Textbooks and reading books           Book and Reading               S               S
Development (3887)
Other development agencies
OECF Junior secondary school building  Junior Secondary
Education
ADB Junior secondary education        Junior Secondary
ADB Private junior secondary education    Education
ADB Primary and junior secondary      Private Junior Secondary
education                             Education
Basic Education (MORA)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly UJnsatisfactory)
3.  Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
From the Primary Education Quality Improvement Project (PEQIP, Loan 3448)
Lesson: School clusters and mutual support among teachers improve primary education quality.
Lessons learned from the PEQIP project indicate that providing training to teachers grouped according to
clusters of near by schools is an excellent means of both disseminating new ideas and providing a forum
for solving teachers' problems. The proposed project support the cluster system, especially for primary
school teacher training. The proposed project will supply reading books and other learning materials,
which has proved to have a very positive impact under PEQIP. However, it will abandon the approach of
supplying such materials centrally, and instead will give the responsibility of acquiring learning materials
to schools. Finally, the community participation component under PE,QIP has made a clear impact in
many areas. It has raised community awareness of education, increased support in improving school
facilities and buildings, and encouraged many parents to offer increased support and encouragement to
their children in class and homework activities. The proposed project will also support community
participation through various initiatives.
From "Indonesia: Suggested Priorities for Education " (EA3 Report iNo. 16369-I7D, green cover 1997):
Lesson: Expand secondary education through a dual strategy of increasing school places and
improving the quality of education. The strategy report highlights the recent increase in demand for junior
secondary education, while emphasizing the existence of significant differences in enrollment among
income groups, urban-rural residents, and provinces. The sluggish deimand for junior secondary education
among the poor and the near-poor is attributed to both the high direct costs of junior secondary education
and the indirect (opportunity) costs, which are particularly significant in the rural areas and for the poor.
Among urban residents, for example, 62% of children aged 13-15 are in junior secondary compared to
33% of rural children. With respect to provinces, the report indicates that West Java and most of the outer
islands have lower than national average enrollment rates. The project aims at expanding secondary
education through a dual strategy of increasing school places and improving the quality of education. The
project directly addresses the above problems by funding the construction of junior secondary schools in
the rural areas, and by providing scholarships to poor students. The project also aims at improving the



11
quality ofjunior secondary education, particularly by improving the quality of junior secondary school
teachers through the provision of inservice teacher training and educational materials, in line with the
recommendations contained in the strategy paper,
From: "Indonesian Education and the World Bank: An Assessment of Two Decades of Lending" (OED
Report No. 9752, gray cover 1991)
Lesson: The task of institution building is fundamental in the process of educational development.
Thie OED study notes fragmentation, lack of coordination and uncertainty of direction in the Indonesian
education system as well as inadequate structural arrangements and poor management. To address the
problems of fragmentation, the proposed project will: (i) encourage the responsible agencies to work
together through the implementation of a common medium-term and annual plan; and (ii) provide
training to staff in the various agencies in order to help them work in a concerted manner. To improve
institutional capacity and address the problem of inadequate structural arrangements and poor
management, the project will differ from past operations which aimed at building institutional capacity at
the central level by focusing on institutional building at the district level. This approach enables solutions
to be identified closer to the source of corresponding problems, at the local, i.e., district, level.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government has indicated commitment to the project by organizing and maintaining project
preparation teams at the province and the districts; during the earlier phases of project development,
before PHRD (Japan) grant funds became available, the provincial education office (Kanwil) in Bandung
provided budgetary support for district workshops and follow-up meetings at districts and at the province.
The Government has also indicated its budgetary commitment to educational quality through substantial
borrowing from multilateral development agencies, including the Bank and the ADB, for improvement of
educational quality, especially in areas such as primary education, books and reading, and primary and
jtnior secondary teachers training. Further, the Government's commitment to the project is indicated by
the issuance of a Joint Ministerial Decree (SKB) outlining the specific responsibilities of the project
irnplementing agencies. The five-year proposals from the districts, the provincial proposal, and the
Project Implementation Plan, documents largely prepared as a result of collaborative planning among the
concerned agencies, with little or no consultant assistance, and continually corrected and revised are
strong evidence of project ownership.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
*  The Bank's involvement will leverage Government funds and investments from other multilateral and
bilateral sources toward a strategy of decentralization in education and other sectors.
* With certain governmental funds (Inpres) as counterpart to the Bank loan, transparency in the
disposition of and accountability over these funds can be achieved.
* The Bank will provide funds and analytical support to help the Government through this period of
significant experimentation in the management and delivery of basic education at decentralized
levels.
*  The Bank will bring to Indonesia's benefit its experience in decentralized, district-based education
project design, implementation, and evaluation in other large and populous Asian countries (India and
China), as well as its long-standing experience in assisting the education sector of Indonesia.
e Technical experience and lessons learned from other education sector capacity development projects,
especially in planning, evaluation and improving primary school quality, can be effectively employed
in this project.
1E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are listed in Annex 8.)
1. Economic: See Annex 4.
[x] Cost-effectiveness analysis



12
[x] Other analyses: linkages to CAS and ESW, demand and supply, fiscal sensitivity
2. Financial: See Annex 5.
3. Technical: Apart from teaching, academic supervision, and school administration, the technical tasks for
sector management required under the project are standard in the civil service (business communication,
planning, budgeting, reporting) and are routinely carried out in each agency at district, provincial, and
national levels. However, staff qualifications, especially at the district level, are varied. The project's
capacity assessment will identify the degrees of variance so that the project can design appropriate
training strategies to overcome skills gaps.
0 List issues below. (e.g., appropriate technology, costing, etc.)
* Project planning including costing at the district and provincial levels;
* Project implementation including procurement at the district and provincial levels
*  Project supervision and reporting at the district and provincial levels
4. Institutional:
Executing agencies. Project knowledge is high among participating agencies: Bappenas and Bappeda
(planning), MOF (finance), MOEC and MORA (education), MOHA (home affairs) and Pemda (local
government). However, interagency cooperation and collaboration, which is key in the provision basic
education services at local levels, is weak and therefore the target of project intervention through training
and technical assistance.
Project management. Managerial capacity and experience are adequate at the national level but weak
at provincial and district levels, which are the areas for the project's capacity-development activities.
0 List issues below.
* Poor coordination of education service delivery between local government and sectoral ministries
involved in basic education (MOEC, MORA)
* Lack of institutional capacity for education administration at local governmental offices
3. Social:
Poverty alleviation. Scholarships would be provided to primary school-age children of poor families.
At the junior secondary level, the majority of students already in school are from families with above-
average incomes. Those not yet in school are poorer and live in more rural areas. Project interventions to
achieve universal junior secondary education will include the following provisions for this group: as a
matter of priority the new schools would be built in rural and remote areas; contract teachers would
ensure that the new schools are adequately staffed; and scholarships would be available to poor students.
Rural populations. West Java, with a population of about 39.3 million in 1995, is the most populous
province in the country and accounts for over 20% of the Indonesian population. About half of the
provincial population resides in rural areas. The high concentration of both public and private junior
secondary schools in urban areas, and the relative unavailability of junior secondary schools in rural
areas, forces many rural households to send their children to live and study in nearby towns. This,
coupled with the wide variation in per capita income in the urban and rural areas, accounts for the wide
variation in gross enrollment rates in the province, ranging from around 30% in the western part of the
province to well over 100% in urban districts. The project intends to redress existing discrepancies in
enrollment between the urban and rural areas by building junior secondary schools in the rural areas,
thereby benefiting the rural population including lower income families.
Gender. Indonesia is egalitarian in gender participation in basic education. Some 95% of 8-year-old
male children and 94.8% of female children of the same age are in primary schools. Similarly, 55.8% of
male children and 55.3% of female children are enrolled in junior secondary education by age 14.
Nevertheless, through a project-instituted assessment system, the gender dimensions in levels of



13
achievement, classroom behavior, and curricular content of teaching materials will be monitored.
Community participation. Existing expenditure ceilings will be raised to allow local groups such as
parent-teacher organizations (BP3) or local development councils (LKMD) to become directly involved
in the rehabilitation of primary schools. The project will also provide funds for school maintenance and
encourage matching contributions from BP3 to promote greater community participation. Districts would
be expected to include in their annual operation plans and annual implementation reviews evidence of
community input into the identification of persistent education problems. The province would also fund
innovative local initiatives that directly address access and equity. The most promising initiatives would
be evaluated for pilot replication in other communities.
6 Environmental assessment: Environmental Category C. The project does not have any significant
environmental effects.
7. Participatory approach:
The approach to project development was mainly consultative. The district plans, which included
interventions for enhancing management capacity at the district, were prepared through frequent
discussion with and among relevant district officials and school heads, rather than through the direct
participation of the community at large. During implementation, the project's participatory elements will
include the rehabilitation and maintenance of primary schools, which will involve the parent-teacher
organization (BP3) or the local development council (LKMD).
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The project would benefit West Java children of the 7-15 age group, especially those of junior
secondary school age who are resident in rural and remote areas where schools would be established by
the project. The project would also benefit teachers of basic education (grades 1-9), school heads, and
supervisors who would be provided with training and teaching materials. The officials of the concerned
agencies (specifically Bappeda, MOEC, MOHA, MORA) at the districts and at the province would
benefit from the capacity-building activities of the project. Finally, the district and village would benefit
from the project which would contract rehabilitation contracts and maintenance services likely from local
sources.
b. Other key stakeholders
Stakeholder and Form of Planned Involvement   Preparation  Implementation    Operation
Collaboration (COL)
Consultation (CON)
Information sharing (IS)
Beneficiaries/community groups:       IS             IS                  IS
Parents', local development associations
Intermediary NGOs                     None           None                None
Academic institutions:                CON            COL                 IS
Teacher training institutions
Local government:                     COL            COL                 COL
Bappeda, MOEC, MORA, MOHA
Other donors:                         IS             IS                  IS
OECF, ADB
F.  Sustainability and Risks
1.  Sustainability:
Managerial. By building management capacity (analysis, planning, management, assessment) at the



14
district agencies among officials and staff who are civil servants, the project ensures that the
improvements introduced under the project would be carried out over the long termn because the
implementors are permanently employed and are operating closer to the school where problems are being
addressed.
Financial. The national government is committed to bearing the cost of improved quality at the
primary level and of expansion at the junior secondary level on a sustained basis, with contributions from
local budgetary sources. The latter would be expected to increase as the districts become better able to
plan and manage their own basic education programs.
Organizational. Through integrated planning and coordinated implementation, the project would
establish longer-lasting working relationships among the district agencies involved in education. By
involving parents and community development organizations in school rehabilitation and maintenance,
the project would create a sense of ownership of the school by the community. By placing responsibility
on district officials, school heads, and teachers, the project would make them accountable to parents and
the community for the academic performance of students and of the school.
2.  Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1)
Risk                      Risk Rating        Risk Minimization Measure
From Project Outputs to Development Objectives
District education component                       S      Joint ministerial order specifying
Complexity: Officials from many participating             institutional and implementation
agencies may slow down implementation.                    responsibilities of each participating
agency issued by the Government.
Project launch workshops with technical
assistance to be conducted early in
impleimentation.
Management training through technical assistance,  H      TORs and short list of technical assistance
fellowships or in-country training programs may not       providers agreed with the Bank at
be appropriate or timely.                                 negotiations.
From Components to Outputs
District education component                       H      Independent firm for annual technical and
Project funds may not reach intended agency or            fnancial audit presented to the Bank at
school or may not be disbursed for requested              negotiations.
purpose.
Institutional development component                S      Integrated planning, jointly among all
Fragmentation: Agencies might implement their             agencies, will be mandated under the
respective parts of the project independently from        responsibility of the district head; district
each other, in an uncoordinated way.                      reporting and provincial monitoring
system[s will be put in place.
Overall Risk Rating    H
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Riskc)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
Decentralization: The existing largely vertical structures of the sectoral ministries (MOEC, MOHA,
MORA) will be disturbed by this project which would address the quaility issues in basic education
through interagency collaboration at the district level. District heads and other district officials would
prepare project proposals and be responsible for implementation. The national-level sectoral authorities
could resist the delegation of more authority to local officials. To preempt this reaction, the orderly
transfer of authorities and budgets among the agencies concerned would be specified in a joint ministerial
decree to be issued by the national government. The arrangements will be reviewed every two years
during project implementation and revised as needed.



15
Integration at district level: Sectoral agencies used to operating with little or no coordination with
other agencies could resist the lateral linkaging that would be required by the project. At the p-ro'vmincial
capital, the resistance is being attenuated by involving all agencies concerned actively in the technical
planning and preparation of the project. At the districts, the resistance is much less, as the development of
project proposals has become a joint undertaking of the agencies concerned.
G.. Main Loan Conditions
1.  Effectiveness Conditions: Standard
2.  Other:
The Borrower shall:
1. Maintain: (i) project management units and coordinating committees at district, pr;vincial, and
national levels; and (ii) the interministerial implementation guidelines (SKB), amending them only in
consultation with the Bank.
2. Develop and promulgate improved policies for: (i) school mapping and primary school consolidation
at subdistrict level; (ii) deployment of primary school teachers; and (iii) financing operation and
maintenance of primary schools.
3. Carry out annual teacher training and management capacity development programs acceptable to the
Bank.
4. Establish an adequate monitoring and evaluation of project inputs and outputs, including technical
and financial audits; and review the results as well as progress in institutional development at the
district every other year with the Bank.
-H]. Readiness for Implementation
[x] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
[x] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[x] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality. In addition, the project proposals of the first 12 districts have been approved by the
Elupati/Walikota concerned.
I   Compliance with Bank Policies
[xj  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
//kcuAl                 2Jit7                          ZL~J~L~fl4i1'n
j fonso de Guzman             Alan Ruby                      ennis de Tray
ATask Team Leader              Education Sector Manager       Country Director



16
Annex 1
Indonesia: West Java Basic Education Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary               Key Performance Indicators         Monitoring and Supervision    Critical Assumptions and Risks
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                                        (Goal to Bank Mission)
Enhanced human resource                                                                         There are no disconnects between
development through investment                                                                  CAS objectives and the Bank's
projects and advice aimed at                                                                    mission.
increasing efficiency and
productivity in the public and
private sector
Project Development Objectives                                                                 (Objective to Goal)
1. Improved quality of basic    1.1 Primary education completion   1.1.1 - 1.7.1 Susenas report   1. The currency crisis abates. The
education and expanded access to  rates:                                                        central government keeps its priority
junior secondary education through  Baseline:                       1.1.2 - 1.7.2 Annual project    of supporting nine-year basic
district-based management       Midterm:                           review                       education program with no downward
End:                                                           variation in anticipated budget
1.2 Primary-junior secondary                                   allocation.
transition rates:                                              2. West Java will experience
Baseline:                                                      urbanization and population increase
Midterm:                                                       during the project implementation
End:                                                           period, and the project will reflect the
1.3 Junior secondary education                                 changed demand.
completion rates:                                              3. There is demand for increased and
Baseline:                                                      improved nine-year basic education.
Midterm:                                                       4. The central govemment supports
End:                                                           expansion of both public and private
1.4 National exam score (NEM) for                             junior secondary education.
primary schools increased from                                 5. The funding flow mechanism is in
Baseline:   to                                                 place, with systematic performance
End:                                                           evaluation enforced for the next-year
1.5 National exam score (NEM) for                              financing decision, that allows the
regular public junior secondary                                districts and province to implement
schools increased from                                         the project activities as planned.
Baseline:   to                                                 6. The central govemment (national
End:                                                           level office of each involved ministry)
1.6 National exam score (NEM) for                              supports decentralized planning and
regular private junior secondary                              implementation of basic education at
schools increased from                                         district and provincial levels.
Baseline:   to                                                 7. The district's capacity to plan and
End:                                                          implement its own basic education
1.7 National exam score (NEM) for                              program can be developed rapidly
Islamic junior secondary schools                               during the earlier years of project
increased from                                                 period.
Baseline:  to                                                  8. The provincial capacity to support
End:                                                           district planning and implementation
of basic education program can be
developed rapidly during the earlier
2. Improved interagency         2.1 The district, as a coordinated  2.1.1 Annual project        years of project period.
coordination for basic education at  unit, demonstrates capacity to plan,   implementation review
the national, provincial, and district  implement, and monitor the nine-  2.1.2 District annual
levels; capacity built at the   year basic education program with    implementation plans for the
provincial and district levels to  assistance from the province.   next year
deliver the nine-year basic                                        2.1.3 Technical review
education program                                                  committee's report



17
Narrative Summary                  Key Performance Indicators            Monitoring and Supervision    Critical Assumptions and Risks
Project Outputs (Components)
1.1 Project funding for activities  1.1 Proposed resources (financial,   1.1.1 District and provincial    1. District and provincial officials in
to improve quality and increase    material, human) provided to the      annual project reviews.        each agency are assigned to inter-
access to basic education provided    districts and province on time.                                   agency coordination, supported from
to districts and to province, on the                                                                    own agency and accountable for their
basis of acceptable five-year                                                                           decisions. Risk: Project complexity,
proposal, annual implementation                                                                         with many disbursement officers in
plan, and sound performance of the                                                                      agencies concerned.
previous year                                                                                           2. All resources disbursed are
properly received by the designated
2.1 Project funding provided to    2.1.1 Involved agencies at district   2.1.1 Reports from cross-      agencies or individuals.
districts and to province, for     and at province have working          agency project                3. Resources received are used
institutional development activities   system for continuous dialogue,  implementation committees at  properly for the purpose requested.
to improve interagency             including regularly held interagency   the national, provincial, and    4. Proposal evaluation committee
coordination for basic education   coordination meetings                 district levels                provide effective guidance to improve
management at district and                                                                              district proposals.
province and to enhance district   2.1.2 District and province five-year   2.1.2 District and provincial    5. Trained individuals are assigned to
and provi:ncial capacity for basic  proposals and annual implementation   five-year proposal and annual  relevant positions and encouraged to
education implementation and       plans submitted on time and           implementation plans, and      utilize newly acquired knowledge and
management                         approved by the province (for         provincial and district project   skills in a stable organization.
districts) and the center (for the   annual reviews
province)
2.1.3 Proposed technical assistance,   2.1.3 Reports on proposed
fellowships, training, grants and    fellowships, training, grants,
studies completed                    or studies
Components (Activities)
1.1 Enhancing education quality:                                                                        1. Teachers are supportive of the
proposed activities.
1.1.1 Inservice training and       1.1.1-1.1.2 90% of training set out in  1.1.1-1.1.2 District and    2. Teachers, school heads, and
support for primary and junior     annual implementation plan            provincial annual             supervisors are encouraged and able
secondary teachers                 completed on time, with participants   implementation plans; annual  to attend training.
demonstrating mastery of knowledge   project reviews; teacher       3. Teachers are encouraged to apply
1.1.2 Inservice training of school    and skills provided in the training at   training implementation  newly acquired knowledge and skills
heads and academic supervisors     the end of each training              report                        in the organization.
4. Sufficient teaching materials are
1.1.3 Provision of teaching        1.1.3 90% of students are provided    1.1.3 District and provincial    produced before the beginning of the
materials                          with teaching materials in at least 2  annual implementation plans    school year.
core subjects within 60 days of the  and annual project reviews     5. Activities 1. I. I and 1.1.2 provide
start of the school year                                           teachers with opportunities to learn
about effective use of teaching
1.1.4 Support to libraries and     1.1.4 90% of schools have libraries    1.1.4 Supervisors' report on  materials, and received teaching
reading promotion                  or classroom reading corner in use    school visits                 materials are actually used by teachers
and children are encouraged to spend                                and students in the classroom
time on reading outside of regular                                  6. Standards for school rehabilitation
class hours                                                         are enforced.
.________ _________ ________   ______ ______ ______ ______ __   ___ _____7.  Scholarships  are  used.



18
Narrative Summary                Key Performance Indicators         Monitoring and Supervision    Critical Assumptions and Risks
1.2 Expanding access:                                                                            8. GOI develops long-term solution in
lieu of hiring contract teachers.
1.2.1 Primary school rehabilitation   1.2.1 90% of proposed school  1.2.1-1.2.5 District and     9. Staff from involved agencies are
rehabilitation completed on time as    province annual          encouraged and allowed to participate
planned with acceptable standards  implementation plans, annual  in provided training.
project reviews              10. District and province have
1.2.2 Construction ofjunior      1.2.2 90% of proposed school                                    sufficient numbers of staff who can be
secondary schools in rural and   construction completed on time as                               trained or receive technical assistance.
remote areas                     planned with acceptable standards                                11. Staff who received training are
placed in a positions where they can
1.2.3 Provision of scholarships  1.2.3 95% of proposed scholarships                              apply newly acquired knowledge and
received by designated students on                              skills.
time
1.2.4 Contract teachers in junior  1.2.4 90% of contract teachers in
secondary education.             place as planned                                                 1. Coordination is agreed and
2.1 Improving education                                                                          implemented among involved
management:                                                                                      agencies. Risk: Fragmentation of the
project into uncoordinated
"1subprojects" in different agencies.
2.1.1 Coordinated planning and   2.1.1 Agreed planning and formula    2.1.1 District and provincial   Psonel o invd   agenciesa
budgeting by all agencies involved  for improved allocation of annual  annual implementation plans   2. Personnel of involved agencies are
in basic education               development budgets to schools is    and annual project reviews  allocated for inter-agency project
developed and implemented by year                               committee work.
2                                                               3. Capable personnel available for
technical assistance for the district.
2.2.1 Capacity assessment and    2.2.1 Capacity assessment study    2.2.1 Capacity assessment    4. Personnel in involved agencies are
technical and management training   completed and used to plan detailed    paper                 encouraged to request technical
activities of training                                          assistance and use the gains from it.
5. Technical assistance is utilized for
2.2.2 90% of proposed technical    2.2.2 District and provincial   improvement of project planning and
assistance and studies completed on    annual implementation plans   implementation.
time as planned in the district and  and annual project reviews by   6. Personnel in involved agencies are
provincial annual implementation   district, and by province    encouraged and able to attend training
plans.                                                          or request technical assistance
whenever necessary.
2.2.3 % of district and provincial  2.2.3 District annual project    7. Personnel are encouraged to apply
level education officers in involved    reviews and training/  ineth oanization.
agency attended management         workshop reports             m the organzation.
training or workshops, with evidence
of participants' demonstration of
achievement of training/workshop
objectives, at midterm:
At end:
2.2.4 Newly acquired skills are    2.2.4 Annual implementation
reflected in project planning and  plans and annual project
implementation.                   reviews



19
Annex 2
Indonesia: West Java Basic Education Project
Detailed Project Description
The development objectives of the project are improved quality of basic education, expanded access to junior
secondary education at the district level, and improved educational planning and management through developed
institutional and interagency capacity at the provincial and district levels. The project will be implemented through
two main components: improving basic education in the district and management capacity-building at district and
province.
Component 1: Improving basic education in the distrit
This component focuses on initiatives to improve basic education in the district through the provision of
funds for programmatic activities, which may include school construction, rehabilitation and maintenance, teacher
recruitment and training, selection and acquisition of simple teaching equipment or teaching materials. Funds would
be awarded based on acceptable five year proposals, and annual implementation plans produced by the district in
addition to annual performance reviews conducted by the provincial coordinating committee. Eligible expenditures
would include the following categories, in varying combinations and as specified in the district proposals: civil
works, equipment and furniture, educational materials, contract teachers, and scholarships, as well as those
categories specified in the management capacity-building component of the project (below). This component would
consist of two subcomponents: primary education quality improvement; and junior secondary education access
expansion and quality improvement.
A.      Primary education quality improvement
This subcomponent would include a range of activities designed to make the primary schools in the district fully
functional, i.e., with safe buildings, trained teachers, adequate learning materials, and programs of sustainable,
preventive maintenance, likely involving the school community.
1.     Mapping and consolidation of schools. This activity is designed to help address the issue of low efficiency
in primary education owing to over-provision of primary schools buildings. A district task team led by Dinas P&K
with members from Kandep Dikbud and Kandep Agama, would organize teams at the subdistrict level (kecamatan),
visit each village, confirm the accuracy of primary (and junior secondary) school locations, and review the progress
being made in implementing the program begun in January 1997 by West Java Dinas P&K I of consolidating 2,070
primary schools to about 994 and of verifying school staffing (teachers, school heads) and condition of school
facilities and amenities, including furniture, water supply, and toilets for each location. The consolidated schools
would be among those proposed for rehabilitation under the project.
2.     Rehabilitation of schools. On the basis of the approved consolidation plan (above), the rehabilitation of up
to about 3,700 classrooms in about 1,200 three-classroom units in primary schools would be managed by the BP3 in
each school community, in accordance with the Guidelines for Implementation agreed with the Bank during project
negotiations. Surveys of classroom units at all schools chosen for renovation would be carried out and estimates of
the amount and cost of the work required would be prepared. To be fully functional, the rehabilitated primary
school would also be provided with the following:
(a) Water supply and toilets: Most primary schools, especially, but not exclusively, in the rural areas, lack
clean water and working toilets. The project would provide all schools selected for rehabilitation: (i) a
water supply source with covered wells and hand-pumps or other means of delivering clean water; and (ii)
appropriate toilets such as pour-flush privies or VIP latrines that would function with little or no water to
those schools without a main water supply.
(b) School furniture: To address the current inadequacies in the furniture at most primary schools, furniture
appropriate to children's age and size would be provided. The principal activities will include the
following: (i) carrying out of an anthropometric survey of primnary and junior secondary school pupils as
part of the school mapping exercise, in order to establish a range of furniture sizes to fit the majority of
pupils; (ii) designing furniture, in about three or less sizes, that would be comfortable, strong and simple to
make and repair in the villages; (iii) provision of sufficient numbers of correctly sized desks and chairs to
project schools.



20
3.     Maintenance of primnary schools. Very little preventive maintenance is carried out at any school building.
Only sma]l amounts are budgeted for maintenance each year and they are not spent properly. The principal activities
include: the development of a maintenance handbook for school buildings and provision of training in preventative
maintenance to school staff; and the development of preventive maintenance programs in project schools, which
should ensure the carrying out of regular maintenance and minor repairs, which would over time reduce the present
heavy annual costs of renovation. Through the project, funds would be made to the school head (or head teacher)
for the maintenance program. The school head would be encouraged to request the parent-teacher organization
(BP3) of the community to augment this fund from other sources.
4.     Primary school teacher mapping: The staffing information verified through the school map (above) would
be plotted on a separate teacher map, showing the pupil-teacher ratios by school and keyed following a color-coding
scheme provided by the PCU.
5.     Primary school teacher training and support. The primary teacher qlaality improvement activities under the
proposed project are briefly described below. Teachers will receive training at sub-district level once per year and
be expected to implement the results of their training in their classes. During this implementation they will need
further support and assistance in solving the problems they meet. They will also need further training inputs from
tutors and facilitators (pemandu) as they absorb and implement the inputs from their training.
Educational training materials will consist of books, teachers guides, training and related materials, charts,
maps, and other teaching aids, including kits for purposes of demonstration. The materials are expected to be in
small quantities and of great variety and would not be expected to be procured in bulk. Educational training
materials will be selected from lists prepared by MOEC. The lists will be dlistributed and discussed as part of the
teacher training activities. Information on possible sources of purchase will be disclosed with the list and provided
by trainers. The training materials included in the approved lists will include those developed by goverunental
agencies as well as those available in the market, which are produced andl distributed by publishers and school
materials suppliers in the private sector. The PCU will organize meetings at the provincial level among educators,
including teachers, local staff and representatives of the private sector for the continuous updating of the lists. These
further inputs will be given mainly by the cluster system.
School clusters consist of groups of about eight schools in close geographical proximity. One school is
selected as a core (inti) school, usually situated within easy to reach from the other schools. The project involves
schools from both MOEC and MORA. In both facilities and quality of teaching MI schools are generally
considerably less advanced than MOEC schools. MI schools will be integratecl in SD clusters. In this way it is hoped
that some leveling up will occur. The main cluster activities will consist of meetings of the Teachers Working
Group (KKG) and Head teachers Working group (KKKS). KKG meeting will normally take place in small groups,
each group consists of the teachers of two classes, for examnple: all the teachers of class I and 2 on one day, 3 and
four another day and 5 and 6 another day. This pattern may vary in some areas to suit local circumstances. Meetings
of the KKG for each class will normally take place every two weeks. Meetings of the KKKS will take place on a
monthly basis.
(a) Training of trainers: The training of trainers (tutors, facilitators, and supervisors) will be given initially by
expert national and international consultants in relevant fields of primary education. Two of these would be
a long-term consultants who will act as coordinators of the training and also as trainers. The long term
consultants will also work with the tutors and facilitators (pemandu) after the training to assist them in
applying what they have leamed. The training of tutors, facilitators (pemandu), and teachers will be for
about 10 days. Because of the numbers involved, the training of trainers will be residential at the district.
The training will focus exclusively on the following aspects of teacher quality improvement: (i) how to
organize and implement training at subdistrict and school-cluster level; and (ii) effective ways of
organizing and giving tutorial help in schools
(b) Training of teachers: Sessions of teachers training will be approximately 10 days. Teacher training would
be conducted at the subdistrict (kecamatan). The trainers will be selected from the tutors, pemandu and
pengawas trained previously as trainers. The ratio of tutors to participants will be at least 1:12. The
pengawas will act as coordinator of the training. The training will focus on improved approaches and
methodologies which have proved effective in other projects. The participants in training will normally be
from only one or two classes at a time and will not normally exceed 50. Most activities will take place in
small groups working as far as possible in separate rooms in order to encourage maximum participation.
The activities will be participative and practical and follow the general pattern of the tutor and pemandu
training. A substantial element of practical teaching in schools will be included.



21
(c) Training of head teachers and pengawas on how to support teacher quality improvement in their schools
and clusters: Currently, head teachers concentrate on administrative tasks. There is a need to train head
teachers in playing a key role in developing educational quality in the school, especially in supporting and
developing the changes in teaching learning activities which will be introduced by the project at the
teachers working group (KKG) and head teachers working group (KKKS) meetings. In order to fulfill this
need, head teachers training will take place every year. It will be carried out at the district level and last for
six days. The training will cover, among others, briefing on the curriculum and class organization issues
identified as the focus of the teacher training, monitoring and supervision of teachers, considering ways in
which the head teacher can spread good teaching in his/her school, and setting specific targets related to
improving the quality of teaching. Supervisors (pengawas) training will also be carried out every year in
conjunction with the head teacher training at the district level. The pengawas training will last six days and
will focus around the issue of what pengawas need to do to support the teaching improvement in his/her
area. Community development is also an important means of supporting school development and student
progress. Therefore, training in community support will be included in head teachers and pengawas
training. The development of teaching habits and capabilities is a high priority in the project, and the
development of school libraries is an important aspect of the development of school facilities. Training will
therefore be given to teachers/others in charge of the library in library organization and use.
(d) Scholarships for teachers. The project will also support through the provision of scholarships to local
teacher education institutions the certification of religious teachers to upgrade their qualifications to
classroom subject teachers. Over the life of the project, 3,300 teachers in the province would receive
project scholarships.
6.     Educational materials. Many schools are poorly supplied with books and equipment to support the
curriculum. Where the MOEC and other providers have tried to supply sufficient books to schools, problems have
been experienced with delivery and limited funds for acquiring books. Based on an agreed list of materials, funds
would be provided to enable schools to purchase equipment and books (not basic textbooks) which directly support
the changes being introduced through the training and cluster activities. Schools can make choices on learning
materials to acquire: books and teachers guides, other teaching aids, demonstration kits and minor equipment. The
materials would augment (not replace) the supply of textbooks provided free under the Book and Reading
Development Project (Loan 3887).
7.     Scholarships for poor students. Scholarships may be proposed by districts for up to 48,000 students (about
1% of the total grade 6 population) in grades 5 and 6, the levels at which dropout from school are greatest. The
scholarships would cover the school fees of children who qualify under guidelines developed by MOEC, largely
families who cannot afford the school expenses. Scholarship recipients would be selected by a committee of the
parent-teacher organization (BP3) and the scholarships recommended through the head of school to the district
Dinas P&K and the project unit (PIU). Funds for the children's scholarship would be deposited in the local bank to
an account in the name of the head of farnily. The children will receive approximately Rp2O,000 per month. The
target group includes children who live in rural remote areas, particularly girls.
B. Junior secondary school access expansion and quality improvement
I.     Mapping and construction of junior secondary schools. The main issues to be addressed are the under-
provision of junior secondary school places in general and the lack of junior secondary school places in the rural
and remote areas in particular. The mapping of all junior secondary schools, including private and religious schools,
will be conducted as part of the comprehensive mapping of all schools (see primary education quality improvement,
above) in order to identify the locations where new junior secondary schools will be constructed. The mapping will
be done at the subdistrict level, following procedures developed at the PCU.
The principal construction activity will be the construction of about 300 three- or six-classroom junior
secondary schools. Technical assistance would be provided so that on-site training to contractors and supervisors,
and the subsequent improvement in construction and supervision standards should result in a reduction in future
maintenance and renovation costs. To make the new schools fully effective, the project will include the provision of
school furniture, sustainable and preventive maintenance, as well as water supply facilities and appropriate toilets.
2.     Contract teachers for junior secondary schools. To ensure that the junior secondary school constructed
under the project will have teaching staff, the project would support the hiring of up to 1,000 teachers in key
academic areas each on a three-year contract. The contract would be for assignment to a specific school and would
be discontinued if the teacher leaves that school or does not meet contractual requirements. The contracted teachers
would not expect to be given assurance of permanent appointrnent to the civil service upon completion of their
contract.



22
3.     Teacher training for junior secondary schools: The main objectives are to improve teaching practice in the
classroom, to familiarize teachers with stimulating teaching methods other than recall, to enhance subject
knowledge of teachers, to provide training on the effective choice and usage of textbooks, to foster local capacity at
the school and cluster level in the development of relevant and inexpensive teaching material, and to improve
scheduling of lesson plan and time allocation in class. Experience with  previous efforts in teacher in-service
training at the junior secondary level suggests that except for the small-scale program for schools in isolated areas,
training should be decentralized to the kecamatan (subdistrict) or cluster level. Therefore, inservice training under
the project will be delivered through cluster-level programs for the more accessible schools;. Program preparation
will be the responsibility of a Development Team consisting of experienced instructors for the relevant subject.
They would work in collaboration with national and international consultmts. The Development Team and the
consultants would participate in devising suitable tests for monitoring students' leaming during the course of the
project. The program will be managed by Kandep Dikbud and Kandep Agaama or their representatives, working
with a group of Kepalah Sekolah representing the participating schools. As part of their project activities, the
districts Kabupaten would prepare a detailed school map, showing the location of all junior secondary schools in the
Kabupaten, private as well as public, indicating the participating clusters and statistics on the number of all junior
secondary school teachers. The above information will be updated in their rolling five-year program proposal.
4.     Educational materials. As in the case of primary school educational materials, funds would be provided to
enable schools in the 263 training clusters to purchase equipment and books (not basic textbooks) which directly
support the changes being introduced through the training and cluster activities, based on an agreed list of materials.
Schools can make choices on learning materials to acquire: books and teachers guides, other teaching aids,
demonstration kits and minor equipment. The materials would augment (not replace) the supply of textbooks
provided free under the Book and Reading Development Project (Loan 3887).
5.     Scholarships for poor students. The student scholarship program will follow the selection criteria and
follow the administration and monitoring mechanism established in the Junior Secondary Education Projects (Loans
4042, 4062, 4095) as agreed during negotiations. Further, the scholarships would be awarded with priority to
qualified prospective students resident in communities to be served by the new junior secondary schools to be built
by the project. The scholarship program will specifically target poor students: up to 145,000 scholarships will be
awarded during the life of the project.
Component 2: Management capacity-building at district and province
Budgetary support would be provided to the districts and to the province on the basis of acceptable five-
year program and annual implementation plans. The support will be utilized for establishing effective institutional
arrangements and interagency coordination, and for capacity building in areas affecting educational quality and
efficiency. A detailed training needs assessment for district staff has been carried out on a pilot basis in Sukabumi
district, and the same methodology will be used under the project to conduct similar training needs assessments for
all districts. Eligible expenditures under this component will include technical assistance, fellowships, in-country
training, grants and studies. Varying combinations of such expenditures will be allowed, as specified in the strategic
annual proposals. The component will comprise two subcomponents: education management at the district and
province; and project management.
A.     Education management at district and province
The activities listed below have been identified for support under the project and described in detail in the five-year
proposals of the districts and the province.
1.     Integrated annual planning and budgeting (district). To achieve basic education access and quality
objectives for the entire district, planning and budgeting workshops would be conducted yearly following an agreed
schedule and involving MOEC, MORA, and MOHA district offices under the coordination of Bappeda II. The
workshops would be residential for 3-5 days during which the strategies and activities necessary to meet the targets
set and agreed in the five-year program proposal would be identified, discussed, detailed, scheduled. Technical
assistance would be provided by the provincial project coordination unit during the workshop and for subsequent
follow-up sessions which may be called, as needed. The project would support technical assistance costs as well as
transportation, accommodation, materials and related costs incurred during the meetings. A set of procedures
detailing activities required by the integrated annual planning and budgeting exercise and identifying the responsible
officials are outlined in the Joint Decree (SKB) of the Director General of Primary and Secondary Education
(MOEC), the Director General of Regional Development (MOHA), and the Director General of Islamic Institutional
Development, (MORA) concerning the Implementing Guidelines for the West Java Basic Education Project..



23
2.      Capacity assessment and development (district and province). Assessments of needs at the district and at
the province to support the implementation of the project would be made, following the methodology developed by
the project preparation team. The assessment would be the basis for annual training activities focused on project
rnanagement (planning, budgeting, procurement, financial control, monitoring) for staff of the district and
provincial agencies involved in the project. A team of management consultants (both national and international)
wvould perform the institutional assessment. They will conduct a comprehensive assessment first for the provincial
offices of all agencies involved and subsequently for each of the 26 districts. Their responsibilities would also be to
link district/province personnel with the appropriate training courses available in the region. The project would
support the technical assistance, training fees, local fellowships involved in the assessment and capacity building
aLctivities, as well as office equipment and furniture for the provincial agencies involved in the project.
Educational assessment (province). This activity would develop capacity in educational assessment at the
provincial level and an understanding of key concepts and practices in educational evaluation and an ability to
interpret evaluation results, at the district level. The educational assessment activity would derive lessons from the
experience of a pilot assessment activity in Yogyakarta under the Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Schools
project. Capacity would be developed through conducting a sample-based, province-wide assessment of student
achievement levels, under the general direction of a steering committee which would identify the grades to be
assessed. Human resources in educational assessment and evaluation would be developed through conducting all
aspects of a provincial-level assessment. Particular attention would be given to disseminating the results of the
assessment to policy makers, teacher educators and teachers, to sharpen their focus on the nature and quality of
student learning. The evaluation activities would provide valid and reliable information to policy- makers on the
standards of education achieved by students in targeted classes at the district level and help identify correlates of
learning achievement, especially those that can be changed (e.g., textbook availability, nature of teacher training).
4'.     The project would support the organization of an educational evaluation group consisting of about two
evaluators with competence in educational assessment plus some additional staff. The work of the group would be
s,upported by the provision of about one staff-year of international technical assistance and international-level
training for about six qualified candidates as well as the provision of item writers, field workers, local travel,
equipment, project administration and dissemination support. Planning of evaluation activities would be carried out
in the first year. Over the next four years at least two province-wide assessments would be conducted, one at
primary and one at junior secondary level. Short-term training would be provided to district-level personnel in
educational evaluation. An independent monitoring on the technical adequacy of the evaluation training and
implementation at the provincial level will be carried out by a technical expert in large scale educational
assessments, who would conduct an annual review of the work of the evaluation unit. This activity may be
contracted as a technical assistance package, for which detailed terms of reference, preliminary schedules, and cost
estimates have been incorporated in the Project Implementation Plan.
]3.    Project management
Support will be provided for the project implementation units of the district in the form of office
equipment, technical assistance and other operational support. The project aiso provides for operational support at
the subdistrict (kecamatan), district (kabupaten/kotamadya), and provincial offices. The district and subdistrict
offices will be equipped with the necessary office supplies and equipment such as computers and fax machines to
perform their functions.
1.     Studies and special initiatives. The provincial project coordinating unit would encourage the districts to
include in their annual implementation plans proposals for special initiatives to address specific needs in basic-
education in their area. Sample activities for implementation at the district or the province, with corresponding
terms of reference and cost estimates, for improving reading habits and skills, training in writing children's
literature, and encouraging school-community cooperation to enhance children's learning achievement, are included
in the Project Implementation Plan.
2.      Monitoring, reporting, evaluation. An implementation monitoring system will be developed under the
project. It will consist of an accounting system to monitor the financial progress of the project as well as a non-
iinancial information system. The non-financial system will track the progress of the project based on the key
outputs and performance indicators provided in the project implementation plan. These indicators consist of items
such as the construction of new Junior secondary buildings, formation of new teacher training clusters, frequency at
which teacher training clusters meet, allocation of scholarships, and award of fellowships.
Monitoring and evaluation activities will be carried out by designated staff at the district Project
Implementing Units (PIUs) and at the provincial Project management team (PMT). Funding will be provided for the
monitoring activities through the PMT which would allocate budgetary support for the various units at the district



24
level. Staff assigned to monitoring tasks would receive a traveling allowance and per-diems. The reporting system
would consist of two stages occurring at the district and then the consolidation and verification stage at the province
level. Specific activities at the district level are regular on-site monitoring of rehabilitation, construction, teacher
training and management training activities, data collection and compilation, and regular preparation of monitoring
reports. Activities at the provincial level include regular monitoring visits by provincial staff to districts to observe,
among others, the progress of construction and teacher training activities and reviewing of district-level work
programs and budgets, aggregating district level reports to produce provincial totals.
The reporting mechanism is as follows: upon completion, district reports will be sent to the district PIU and
the district development planning agency (Bappeda II) which then reports to the district head (Bupati/Walikota).
The Bupati/Walikota submits its own report to the provincial Governor through the provincial PMT and the
provincial development planning agency (Bappeda 1). The provincial PMT reports to the national-level Central
Projects Coordinating Unit (CPCU) at Dikdasmen (MOEC).
Responsibilities of the various government agencies and officials involved in the monitoring, reporting and
evaluation process are clearly identified in the SKB. The project will provide an independent team of consultants
who would periodically visit selected areas for a first hand look at project implementation..
3.     Technical audits. In addition to the monitoring and evaluation activities conducted within the project,
external consultants will also be hired to conduct independent audits in the areas of construction, quality and
management annually. The consultants will prepare detailed reports to be submitted to the Provincial Project
Coordination Unit and the Central Project Coordination Unit in Jakarta. This approach to project monitoring has
been used under PEQIP and it is found to be very effective. The Bank supervision of the proposed project will be
based on the fndings of the Technical Audits, the annual evaluation of performance at the national level and
periodic visits to the province.



25
Annex 3
Indonesia: West Java Basic Education Project
Estimated Project Costs
Summary by Project Component                                     Local          Foreign        Total
----------------------------US$ million--
1. Improving Basic Education at District
Primary Education Quality                                        40.8          3.5           44.3
Junior Secondary Education Access & Quality                      50.7          5.8           56.5
Subtotal, Basic Education at District                            91.5          9.3          100.8
2. Management Capacity-Building
District Management                                               3.9          3.0            6.9
Province Management                                               4.7          1.5            6.2
Project Management                                                5.3          3.6            8.9
Subtotal, Management Capacity-Building                           13.9          8.1           22.0
Total Baseline Cost                                                  105.4          17.4         122.8
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies                                               6.7           .7            7.4
Total Project Cost                                                   112.1         18.1          130.2
Local          Foreign        Total
Summary by Category of Expenditure
-----------------------US $ million--------------------
1. Investment Costs
Land Acquisition                                                    2.4           -              2.4
Works, Goods and Services for Schools                               15.0          1.7           16.7
Civil Works                                                        20.7           3.7          24.4
Equipment and Furniture                                              4.6          3.5            8.1
Vehicles                                                             0.1          0.0           0.1
Educational Materials                                                6.0          1.5            7.5
Training                                                           33.8           -             33.8
Scholarships                                                        11.1                        11.1
Contract Teachers                                                    2.3          -              2.3
Consultant Services and Studies                                     3.2           5.0            8.2
Project Management                                                  4.1           0.5           4.6
Fellowships                                                          1.2          1.3           2.5
Subtotal Investment Costs                                         104.5         17.2          121.7
2. Recurrent Costs
Maintenance                                                          3.9          0.4            4.3
Subtotal Recurrent Costs                                            3.9          0.4            4.3
Total Baseline Cost                                                  105.4         17.4          122.8
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies                                                 6.7           0.7            7.4
Total Project Cost                                                   112.1         18.1          130.2



26
Annex 4
Indonesia: West Java Basic Education Project
Economic Analysis
This economic analysis presents the economic rationale for investments in basic education in West
Java and the associated risks of intervention during a period of economic crisis. Building on past work
conducted under the junior secondary education projects (Loans 4042, 4062, 4095), the present analysis
focuses on the district as the unit of development. The following sections follow: (i) linkage to CAS and
ESW; (ii) demand analysis; and (iv) cost-effectiveness analysis. The fiscal analysis, on the impact of the
economic crisis on the education sector in general and the fiscal implications for West Java in particular,
is presented in Annex 5.
Linkage to CAS and ESW
The project speaks specifically to two major CAS objectives: human development, which has been a
key plank of the Government's platform to achieve equitable growth and poverty reduction, and
institutional strengthening. Achievement of the first objective would involve increasing student
achievement and transition from primary to junior and senior secondary school by focusing on quality
improvements and expansion of access for the poor. This objective is reiterated in the education sector
strategy paper, "Indonesia: Suggested Priorities for Education" (1997), within the context of the need to
provide nine years of basic education for all children and to enhance the quality of education, particularly
at the primary level. Consistent with the objective, the project interventions include the rehabilitation of
primary schools, construction ofjunior secondary schools, institution of an inservice teacher training
program at the primary and junior secondary levels, and provision of contract teachers, fellowships for
teacher upgrading, and scholarships targeted to students who are poor.
The project addresses the second objective, institutional strengthening, which is key to achieving high
quality basic education, by enhancing the capacity to decentralize education services through the training
of provincial, district, and subdistrict personnel, to increase their ability to plan, manage, and monitor the
nine-year basic education program.
Demand and Supply Analysis
The national primary school gross enrollment rate increased nearly twofold from 62% in 1973 to
108% in 1995. Junior secondary school enrollments expanded rapidly between the late 1960s and early
1980s, receded to 52% in gross terms in the late 1980s to the early 1990s, and then surged to 65% in
1995. With gross and net primary enrollments well above 95% and junior secondary enrollments below
70 %, the gap remains large and the transition rate low.
The province of West Java has experienced a similar pattern of growth although at a much slower
rate than that of many other provinces. In 1995, with a primary gross enrollment rate of 103% and net
enrollment rate of 90%, it lagged behind most other provinces with the exception of the outer islands. The
same is true at the junior secondary level. A significant problem in West Java is the large gap between
primary and junior secondary enrollment: in 1995, gross enrollment was 103% at the primary level but
only 60% at the junior secondary level (Statistical Appendix Table 1).
District patterns of intraprovincial variation in West Java are quite large at the junior secondary but
not at the primary level. The coefficient of variation is 33% for the former and 3% for the latter. The
distinct pattern that emerges indicates that enrollment is higher in urban districts such as Bandung,



27
Sukabumi, Cirebon and Tangerang, averaging 90%, and as low as 30% in poorer, agrarian districts such
aLs Pandeglang, Indramayu, and Lebak (Table 2).
Analyzing using socio-economic indicators such as expenditure on education (Tables 3 and 4),
income groups, and urban/rural variations shows large variation across income groups at the junior
secondary but not at the primary level. Gross enrollment in the lowest income quartile is one-third that of
enrollment in the highest quartile (Table 5). The largest gap is in urban/rural enrollment, with urban gross
enrollments (81%) twice as large as rural gross enrollments (44%) in 1995 (Table 6).
The gender gap is small in West Java at both the primary and junior secondary level. At the primary
level, male gross enrollments are 103.14% and female enrollments are 103.75%, while at the junior
secondary level enrollments are 90.36% for males and 91.37% for females (Table 7).
Supply side. The underlying constraint to enrollment is the shortage of junior secondary schools.
Jlunior secondary education in West Java is currently being provided through several modes, namely:
regular SMP and SMP Kecil, kelas jauh, and SMP terbuka. There are also religious institutions (MTs)
and private junior secondary schools. There are currently 4,838 junior secondary schools with 21,201
classrooms and about 848,000 student places (assuming each classroom accommodates 40 students).
These schools allow for a gross enrollment rate of about 60% (1995 figure estimated from Susenas).
In the short term, the Government's target is to increase gross enrollments to 86% by 2004. This
creates an additional need for 10,925 classrooms in the province. Using a set of assumptions regarding
contributions from various sources, the net number of classrooms that needs to be constructed is derived.
The first assumption is that SMP terbuka continues to expand at the same rate it has in the past,
suggesting that the program can absorb an additional 50,900 students, decreasing the need by 1,273
classrooms. Other assumptions include: (i) private sector enrollment remains constant at 40%; (ii) APBN
contributions remain constant; and (iii) OECF contributes 558 classrooms by the end of 1998/99. Taking
all these into consideration, the net shortfall is 2,298 classrooms or 383 six-classroom schools (see table).
The project will construct about 300 schools during the period 1998-2004, reducing the need by nearly
80% by the year 2004.1
Estimate of classroom shortfall in West Java
Number of Classrooms
Additional classrooms required to meet target 85% coverage      10,925
Contribution of SMP terbuka (distance education)                1,273
Other contributions between 1998/99 and 2003/04:
APBN                                                          3,033
OECF*                                                          558
Private Sector                                                3,765
Shortfall                                               2,298 (about 383 schools)
*The OECF project built 558 schools between 1996/97 and 1998/99.
Source: West Java Basic Education Project Implementation Plan (Draft, December 1997)
While supply-side interventions may help alleviate constraints, a vast body of literature suggests that
those interventions are often insufficient. A complementary demand-side analysis should also be made.
Demand side. Households as consumers constantly choose products including education for the
children by trading off the interaction of costs against marginal value expected from it. The underlying
barriers to demand for junior secondary school enrollment in West Java are the following:
The assumptions are independent of fiscal impacts on the project as may be occasioned by changes in growth rates
and in currency exchange rates, which are discussed in detail in Annex 5.



28
*  Direct costs.2 On average, the annual cost of schooling is high at about Rp269,000 per child. This is
almost three times the cost of primary education (Rp92,000). Junior secondary education expenditure
is disproportionately burdensome on the poor. Expenditures on school-related items are 42.8% of
expenditures per capita for those in the lowest income quartile and 27.2% for those in the highest
quartile. The Government has abolished the payment of tuition, and textbooks are to be made
available at no cost to the student. However, other large expenclitures such as registration fees,
transportation, fees for other school-related activities (sports, examinations), uniforms and pocket
money are still borne by the household and make up a substantial proportion of out-of-pocket
expenditure. These items constitute nearly 75 % of out-of-pocket expenditure collectively.
Eliminating tuition and textbook payments merely reduces the burden of costs by approximately 25%
*  Indirect (opportunity) costs.3 Children are an important economic resource for many households in
West Java, and the opportunity cost of children's schooling is a very important consideration. Indirect
costs of schooling are sometimes as high if not higher than direct costs. In 1995, 50% of 13-15 year
old poor children (i.e., those in the lowest quartile) were not in school. With high opportunity costs
and economic tensions within the household, many children are drawn into economic activity: 40 %
are unpaid family workers, while 25 % work in the formal sector. A study in rural West Java found
that the opportunity cost of attending junior secondary school can be twice as much as the direct cost
of schooling for low-income families (Mason, 1994).
*  Travel time raises the opportunity cost of schooling which children can spend on housework or
helping in the family fields. As such, when travel time increases, parents become even more reluctant
to send their children to school. Junior secondary schools are in short supply in rural West Java,
travel time is long, and costs are high. The national average travel time in rural areas is 50% higher
than in urban areas (Serrato and Melnick, 1995). In West Java, junior secondary students travel an
average of three kilometers to get to school, nearly five times more than the distance primary
students travel. Consequently, the opportunity cost at the junior secondary level in terms of travel
time is substantially higher than at the primary level.
*  Parental awareness. In many cases, financial interventions may remain inadequate, as parents
continue to undervalue the benefits to education of their children (Patrinos, 1997). While many
parents may understand that education is important for their child's employment in later life, the
benefits of junior secondary vs. primary education are not always clear to them.
The above analysis was presented to the Government during prcject preparation, and interventions
were programmed into the project to overcome many of the identified constraints. The following table
summarizes the problems, interventions that need to be taken, and what the project proposes to do.
Cost Effectiveness Analysis
The following will be discussed in this section: (i) alternative modes of junior secondary schooling;
(ii) consolidation of primary schools; and (iii) the economic advantages of preventive maintenance of
primary school buildings.
2   direct costs of education in Indonesia includes expenses paid directly to the school and expenses incurred out
of school. Expenses paid to the school include registration, tuition, exercise, and examination fees and parent-
teacher organization contributions. Out of school expenses are generally for equipment, uniforms, books,
transportation, and private tutoring.
The indirect costs of attending school represents the value of forgone earnings associated with a child's going to
school, including classroom time, the time that the child spends traveling to and from school, and the amount of
time spent studying or doing homework (Mason et al., 1996). Teenagers are a labor resource especially in rural
areas where many households are in self-employed agriculture.



29
Linkage between economic analysis and project interventions
Problem              Effective Intervention                Project Action
Lack of schools in   Increased number of junior       Junior secondary schools to be built in
rural and remote areas   secondary schools in rural and  rural and remote areas.
remote areas
High direct cost      Scholarships for poor students  Scholarships to be provided for poor
students
High indirect        Stipends for poor students       Revised policy, on per-student-based
opportunity costs                                     provision of operating funds to schools,
and funds provided to community for
school rehabilitation may reduce need to
charge certain school fees.
High travel costs    Availability of schools in remote    Comprehensive mapping exercise to be
and rural areas where there is  conducted to determine suitability of
demand                          locale for new schools; junior secondary
schools to be built in rural and remote
areas.
Low parental         Information campaigns            Training on education interventions and
awareness                                             village initiatives to be for local
community leaders.
Alternative modes of junior secondary education. To increase opportunities for junior secondary
edlucation, the Government has embarked on several modes of delivery, including the construction of
three- classroom schools (SMP Kecil), six-classroom schools, nine-classroom schools, and open
secondary schools (SMP Terbuka). The cost of each mode will be compared to the corresponding
outcome.
Costs and benefits. The table below presents a summary of the unit costs and outcomes, defined as
additional student places created. The cost-effectiveness ratios indicate that the most cost-effective mode
of provision is the nine-classroom school, followed by the six-classroom school. The least cost-effective
is the SMP Terbuka. It is expected that only a few nine-classroom schools will be supported by the
project because priority will be given to rural and remote areas where most of the poor and out-of-school
children are located in scattered communities where three- or six-classroom schools would be cost-
effective. The nine-classroom school will be justifiable in urban areas or in populous catchment areas in
rural districts.
Cost-effectiveness ratios for alternative modes of junior secondary education
(a)                   (b)                  (a / b)
Mode                  Cost per student    Student places created  Cost-effectiveness
(Rp)                                        ratio
SMP Kecil (3 classrooms)               191,667                120                  1,597
6-classroom school                     267,792                240                  1,116
9-classroom school                     271,861                360                    755
SMP Terbuka (distance education)       100,000                 50                  2,000
Main assumptions. The main costs of each alternative included in the analysis were those of
construction, maintenance, and teachers. The cost of constructing an SMP Kecil, six-classroom, and
nine-classroom school are Rp200 million, Rp360 million, and Rp541 million, respectively (Wakeham,
I 997). SMP Terbuka requires no school construction, as it uses existing facilities. The costs generated
under this model are recurrent in nature, consisting of teacher salaries and other administrative costs. The



30
cost of maintenance is estimated at 2% of construction cost per annum. An average teacher salary of
Rp250,000 per month was assumed. The number of teachers assumed in the SMP Kecil, six-classroom,
and nine-classroom schools are 3, 13, and 20, respectively.
Consolidation of primary schools. The shrinking student population has left many primary school
buildings built in the late 1980s at less than full utilization. One alternative to creating increased access to
compulsory nine-year basic education would be to convert the unused infrastructure to junior secondary
level. This will require that a rational consolidation of primary schools would leave some buildings
vacant. The table below details the cost implication of this alternative relative to constructing completely
new junior secondary schools.
Consolidation and renovation vs. new construction
Alternative                     Uniit Cost (Rp)
Renovating and rehabilitating consolidated  87,280,000*
primary school building          |
Construction ofjunior secondary school    405,550,000
building                         |
*Including the cost of renovation and addition of a laboratory (Rp47,280,000).
The unit costs imply that the use of rehabilitated primary school buildings is a cheaper alternative
than constructing a new junior secondary building. The average unit cost of consolidation, renovation and
the addition of a laboratory is about one fifth the cost of constructing a completely new junior secondary
building. However, this alternative many not always be feasible owing to the following:
*  Incompatible land area. In general, primary school sites are about 3,000 sq.m. in size, while on
average a 6,000 sq.m. lot is required for a junior secondary school. A primary school may consist of
six classrooms and an office, while a junior secondary school requires in addition to classrooms a
library, laboratory, storage, and an administrative building. This is a problem particularly in urban
areas (the majority of cases where several primary schools sit on a single site) where land shortages
are common and land prices are high.
-  Inappropriate classroom size. The size of a standard primary school classroom is 56 sq.m., smaller
than the average size of a standard junior secondary classroom which is 63 sq.m.
=  Unsuitable location. The location of vacant primary schools many not be appropriate for a junior
secondary school.
* Problems of site ownership could arise and obstruct the change of use of the infrastructure because
primary schools are the responsibility of the local government while junior secondary schools are the
responsibility of the MOEC. The land upon which the vacant primary school is situated may not be
easily transferable to MOEC.
What is essential before any consolidation or construction activities commence is a comprehensive
mapping exercise to determine feasibility.
Preventive maintenance of primary schools.4 If school buildings are to maintain their value and
provide their pupils and teachers with a satisfactory learning and teaching environment, time, effort and
money must be expended upon them regularly and effectively. Unfortunately, maintenance budgets are
the easiest to cut in times of financial stringency as has happened in the case of Indonesian schools. The
limited funds available are usually directed toward new buildings or the total renovation of existing ones
rather than the upkeep of existing facilities which only increases the number of buildings requiring
maintenance with ever decreasing resources.
4Adapted from Nigel Wakeham, "Implementation Specialist's Report" (October 1997).



31
The construction budgets used by the government for estimating the cost of construction of new or
renovation of existing schools are more than adequate for the construction of good quality facilities if
they are properly built. For instance, the cost of a new four-classroom primary school building is
estimated at Rp88.256 million The major renovation of an existing four-classroom primary school
building is estimated at Rp3O million. Unfortunately, because of the generally low standard of
construction, the full potential of the building is never realized. Thus, combined with the fact that very
little money is spent on maintenance, the useful life of most school buildings is very short.
The costs attributable to a building occur at different times in its life. These costs must be judged on a
common basis before comparisons can be made. The full cost of maintaining a building against not
maintaining a building over a period of 21 years is examined in the Table below. The example is based on
the following examples. If this building is well constructed and maintained, it should have a useful life of
at least 20 years and probably much longer. However, if the building is badly constructed and poorly
maintained, its life could be shortened to 10 years and possibly much less. The initial cost of constructing
the building at current rates will be Rp88.256 million. If we assume that annual maintenance costs are a
fixed annual rate of 2% of the initial construction cost, this will result in a maintenance cost of Rp 1.765
million for the first year after construction. Both the cost of maintenance and construction increases at an
annual inflation rate of 10%.
Alternatives to school construction
Year          School 1: With Maintenance              School 2: Without Maintenance
I              Rp88,256,000  Construction                 Rp88,256,000  Construction
2                 1,765,120  Maintenance
3                 1,941,632  l
4                 2,135,795  l
5                 2,349,375   l
6                 2,584,312
7                 2,842,743   l
8                 3,127,018   l
9                 3,439,720
10                3,783,691   l
11                4,162,061   l                            228,913,335  Reconstruction
12                4,578,267   l
13                5,036,093
14                5,539,703   l
15                6,093,673
16                6,703,040
17                7,373,344   l
18                8,110,679  l
19                8,921,747  l
20                9,813,921  4
21              593,742,236  Reconstruction                 593,742,236  Reconstruction
Total         Rp772,300,169                              Rp910,911,570
The above data indicate that school maintenance is much more cost effective that non-
maintenance. The total cost of constructing a 4-classroom building properly, maintaining it regularly and
reconstructing it after 20 years is Rp772,300,169. The total cost of constructing the same building, but,
not maintaining it resulting in two necessary reconstruction activities after 10 years is Rp9l0,911,570.
The total savings per unit on the overall cost of the maintained school building against that of the building
that is not maintained is Rpl3,861,141 per building over a period of 21 years. This is the direct monetary
savings realizable from school maintenance.



32
Statistical Appendix
Table 1: Enrollment rates by province
Province                    Primary                     Junior Secondary
Gross           Net            Gross            Net
Aceh                      105.39          91.99           65.73           52.27
Sumatra Utara             109.13          93.82           76.42           60.98
Sumatra Barat             107.39          92.22           76.58           57.53
Riau                      110.96          94.26           66.10           50.87
Jambi                     105.42          90.98           60.77           46.85
Sumatra Selatan           104.81          89.47           58.95           44.40
Bengkulu                  108.60          91.39           66.50           50.29
Lampung                   107.16          91.89           68.54           53.42
DKI Jakarta               108.69          93.17           95.48           71.99
Jawa Barat                103.44          90.85           59.89           47.59
Jawa Tengah               110.31          93.96           66.47           52.19
Yogyakarta                113.06          95.49           88.07           69.05
Jawa Timur                109.07          92.98           66.82           52.24
Bali                      106.80          93.51           78.67           62.13
Nusa Tenggara Barat       101.60          88.56           50.57           39.64
Nusa Tenggara Timur       106.68           85.66          41.73           28.35
TimorTimur                93.12           71.84           49.59           27.14
Kalimantan Barat          107.33          84.60           51.59           34.08
Kalimantan Tengah         112.30          94.39           66.38           50.27
Kalimantan Selatan        108.45          91.89           56.82           45.68
Kalimantan Timur          113.66          92.17           73.97           56.55
Sulawesi Utara            105.02          87.78           66.91           50.74
Sulawesi Tengah           106.93          91.03           53.15           43.28
Sulawesi Selatan          100.65          86.58           56.96           44.53
Sulawesi Tenggara         106.84          88.59           63.01           48.47
Maluku                    112.89          92.19           63.47           46.10
Irian Jaya                100.72          79.57           60.73           39.73
National                  108.24          91.90           65.65           50.96
Source: Susenas 1995



33
Table 2: Enrollment rates by district
District                   Primary                     Junior Secondary
Gross           Net            Gross            Net
Pandeglang               100.60           87.70           31.48           23.18
Lebak                    102.18           89.09           24.72           21.06
Bogor                    100.43           87.00           67.53           52.20
Sukabumi                 100.51           87.33           45.59           33.68
Cianjur                  101.85           90.34           27.31           24.33
Bandung                  102.81           91.41           67.82           51.78
Garut                    106.88           92.45           48.07           39.74
Tasikimalaya             105.24           95.10           48.32           43.82
Ciamis                   104.79           93.57           68.18           55.67
Kuningan                 104.42           94.79           67.06           56.30
Cirebon                  106.53           92.24           57.30           44.59
Majalengka               108.22           95.33           50.43           39.95
Sumedang                 101.18           92.29           71.91           61.14
Indramayu                 98.64           87.86           39.28           32.97
Subang                    99.75           91.02           63.86           50.96
Purwakarta               104.60           94.76           55.94           47.85
Karawang                 104.55           92.23           55.06           44.93
Bekasi                   107.46           93.79           70.26           56.94
Tengerang                101.48           87.64           68.08           50.25
Serang                   104.79           90.23           46.31           33.33
Kota Bogor               102.23           89.66           98.48           76.26
Kota Sukabumi            106.19           95.58           93.10           79.31
Kota Bandung             104.56           91.63           90.03           72.21
Kota Cirebon             108.95           91.35           82.32           65.69
Kota Tangerang           108.56           93.55           96.58           75.75
West Java                103.4            90.85           59.89           47.59
E  Coefficient of variation   0.028           0.029           0.335           0.334
Source: Susenas 1995
Table 3: Average household expenditure per student (Rp)
Primary                       Junior Secondary
Public            Private           Public            Private
Registration fee            2,176               9,951            14,452            23,571
Tuition                      5,595            30,296            21,058             54,873
Parent-teacher organization
contributions               4,799              6,580             10,746            10,682
Exercise                      472                809             2,030              2,404
Other fees                    910               1,423            3,049              3,398
Tests                        1,148              1,996             1,600             5,135
Equipment                     983              2,283             3,089              3,617
Uniforms                    10,428             11,985            18,490            18,039
Books                       11,381             15,915           23,318             24,730
Transportation               6,249             18,726           35,656             41,956
Tutors' fees                  897               4,260            3,765              4,796
Others                      14,194             19,349           25,891             28,233
Total                       58,281            120,861           160,399           217,730



34
Table 4 Average household expenditure on schooling-related items
per student (RpOOO)
District            Primary      Junior Secondary
Pandeglang                 46.16            170.6
Lebak                      39.64            168.9
Bogor                      87.96            268.7
Sukabumi                   45.96            164.9
Cianjur                    67.89            187.4
Bandung                   114.63            343.3
Garut                      49.35            134.8
Taskimalaya                 53.1            148.3
Ciamis                      71.5            186.6
Kuningan                    43.5            126.2
Cirebon                     59.2            192.7
Majalengka                  52.7            147.1
Sumedang                    91.2            319.8
Indramayu                   61.7            190.7
Subang                      83.8           232.6
Purwakarta                  77.2            180.4
Karawang                    66.1            257.7
Bekasi                     147.5            340.4
Tengerang                  165.0            453.4
Serang                      53.8            169.3
Kota Bogor                 196.3            351.6
Kota Sukabumi              137.3            302.0
Kota Bandung               138.2            279.0
Kota Cirebon               112.3            256.0
Kota Tangerang             143.6            311.8
West Java                   91.5            268.9
Table 5: Average household expenditures per student relative to per capita expenditure, 1995
Level          Lowest Quartile     Middle Quartile      Highest Quartile        Average
Primary                 14.2                 14.5                12.2                 14.0
Junior Secondary        42.8                35.5                 27.2                33.6
Average                 18.9                 23.2                29.8                24.0
Source: Susenas 1995
Table 6: Urban and rural enrollment rates, 1995
Level                    Urban                     Rural                     Total
Gross        Net         Gross   [    Net          Gross         Net
Primary                  104.82       91.45       102.55        90.46       103.44        90.85
Junior Secondary         81.34        81.34        44.19        44.19        59.89        47.59
Source: Susenas 1995
Table 7: Male and female enrollment rates, 1995
Level                    Male                     Female                     Total
Gross        Net         Gross         Net         Gross         Net
Primary                 103.14        90.36       103.75   [    91.37       103.44        90.85
Junior Secondary         61.64        47.61        58.16   l    47.57        59.89        47.59
Source: Susenas 1995



35
Annex 5
Indonesia: West Java Basic Education Project
Fiscal Analysis
The current economic and financial crisis demands an even more careful consideration of the fiscal
implications of contractionary GDP growth and public expenditure, a situation which has not prevailed in
recent times in Indonesia. This fiscal analysis: (i) examines the growth of the education budget during the
last structural adjustment period in Indonesia; (ii) looks at both the budgetary burden of the project under
different growth scenarios and the sustainability of the project investments after completion; and (iii)
simulates for the short run the effects of a further depreciation of the rupiah against the US dollar and
increased local inflation, to estimate the total value of savings and structure activities to which such
potential savings may be channeled.
Historical data. The overall education budget has not experienced steady growth over the past
decade (see graphs). During the last structural adjustment period, real expenditure for basic (primary and
junior secondary) education fell by as much as 71% between fiscal 1985/86 and 1989/90. The single
largest drop occurred in the second year of the adjustment when the budget fell as much as 56%, from
Rp583 billion to Rp258 billion. This was caused by both a shrinking of overall GDP as well as a
reduction in the allocation to education. During this period, education expenditures as a percentage of
GDP fell from 4.13% to 2.74%, while the share of Government expenditures for education fell from
17.6% to 13%.
Basic education (primary and junior secondary) expenditures, 1984/85-1996/97
900-
800 
700 -
600 -
500               \
C 400-
300-
200 -
100
0
84185  85/86  86/87  87/88  88189  89/90  90/91  91/92  92/93  93/94  94/95  95196  96197
Years
Source: Indonesia: Suggested Priorities for Education (World Bank, 1997), Chapter 6.
Repercussions of a slower rate of growth or negative growth. In the context of the current crisis,
that there is the possibility that the 1985/86 structural adjustment scenario may recur. There could be
severe short-run repercussions on the national education budget as GDP growth contracts. Accordingly,
the education budget for West Java could also contract over the next few years. A contractionary
provincial education budget could adversely affect the sustainability of the project in the long run as well
as the availability of counterpart funds.



36
Growth rate of basic education budget in real terms, 1984/85-1996/97
Negative growth during 1985/86 period of
100                         structural adjustment
80
60
i:-40,
20                                                                   ,
84205- 851/s             8/    88/Y8 89/90       90/91-91/92     92/93-93/94      94/95-95/96
-20 
Years
-40
-60
Source: Indonesia: Suggested Priorities for Education(World Bank, 1997), Chapter 6.
To examine the fiscal implications on the education budget in West Java three scenarios are modeled.
To derive the Government capacity needed to implement this project, the ratio of project costs to the total
education budget is calculated under each scenario; to derive a measure of sustainability of key activities
after project completion, the ratio of post-project recurrent costs to the total education budget is
calculated under each scenario. The recurrent costs included in this analysis consist of maintenance,
scholarships, contract teachers and teacher training, i.e., the expenditures financed under the project that
will be expected to continue beyond the life of the project. Teacher training activities are assumed to
continue at about 20% of project levels.
Fiscal impact of the project under the high case scenario (Rp billion)
97/98     98/99     99/00     00/01      01/02     02/03     03/04      04/05
Before                                                                 After
project       ----------------- Project implementation period -----------------  project
Growth rate of provincial
education budget (%)                  4.0       4.0       4.0        5.0       5.0       6.0        6.0
Total education budgetl    550       572        595       619       650       682       723         767
Project costs2                        65        122       137       1,S0      134         73
Project recurrent costs                18        47        74        94       102         65         65
Project costs / Total
education budget (%)                 11.4      20.6      22.1      24.6       19.6      10.1
Project recurrent cost /
Total education budget                3.1       7.9      11.9       14.5      15.0       9.0        8.5
(%/0)
1. Aggregated from official budgets of MOEC (education), MORA (religious affairs), MOHA (home affairs). The same figures are used in the
other two scenarios.
2. Aggregate of all categories of expenditure excluding technical assistance, but including price and physical contingencies and taxes.



37
High case scenario. Under this scenario it is assumed that: (i) education expenditures are not cut
more than other sectors are during structural adjustment; and (ii) both the overall and provincial budgets
continue to increase at a rate of 4.86% per annum in real terms.
The data indicate that the project costs would account for 11.4% in the first year, increase to 24% in
the fourth year, and recede to 10% in the last year of implementation. The burden of responsibility on the
provincial and district governments will grow over the course of the project. The increased budget would
require expanded capacity for management and administration. The recurrent costs are a much smaller
percentage of the total education budget, beginning at 3% in the first year and peaking at 15% during the
fourth year of implementation. Recurrent costs are estimated to be around 8.5% of the total budget in
2004/05--small and manageable, implying that the project is sustainable.
Moderate case scenario. The second scenario assumes that in fiscal 1998/99, the education budget
would contract by 1%, followed by a period of economic recovery that will lead to a steady increase over
the next few years.
Fiscal impact of the project under the moderate case scenario (Rp billion)
97/98    98/99    99/00    00/01    01/02    02/03    03/04       04/05
Before                                                           After
project     ----------------- Project implementation period -----------------    project
(irowth rate ot provincial
education budget (%)              -1.0      1.0       2.0      3.0      4.0       5.0       6.0
Total education budget   550      545       550      561       578      601      631        669
Project costs                      65       122      137       160      134       73
Project recurrent costs            18        47       74        94      102       65         65
Project costs / Total
education budget (%)              12.0     22.3     24.4      27.6     22.3      11.6
Project recurrent cost /
Total education budget             3.2      8.6      13.1     16.3      17.0     10.3       9.7
(%/4)
Under this scenario, project costs as a proportion of the total provincial education budget are higher.
In the first year, recurrent costs are 12% of the total education budget, increasing up to more than 27% in
the fourth year. As in the previous scenario, increased managerial and administrative capacity would be
needed. Recurrent expenditure is also higher, starting at 3.2% and increasing to 17% during the
implementation period. After the project, the province is expected to assume up Rp65 million yearly, an
additional 9.7% to the total provincial budget in recurrent costs, which is small and manageable.
Low case scenario. The growth rates during the project period 1998/99-2003/04 used in the analysis
are the moving averages of the growth series from the 1980s structural adjustment period. In the last year,
a growth rate of 6% is assumed.
The immediate affect of the crisis would be the high ratio of project cost to education budget, rising
to 60% in the third year. The ratio of project recurrent costs to total budget would also be high during the
third and fourth year of project implementation but would fall dramatically after project completion.
NVhile this ratio may seem high, in absolute terms, the amount of budget that the provincial and district
offices would have to manage during project implementation (provincial budget plus project costs) is
lower than the provincial budget in 1997/98. The constraint that could arise under this scenario is the
Government's ability to produce the counterpart funds for the project as the provincial budgets
experience negative growth. After project completion, the total recurrent costs that the government would
hbave to assume would be an additional 11.5% of the budget, which is considered manageable.



38
Fiscal impact of the project under the low case scenario (Rp billion)
97/98  . 98/99    99100    00/01      01/02    02/03     03/04     04/05
Betore                                                            After
project      ----------  Project implementation period ---------------  project
(irowth rate ot provincial
education budget (%/6)
-25.0    -30.0    -21.0      27.0     33.0      40.0        6.0
Total education budget   550       413      289       228      288       382       535        565
Project costs                       65      122       137       160      134        73
Project recurrent costs             18       47        74       94       102        65         65
Project costs / Total
education budget (%/6)            15.8      42.4     60.0      55.5     35.0      13.7
Project recurrent cost /
Total education budget             4.3      16.3     32.3      32.8     26.8      12.2       11.5
(O)
Conclusion. The three scenarios provide a picture of the Government's fiscal burden during and after
the project period. The results of the analysis are summarized in the table below. The high and the
moderate scenarios imply the need at provincial and district governments to enhance their ability to
manage and administer increased budgets. To minimize risk, the project includes training in areas such as
education management and planning for personnel in the various agencies involved in delivering
education services.
Summary of risk under alternative fiscal scenarios
High case             Moderate case             Low case
Ability of provincial and   Ability of provincial and    Ability of the government
district governments to  district govemments to    to produce the necessary
manage and administer  manage and administer    counterpart funding
project.               project.
Sustainability after project
completion
Sensitivity analysis was conducted using assumptions about the path along which the exchange rate
may change and the estimated rates of inflation for the life of the project. The project cost was estimated
on the basis of a constant exchange rate of Rp5,000/US$l for the six years of the project (see table). The
local inflation rate of price contingencies is 17.5% for the fiscal year 1998/99, falling to 7% by 2003/04.
Under those assumptions, a total project cost of US$130.2 million and a loan arnount of $103.5 million
were derived.
Changes in the exchange rate and rate of local inflation should during project implementation could
result in savingswhich could be channeled to enhance project effectiveness through the following:
*  More scholarships: Rising inflation heightens the probability of dropouts. There would be a need for
additional scholarships to protect the poor.
*  More primary schools to be rehabilitated: The project will rehabilitate about 1,213 three-classroom
units in about 800 schools--approximately 11% of the 7,500 schools classified as needing heavy
repairs. Savings could be directed to increase the scope of rehabilitation.
*  More junior secondary schools: The project's the construction of 300 schools represents nearly 80%
of the estimated shortfall which can be fiully covered if more fijnds were available.
The above would require corresponding increases in counterpart funding, more than the estimated
counterpart funding requirement of Rp175.7 billion over the six years, 1998/99-2003/04, of the project.



39
Annex 6
Indonesia: West Java Basic Education Project
Procurement, Disbursement, and Financial Management Arrangements
Procurement Methods
Table A summarizes the procurement arrangements under the project. All procurement of goods
and works will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loams and IDA Credits dated January 1995, revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997.
The procurement of consulting services will follow procedures prescribed in the Guidelines on Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers dated January 1997, revised September
1997.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                         Procurement Method                           Total Cost
ICB           NCB          Other*        N.B.F.    (incl. contingencies)
1. Works
Land Acquisition                                                               2.5                 2.5
(0.0)               (0.0)
Civil Works under Part A. 2 (a)                   25.6                                            25.6
(20.5)                                         (20.5)
Works, Goods and Services for                                    17.7                             17.7
Primary Schools under Part                                   (14.2)                           (14.2)
A. I (a)
2. Goods
Equipment and Furniture
except Part A. I (a),             4.2            4.2                                            8.4
excluding vehicles              (4.2)          (3.3)                                          (7.5)
Educational Materials                                             8.1                              8.1
(6.5)                            (6.5)
Vehicles                                                                       0.2                 0.2
(0.0)               (0.0)
3. Services
Training                                                         36.2                             36.2
(25.4)                           (25.4)
Services of Contract Teachers                                     2.4                              2.4
(2.4)                            (2.4)
Consultants' Services and                                         8.6                              8.6
Studies                                                       (8.6)                            (8.6)
4. Miscellaneous
Project Management                                                4.9                              4.9
(3.9)                            (3.9)
Scholarships                                                     11.9                             11.9
(11.9)                           (11.9)
Fellowships                                                       2.6                              2.6
(2.6)                            (2.6)
Maintenance                                                                    1.1                 1.1
(0.0)               (0.0)
Total                                4.2          29.8           92.4          3.8               130.2
(4.2)        (23.8)        (75.5)        (0.0)             (103.5)
* Community participation, national shopping, direct contracting, Govemment's administrative procedures acceptable to the Bank, and
consultant selection procedures acceptable to the Bank.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed. Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.



40
Organization and Management of Procurement. The procurement plan reflects the decentralized
nature of the project's activities and will be carried out by the 26 districts and by West Java province
throughout the six-year life of the loan. (The institutional arrangements for the project are charted in
Attachment 1.) Most of the procurement for the project will not constitute large contracts. The Project
Implementing Units (PIUs) in each district would be in charge of procurement for the activities in their
respective districts. Since districts have little or no experience with procurement under Bank-assisted
projects, guidance will be provided by the provincial Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) in the provincial
capital of Bandung, which will be provided with technical assistance. Assistance of a specialized nature,
such as for conducting ICB, will be provided by Dikdasmen of the MOEC in Jakarta, which is the
agency currently implementing all Bank-financed junior secondary education (JSE) projects. The PCU
will be in charge of procurement for the project-related activities at the provincial level.
The Government's procurement regulations (Keppres 16/1994) includes the following provisions
which are not acceptable under the Bank's procurement guidelines and will not apply to this project:
domestic preference for economically weak contractors and procurement of works and goods using a
two-envelope system.
Civil Works (US$25.6 million). The works would be small in size and scattered over the 26
provincial districts and would consist of construction of junior secondary schools, each costing about
US$8 1,000. The works will be procurred under NCB procedures (using the agreed documents used in
the JSE projects) and carried out by Dinas P&K, supported by Dinas PUK and construction engineer-
consultants in supervising the works. Kandep/Kanin Dikbud will participate in the bidding process and
cocertify the final payment to contractors upon completion of maintenance period.
Works, Goods and Services for Primary Schools (US$17.7 million). Rehabilitation works for
primary schools, including the provision of water supply and toilets and repair of school furniture, will
be procured following community participation procedures agreed vvith the Bank and using funds
provided by the Government as annual block grants (Rp69 million per three-classrooms unit) for
schools selected according to criteria agreed with the Bank. The works will be managed by parent-
teacher organizations (BP3) in association with the village community development council (LKMD).
Equipment and Furniture (US$8.4 million). Furniture for the.junior secondary shools constructed
under the project, and office furniture and equipment, would be procured on an annual basis in
accordance with the phasing of project activities. Where practicable items such as computers would be
grouped into packages, and for those valued at US$200,000 or more would be procured through ICB
procedures at the provincial level using the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) for
Procurement of Goods. Other equipment, including typewriters, telephone and facsimile machines, and
furniture valued at less than US$200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate not exceeding US$4.2 million
would be procured at the district level through NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Educational Materials (US$8.1 million) consisting of books for supplementary reading, teachers
guides, training materials, charts, maps, and other teaching aids, including kits for purposes of
demonstration, will be procured by heads of schools through direct contracting of proprietary items or
national shopping procedures. The procurement will be based on item lists agreed with the Bank and
using funds provided by the Government as annual block grants to schools (for primary school:
Rp690,000 for reading books, Rp690,000 for other educational materials; for junior secondary school:
Rp845,000 for reading books, Rp845,000 for other educational materials).
Training (US$36.2 million) for school principals, supervisors, and teachers will be carried out by
trainers who will receive their own training from consultants who in turn will be hired following
procedures set forth in the Consultant Guidelines (above). The trainers will execute training activities



41
following annual and program plans agreed with the Bank and in accordance with Government
administrative procedures (including those governing staff travel and subsistence allowances, provision
of consumable materials, and other training-related activities) acceptable to the Bank. Similarly, the
training of management and staff of the district and provincial agencies will be carried out by
consultants who will be hired in accordance with the Consultant Guidelines and who will conduct
training under plans agreed with the Bank and Government procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Scholarships (US$11.9 million) for students would be awarded in accordance with criteria agreed
with the Bank following Government administrative procedures acceptable to the Bank
Fellowships (US$2.6 million) for teachers and relevant officials would be awarded in accordance
with annual plans agreed with the Bank and following Government administrative procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
Contract Teachers (US$2.4 million) would be selected in accordance with criteria agreed with the
B3ank, following Government procedures and appointed by the head of district (Bupati/Walikota).
Consultants' Services and Studies (US$8.6 million). Letters of invitation and terms of reference
for all consultancies and single-source contracts will be subject to prior review by the Bank for
contracts valued at US$100,000 equivalent or more awarded to firms, or US$50,000 equivalent or more
awarded to individuals. The Bank's Standard Form of Contract (SFC) for Consultants' Services will be
used. Consulting assignments valued at more than US$200,000 equivalent will be advertised in
Development Business.
Project Management (US$4.9 million) support for project activities (including travel and
subsistence allowances, provision of consumable materials) would be availed of in accordance with
Government administrative procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Prior Review Thresholds
Table B summarizes the threshold for procurement methods and Bank review.
First contracts for civil works in each district each year are subject to prior review by the Bank.
Others would fall under random ex-post review of a sample of approximately 10%. For goods, prior
review shall be carried out for the first contract from each district each year and all other contracts
which cost US$200,000 or more equivalent procured under ICB procedures. All terms of reference,
single-source selection of consulting firms and all consultant contracts costing at or more than
US$100,000 for firms and at or more than US$50,000 for individuals would be subject to prior review
by the Bank. All other consultant contracts would be subject to random ex-post reviews.
About 30 percent of all contract awards, including those awarded under ICB would be subject to
Irior review.
Works, goods and services for primary school rehabilitation, books and teaching materials, and
contracts for fellowships, training, and services of contract teachers will be subject to random ex-post
reviews.



42
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure                Contract Value              Procurement          Contracts Subject to
Category                    Threshold                   Method               Prior Review
1. Works
School construction          US$200,000                   NCB                     First contract from
each district each year
regardless of value
School rehabilitation                                     Community               N.A.
participation
2. Goods
Equipment and furniture,     Equal to or more than        ICB                     Prior review
education materials          US$200,000
Less than US$200,000 but    NCB                      First contract from
more than US$50,000                                  each district each year
US$50,000 or less           National Shopping
3. Services
Consultant contracts for     Equal to or more than        QCBS                    Prior review
implementation and studies   US$100,000
Consulting services by       Equal to or more than        Individual consultants   TORs, qualifications,
individuals                  US$50,000                                            draft contract
Training, Fellowships                                     Proposal to include     Prior review of
subject, types of       proposal
participants, period of
training, cost
Contract teachers                                         Regular government    Criteria agreed by the
procedures              Bank
4. Miscellaneous
Scholarships                                              Regular government    Criteria agreed by the
procedures.             Bank
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$30.0 million
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category              Amount                     Financing Percentage
in US$ million
(1)  Civil Works (except Category 3)          19.5     80%
(2)  Equipment and Furniture                  7.4      100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local
(except Category 3 and vehicles)                  expenditures (ex-factory) and 80% of local
expenditures procured locally
(3)  Goods, Works and Services for            13.4     80%
Primary Schools
(4)  Educational Materials                    6.0      80%
(5)  Scholarships                             11.1     100%
(6)  Training                                23.7      70%
(7)  Services of Contract Teachers            2.3      100%
(8)  Project Management*                      3.7      80%
(9)  Fellowships                              2.6      100%
(10)  Consultants' Services and                 8.2     100%
Studies
(11)  Unallocated                               5.6
Total                                   103.5
*Includes expenditures for travel, per-diems, and materials necessary for project implementation.



43
Disbursements
Use of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Disbursements for contracts at or above US$200,000
for civil works and goods, US$100,000 for consulting firms, and US$50,000 for individual consultants
would be fully documented. Disbursements for all other expenditures, would be against statements of
expenditure, whereby supporting documentation is to be retained by the implementing agencies and
made available to the Bank for review during supervisions.
Special Account. To facilitate project implementation and disbursement, a Special Account (SA) in
US currency in the amount of US$6.0 million will be established by the Directorate General (DG) of the
Budget at Bank Indonesia on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. The DG Budget will submit
applications for replenishment of the Special Account on a monthly basis, or when the account is drawn
down to within 20% of the initial deposit, whichever occurs first. In addition to the supporting
documents being kept at the PIUs, the DG Budget will also retain copies of the relevant supporting
documents against which applications for disbursements are prepared.
Flow of Funds. The Pimpro/Pimbagpro at the PCU/PIUs will be responsible for authorizing the
project expenditures in accordance with the agreed budgets under the existing government procedures.
They will submit their payment requests to their respective MOF Treasurer (KPKN) who will issue
palyment remittance orders (SPM) to Bank Indonesia to credit payees' accounts at the latter's respective
banks and to debit the project Special Account. For expenditures in small amounts and for activities
managed by the PCU/PIUs themselves (swakelola), sufficient cash advance funds will be provided by
KPKN to the Treasurer of the PCU/PIUs. Each month or when required earlier, the PCU/PIUs will
account for their expenditures and report to the KPKN who will replenish the PCU/PIU account, based
on the PCU/PIU reports; the KPKN will the request reimbursement from the project Special Account.
The DG Budget will provide KPKN with guidelines and criteria for eligible project expenditures, in
accordance with the Loan Agreement. All the required forms necessary to submit payment request and
the relevant documentation are standard and are currently applicable to all foreign-funded projects.
KPKN will provide copies of the payment remittance orders (SPM) and other supporting documents to
thre DG Budget regularly, against which the applications for disbursement will be prepared. A chart
showing the flow of project funds is provided in Attachment 2.
Financial Management System
The details of the project's financial management system is in Attachment 3 (project activities,
irnplementation agencies, and funding mechanisms) which is derived from the Project Implementation
Plan (PIP) prepared by the Borrower.
Internal Control System. The Government's internal control system--consisting of an institutional
fiamework (project organization), accounting system, and control procedures--are basically satisfactory
to the Bank. The adequacy of staff to carry out the project and adoption of internal controls by the
agencies involved under the project have been reviewed. The limited experience and possibly
inadequate levels of staff skills for carrying out project activities, which has been observed in some
districts agencies, will be addressed at the beginning of the project through: (i) assignment of skilled
staff to the district agencies concerned from other, cooperating agencies; (ii) issuance of technical
implementation guidelines (Juknis); (iii) provision of training on project administration and
management; and (iv) deployment of consultants who will provide guidance during project
implementation.
Each district PIU will have a Pimpro/Pimbagpro, Treasurer, Procurement Officer, Financial Officer,
and a small team of technical staff. The provincial PCU and the CPCU in Jakarta will include positions



44
of assistants in finance, implementation, programming, and monitoring and evaluation. The
qualification requirements for Pimpro/Pimbagpro and Treasurer are as follows:
Pimpro/Pimbagpro                         Treasurer
*  Competent staff of the agency         *  Competent staff of the agency
*  University degree (SI) or three-year  *  Diploma (D2 or D3)
diploma (D3)                          *  Minimum staff level Il/c
*  Minimum staff level III/c for Province and  *  Attainment of treasury course certificate or
Ill/b for District                       equivalent
*  Attainment of project management course   *  One year working experience in
certificate or equivalent                government projects
*  Two years working experience in
government projects
Financial Statements. The project financial statements showing the financial position of the project
during the fiscal year ended on March 31 will be comprised of the following:
(a) Financial Statement of Project Account: Each PIU will maintain separate sub-project
accounting records, on cash basis, for each source of funds. The provincial PCU and the CPCU
will maintain similar accounting records for activities executed at provincial and central levels,
respectively. All relevant supporting documents will be kept for annual audit and random
inspection by the Bank. The Kandep/Kanin Dikbud will consolidate PIUs' financial reports
within the district and submit to then to the provincial PCU on a quarterly basis. The PCU will
consolidate all districts reports. The overall financial project accounts will be prepared by
CPCU, i.e., Statement of Project Expenditures and Financing (SPEF).
(b) Financial Statement of Special Account and SOE: The DG Budget, as custodian of the project
Special Account and responsible for disbursing funds from the Bank, will prepare the financial
statements of the Special Account and the SOE (Statements of Expenditures). The financial
statements in standard fornats (developed from June 1992) will include the following:
* Deposits and replenishments to special account received from the Bank
* Withdrawals from the Special Account, including all SOEs (both from SA and other
accounts) used as the basis for submission of withdrawall applications
*  Remaining balance at the end of fiscal year
*  Reconciliation between amount received by SA and amount disbursed by the Bank
Financial Management Reporting Requirements. As part of the monitoring system, progress of
financial status will be reported on quarterly basis. All PIUs will submit progress reports two weeks
after the end of quarter. The PCU will compile and consolidate the provincial report for submission to
the CPCU where it will be integrated with the progress report at central level, into the overall
consolidated reports for submission to project management and the B3ank one month after the end of
quarter.
All financial reports will follow the agreed formats provided in the PIP, which include the
following:
*  Statement of Project Expenditures and Financing (SPEF)
*  Progress Report of Project Expenditures and Financing (PRPEF)
*  Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds (SSUF)
*  Cost Variance Report (CVR)
*  Unit Variance Report (UVR)



45
*  Variance Analysis Report (VAR)
*  Project 6 Month Forecast (P6MF)
*  Contract Expenditures Report (CONREP)
*  Non-Contracted Expenditures Report (NCONREP)
*  Project Expenditures and Financing by District (LOCPEF) - consolidated report only
*  Status of Loan Disbursements (STATLN) - consolidated report only
In order to facilitate preparation of the above reports, all expenditures will be recorded in the
"Worksheet for Project Expenditures and Financing" (WSPEF) format provided in the PIP. The detailed
description of expenditures for each component, expenditure categories, financing sources and the
relevant implementing agencies are charted in Attachment 3.
Auditing Requirement. The quarterly progress reports would be used for the basis of preparing
the financial statement of project account (namely SPEF) to be submitted to the BPKP for annual audit.
The annual audit reports shall be furnished to the bank not later than six months after the end of the
Government's fiscal year, i.e., not later than September 30 each year.
The annual audit at district and provincial level would be carried out by the BPKP regional office at
Bandung, based on the provincial consolidated account prepared by the provincial PCU. The CPCU will
prepare the overall consolidated accounts combining the provincial account and the central level
account for audit by BPKP head office which will provide the audit opinion to the overall accounts on
the basis of audit findings by the BPKP regional office and its own audit activities. Likewise, the BPKP
head office will also audit the financial statement of Special Account and Statement of Expenditure
(SOE) prepared by DG Budget. The audits by BPKP auditors would be in accordance with the term of
reference for the audit of project accounts, Special Account, and SOEs acceptable to the Bank.



;~~~~~ .
1 393a sa L a~~~I                                                                                                 *1
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
$1  Ai1............
~ ~~iir                                                                                                                                                              II'>~...........
............~      ~1jii
I~~IG~O 
. . . . . . . . . .  ---------------   -
------------  ---               - ---- -- ----------m
----------- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~       ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     IsI
---- ~~~~---- ----



47
Annex 6 Attachment 2
WEST JAVA BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Funds Flowchart
Would Bank
6~~~~~
Delivery of                   DG Budget                          B I Head office
DIP and INPRES <(-  -             MOF                                  (SA)
Budget
*1               i
Pimpro (DIP)               3          4b                                    5b
t    CPCU Dikdasmen |-    !b
t        j | MOF Treasurers                      8ranch ofjic
Pimpro(DIP)     -3                     3
PCU Kanwil Dikbud (                     f
I               |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I  1   | Pimbagpro (28 Districts)                       5a
Kandep Dikbud, Depag,
Dinas P&K (3 PlUs)    J
12
1 2
I                Consultants or Contractors or Suppliers
+                      ~~~~~~~School heads, BP3/LKMDs
Remarks:
1     = Delivery of DIP, INPRES budgets each fiscal year
2     = Contract agreement between PIUIPCU/CPCU and contractors, consultants, suppliers,
including grant agreements with BP3 and school heads
In accordance with work progress, contractors submit invoices
3     = Pimpro/Pimbagpro submits payment request (SPP) to KPKN.
4a    = KPKN issues payment remittance order (SPM) to Bank Indonesia
4b    = KPKN sends copy of SPM, and other supporting documents, to DG Budget
5a    = Bank Indonesia transfers funds to beneficiery's bank account
5b    = Bank Indonesia sends telex to debit special account at BI Head office
5c    = Bank Indonesia Head office sends statements of accounts to DG Budget
6     = DG Budget prepares and submits applications for replenishment of special account to WB
7     = World Bank replenishes the special account at Bank Indonesia



Annex 6 Attachment 3
48
WEST JAVA BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECT ACTIVITiES, IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES AND FUNDING MECHANISMS
SIX YEAR PROJECT TARGETS             .FRST YEAR PROIRAM]. PIU AGENCY                                                 LOAN
PROJECr ACTIVITIES                                            UNIT COST    BASE COST   .               BASE COST        (Pimpro/      PROCUREMENT            UDGET    CATE-
P AQTYT           UNIT    Rp,000          Rp.W0B QTY.                Rp.l0        PimbUGo)           METEOD                         GORY
-Adnitrainingforsubdistrictstaff        33,060  p/day           65;       2,148,900     18,000       1,170,000     Dikbud   I     ovtprocedures         DIP          6
Adm.training for district staff -       7,800  p/day           65          507,000      3,600        234,000      Dikbud        govt procedures        DIP         6
- Managerial training - district staff  15,600  p/day           65        1,014,000      3,600        234,000      Dikbud        gov't proedures        DIP          6
-Computer training for district staff      156  p/act.         630          129,4g0         72         59,760      Dikbud        Sovt procedures        DiP         6
Computer training-subdistrict staff     1,102  p/act.         130         914.660         600        498,000      Dikbud        gov't procedures       DIP         6
S2 upgrading (Domestic)                   104  p/act.       10,000       1,040,000         41        430,000     Dikbud         govt procedures        DIP         9
- Computer programming                     208  p/act.         S50          176,S00         96        311,600      Dikbud        govt procedures        DIP         6
tIntensive training                          9   rct         50.000         450,000                         0      Dikotad       govt procedures        DIP          6
Subtotal District                                                        10,654,265                 4,704,435
2 Province
-Manageritraining for peov.staff          1,500  p/day         65           97,500        300         :19,500     Dikbud        govt procedures        DIP          6
. Inti Tutor training                   82,650  p/day           72        5,950,00      9,000        648,000      Dikbud        govt procedures        DIP          6
-IntiTeachertraining                    183,060  p/day          72       13,1S0,320      7,200        518,400      Dikbud        gov'tprocedues         DIP          6
52 upgrading (Dometic)                      15  p/act.       10,000         150,000         IS        li0,000      Dikbud        govt procedures        DIP          9
-Computerprogramming                        16  p/act.         80            13,600         16         13,600      Dikbud        govltprocedures        DIP         6
-S2 upgrading (foreig)                       4  p/act.      300,000       1,200.000           -             0      Dikbud        govt procedures        DIP          9
SubtotalProvmincs                                                       20,592,220                  1,349,500
Subtotal Trairnig                                                          31,246,4S5                 6,053,935
C   Edu. Assess./Spec.tnitiatives
- Student Assessment                     Annual                 LS        1,607,000         LS        260,000      Dikbud       Banks guidelines        DIP         10
-Impact Evaluation                       Annual                  LS       3,000,000         LS       1,000,000     Dikbud       Banks guidelines        DIP         10
- Policy Study: Private Education       Activity                 LS         453,000           -              -     Dikbud       Bank's guidelines       DIP         10
- Study: Extending Gr. 1-2 School Hrs.  Aetivity                LS           60.000           -              -     Dikbud       Bank's guidelines       DIP         to
-Study: Targeting the Poor              Activity                LS           60,000           -              -     Dikbud       Bank's guidelines       DIP         10
Sabhto tdonin4 Asreunmt                                                     5,110,000                  1,268,000
D Equipment and Furniture
I District offics
Typewriters for subdisutoffices         1,102   anit          750         826,500        600         450,000     Dikbud             NCB                DIP         2
-Computers forsubdistrict ofrices        1,102   net         15,000      16,530,000        600      9,000,000      Dikbud            ICB                DIP         2
Typevriters for district offices          130   unit          750          97,500          60         4:3,000    Dikbud             NCB                DIP         2
-Computes for district offices             156   set         15,000       2,340,000         72       1,081t,000    Dikbud             ICB               DIP          2
.Fax for districtoffices                   156  set          2,000          312,000         72        141,000      Dikbud            NCB                DIP          2
Subtotal District Ofices                                                 20,106.000                 10,719,000
IV PROJECT MANAGEMENT
A Vehicles - District
-Kandep : motorcycle                       52  mcyc          7,000         364,000         24        1611,000     Dikbud             NCB               DIP         NBF
-DinssP&K: :motorcycle                     26  moyc          7,000         tS2,000         12         84,000    DiasP&K              NCB               DIP        NBF
-Kandepag:motorcycle                       26  mcyc          7,000         I82,000         12         S4,000       Depag             NCB               DIP         NBF
Subtotal District                                                           728,000                   336,000
B  Equipment and Fumiture
I District
Kandep Dikbud : Computer                   52  Unit        15,00         780,000         24         360,000     Dikbud             ICB                DIP         2
- Kandep Dikbud: Tel & Fax                  26   set          2,000          52,000         12         24,000      Dikbud            NCB                DIP          2
DinasPdanK   Computer                      26  Unit        15,000         390.000          12        180,000    DinasP&K             ICB               DIP         2
Dinas P dan K  Te & Fax                    26   set          2,000          52,000         12         24,000    Dina&P&K             NCB               DIP          2
Kandep Agama: Computer                     26  Unit         15,000        390,000          12        180.000      Depag              ICB               DIP         2
- Kundep Aguma: Tel & Fax.                  26   set          2,000          52,000         12         24,000      Depag             NCB                DIP          2
Kanwil PU Kab. :Typewriter               136  Unit           750          102,000        136        102,000      Dikbud             NCB               DIP          2
Subtoal District                                                          1,818,000                   894,000
2 Province
-Office Equip:Fumiture for Project           I   net       165,000         165,000          I        165,000      Dikbud             NCB               DIP          2
-Office Equip: Fumiture forCons.            9   sto         31,625         214.625          9        284,625      Dikbud             NCB               DIP          2
- MIS system computer                       2   set         20,000          40,000          2         40,0D0      Dikbud             ICB               DIP          2
SebtltalProvince                                                           489,625                    489,625
3 Central
- Computer                                  3   set         15,000          45,000          3         45,200      Dikbud             NCB               DIP          2
.Tel / Fax                                   I   aet         2,000           2,000          1          2,300      Dikbud             NCB               DIP          2
Subtotal Cenona/                                                             47,000                    47,000
Subtotal Equipment and Furniture                                            2,354,625                  1,430,625
C   Other Management
I District
Kandep Dikbud : Project Adm               130   act.       28,750        3,737,500         12        345,000     Dikbud        govt procedures         DIP         8
-DinasPdanK: ProjectAdm                    130   act         17,250       2,242,500         iI        207,000    DinatP&K         ov'tprocedures        DIP          8
Kandep Agama: Project Adm                 130   act        17,250        2,242,500         12        207,000      Depg         govt procedures         DIP         8
Bappeda: Coordination                  13,000  p/day           50         650,000       1,200         60,c00     Bappeda       govt procedures         DIP         8
-PreparatimnofAPreport                   7,800  p/day           20          156,000        720         14,400      Dikbud        gov'tprocedures        DIP          8
Subtotal District                                                         9,028,500                   133,400
2 Province
- Project Adntrinstration                    6  act.       41,200         247,200           1        41,200  Dikbud           gov't procedures     DIP           8
Adm.Cost forConstatant                      6   thn       748,010        4,481,460          1        748,080     Dikbud        govtprocedmrs          DIP          8
ATK                                         6   act         4,000          24,000           1          4,000     Dikbud        gov't prors            DIP         S
SubitozalP,oenre                                                          4,759,6s0                   793,280
3. Ceatsl: Project Administration              6   act       262,000        1,572,000          1        262,00      Dikbud        gov't procedures       DIP          8
Subtotal Other m aagement                                                  15,360,1S0                  1,88,6S0
D   Proposal Development(14Districft)
.L-mpsum(honor&trassport)               58,240  p/day           35        2,038,400           -            0      Dikbud        govt procedures         DIP          8
Prepta n                                2,100  p/day           35          73,500       2,100         73,500     Dikbud        gov'tprocedures         DIP         8
Proposa writing and serunr              2,660  p/day           35          93,100       2,660         93,100     Dikbud        gov'tprocedures         DIP         8
-Coordination-assistancebyProv.          1,120  p/day          135          131,200      1,120        151,200     Dikbud        govtprocedures          DIP         8



49
WEST JAVA BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECT ACTIVIES. IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES AND FUNDING MECHANISMS
|         SIX YEAR PROJECT TARGETS               | FIRST YEAR PROGRAM    PIU AGENCY                                 B G          ILOAN
PROJECTACTVrrIES                                                            BASE C T UNITCOST| B       BASECOST         (Pimpm/       PROCUREMENT          B            CATE-
POpT A0TY     UNIT | Rp 00   |        Rp 000        OTY          Rp 000   i  Pimbagpro)         METHOD                         CGORY
I  Primary Scbool Quality Component
A I Rehabilitation Works
a. School Rehabilitation                  1,213  Unit       51,750       62,772,750         75      3,U11,250    DinasP&K        community part.    DIP/INPRES       3
b. Fumiture                               1,213  Unit        17,250      20,924.250         75       1,293,750    DinswP&K       community prt.     DIP/INPRES       3
2 Scholaships
a. Scholanhip Processing                 2,600  p/day           70          182,000        240         16,800      Dikbud       govt proedure-           DIP         5
b. Student Scholanhips                 580,020  p/mth           20       11,600,400     67,872       1,357,440     Dikbud       got procedurea          DIP          5
3 Maintenance (Recurent Coat)              3,218  Unit           8l0        2,606,5S0           -             0    DinssP&K        community part.    DIP/NPRES    NBF
4 Teaching and Leamng Materias
a. Education Materinls                   14,696   Set          690       10,140,240        *00        552,000   DikbudlDcpaB    national shopping   DIP/INPRES       4
b. Refrence/Reading Books                14,696   Set          690       10,140,240        S00        552,000   DikbudDepg    natial shopping       DIP/tNPRES       4
S.boto TachiWngMaerna                                                    20,280,4S0                  1,104,000
B     Training
I Cluster Training
-HeadsofSchool                         S8,176  p/day            57        5.026,032      4,800       273,600      Dikbud        govt procdr             DIP         6
-Suprvisor                              22,044  p!day           57        1,256,508      1,200        68,400      Dikbud        govt procedures        DIP          6
-Facilitators                          110,250  p/day           57       6,284,0         5,000        285,000     Dikbud        govt procedures        DIP          6
-Librarians                             44,088  p/day           57        2,513,016      2,400        136,800     Dikbud        gov1tp ncer             DIP         6
-Community Participation                18,370  p/day          25          459,250       1,000         25,000     Dikbud        govtprocedurtp         DIP          6
-Certification                           3,306  p/day         *00        2,644,800           -             0      Dikbud        govt procedures        DIP          9
Subotal Cleater Trining                                                  1S,13,1S56                   788,800
2 Meetings
- Meeting of KKKS                       176,400  p/day          Is        2,646.000      8,000        120,000      Dikbud        govt procedures        DIP          6
- MeetingofKKPS                          19,145  p/day          I5          297.675        900         13,500      Dikbud        aV%tp ceduna           DIP          6
- MeetingofKKG                        2,886,730  p/day          IS       51,961f140     57.600       1,036S,00     Dikbud        govt procedures        DIP          6
- ParticipationofHeadsof'School        264,600  p/day           IS        4,762,800     12,000        216,000      Dikbud        WVt Procedures         DIP          6
SubloralAerivn                                                           59,667,615                  1,3B6,300
3. Diasemination
-Orienttion of Heads of School          17,664  p/day          57         1,006,US           -             0      Dikbud        govtpmcedr             DIP          6
- Orientation of Supervisors             6,624  p/day           57         377,56S           -             0      Dikbod        govt pocedue            DIP         6
-Tutors                                 14,720  p/day          57          839,040                         0      Dikbud         oVt procedures        DIP          6
-Facilitatora                           36C300  p/day          57        2,097,600                         0      Dikbud        govt procedunrs        DIP          6
-Meetings of KKG                       635,904  p/day           Ia       11,446,272          -             0      Dikbud          Stproceadre          DIP          6
SubtotalDlssennaton                                                      15,767,328                         0
Subtotal Trainig                                                         93,618,799                 2,175,100
Tata P6Smge lS8Ce u--m- -.                                                       230,985.239                  9,S2t,340
II Junior Secondary School Component
Rapanding Access
A  Land                                         299  pi          40,000       11,960,000         13        600,000  DikbudlDepa       go,'t procedures       DIP        NBF
- Surveyor                               1,490  p/day         150          223,500         70          10,500   DikbudtDepag    Bank aguidelins        DIP          t0
Subtotal Latd                                                            12,1S3,500                   610,500
B  Contmuction: UGB TypeD                       299  Unit       401,020      121,997.910         15      6,120,300    DinanPAK            NCB                DIP          I
C    - Fumiture                                 299  School       59.800      17,8S0,200         Is        897,000    Dina=P&K            NCB                DIP          2
-Blackboards                              299  Uni            250           74,750          is         3,750    DinsmP&K             NCB               DIP          2
D Scholaships
-Scholarnhip Proceing                    2,600  p/day           70         182,000        240          16,S00   Dikud/Depag     govt pocedur           DIP          5
-Student Schoanhips                  1,315,0S0  p/mth          25       32,877,000     129,804      3,245,100   DikhudlDepag    govt procedure         DIP          5
Scholarship for UGB Saidents          426,720  pmouth         25       10,668,000           -             0   Dikbud/Dqpg      goVt procedures        DIP          5
Subtoto Scholacshps                                                      43,727.000                 3,261,900
E Cantract Teaches
- Contract Techer Proceuing              7,840  p/at            75         S3,000         U40         63,000   DikbDeg          govt procedures        DIP          7
-ContractTeacher                        43,000  p/mth         250        10,750.000      8,333      2,133,750   Dikbud!Depag    govtpetocera            DIP         7
Subrtoal Cotoa  Teachers                                                 11,338,000                 2,196,750
UGB Maintenance (Recrent Cot)                    730 School        3.54         2,590,040           -             0    DintuP&IC       gowt Procedures        DIP        NBF
Improving Quality
A Educaional Materials
MaterialsforKKBM                        10,170  School        845        8,593,650        400        338,000   Dikbud/Depag    naiol ahopping          DIP          4
-Library Books                          10,170 School         145        S,393.650        400        338,000   DikHAdDepag    nat     shopping         DIP          4
Subtotal Ed  oal hdterla/s                                               17,18S7,300                  676,000
B Training
I Clusr Training
-Librarian                              30,510  p/day          n         2,196,720       1,200         86,400     Dikbud        govtpnrocedures        DIP          6
-CommanityParticipation                 15,233  p/day          25          381,375        600          15,000     Dikbud        SOtpProcedure,         DIP          6
Certifdcation for MOHA lechers          8,000  p/day         S00        6,400,000        500        400,000      Dikbud        gStprocedurs           DIP          9
Subtotal Cluster Ihlsaaeg                                                 8,978,095                   501,400
2 Meetings
-KKKS metings                          '3X550  p/day           23        3,530,650       6,000        13S,000     Dikbud        BVt procedures        DIP          6
-KKPS meetings                           3,40  p/day          23 /         U,320         360          3,280      Dikbud        govt pcedre            DIP          6
-SubjectTeachos                       1,830,600  p/day         23       42,103,800      72,000      1,63,000      Dikbbd        govtprcue              DIP          6
Sabtotal ewangs                                                          45,700,770                  1,80220
St,b Tool Trainig                                                          54,678,865                  2,303,680
J 2g59 S    ,                                                                                         ;     --5.    ;   8'' .' ''
Hi1 EDUCATION MANAGEMENT
A   School Mapping Exercise
- Mapping Exercise (Disrict)               4,950  p/day           50         247,500       2400         120,000    DineP&K          v1t proceures         DIP          8
M       ppingrce (Sub-DisOict)          54,705  p/day           25        1,367,625     31,500        787,500    DinUP&I         goVt prnoeu            DIP          S
Strbrora School orIing azecs                                                1,615125                    907,500
B Training
I District
- Adm.training for KA TU SLTP           65,745  pday            65        4,273,425     29.953       1,947.075     Dikbud       govt peoed-e            DIP          6



50
WEST JAVA BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECT ACTIVIMES, IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES AND FUNDING MECHANISMS
SIX YEAR PROJECT TARGETS              | FiRST YEAR PROGFAM    PIU AGENCY |                                            LOAN
PROJECT ACTIViTiES                                            UNIT COST    BASE COST                   BASE COST        (Pimpro/      PROCUREMENT           BUDGET    CATE-
QTY.    UI         Rp00Rp.000                   QTY.  I Fp.000_   Pimbagpro)                MEfTHOD                         GORY
- Seminar                                    I activity      69,500         69,500           1         69,500      Dikbud        govt procedures        DIP          S
-ATK                                        15   set         4,910          74,700          15         74,700      Dikbud        Sovtprocedures         DIP          a
SblIozal Proposal Dev. (for 14 Disl)                                        2,500,400                   462,000
E Consultant Services and Studies
I Management, Procurement & Fin.
- Management (Intemational)                 24  p/mth      100,000        2,400,000          6        600,000      Dikbud       Bank's guidelines       DIP         10
-Management(national)                       66  p/mth         1,500         561,000          6         51,000      Dikbud       Bank'sguidelines        DIP         10
-Procurement and Contract                  144  p/mtb         1,500       1,224,000         IS        153,000      Dikbud       Bank's guidelines       DIP         10
-Finance (National)                         66  p/mth         S,500         561,000          6         51,000      Dikbud       Bank's guidelines       DIP         10
SufbtotalMgmt., Proc. & Fin.                                              4,746,000                   15',000
2 Training
Intetnasional Consualtnt (SD)              60  p/mth      100,000        6,000,000         12      1,200,000     Dikbud        Bank's guidelines       DIP         10
- National Consultant (SD)                 432  p/mth         1,500       3,672,000         48        401,000      Dikbud       Bank's guidelines       DIP         10
-National Conmultant (SLTP)                132  p/mtb        1,500        1,122,000         12        102,000      Dikbud       Bank's guidelines       DiP         10
-Staff training                             66  p/mth         S,500         561,000          6         51,000      Dikbud       Bank's guidelines       DIP         tD
Snbwotal Training                                                        11,355,000                  1,761,000
3 Coordination Activities
-Adv. working group (policy)               600  p/day           60          36,000         100          6,000      Dikbud        govt procedures        DIP          8
Coordination Consultant (central)          72  p/mth        8,500         612,000          12        102,000     Dikbud        Bank's guidelines       DIP         10
Implementation Specialist                  24  p/mlth       1,500         204,000         24         204,000     Dikbud        Bank's guidelines       DIP         10
-Technical Working Goup                   1,010  p/day          25           27,000        110          4,500      Dikbud        govt procedures        DIP          S
'Honor                                     432  p/day          120           51,140         72          8,640      Dikbud        govt procedures        DIP          S
'Travel Allowance                          144  p/day           50            7,200         24          1,200      Dikbud        govt procedures        DIP          S
Stibjotal Coordination Activivtes                                           931,040                   326,340
SubloaalConsnltanlsantdS ddes                                              17,039,040                  2,942,340
F   Monitoring and Evaluation
I SD / Mi: - Lumpsum and travail           9,704  p/day          100         970,400        656          65,600     Dikbud        govt procedures         DIP          S
2 SLTP/MTs:-Lampsumandtrv.                 3,600  p/day          100         360,000         192         19.,200     Dikbud        gov'tprocedures        DIP          S
3 Gugus:Lumpsum & transport               13,230  p/day          100        1,323,000        600         60.000      Dikbud        govt procedures        DIP          8
4 MGMP: Lmpsum& transport                  6,102  p/day          100         610,200        240          24.000      Dikbud        govt procedures        DIP          a
5Management                                1,248  p/day          100          124,80D       201          20,800      Dikbud        govt procedures        DiP          I
6 Supervision, Mon.and Evalantion
- Construction (National)                   42  pimth        S,500         357,000           6         51,000      Dikbud       Bank's guidelines       DIP         10
- Constrction (Interoational)               12  p/nth       100,000       1,200,000          3        300,000      Dikbud       Bank's guidelines       DIP         10
-Construction Coordinator Distr.           792  p/mth         5,000       3,960,000         72        360,000      Dikbud       Bank's guidelines       DIP         10
-Construction Supetvision                4,139  p/mth         1,500       7,25S,500       310         465,000      Dikbud       Bank's guidelines       DIP         tO
-Quality (Intemational)                     15  p/mth       100,000       1,500,000           -             0      Dikbud       Bank's guidelines       DIP         10
-Quality(National)                         132  p/mth         8,500       1,122,000         12        102,000      Dikbud       Bank's guidelines       DiP         10
-Management (Natdonal)                      66  p/mth         8,500        561,000           6         51,000      Dikbud       Bank's guidelines       DiP         10
SrnbtotalSpervision, M&E                                                 15,951,500                  1,329,000
7 Technical Audit
'Construction (National)                   5S  pmth           m,500        493,000            *             0      Dikbud       Bank's guidelines       DIP         10
- Quatity (National)                        5S  p/mlth       1,500         493,000            *             0      Dikbud       Bank's guidelines       DIP         10
- Management (National)                     58  p/mel        8,500         493,000            -            0       Dikbud       Bank's guidelines       DIP         10
- Overall Reporting                         20  p/mth         1,500         170,000           -             0      Dikbud       Bank's guidelines       DIP         10
-Overall Coordination                      1  p/meth        8,500          127,500           -             0      Dikbud       Banks guidelines        DiP         10
- Midterm Review (Intemational)              8  p/mth       100,000        100,000            *             0      Dikbud       Bank's guidelines       DiP         10
Subtotal Technical Auit                                                   2,576,500
Snb Total/AlonitoringandEva/aation                                         21,923,400                  1,51 8,100
G   Training
I MiS system training
- District staff                           840  p/day           65           54,600       140          54,6500     Dikbud        govt procedures        DIP          6
2 PIU training
'District Officers                      30,260  p/day           65        1,966,900      2,a86        117,590      Dikbud        govt procedures        DIP          6
-Pmvincial Officers                      1,080  p/day           65          70,200         180         11,700      Dikbud        govt procedures        DIP          6
Subtotal Training                                                           2,091,700                   253,1190
D~



51
Annex 7
Indonesia: West Java Basic Education Project
Project Processing, Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget                        Planned                   Actual
(US$000)                        (At final PCD stage)
At final PCD stage (9/97)             $393.1
At decision meeting (1/98)                                      371.3
As of 3/10/98                         455.3                     435.6
Planned                   Actual
B. Project Schedule                (At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project  (months)                          15
First Bank mission (identification)                               10/17/96
Appraisal mission departure             01/16/98                  01/30/98
Negotiations                             02/12/98                 02/20/98
Planned Date of Effectiveness           05/01/98
Prepared by: KANWIL (MOEC) West Java
Preparation assistance: PHRD Grant No. TF029456
Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:
Alfonso de Guzman               Sr. Education Specialist (task team leader)
Juan Prawda                     Sr. Education Specialist (peer reviewer)
Adriaan Verspoor                Education Adviser (peer reviewer)
Aya Aoki                        Operations Assistant (consultant)
Betsy Balzano                   Teacher Education Specialist (consultant)
Jacqueline Baptist              Economist (consultant)
Basilius Bengoteku              Operations Officer
Bridie Champion                 Disbursement Officer
Stephen Dice                    Urban Development Sector Specialist
Vincent Greaney                 Sr. Education Specialist
Titie Hadiyati                  Financial Management Specialist (consultant)
Preben Jensen                   Senior Procurement Advisor
Dwight King                     Institutional Development Specialist (consultant)
Samuel Liebennan                Lead Specialist
Mieko Masuda                    Project Analyst (consultant)
Sulistiowati Nainggolan         Rural Development Specialist (consultant)
Dean Nielsen                    Teacher Education Specialist (consultant)
Karin Nordlander                Sr. Counsel
Yogana Prasta                   Sr. Disbursement Officer
Yogendra Saran                  Education Specialist (consultant)
Haneen Sayed                    Economist
Marsoedi Soedjak                Sr. Procurement Officer
H. Anthony Somerset             Teacher Education Specialist (consultant)
Unggul Suprayitno               Operations Officer
Gary Theisen                    Education Specialist (consultant)
Christopher Thomas              General Educator
Nigel Wakehamn                  Architect (consultant)



52
Annex 8
Indonesia: West Java Basic Education, Project
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implementation Plan
Five-year project proposals from 12 West Java districts
Project COSTAB file*
Project preparation guide. Kanwil Depdikbud Jawa Barat, Bandung. Typescript.
School map of two subdistricts in Kabupaten Subang. Dinas P&K I Jawa Barat, Bandung
(revised February 1998). Typescript + maps, statistical tables.
West Java Basic Education Project Implementation Plan. "I. Project Description; II. Project
Mechanisms; III. Project Management and Controlling" Kanlwil Depdikbud Jawa Barat,
Bandung (January 1998). Typescript. + 9 annexes.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Baptist, Jacqueline, and Haneen Sayed. "West Java Basic Education Project Economic Analysis."
The World Bank, Washington DC (December 1997). Typescript.* 13 pages + statistical
tables.
Greaney, Vincent. "(i) Evaluating the Quality of Student Learning; (ii) Improving Reading Habits
and Skills Study; (iii) Promoting Writing of Children's Literature; (iv) Fostering Home-
School Cooperation to Enhance the Learning Achievements of Children; (v) Provision of
Educational Materials." Working papers (October 1997). Typescript.* 27 pages.
Hadiyati, Titie, and Yogana Prasta. "Financial Management System" (March 1998). Typescript.*
5 pages + tables, flowchart, sample reporting forms.
"Institutional Arrangements and Decentralization in Basic Education" (November 10, 1997).
Jakarta, Indonesia Country Department (World Bank). Typescript.* 14 pages.
King, Dwight. Annotated list of laws, decrees, rules, and regulations, and instructions on basic
education in Indonesia (February 1997). Typescript.
Somerset, Anthony. "Primary Schools in Indonesia: Teacher needs and teacher distribution"
(January 1998). Typescript. 3 pages + annex scale for calculatinrg teacher requirements.
. "Teacher supply and distribution issues in Kabupaten Sukabumi: Results from a
rapid review" (October 1997). Typescript. 24 pages + statistical annex, maps.
Theisen, Gary, and Christopher Thomas. Facilitators' guide for conducting district-level
workshops on self-analysis, priority-setting, identification of constraints to basic education
(April 1997). Typescript.* + sample worksheets.
Wakeham, Nigel. "Consolidation and Renovation of Primary Schools, Construction of New
Junior High Schools: Implementation Specialist's Report (October 1997)." Typescript.* 25
pages + 9 annexes.



53
C. Other
Dhanani, Shafiq. "West Java Basic Education Project: District Implementation Capacity
Assessment, Sukabumi" (December 6, 1997). Jakarta, Ministry of Education and Culture.
Typescript.* 46 pages + 2 appendices.
. "Development of Basic Education in West Java" (August 6, 1996). Jakarta,
Ministry of Education and Culture. Typescript. 9 pages + statistical annex, map.
Joint Decree of the Director General of Primary and Secondary Education, Ministry of Education
and Culture; the Director General of Islamic Institutional Development, Ministry of Religion;
the Director General of Regional Development, Ministry of Home Affairs, of the Republic of
Indonesia concerning the Guidelines of Basic Education Project Implementation (March 4,
1998). Typescript.
Weston, Stuart, and Jacqueline Baptist. "Inservice Teacher Training Strategy (West Java Basic
Education Project)" (draft March 1998). Typescript.* 17 pages.
, Report on the pilot school mapping exercise in two subdistricts in Kabupaten
Subang (revised February 1998). Typescript.
, J. Marpaung, and G. Tanuputra. "Basic Education Project Teacher Quality
Improvement: Proposals for a program of teacher quality improvement in primary schools,
with special reference to West Java (October 8, 1997)." Typescript. 31 pages + 7 appendices.
*Electronic file available at EASED



Annex 9
Indonesia: West Java Basic Education Project
Status of Bank Group Operations in Indonesia
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                  and actual                Last ARPP
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                     disbursements a/    Supervision Rating bI
Project ID      Credit      Year               Borrower                      Purpose
_  No.                                                                          IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev'd    Dev Obj            Imp Prog
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 459
Active Loans
ID-PE-36956   IBRD 42070   98   GOI                                  SAFE MOTHERHOOD              42.50        0.00             0.00         41.15      -1.35       0.00        S             S
ID-PE-41894   IBRD 4095A  1987  GOI                                  SUMATRA SEC EDUC             94.65        0.00             0.00         94.18       2.02       0.00        S             S
ID-PE-3960    IBRD 3209A  1990                                       GAS UTILIZATION              24.15        0.00             0.00         18.95      18.98      11.07       HS             S
ID-PE-3922    IBRO 3340A  1991  GOI                                  SULAWESI/IRIAN JAYA           4.17        0.00             0.00          4.17       4.15       0.00
ID-PE-3981    IBRD 3302A  1991                                       PROV IRR AGRIC DEVT          10.77        0.00             0.00         10.29      31.79      10.18        S             S
ID-PE-3977    IBRD 3246A  1991  GOI                                  THIRD JABOTABEK URB          13.41        0.00             0.00         12.62      12.62       0.00        S             S
ID-PE-3916    IBRD 3501A  1992                                       SURALAYA THERMAL             88.17        0.00             0.00         77.25    133.82       44.00        S             S
POWER
ID-PE-3969    IBRD 3496A  1992  GOI                                  PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACH          8.47        0.00             0.00          7.89       7.89       0.00        S             S
ID-PE-3997    IBRD 3482A  1992  GOI                                  TELECOM IV                  148.13        0.00             0.00        136.33      92.98       0.00       HS             HS
ID-PE-4012    IBRD 3454A  1992  GOI                                  BAPEDAL DEV PROJ                .30       0.00             0.00            .30        .32      0.00        S             S
ID-PE-3940    IBRD 3448A  1992  GOI                                  PRIMARY EDUC QUALITY         13.40        0.00             0.00         12.49      11.99       0.00        S             S
IMPROVE
ID-PE-3966    IBRD 3431A  1992  GOI                                  NON-FORMAL EDUC III           5.94        0.00             0.00          5.26       5.26       0.00        S             S
ID-PE-3928    IBRD 3402A  1992  GOI                                  AGRICULTURAL FINANCI         39.06        0.00             0.00         38.96      38.97       0.00        S             S
ID-PE-3990    IBRD 3629A  1993  GOI                                  WTR & SANI FOR LOW I         43.23        0.00             0.00         42.24      31.59      12.52        S             S
ID-PE-4007    IBRD 3602A  1993  GOI                                  POWER (CIRATA II)            61.44        0.00             0.00         60.99      54.52       0.00        S             S
ID-PE-3999    IBRD 3588A  1993  GOI                                  GROUNDWATER DEVT.            11.91        0.00             0.00         11.05      10.53        -.84       S             S
ID-PE-4009    IBRD 3586A  1993  GOI                                  INTEGRATED PEST MGMT         13.28        0.00             0.00         12.37       9.86       0.00        S             S
ID-PE-4006    IBRD 3579A  19.93  GOI                                 E.INDONESIA KABUPATE         21.20        0.00             0.00         17.65      17.62       0.00        S             S
ID-PE-3914    1BRD 3550A  1993  60O                                  THIRD COeM HEALTH &          30.74        0.00             0.00         30.14       8.62       0.00        S             S
ID-PE-3954    IBRD 3762A  1994  GOI                                  JAVA IRR IMP & W R M        108.27        0.00             0.00        101.02      34.70       0.00        S             S
ID-PE-3910    IBRD 3761A  1994  GOI                                  SUMATERA & KALIMAN P        216.28        0.00             0.00        207.00      97.09       0.00        S             S
ID-PE-3937    IBRD 3755A  1994  GOI                                  INTEGRATED SWAMPS            38.42        0.00             0.00         35.85       8.53       0.00        S             S
ID-PE-4017    IBRD 3754A  1994  GOI                                  UNIV.RESEARCH FOR GR         33.12        0.00             0.00         32.03       8.75       0.00       HS             S
ID-PE-3890    IBRD 3749A  1994  GOI                                  SEMARANG-SURAKARTA U        110.67        0.00             0.00        102.47      37.85        0.00       S             S
ID-PE-4010    IBRD 3742A  1994  GOI                                  DAM SAFETY                   38.25        0.00             0.00         37.46      20.57        0.00       S             S
ID-PE-4020    IBRD 3732A  1994  GOI                                  KABUPATEN ROADS V            25.59        0.00             0.00         23.18       5.18        0.00       S             S
ID-PE-3998    IBRD 3726A  1994  GOI                                  SURABAYA URBAN              113.14        0.00             0.00        109.66      48.92        -.59       S             S
ID-PE-3952    IBRD 3721A  1994  GOI                                  SKILLS DEVELOPMENT           10.24        0.00             0.00          8.83      13.74        4.92       S             S
ID-PE-3945    IBRD 3712A  1994  GOI                                  HIGHWAY SECTOR II           196.44        0.00             0.00        185.62    114.78        0.00        S             S
ID-PE-3985    IBRD 3658A  1994  GOI                                  WTRSHED CONSERVATION         44.22        0.00             0.00         43.70      15.62        0.00      HU             U
ID-PE-3860    IBRD 3464A  1994  GOI                                  TREECROPS SMALLHOLDE         27.12        0.00             0.00         25.96      17.55        0.00       S             HS
ID-PE-39754   IBRD 39136  1995                                       TA FOR INFRA. II             28.00        0.00             0.00         25.69      14.49        0.00       S             S
ID-PE-3965    IBRD 39056  1995  GOI                                  HEALTH IV:IMPR HEALT         87.00        0.00             0.00         77.25       7.24        0.00       S             S
ID-PE-3965    IBRD 3905S  1995  GOI                                  HEALTH IV:IMPR HEALT           1.00       0.00             0.00          0.00       7.24       0.00        S             S
ID-PE-4001    IBRD 39046  1995  GOI                                  TELECOM SECTOR MODER        325.00        0.00             0.00        305.64    100.65         0.00      HS             HS
ID-PE-34891   IBRD 38886  1995  GOI                                 , VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTU        47.10        0.00             0.00          3.90       -.68       0.00       HS             HS
ID-PE-3968    IBRD 38876  1995                                       BOOK & READING DEV          130.40        0.00             0.00        115.31         .41       0.00       S             S
ID-PE-3968    IBRD 38878  1995                                       BOOK 6 READING DEV            2.10        0.00             0.00            .10        .41       0.00       S             S
ID-PE-3972    IBRD 38866  1995  GOI                                  AG. RESEARCH II              61.00        0.00             0.00         54.25      21.00        0.00       S             S
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)



Annex 9
Indonesia: West Java Basic Education Project
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                 and actual               Last ARPP
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                 disbursements a/    Supervision Rating b/
Project ID    Credit       Year              Borrower                     Purpose
No.                                                                         IBRD        IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev'd    Dev Obj          Imp Prog
ID-PE-3951    IBRD 3854A  1995  GOI                                KALIMANTAN UDP              77.43       0.00            0.00         77.43      42.93       0.00       S             S
ID-PE-3979    IBRD 3845A  1995  GOI                                RURAL ELECT II             252.09       0.00             0.00       228.74    152.22        0.00       S             S
ID-PE-3988    IBRD 3825A  1995  GOI                                PHRD II                     40.57       0.00             0.00        39.22       6.37       0.00       S             S
ID-PE-4019    IBRD 3801A  1995  GOI                                ACCOUNTANCY DEV II          18.64       0.00             0.00        17.82      13.18       0.00       S             S
rD-PE-3984    IBRD 3792A  1995  GOI                                LAND ADMINISTRATION         56.45       0.00             0.00        53.13      12.94       0.00       S             S
ID-PE-4016    IBRD 40540  1996  REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA              STRATEGIC URB. RDS I        86.90        0.00            0.00        77.85      14.05       0.00       S             S
ID-PE-4004    IBRD 4043A  1996  GOI                                HIGHER EDUC SUP.(III        56.80        0.00            0.00         55.26        .50      0.00       S             S
ID-PE-37097   IBRD 4042A  1996  GOI                                E.JAVA SEC.EDUC.            96.50       0.00             0.00         96.36      8.25       0.00       S             S
ID-PE-41896   IBRD 4030A  1996  GOI                                HR CAPACITY BUILDING        19.31        0.00            0.00         19.26      4.26       0.00       U             U
ID-PE-39312   IBRD 4017A  1996  GOI                                SECOND E. JAVA UDP         129.64        0.00            0.00       129.46      53.57       0.00       S             S
ID-PE-4014    IBRD 4008A  1996  GOI                                KERINCI SEBLAT ICDP         18.47        0.00            0.00         18.47      2.97       0.00       S             S
ID-PE-4011    IBRD 4007A  1996  GOI                                SULAWESI AGRI AREA          23.97        0.00            0.00        23.27         .73      0.00       S             S
ID-PE-4008    IBRD 3984A  1996  GOI                                NUSA TENGGARA DEV.          24.80       0.00             0.00         24.80      3.78       0.00       U             U
ID-PE-39643   IBRD 39810  1996  GOI                                STD/AIDS                    24.80       0.00             0.00        23.14      12.10       0.00       S             U
ID-PE-4003    IBRD 3979A  1996  GOI                                SECONDARY SCHOOL TEA        54.40        0.00            0.00         53.43     19.27       0.00       5             5
ID-PE-4021    IBRD 3978A  1996  GOI                                POW. TRANS 8 DIST II       362.74        0.00            0.00       361.20    123.27        5.87       S             S
ID-PE-3978    IBRD 3972A  1996  GOI                                IND'L TECHNOLOGY DEV        40.08       0.00             0.00        39.42      21.80       0.00       5             S
ID-PE-42882   IBRD 41980  1997  GOI                                RENW. ENER SMAL PW P        66.40       0.00             0.00         66.40      0.00       0.00       S             S
ID-PE-49051   IBRD 41940  1997                                     BEPEKA AUDIT MODER P        16.40       0.00             0.00         15.40      1.30       0.00
ID-PE-40195   IBRD 41930  1997  GOI                                QUAL OF UNDERGRAD ED        71.20       0.00             0.00        71.20       4.00       0.00       S             S
ID-PE-36047   IBRD 41550  1997  GOI                                BALI URBAN INFRAST.        110.00       0.00             0.00       110.00       0.00       0.00       S             S
ID-PE-35544   IBRD 41320  1997  GOI                                SOLAR HOME SYSTEMS          20.00       0.00             0.00        20.00       1.59       0.00       S             S
ID-PE-42540   IBRD 41250  1997                                     IODINE DEF. CONTROL         28.50       0.00             0.00         27.20        .70      0.00       S             S
ID-PE-4026    IBRD 41060  1997  GOI/PERUMKA                        RLWY EFFICIENCY            105.00       0.00             0.00       105.00       7.34       0.00       S             S
ID-PE-36053   IBRD 4105A  1997  GOI                                SULAWESI UDP II            149.58       0.00            0.00        147.81      23.55       0.00       5             S
ID-PE-40521   IBRD 41000  1997  GOI                                VILLAGE INFRA II           140.10        0.00            0.00       117.08      19.05       0.00       S             S
ID-PE-3987    IBRD 4062A  1997                                     C.INDONESIA SEC.EDU.       101.14       0.00             0.00       100.87      11.51       0.00       S             S
ID-PE-55755   IBRD 42550  1998  TBD                                BANKING REFORM ASST.        20.00       0.00             0.00         20.00      0.00       0.00
ID-PE-48715   IBRD 42440  1998                                     IIDP                        34.50       0.00             0.00        34.50       0.00       0.00
Total                                                                                       4,564.69        0.00            0.00     4,302.92  1,627.45       87.13
Active Loans         Closed Loans           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                 261.77          18,323.66           18,585.43
of which has been repaid:                  0.00            7,592.78           7,592.78
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:               4,564.69          10,782.85           15,347.54
Amount sold                      :                0.00               88.08              88.08
Of which repaid              :                0.00               88.08               88.08
Total Undisbursed                :            4,302.92              51.90            4,354.82
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory,
HU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
Generated by the Operations Infonnation System (OIS)



56
Annex 10
Indonesia at a glance                                                              1128198
Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              East middle.
Indonesia      Asia  income       Development diamond
Population mid-1996 (millions)                       197.1     1,726    1,125
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                            1,090       890    1,750                 Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions USS)                              213.4     1,542    1,967                       T
Average annual growth, 199v46
Population (X)                                         1.7       1.3      1.4      GNP                              Gross
Laborfonce (X)                                         2.5       1.3      1.8      p                              primary
per                            pmr
Most recent esUmate (latest year available since 1989)                             capita                       enrollment
Poverty: headoDunt index (% otpopulatIon)              11
Urban population (% of totalpopulation)                36         31       56
Life expectancy at birlh (years)                       64         68       67
Infant mortailty (per 1,000 live births)               51         40       41               Access to safe water
Child malnutition (% of children under 5)               11
Access to safe water (% of population)                  62        49       78
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                     18        17                         Indonesia
Gross pnrmary enrollment (% of schoo-age population)   115       117      104
Male                                                117        120      105                Lower-middle-income group
Female                                              113        116      101
KEY ECONOIMC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1995    1996
Economic ratlos
GDP (billions US$)                           32.1     87.2     201.2   225.8
Gross domestic investment/GDP                23.7    26.1       31.1     31.8
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP            24.0    23.0       26.4     26.2              Openness of economy
Gross domestc savings/GDP                    26.6     28.6      32.3     33.2
Gross national savhngs/GDP                                      24.7     25.6                       T
Current account balancelGDP                                      -3 .5    -3.6
Interest paymentslGDP                         1.0      2.3       2.5      2.3      Savings    |                Investment
Total debVGDP                                35.8     42.1      61.8     57.1                      N
Total debt service/exports                      .               30.1     36.0
Present value of debVGDP                                 .               55.4
Present value of debVexports                                            209.6                  Indebtedness
1975-86  1986-96    1995       1996  1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                                  -Indonesia
GDP                                  7.0      7.9      8.2       7.6      6.6
GNP per capita                       4.3      6.1      5.7       5.8      51     |          Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       -1.0      8.9      8.6       6.3      7.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985      1995     1996
(% of GDP)                                                                         Growth rates of output and Investment
Agriculture                                  30.2    23.2       17.2      16.3    20 T
Industry                                     33.5     35.9      41.5     42.7
Manufacturing                               9.8    16.0        24.2     25.2    Ic
Services                                     36.3    40.9       41.4     41.0
Private consumption                          64.3     59.6      59.9     59.2             91   92   93   94   95   9S
General govemment consumption                 9.0     11.8       7.9      7.7   |GDI   OGDP
Imports of goods and services                21.0    20.5       25.2     24.9              L,-
(average annual growth)                   19785  1986-96        1995     1996    FGrowth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                   4.2      3.4       4.2      1.9    30
Industry                                      7.0      9.9      10.4     10.5
Manufacturing                              14.5     11.2       10.8     11.0    20
Services                                      9.0      8.0       7.7      6.9
Private consumption                          10.0      7.2       9.6      7.4
General govemment consumption                10.5      4.4       1.3      3.8
Grossdomesticinvestment                      12.1     10.8      13.5     11.8            S9   92   93   94   95   {e
Imports of goods and services                 8.8      9.4      15.8      9.6                -Exports    O  Imports
Gross natonal product                         6.5      7.9       7.4      7.5   L
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key Indicators In the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average, If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



57
Indonesia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975    1985       1995    1996 
Domestic prices                                                                   Inflatlon (%)
(% change)                                                                       10
Consumer prices                              19.1     4.7        9.4     8.0
Implicit GDP deflator                       11.2      4.3       9.4      8.7      5
Govemment finance
(% of GDP)                                                                        o
Current revenue                               ..    19.2        15.5    15.3   1         91   92   93   94   95   96
CuiTent budget balance                        ..      6.0       6.4        .GDP def. -O-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..    -3.2        -0.2     1.0
TRADE
1975    1985       1995    1996   F
(millions US$)                                                                    Export and Import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                           ..  18,823    44,792                50,000
Fuel                                         ..  12,804      8,638                   T
Rubber                                       ..    714       1,554              40,000 L
Manufactures                                 ..   2,287    23,487        ..    30,000 -
Total imports (cif)                           ..  14,056    41,286
Food                                                812  868    20,000niL
Fuel and energy                              ..   2,870      3,841       ..    10,000_o
Capital goods                                ..   5,394    16,712             |
Export price index (1987=100)                 ..    121         137       ..                 91  92  93  94  95  96
Import price index (1987=100)                 ..       85       127                            a Exports    a Imports
TeTnis of trade (1987=100)                    ..    143         108
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975    1985      1995    1996         .R
(mdllions US$)                                                                    Current account balance to GOP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                 ..       ..   53,154   58,317    :O
Imports of goods and services                                47,871   52,822
Resource balance528                                                    549
Net income                                     .        ..    -5,799   -6,094
Net current transfers                                        -6,471   -7,470      2
Current account balance,
before official capital transfers                           -6,987   -8,069  
Financing items (net)                                         958 1,6
Changes in net reserves                       ..       ..   -2,561   -3,898      4 -
fe!m o:                                                                         I _ _ _ __  _ _ _j__    __ _ _ __ _  _ _
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)          592   13,184    26,139   27,519
Conversion rate (locallUS$)                415.0  1,110.6   2,248.6  2,342.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975    1985       1995    1996  - 
(millions US$)                              1                                    Composition of total debt, 1996 (mill. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      11,498   36,715   124,398  129,033                         A
IIBRD                                       57    3,590    12,503   11,139   1                    11139 B
IIDA                                       318      844       756      736             G               736  D
Totaldebtservice                           1,060    5,823    16,419   21,462           32230                5375
IIBRD                                        2      384     1,875    2,249
IDA                                          2       12        26       26
E
Composition of net resource flows                                                                              28911
Official grants                             ..       ..       249      190
Official creditors                         515      980     1,115    -805
Private creditors                        1,749      154     2,314    6,971    1
Foreign direct investment                   ..       ..    4,348    7,960
Portfolio equity                            ..       ..    4,873    3,099                   F
50642
World Bank program
'Commitments                               311    1,068     1,312    1,194      A-IBRD                     E-Bilateral
Disbursements                              164      777     1,045      905      B - IA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                         0      133       975    1,429      C- IMF                     G - Short-term
Netflows                                   164      644        69    -523
Interest payments                            3      262       926      846
Net transfers                              160      382      -857   -1,370
Development Economics                                                                                             1/28/98
Note: Govemment finance and trade fiscal year (April to March).



I



NOTES






MAP SECTION



,    \.    .                 ~107                                                                                   INDONESIA
WEST JAVA BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
(JAWA BARAT)
PROJECT SERVICE AREAS    -      NORTH JAVA CORRIDOR ROUTE    0      SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
-           ,c NATIONAL HIGHWAYS            DISTRICT (KABUPATEN) CAPITALS
TOLL ROADS                    (     PROVINCE (PROPINSI) CAPITAL
PROVINCE ROADS                      NATIONAL CAPITAL
Merok               f Ki.RTA                                                                                        DISTRICT(KABUPATENi BOUNDARIES
C    0  i E  0        . .         0te ,K A Raya                              O                                      PROVINCE (PROPINS01 BOUNDARIES
Serang            Tangerang  -              Jatiasih-
Beks       Karawang               Pmo'
f  Pandegiang                  e\ rpPmu
00 X j00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0Crbcslejng                                           Ciw            t           :j<              0Purwakarta  0   Cikamurong9800?00  
X,<:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ :~ --"Ke
Sumar ~~~~~~~~~~~ Simpang  ,. -.   ,. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~Jtiarn
XaCcepeyit fThe  Borld6aeng                     SP. KR. F-lowe  Cibadak                                                  S t   0 0 0 0 0   +   00 )0:;  000 0 t 1t.0 'iourng
ng                                                           rur)~~~Ckmbn  Sljab  art
Su~DI                  Simpangonlego
O BCE N            HLPIE;o Maaengk
Ths map esprepared byls a e oU   IaWo, Id -an The                                                ndogoogN
bo-ndaries, colors, deeoiososadayohral    tpIo o
skis ma  d    t imply, ene iaps  fPt   ol   akGn   a
BRUNI ElLPIE                                                                                             Cpljl
9 M     L AYS5)-                    , 5 U0  1  MPACIFIC  OC:-AN
&,NGAPO                      J.
0REA OF MIACA         KIMANTAN              S   E  5  I A                                                             20 10 A                     K    ETERS
AwEA CF        r   Torl;                     _AA                                                              0       20      40      60  _8        ;t0 KI  LOMER
MA    ~      ~      FORESCZ>II                                                                                                                                           t
-   INDIAN OCEANAL                               TMO
'a  ~ ~ ~ ~      ~         C~~ATJ%i,,RALIA  ,/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  107T                 0            20  8 ~~~~~~~~~~~~           MILES
cm________________________________                                                    ________I_______A________Al______________



