Report No. PID5814
Project Name                     Indonesia-West Java Basic Education Project
Region                           South Asia
Sector                           Basic Education
Project ID                       IDPE39644
Borrower                         Government of Indonesia
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC)
Ministry of Home Affairs (MOHA)
Ministry of Religious Affairs (MORA)
BAPPENAS
Projected Appraisal Date         December, 1997
Projected Board Date             March, 1998
1.      Country and Sector Background. Over the last 25 years,
Indonesia has demonstrated impressive gains in providing basic
education: primary education coverage is near universal, and the
gross enrollment rate of junior secondary education is a little over
60%.    Despite these progresses, the country is facing
impediments in achieving universal basic education due to the low
quality in both primary and junior secondary education, insufficient
coverage of and inequitable access to junior secondary education,
and inefficient management of the system. Proposed West Java Basic
Education Project would assist continuous efforts of GOI in
expansion and quality assurance of basic education through
decentralized planning and implementation at the district level.
3.      Low Quality of Basic Education. Althogh there has been
progress, the following issues remain problematic to improve
education quality: (i) ineffective education management
particularly as it relates to the role of the school head; (ii)
insufficient and inadequate textbooks and materials; (iii)
deteriorating primary school buildings; (iv) a large stock of
teachers who are poorly trained in both subject matter and teaching
process; (v) ineffective curriculum implementation and lack of
student learning assessment tools; and (vi) low learning time in
grades 1 and 2.
4.      Limited Access to Junior Secondary Education. The low gross
enrollment rate of junior secondary education in West Java indicates
a critical need to expand access. Empirical research on schooling
decisions among the rural poor of Java points to the following major
constraints: (i) lack of student places, especially in remote and
low-income areas; (ii) availability of teachers; (iii) high cost and
low benefit of education; and (iv) low completion rates at primary
level.
5.      Inefficient Management. Many of quality and access issues
listed above stem from ineffective educational management, owing to:
(i) lack of accountability for results, as responsibility for basic



education services is shared by various government agencies; (ii)
overly centralized management; and (iii) no collaborative planning
of public and private provision of education. Currently, district
offices of MOEC, MOHA, and MORA operate according to their
respective agency's mandate, with no systematic coordination to
improve the overall education objective, service, process or outcome
in the district.
6.      Lessons Learned from other Projects.   Experience from other
World Bank education projects is applicable to the proposed project.
The Bank's OED Document, No. 9752, Indonesian Education and the
World Bank: An Assessment of Two Decades of Lending (1991), draft
Indonesia: Suggested Priorities for Education (1997), and the
currently ongoing Primary Education Quality Improvement Project
(PEQIP)(Ln3448) are particularly relevant in this respect. Among
the lessons learned are the need to : (a) promote decentralized
institutional capacity building to support the long-term goal of
increasing the self-sufficiency of the education system; (b) develop
projects within the framework of the policy dialogue with the
Government; (c) avoid overly complex project designs and unrealistic
schedules; (d) develop clear and efficient funding mechanisms; (e)
encourage the equitable distribution of project benefits by
targeting the poor; (f) expand secondary education through a dual
strategy of increasing school places and improving quality; (g)
support the role of the private sector in providing education; and
(h) incorporate the main elements that have provided in PEQIP for
quality improvement into projects : a decentralized and
participatory in-service teacher training program, relying on school
clusters and mutual support of teachers; significant community
participation; sufficient quantity of textbooks coupled with
increased teacher use of books and materials; and the need for close
cooperation between MOHA and MOEC.
7.      Project Objectives.
(a) Improved quality of basic education and expanded access to junior
secondary education at the district level; and
(b) Improved educational planning and management and developed
institutional and interagency capacity at the provincial and
district levels to deliver the nine-year program.
8.      Project Description.   The first in Indonesia to fund education
development grants against proposals prepared by districts, the
project represents an important step in the decentralization process
of the system. The project would provide grants as incentives for
districts to plan and implement their own access and quality
objectives and to make management more effective. The project
consists of two major components. (1) Performance-Based District
Grants: to be awarded to districts on the basis of acceptable five-
year proposals and annual implementation plans for programmatic
activities to improve quality of basic education and expand access
to junior secondary education. Activities may include school
construction, rehabilitation and maintenance, teacher recruitment
and training, selection and acquisition of textbooks and teaching
- 2 -



materials. (2) Education Management Grants: to be awarded to the
province and to districts on the basis of acceptable strategic
proposals and annual implementation plans for establishing effective
institutional arrangements and interagency coordination and for
capacity-building for maintaining the above arrangements.
9.      Project Implementation.   The project will be implemented over
six years: 12 of the 26 districts of West Java would start
implementation of their five-year strategic plan on the first year
of the project. Some or all of the 14 districts may enter during the
second year. At the district level, the Bupati (district head)
would be the accountable official responsible for the planning and
delivery of nine-year basic education in the area coordinating
district offices of MOEC, MOHA, MORA, and Bappenas. At the
provincial level, the Governor of West Java would head an
interagency project technical assistance team, with coordination led
by the head of the MOEC and membership from provincial offices of
MOHA, MORA, and Bappeda. The national level group, represented by
all the involved agencies mentioned above, would: provide policy
support to the project; evaluate for project financing the
provincial project proposal; and review project performance with the Bank.
12.     Project Cost and Financing. Estimated costs of each component
are: US$ 85 million for district grants to improve quality and
increase access to basic education; and US$ 15 million for
institutional development for education management.     Project will
be assessed annualy and the progress, or lack thereof, will form
part of the basis for the next year's funding together with the
soundness of the implementation plan for the coming year. Detailed
mechanisms for the appropriate flow of funds to the district, are
still being worked out.
13.     Benefits and Risks.
Benefits
-- Improved quality and outcomes of basic education; and expanded
access to junior secondary education, especially for children of
poor families;
-- Enhanced management capacity of district and provincial
government agencies to plan, implement, and monitor an integrated,
quality basic education program;
-- Improved incentive structure: resources provided to districts on
the basis of self-assessed needs, capacities, and targets;
-- High levels of education service delivery by districts,
maintained through year-end assessment of performance; and
-- Better trained labor force to help sustain economic development
of West Java.
Risks
-3-



-- No clear transfer of authority from the central to the provincial
and district governments in basic education planning and management,
resulting in diluted reforms;
-- Central government's priority changes from nine-year basic
education program;
-- Failure in coordination among involved government agencies;
-- Too many districts (12) to start the first phase;
-- Not enough technical support available for the district
governments to plan and implement the project;
-- Inefficient district grant mechanism, which makes the project
implementation impossible or very difficult;
-- Lack of community and household demand toward basic education and
proposed activities;
-- Teachers' opposition against project activities.
14.     Sustainability. Upon completion of the project, the district
and provincial government agencies are expected to have developed
sustainable capacity to plan, implement, and monitor basic
education, which supports continuous efforts toward improvement of
basic education quality and access issues.
15.     Environment/ Poverty/ Project Objectives.   The project will not
have a direct impact on the environment but is expected to have an
overall positive effect by improving environmental education. The
project, through its poverty-targeted sub-components, will almost by
definition reach the poor and near-poor in the project provinces.
16.     The project objective categories are:
Major Sector (Education)                          100l
Poverty Reduction                                 15t
Environmentally Sustainable Development            5t
Gender Analysis (Women in Development)             5t
Human Resource Development                        50-
Financial Institute                                0t
Debt/ Adjustment                                   0t
Natural Resources                                  0t
Economic Management                                0t
Infrastructure                                     10.
Private Sector Development                         5t
Sector Reform                                      10.
Contact Point:           InfoShop
The World Bank
-4-



1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C 20433
Telephone: (202) 458 5454
Fax: (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities
and/or components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the World Bank InfoShop week ending December 12, 1997.
- 5 -



