           Document of
         The World Bank




                                      Report No: 32506

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
           (SCL-43080)

              ON A

              LOAN

 IN THE AMOUNT OF US$103.5 MILLION

             TO THE

      REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

             FOR A

WEST JAVA BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT




           June 30, 2005

                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective April 15, 2005)

                   Currency Unit = Indonesia Rupiah (Rp)
                          Rp1.0 = US$ .0001
                        US$ 1.0 = Rp9000

                        FISCAL YEAR
           January 1 -  December 31 (from year 2001)

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APBD                            Local (district) budget
APBN                            National budget
Bappeda                         Regional development planning board
Bappenas                        National development planning agency
CPCU                            Central Project Coordinating Unit
DBL                             School block grants for quality enhancement
DBO                             Block grants to schools issued under the crisis
                                response Scholarships and Grants Program
Dikdas                          Directorate for primary education, MONE
Dikdasmen                       Directorate-general for primary and secondary
                                Education, MONE
Dikmenum                        Directorate for secondary education, MONE
DINAS P dan K                   Provincial, district, sub-district education office with
                                responsibility for education (now Dinas Pendidikan)
DPIU                            District Project Implementation Unit
ICR                             Implementation completion report
Kecam                           Head of sub-district office of central Government
                                ministry
Keppres 80/2003                 Presidential decree number 80/2003
KPI                             Key project indicators
MONE                            Ministry of National Education
MOHA                            Ministry of Home Affairs
MORA                            Ministry of Religious Affairs
PDO                             Project development objectives
PPIU                            Province Project Implementation Unit
QAG                             Quality Assurance Group (The World Bank)
SD                              Primary school, grades 1-6
SLTP                            Junior secondary school, grades 7-9
USB                             Complete new school
UU Sisdiknas 2004               2004 Indonesian Education Law

                 Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
               Country Director     Andrew D. Steer, EACIF
                Sector Manager      Christopher J. Thomas, EASHD
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Jerry G. Strudwick, EASHD

                                         INDONESIA
                             WEST JAVA BASIC EDUCATION


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              5
6. Sustainability                                                                  6
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   7
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            26
Annex 8. Borrower Comments                                                       27

Project ID: P039644                                                  Project Name: W. JAVA BASIC EDUCATION
Team Leader: Jerry G. Strudwick                                      TL Unit: EASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 23, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: W. JAVA BASIC EDUCATION                                  L/C/TF Number: SCL-43080
   Country/Department: INDONESIA                                                          Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Secondary education (46%); Primary education (35%); Sub-national
                            government administration (19%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P);
                            Decentralization (S); Participation and civic engagement (S);
                            Vulnerability assessment and monitoring (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/15/1996                                     Effective: 05/01/1998                07/28/1998
     Appraisal: 01/30/1998                                         MTR: 08/28/2000                  08/28/2000
      Approval: 03/31/1998                                      Closing: 12/31/2004                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA/MINISTRY OF NATIONAL EDUCATION
                                           (MONE)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din-Kassum                            Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:               Andrew D. Steer                                Dennis de Tray
Sector Manager:                 Christopher J. Thomas                          Alan Ruby
Team Leader at ICR:             Jerry G. Strudwick                             Alfonso de Guzman
ICR Primary Author:             Robert L. Mcgough


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Project met its stated development objectives. The overall objectives were to assist the Borrower to:
(a) improve the quality of basic education and expand access to junior secondary education at the district
level; and (b) improve educational planning and management at the central, provincial and district levels,
and develop institutional and inter-agency capacity at the provincial and district levels for the delivery of
the nine-year education program.

The original objectives were clear, realistic and closely aligned with the Borrower's sector development
priorities, and the Borrower considered the project important and timely. The project objectives and design
were also consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). As the project was implemented
at a time when there was considerable instability, both in the economy and the Government, its objectives
and design must be considered to be somewhat demanding, risky, and complex.

Other factors also contributed to this assessment: (a) the project was focused to reach out to a wide range
of remote, rural areas; (b) within those areas, it sought to meet the needs of hard-to-serve, junior secondary
students who were poor and/or disadvantaged; (c) the project also sought to implement a number of
innovative, but unproven features (DBO grants to schools and junior secondary student scholarships, etc.);
and (d) the project was designed to support an emerging, but yet unproven national policy to decentralize
the education sector.


3.2 Revised Objective:
The project's development objectives were not revised.


3.3 Original Components:
The project components were well designed to meet the objectives of the project. During project preparation
considerable effort was made to identify the lessons that had been learned from previous projects and to
incorporate those lessons into the project design. The Borrower's project implementation teams (CPCU,
PPIU and DPIU) had the financial and management capacity to fully implement the planned components.

Component 1.0 District Basic Education Improvement

Subcomponent 1.1 Quality of Primary Education - The project sought to improve the quality of primary
education through: (a) rehabilitation of primary schools, including provision of water supply, appropriate
toilets, correctly sized desks and chairs, and blackboards; (b) strengthening of maintenance at schools
rehabilitated under the project; (c) preparation of maps showing primary school pupil/teacher ratios, by
school, as a basis for the deployment of primary school teachers; (d) training of teachers, heads of school
and supervisors, and community leaders, and the provision of technical assistance to those individuals; (e)
provision of books, teacher guides, teaching aids, and equipment for demonstration activities; (f) junior
secondary scholarships and DBO's for both primary and junior secondary schools to cover operational
costs throughout the 5 year crisis period; and (g) provision of fellowships to education officers and teachers
for upgrading of their qualifications and certifications.

Subcomponent 1.2 Junior Secondary Education Access and Quality - The project sought to expand
access to, and improve the quality of junior secondary education through: (a) construction of 300 junior
secondary schools, including water supply and appropriate toilets, provision of school furniture, and the
preparation of programs for preventive maintenance; (b) employment for 1,000 contract teachers for junior
secondary schools constructed under the project; (c) carrying out of: (i) training for trainers, teachers,
heads of schools and supervisors in curriculum development/subject matter skills, teaching methods,
selection and use of textbooks, design and development of instructional materials, lesson planning,



                                                      - 2 -

classroom and time management, (ii) testing and evaluation of student performance, (iii) training of heads of
schools and supervisors, (iv) training of librarians, (v) training of community leaders, and (vi) provision of
technical assistance to those individuals; (d) provision books, teaching aids, and equipment for
demonstration activities; (e) provision of scholarships to poor students; (f) provision of fellowships to
teachers for upgrading of qualifications and certifications; and (g) provision of DBO (see Subcomponent
1.1 above)

2.0 Management Capacity Development

Subcomponent Component 2.1 District and Provincial Management Development ­ The project
planned to strengthen education management at the district and provincial levels through: (a) preparation of
location maps of primary and junior secondary schools in each Kecamatan, including staff of schools and
consolidations plans for public schools; (b) preparation of a five-year plan and annual technical and
budgetary plans integrating and coordinating the activities of MONE, MORA, BAPPEDA and DINAS P
dan K in the field of basic education, covering, (i) school location, consolidation, construction,
rehabilitation, and maintenance, (ii) teacher training, support and supervision, (iii) provision of equipment
and materials, and (iv) promotion of community participation in school affairs, including the provision of
technical assistance to those individuals; (c) carrying out of staff and organizational assessments relating
to the capability and capacity of MONE, MORA, BAPPEDA, DINAS P dan K and other relevant
provincial and district level agencies; (d) strengthening of institutional capacity of the provincial and
district agencies of MONE, MORA, BAPPEDA, DINAS P dan K, and other relevant provincial and
district level agencies through, (i) training, (ii) student assessments, project impact evaluations, and policy
studies, (iii) provision of fellowships in the areas of educational policy, planning, budgeting, management,
teacher training, school construction, information-handling, school and student assessment, and monitoring
and evaluation, and (iv) provision of office equipment.

Subcomponent 2.2 Project Management - Strengthening the capacity of the project management was
sought through: (a) a program for the periodic reporting, monitoring and evaluation of the five-year and
annual technical and budgetary plans; (b) conducting of technical audits; and (c) provision of office
equipment, furniture, and materials to project units.

3.4 Revised Components:
The project components were not formally revised although there were some modifications made to the
targets associated with Key Performance Indicators (KPI). In May 2002, the Bank agreed to restructure
the project to better link it to two similar projects (Sulawesi Basic Education and Sumatra Basic
Education). During this process, the original KPI target for new school construction was lowered from 300
to 35 new schools and the cost savings were reallocated, by loan agreement, to finance the increased
demand for student scholarships as a result of the economic crisis.

The move to link the three projects was recommended by the two QAG assessments (see 3.5 below). The
restructuring made it possible to conduct joint review missions, provide a coordinated Bank input to all
three projects, and combine documentation, thus increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of Bank support
during project implementation. Some KPIs were added to accommodate this rationalization process.


3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project was not subject to a QAG assessment at entry. There were two QAG assessments (QSA3 and
QSR1) of project supervision in 1999 and 2001, respectively. Both commented on the project design and
readiness for implementation at approval. QSA3 indicated that the project design was sound, and that the
project was not ready for implementation at approval. QSR1 stated an opposite opinion, that the project
design was not sound and that the project was ready for implementation at approval.




                                                        - 3 -

The ICR rating for quality at entry is satisfactory. The project design was sound given the basis upon
which it was designed. One could argue (as happened in one of the QAG assessments) that the later
economic crisis did adversely affect the potential of the project design. The counter-argument is that those
events were not foreseeable at the time of project design and preparation, and for that reason, the rating of
quality at entry should not be downgraded.

The ICR rating is also based on a number of other findings: (a) the project design was fully consistent with
the Bank's safeguard policies; (b) from the beginning, the project was strongly focused on agreed-upon
development objectives; (c) even though the project was restructured to address the bold moves of the
Government towards decentralization, and the other emerging needs of the sector, the PDOs were not
changed; (d) the Borrower has demonstrated a strong sense of ownership; (e) the project was implemented
at a time when there were severe financial constraints, and the sector would have been adversely affected if
the project had not been implemented; (f) the project design was formulated to respond to lessons learned
from previous Bank projects in the sector and region; (g) the project components were designed to be fully
sustainable by the Borrower, and it is already apparent that there is a high probability of sustainability
following project completion; and (h) the cost and time estimates in the original project design have proven
to be reasonably accurate.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project was judged to have met its overall development objectives, although there were many
implementation problems along the way. This assessment was based on: (a) satisfactory project outcomes
and outputs as measured by the KPIs; (b) strong Government commitment and participation throughout the
implementation of the project; (c) good government, public school and private school participation; (d)
effective interagency coordination by provincial and district agencies; (e) indications of local community
satisfaction with the overall implementation of the project and its outcomes; and (f) indications of continued
sustainability for long term project activities.

Net enrollment rates (NER) for the target provinces have also gone up during the implementation of the
project. NERs for primary education, in the target provinces, for the five school years (1998 through
2003) were: 90%; 90%; 90%; 93%; and 96%, respectively. NERs for junior secondary education were:
57%; 56%; 59%; 61%; and 68%, respectively (source: Government Monitoring Reports (1998-2004),
August 2004, updated November 2004).

The objectives are fully consistent with the Bank's current country and sectoral assistance strategies. The
Borrower has also adopted a number of suggested sector policy reforms (see 4.5).               The Borrower
continues to place strong priority for continued improvements in access and quality throughout the
education sector, and plans to systematically increase budgets to support those improvements.

Based on the above findings, the overall outcomes of the project are rated as satisfactory.


4.2 Outputs by components:

The project supported substantial sector-wide policy development and reform, including: (a) the
decentralization of school management; (b) the introduction school block funding schemes, (c) the use of
student scholarships to support students from poor families, (d) the use of school mapping to support
education management, (e) the use of contract teachers to support rural schools where there are teacher
shortages, and (f) the introduction of community participation           models for school rehabilitation.
Macro-economic policies were not specifically addressed in the project.



                                                    - 4 -

The above mentioned policy reforms, and the activities noted below, also resulted in increased student
access and improvements in instructional quality. This, in turn, resulted in a substantial increase in the
enrollment of girls in the target schools. As the project's scholarships programs were targeted on the poor
students in the target schools, a modest impact on poverty was also found in the families receiving
scholarships for their children.


1.0 District Basic Education Improvement

Subcomponent 1.1 Primary Education Quality ­ The project supported the rehabilitation of 923 schools.
Of these, most of the schools (95%) have fully met the project's technical specifications for completion.
Parallel to this effort, local programs were established to support improved maintenance of the schools.

The project also financed the provision of 1,562 Quality Block Grants to public schools. An additional 433
matching grants were provided to private schools. These grants were used to improve the overall quality of
the recipient institutions, including the enhancement of pedagogy, curricula, instructional management,
provision of books and instructional materials, provision of instructional equipment, etc.

It was also found that about 93% of these schools have school plans linked to estimated needs and the
required inputs. Most of the schools (97%) were able to show an increase in the use of teaching aids, and
an increased use of learner active methods. Likewise, most of the schools (94%) have their School Block
Grant Team actively involved in the management of the grants, and 85% of the schools have their school
committees actively involved in the monitoring of grant program implementation. It is expected that this
high level of participation, by School Block Grant Teams and school committees, will provide enhanced
clarity and oversight to school budgeting and expenditures, monitoring and evaluation, and program
implementation. This oversight should contribute to improved quality and enhanced internal efficiency.

Subcomponent 1.2 Junior Secondary Education Access and Quality ­ The project supported the
establishment of 97 (SMPN and MTsN) new schools. This number was about 277% of the revised target
(May 2002) for new school construction. It is estimated that about 24,000 new student places were created
in West Java by establishment of the 97 new schools at the junior secondary level. Most (94%) of the new
Bank-financed schools are functioning with teachers, books, budgets, and enrolled students.

The remaining funds for new school establishment were reallocated, with Bank approval, to support the
student scholarships for poor students, an emerging need during the economic crisis. The funds were
administered through the Government's national Scholarship and Grants Program (SGP) which has been
set up as a social safety net program to help alleviate the impact of the crisis. The SGP was supported by a
number of bilateral and multilateral donors. The Bank restructured six Loans to re-allocate funds to
support the SGP. The SGP was managed separately and Government established an independent
monitoring unit to ensure transparency. A separate completion report was prepared for the SGP.

Under the SGP, the project provided a substantial number of Dana Bantuan Operasional (DBO) grants to
junior secondary (public and private) schools. DBO grants are block grants to schools that were issued as
part of the crisis response under the SGP. These grants are relatively small grants designed to assist
schools with financial problems, and are separate from the grants for school establishment discussed above.
The project provided about 44,500 block grants to primary schools and 6,500 block grants to junior
secondary schools under this program.

The project also provided about 810,000 student scholarships to poor students in junior secondary schools.
In junior secondary schools, the male to female ratio of scholarship recipients was about 50:50. In



                                                      - 5 -

addition, it was found that 67% of the scholarships were provided to students enrolled in public schools,
with the remaining 33% provided to students in private schools. These scholarship award ratios (male to
female) generally reflect similar ratios found for the enrollment of students in the target provinces.

For both of the above sub-components, the project also supported the training and certification of 3,084
teachers (241% of revised target, May 2002). About 4,225 teachers participated in the program. The
completion rate was about 73%.

The project also supported the recruitment and employment of 3,277 (163% of the revised target, May
2002) contract teachers used to fill teacher shortages in the disadvantaged schools. In a recent survey,
most of the head teachers (98%) indicated that they were satisfied with the performance of their assigned
contract teachers.

2.0 Management Capacity Development

Subcomponent 2.1 District and Provincial Management Development

The project provided fellowships to train about 223 (142% of the revised target, May 2002) Government
officers in various aspects of education management. These officers have now been assigned to key
positions to provide enhanced leadership to existing and future education operations in West Java.

School mapping is currently used in all (100%) of the participating districts to systematically manage the
redeployment of teachers and the merging of schools as required. To date, about 550 schools have been
merged and that process is ongoing.

About 75% of the district level staffs are now fully responsible for the selection of project recipients and
the active monitoring of their respective programs.         This finding demonstrates the extent to which
decision-making has become more decentralized as compared to the beginning of the project when most of
those services were done at the provincial level or higher.

It was also found that all of the districts (100%) have adopted at least three of the five project-introduced
education management models (rehabilitation by the community, block grants, teacher certification,
contract teachers, and mapping/school consolidation).

Subcomponent 2.2 Project Management

Strengthening the capacity of the project management was gained through the provision of training to
support staff development in the CPCU, PPIUs and DPIUs. Technical assistance was also provided to
support the day-to-day implementation of the project, periodic reporting, monitoring and evaluation;
budgeting and procurement.

The CCPU/PPIU/DPIU project teams initially had difficulties implementing an effective project monitoring
and evaluation (M&E) system. With a wide disbursement of project sites, multi-agency involvement, and
multiple layers of project management, the required M&E effort was initially overwhelming. Both the
QAG assessments noted this shortcoming. During the last half of the project, the CPCU received technical
assistance from Bank supervision teams, and was able to make significant improvements in the system. As
a result, the M&E program is now rated as satisfactory.

The project management teams also conducted technical audits as required to support the effective
implementation of the project. Also, as required by the project, the CPCU effectively facilitated the
provision of office equipment, furniture, and materials to PPIUs and DPIUs.




                                                      - 6 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The Net Present Value (NPV) and Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the project were not estimated.
Baseline data was not collected and documented during initial project preparation. Although Annex 4 of
the PAD did discuss some cost benefits associated project design options, without baseline data, it would
be difficult to make accurate or valid estimates of ERR at the completion of the project.


4.4 Financial rate of return:
A financial rate of return was not calculated for this project.


4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project also supported substantial institutional development. This assessment is based on the
following:

(a) Increase institutional capacity. In West Java, most of the need for additional capacity is found in
rural, disadvantaged areas where there are many unmet needs, and in urban areas were there is a trend
toward over-enrollment. As this project was focused to serve students in those areas, it is obvious that the
project produced more institutional capacity to meet these needs. This is evidenced by the addition of
24,000 new student places through the project, and the additional student places, estimated to be more than
50,000 new student places, though government-financed, community-led, school building schemes that
were introduced and piloted by the project. This resulted in an increase in student access to services, better
facility utilization rates, and improved teacher/student/parent satisfaction rates.

(b) Policy Reform. The Borrower has also adopted a number of suggested sector policy reforms including
the use of: (a) block grant funding; (b) scholarship programs for poor students; (c) contract teachers to
provide short-term relief of teacher shortages; (d) direct financing of grants and scholarships to schools and
students, respectively; and (e) government-financed, community-led school rehabilitation programs. These
important reforms signal a decision by the Government to manage the education sector differently than it
has in the past. It is expected that additional policy reforms, brought forth by the other eight projects (see
above footnote), will also add to the overall package of reforms for the sector.

(c) Focus on Quality. The project has also seen the Government officially establish quality as a major
goal in the sector. This has resulted in a significant refinement of basic education curricula and pedagogy.
The subsector, basic education, now has new curricula (introduced before the project, but refined and fully
introduced during the project period). The result has been positive and well received by the schools,
parents, and teachers. Recent surveys (see Section 10 for additional information) have also noted that
activity-oriented teaching methodologies, introduced by the project, are well received by teachers and are
effective and relevant to students. MONE has moved to institutionalize the use of activity-oriented
teaching methodologies nation-wide.

 To further support the focus on quality, MONE has increased the requirements for teacher and manager
certification. Concurrent to this effort, the project has supported the training and certification of 3,084
primary and junior secondary education teachers in West Java, and the employment of more than 3,227
contract teachers to fill remaining, vacant teaching positions.        With these inputs, there have been
substantial improvements in the internal efficiency of both primary and junior secondary education, in West
Java. For example, of 697 planned school consolidations, 79% were completed. The use of school
mapping is now fully institutionalized within all project districts. More than 75% of the newly trained
teachers are now teaching subjects for which they were trained. These and other efficiency improvements
are documented as KPIs in Annex 1.




                                                     - 7 -

(d) Education Management. With the project supported training and assignment of education officers in
West Java (223 officers), there has also been a significant improvement in the quality of managers and key
decision-makers in the project's targeted provinces since the baseline year (1998).

MONE has also moved to fill most of its management and other key positions with experienced and well
trained staff. Within the ministry, examples may be seen at all levels in primary and junior secondary
education where significant numbers of staff have returned from specialized training, some with advanced
degrees, and have been moved into key management and academic positions. MONE has also implemented
more effective monitoring and evaluation systems that should provide accurate data to document
institutional development impact over time.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The project was negatively affected by the aftermath of the economic crisis. The project also saw three
changes of government. These destabilizing situations made it difficult to estimate future costs and foreign
exchange requirements. As a result there was some initial slowdown in project activities, including
procurement of goods and services, and training commitments. This situation also led to some delays in
construction; however, the Bank's supervision teams effectively identified the problems at an early stage,
and were able to address these concerns with MONE during the first half of the project implementation
period. Although they were sometimes difficult to resolve, these factors had only a moderate effect on the
implementation and outcomes of the project.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Government supported a decentralization program that was much bolder than anticipated. From the
project's perspective this led to an uncertainty about the roles and responsibilities of different levels of
government, organizations and agencies within the sector. More specifically, the responsibilities and
authorities of the center, provinces and districts were not clearly specified; resources and responsibilities
were not always adequately aligned; Bank procedure and guidelines more or less observed at the central
level were not understood, or necessarily accepted at lower levels of government; district-level incentives to
support decentralization may have been less than expected; and the capacities to discharge new
responsibilities at sub-national levels were highly variable. These factors had a partial effect on the
implementation and outcomes of the project.

In addition, there were some counterpart funding difficulties in FY00, a possible consequence of the
economic crisis. Although the lack of counterpart funding slow down implementation of the project during
FY00, it had only a negligible effect on the overall implementation and outcomes of the project.

The above ICR findings were also noted in the two QAG assessments of the project.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Initially, during the early period of project implementation, there was some inadequate staffing of the
CPCU/PPIU/DPIU teams. This appears to be partly historical, partly related to the addition of projects to
the work load of the project management teams, and partly related to the move to decentralize many of the
project management functions. This factor had a partial effect on the early implementation of the project,
but had a negligible effect on the overall implementation and outcomes of the project.

There was also some early resistance to the effective implementation of the required M&E program. This
issue was later resolved though Bank dialogue with the Borrower, however, the late start resulted in a
substantial number of implementation concerns, that might otherwise have been avoided. There was also
some resistance to the restructuring of the project until mid-2002. It is likely that if the implementing


                                                      - 8 -

agency put in place an effective M&E system, and               restructured the project earlier on, project
implementation would have been smoother and more effective.

The project management teams had chronic problems with the quality of procurement, particularly as it
relates to the procurement of services. Initially, these problems seemed to result from the above mentioned
inadequacy in project team staffing and M&E, but such problems are also seen in many projects in the
country, suggesting that it may be endemic to development projects in Indonesia.             All procurement
problems had a substantial effect on the implementation of the project. Even though they were addressed
by the task team and the Borrower, it must be concluded that, because of the misprocurement and
cancellation of associated funds by the Bank, this factor had a substantial effect on the overall outcomes of
the project.


5.4 Costs and financing:
The Government disbursed US$99,739,968 million, or about 96% of the original loan amount of US$103.5
million. There were two loan cancellations, US$3.0 million (12/13/1999) and US$760,032 (12/22/2000).
With the total cancellations subtracted from the loan amount, the disbursements equal to the total amount
available from the loan. There were seven loan amendments which provided for the reallocation of funds
within the loan to meet the changing needs of the Borrower. All of these reallocations were done after
dialogue with the Bank, and with the Bank's agreement. There were no cost savings and all of the
components were adequately financed for full project implementation.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The rating for sustainability is likely. UU Sisdiknas 2004 and Keppres 80/2003 provide the legal basis for
continuing block grant as a mechanism to channel funds to schools, allowing project-introduced activities
such as school rehabilitation, USB and quality block grants to be continued under APBN and ABPD
funding. And as MONE has already adopted block grants as its preferred means of channeling funds to
schools and districts, it appears that this project mechanism will be institutionalized and sustained.

At the policy level, the Government remains strongly committed to the education sector. In particular, it
places a national priority on primary and junior secondary education, and sees those subsectors as
important intellectual and social development assets. At the ministry level, there is a strong commitment to
the systematic long-term development of basic education. The project's outcomes are strongly linked to the
Government's long-term development goals, and the project-supported policy reforms have all been
adopted by MONE.

The Bank also has a substantial history of project financing in the education sector in Indonesia. In
virtually all those projects, the Government has consistently demonstrated a strong commitment to
sustainability in education. Currently, all project institutions and remaining project activities are fully
funded from local or national budgets.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
MONE uses a semi-formal process to manage the transition of project activities into regular operations.
Each project activity must first be fully completed under the project's budget. After completion, each
project activity must be reviewed and inspected by the Ministry, or its designated agency to ensure that all
project objectives have been met for that activity, including required civil works and the procurement of
goods and services. Unfinished work and quality concerns noted during this process must be corrected with
the oversight of the Ministry, before final acceptance and transition to regular operations is allowed. Once
the acceptance agreement is reached between all parties, the new institutions, upgraded institutions, new


                                                      - 9 -

staff, etc. will be shifted to appropriate regular budgets as required by MONE/province/district operational
policies.   This transition arrangement is well facilitated because individuals, responsible for regular
operations, have been selected as implementation managers within the project. As these activities become
fully implemented within the project, the individual managers take over more and more responsibility for
their transition into regular operations. This approach has proven to be effective and without issue. All
project activities, suitable for transitioning, are now fully transitioned into regular operations.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The identification, preparation, pre-appraisal, and appraisal missions were appropriately staffed, well
managed and effective. Project negotiations were also well planned, managed and implemented. Evidence
of this effectiveness may be seen in the Bank teams' ability to adhere to a rapid processing schedule that
was necessary to support the Borrower during the financial crisis.

Both of the QAG assessments noted that the preparation team did not adequately prepare baseline data to
support the M&E of the project, or future estimates of cost benefit. The ICR assessment agrees with this
finding. This shortcoming must be considered a valid criticism the Bank's preparation effort.

The identification and preparations missions were able to assist the Borrower to produce a thorough and
comprehensive project design, the core of which remained in tact during the subsequent stages of project
preparation and implementation. A number of working papers were produced and provided significant
input to the preparation of the project. The preparation missions paid special attention to the holistic
integration of equipment, facilities, pedagogy, curricula and staff development into the project design, and
the need for the project to be flexible in a time of economic crisis.

It should be noted that the relatively large number of loan amendments (seven) were not the result of a poor
project design. Instead, they reflect the Bank/Borrower's continuing effort to keep the project fine tuned to
the changing development needs of the Borrower during trying economic times.

On balance, the ICR team's rating of Bank's lending is satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:
QSA3 1999 and QSR1 2001. QSA3 1999 rated the supervision of the project to date (year 1999) as
being satisfactory. There were some concerns regarding procurement, and the need to obtain a strong
Government agreement that non-project resources, available to schools, would be used in accordance to the
project's objectives. It mentioned that there was a need for more qualitative targets and assessment
modalities. It also found that the supervision teams carefully monitored the fiduciary aspects of the project,
but could have provided better follow-up on several identified problems in accounting and auditing. The
assessments also noted the need to bring in more international experience, and lessons learned, from other
nations when engaging in dialogue, and providing recommendations, regarding the implementation of
decentralization policies (see Section 10.0 for additional information). The assessment also stated that the
supervision teams were well staffed and their aide memoires were well prepared.

QSR1 2001 rated the supervision of the project (year 2000) as marginal. This assessment noted a lack of
appropriateness in the advice given by the supervision team during this period, slowness in dealing with
issues that arose, and in general, reactive rather than proactive supervision. It also found that some of the
supervision ratings given were inappropriate. It also expressed a concern that Bank management was not
well engaged with this project as the supervision ratings were given as satisfactory, when it was evident
(from QAG perspective) that the project was not implementing in a satisfactory manner.




                                                      - 10 -

ICR Assessment. The ICR assessment agrees with the above QAG assessments that during the first two
years of the project there were reasons to be concerned about the quality of project supervision. This is
stated with the knowledge that there were some mitigating circumstances ­ shortages in counterpart staff,
lack of counterpart project team experience, political unrest, security issues, financial crisis, change of the
government, a government push towards decentralization, a need to restructure the project to better address
those circumstances, lack of recurrent funds, etc.

Following the QAG assessments, significant changes were made in the supervision approach, based on the
recommendations made by the assessments. The project was linked with other similar, on-going basic
education projects with commonly defined objectives. Joint missions were fielded to maximize available
mission expertise, and to provide opportunities for better articulation in the Banks dialogue with, and
recommendations to, the Borrower. Since that time, the supervision of the project has steadily improved
and has become more efficient and effective.        It should be noted that the task team requested and
participated in a QER (Quality Enhancement Review) to further support this process of change.

The project has remained problematic in some ways, but the supervision team has effectively addressed the
problems as they arose. Of particular note is the strong oversight required for effective procurement in this
project. As mentioned earlier, procurement has been a chronic problem throughout the implementation of
the project. The supervision team has carefully monitored the implementation of this activity and when
necessary, acted quickly to protect the Government and the Bank's interests. Evidence of this may be seen
in the supervision team's recommendations to declare a misprocurement of a services contract, and the
associated cancellation of US$760,032 from the loan. Both of these actions were initiated by the Bank on,
or about, December 22, 2000.

A review of the PSRs and their associated aide memoires will reveal that there have been many other
problems that were effectively addressed by the supervision teams through close collaboration with the
Borrower. In all cases, specific actions were agreed upon, with the Government, to bring the project back
inline with the implementation plan.

Relations with the Borrower were sometimes difficult during the first two years of the project when the
Borrower was unable to establish an effective monitoring and evaluation system for the project, and then, a
bit later, to agree to restructure the project.     After mid-year 2002, the relations became strongly
collaborative and productive, and have remained that way since then.               Supervision missions, in
approximate six month intervals, were most often timely and adequately staffed.

The ICR rating for Bank supervision is satisfactory.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Although it must be said that during the first quarter of this project, the Bank's performance was less than
satisfactory (these shortcomings are discussed in sections 7.1 and 7.2. above), it was determined that, in the
remaining three quarters, there were substantial efforts made to refocus that effort, and to significantly
improve the Bank's service delivery. For this reason, the ICR rating is satisfactory, as evidenced not only
by the project's achievements, but also by the attestations of the implementing agencies at national,
provincial and district/community levels.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
As a response to the economic crisis, the Bank and the Borrower agreed to quickly prepare and process this
project. This required quick action on the part of both the Borrower and the Bank to mobilize resources,
and to select and field strong teams to identify and prepare the project. Both the Bank and the Borrower
were successful in meeting this requirement. The Borrower's counterpart team participated actively in the


                                                    - 11 -

preparation of the project and was particularly effective in the Bank/Borrower's consideration of options
and the collection, organization and analysis of data required to develop the project design. As preparation
activities were initiated, the counterpart team made many significant contributions to the quality and scope
of the project design. It has been judged that the project was adequately designed and prepared by this
combined team. The ICR rating for preparation is highly satisfactory.


7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government was, and remains, strongly committed to the improvement of the education sector. The
objectives of the project had a high priority in the sector and were thus, strongly supported by MONE,
MOHA, MORA, MOF and Bappenas. Each of these agencies worked cooperatively and effectively to
support the full implementation of the project. It is noteworthy that each agency assigned experienced
officers to support the planning and implementation of the project.         Except during the year 2002,
counterpart funds have been adequate for the project. The Borrower is now in full compliance with all loan
covenants, and all audit reports have been submitted without negative comments. The ICR rating for this
section 7.5 is satisfactory.


7.6 Implementing Agency:
Initially the CPCU, PPIUs and DPIUs experienced some disruption when there was inadequate staffing
available to effectively implement the project. The MONE moved quickly to coordinate the provision of
additional experienced staff.       This move strengthened the units and provided a more effective
implementation of the project. The CPCU worked closely with the Bank's task team. As the project
experienced problems with procurement, etc., the CPCU, representing the MONE, worked in close
collaboration with the Bank to make necessary changes in the project to bring the project back on schedule.


This effort should not be underestimated as the procurement requirements for the project were large in
volume, widely disbursed in many remote sites, and in many cases, technical. Many contractors had their
own problems with the financial crisis, and in some cases, they suffered from shortages of required
cash-flow and skilled labor to support their project commitments. The CPCU/PPIU/DPIU systematically
reviewed each situation, and then proceeded to challenge or renegotiate with the contractors to bring them
back in line with the implementation plan. Where there was a need to adjust the implementation plan to
better reflect reality, the changes were well managed by the CPCU, and agreed to by the Bank. As a result,
the project was able to meet all of its development objectives while staying within its budget. CPCU also
established computerized project scheduling and indicator tracking systems, M&E systems, and other
management procedures that served to enhance effectiveness of project implementation. In its support of
Bank supervision missions, the CPCU often prepared operational studies, project performance audits,
financial analyses, and architectural plans necessary to support the supervision process. The CPCU also
consistently provided advanced planning to improve Bank efficiency during its visits to remote project sites.


In preparation for the ICR, the CPCU coordinated the preparation of the Borrower version of the ICR and
insured that all implementing agencies and units submit their contribution on a timely basis. These detailed
inputs were then combined and submitted to the Bank as part of the Borrower's input to the ICR
preparation process. The ICR preparation team found this document to be comprehensive, accurate and
well written (see Annex 7). The ICR rating for Section 7.6 is satisfactory.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall the Borrower's performance was rated as satisfactory.




                                                    - 12 -

8. Lessons Learned

Key lessons learned from the project are:


Design

1.      In projects where there is a potential of procurement problems, it is important to have a high level
of project preparation and readiness at entry (Section 5.3);
2.      During times of financial crisis, or political change, projects should be designed with a view toward
maximum flexibility, and the potential for rapid restructuring as the need arises Section 7.1);
3.      There are advantages in cost effectiveness and efficiency when several similar projects are funded
concurrently, with similar PDOs and KPIs, and managed as a single program rather than as separate
projects (Section 7.2);
4.      Baseline data should always be collected, documented in the PAD, and agreed upon during project
preparation (Section 7.1); and
5.      Systematic monitoring and evaluation (M&E) is critical to the success of a project with widely
dispersed project activities and sites (Section 5.3).

Management
6.      The establishment of a strongly staffed, and well managed project implementation unit (PIU) must
be considered a key contributing factor to the successful implementation of any project (Sections 5.3 and
7.6); and
7.      Project personnel from provincial and district agencies should become more familiar with Bank
guidelines and documentation requirements. This increased understanding should prevent some conflicts
between Bank guidelines and local procurement and disbursement procedures (Section 5.2).

Mapping
8.      For SGP and other poverty-alleviation programs, Geographical targeting of services should be
done on the basis of poverty. Estimates should be made down to the village level. Mapping is an excellent
technique to support this process, but there should be a pre-commitment to update the "map" each year -
thereby overcoming the static nature of most poverty map schemes (Section 4.2, and Indonesia, Short
Renstra Education Finance Note (Annex 7);and
9.      School mapping can be useful to education agencies at all levels. For instance, school mapping
may be used to provide a better understanding of: (a) inequities in resource allocations between
geographical areas; (b) physical limitations to school access (i.e. lack of roads, infrastructure, services); (c)
imbalances in district or provincial education officer assignments for school oversight; (d) preferred
locations for new school establishment, based on needs; (e) preferred locations for school expansion to meet
increasing enrollment demand; and (f) geographic, economic, cultural, and social dimensions required in
monitoring and evaluation schemes, where there is a need to make comparisons between schools, districts
and provinces (Section 4.2, and Indonesia, Short Renstra Education Finance Note (Annex 7).

Implementation
10.     When a project has widely disbursed project sites, local administrators, coordinators and teachers
should be more fully briefed regarding the advantages of participating in the project as well as their
responsibilities (Section 5.2);
11.     When technical consultants (i.e., architects, structural engineers, electrical engineers, M&E
specialists, and quantity surveyors) are selected and contracted as individuals, rather than as teams
(organizations), by the Borrower, there is a strong possibility that they may not form a cohesive working



                                                     - 13 -

unit so necessary in large projects. This lack of cohesion may cause delays in construction, lack of
architectural control over the project, and a lack of articulation between various plans and specifications
(Sections 5.2, and 7.6) ;
12.      The use of contract teachers has proven to be a viable management option to address issues of
temporary teacher shortage and the need to introduce increased flexibility into the civil service (Section
4.5);
13.      The Bank should draw heavily on its international experience (with projects in other countries)
when gives advice regarding decentralization (Section 7.2); and
14.      Incentives for decentralization should be carefully thought through, decided upon, resourced and
made available, before community participation and the establishment of decentralized education programs
are begun (Sections 7.2 and 10.0).

Scholarship Grants Program (SGP)
15.      It is clear, during the financial crisis, that the dropout rate has been low in primary school and that
the transition to junior secondary school is the most important attrition point in the system, particularly for
the poor. This suggests that the program was most effective in its support of the critical transition
from primary to junior secondary education. This finding would suggest that: (a) there can be some
narrowly targeted scholarships for the poorest kids at the primary level, but the bulk of the program should
be more broadly focused on junior secondary school; (b) if scholarships are given to students starting in
primary school then some continuity across school levels must be assured (e.g. changing the SGP
school-level "entitlement" to an individual-level entitlement); (c) the pool of candidates for grade 7
scholarships has to be taken from children who complete primary school not from those who are already
enrolled in grade 7; and (d) as a result of the latter, selection of candidates should be done on the basis of
an application process (Section 4.2, and Indonesia, Short Renstra Education Finance Note (Annex 7).


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Borrower's comments are provided ini Annex 8 without editing other than simple formatting
required for inclusion into the document.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information

The following are additional notes to support statements made in the above sections:

Section 4.0 - Statistics quoted in this document were obtained from Government Monitoring Reports
(1998-2004),      August 2004, updated in November 2004, Bank Project Status Reports (PSR), and
requested data provided to the ICR team by key project managers (April 2004).

Section 4.5 ­ Policy Reform - This project is one of nine concurrent projects in basic education that
feature similar principles in their design. The Borrower is in full accord with these principles, and because
of this, the projects, as a whole, have significant leverage to create institutional development impact in the
sector.



                                                         - 14 -

Section 4.5 ­ Field surveys were conducted and documented by the project monitoring reports 2004.

Section 7.2 - Furthermore, the QAG assessment stated that incentives for decentralization should be
carefully thought through, decided upon, resourced and made available, before community participation
and the establishment of decentralized education programs are begun.




                                                   - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                     1
                  Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
Component 1.0 District Basic                     Note: Last PSR was Prepared on 12/20/2004
Education Improvement

Subcomponent 1.1 Primary Education
Quality
Outcome Indicator - About 75% of the             Of the 923 schools rehabilitated, about 38%   Same as in last PSR
rehabilitated schools will show an increase      have a greater than 10% increase in new
of at least 10% in new student registrations     student registrations. The remaining
without decreasing the enrollments of            schools have documented increases, but
private schools at the same village or in the    less than 10%
neighboring sub-district
Outcome Indicator ­ By the end of the            About 97% of the schools report an increase Same as in last PSR
project, at least 75% of the schools, that       in the use of teacher aids and active learner
receive Block Grants, will show an increase      methods
in the use of teaching aids or an increase in
the use of learner active methods
Outcome Indicator ­ By the end of the            About 93% of the schools have                 Same as in last PSR
project, at least 75% of the schools that        developed school plans that link needs and
received Block Grants, will produce school       required inputs
plans that clearly link needs and required
inputs
Outcome Indicator ­ By the end of the            94% of the schools have actively              Same as in last PSR
project, 90% of the schools will actively        involved their school's Block Grant Team in
involve their school Block Grant Team in the     the management of the school's block grant
management of the school's block grant
Outcome Indicator ­ By the end of the project About 85% of the schools have their              Same as in last PSR
about 90% of school committees in schools        committees actively involved in the
receiving DBL and Rehab funding will actively monitoring of program implementation
monitor program implementation
Subcomponent 1.2 Junior Secondary
Education Access and Quality
Outcome Indicator ­ By the end of project,       About 94% of the new schools are              Same as in last PSR
100% of the USB schools (97), will be            functioning with teachers, books, operational
functioning with teachers, books, operational budgets, and enrolled
budgets, and enrolled students                   students
Outcome Indicator- Junior Secondary              It is estimated that the 97 USB schools       Same as in last PSR
enrollment will increase in school districts     provide about 24,000 new school places.
without decreasing private school                Recent study suggests that neighborhood       It is estimated that more than 50,000
enrollments at the same or neighboring sub- private schools incurred about 10% decrease new student places have also been
districts                                        in enrollments since establishment of the new established by the Government using the
                                                 schools                                       community model of financing introduced by
                                                                                               the project
Component 2.0 Management Capacity                                                              Same as in last PSR
Development

Subcomponent 2.1 District and Provincial
Management Development
Outcome Indicator ­ By the end of the project All districts now show direct evidence of the    Same as in last PSR
90% of all district plans will show direct       use of annual mapping data in their plans
evidence of the use of annual school
mapping data
Outcome Indicator ­ By the end of the            About 100% of all districts have adopted at   Same as in last PSR
project, 60% of the project districts will adopt least three of the five models introduced by
at least three of the five education             the project
management models introduced by the
project.
Outcome Indicator ­ By the end of the project About 75% of the districts have reached a        Same as in last PSR
in all districts, district level staff will be   point of development where district staff are
responsible for the selection of project         able to select program participants and
recipients and actively monitoring program       actively monitor program implementation
implementation




                                                                     - 16 -

Note: The following indicators were designed
during project restructuring to assess the
level to which the project was able to mitigate
the effects of the economic crisis, in project
provinces, by maintaining primary and junior
secondary school enrollments, and their
transition from primary and junior secondary
school
Outcome Indicator- Net Enrollment Rate          Primary NERs for each of the five              Same as in last PSR
(NER) in each project district is maintained    school years were: 90%; 90%; 90%; 93%;
throughout program 1998-2003                    and 96%. Junior Secondary NERs were:
                                                57%;56%;59%;61; and 68%
Outcome Indicator- Transition rate from         Transition rates for each of the five          Same as in last PSR
primary to junior secondary in each project     school years were: no data; 60%; 76%; 61%;
does not decline over the life of the rogram    and 59%
(1998-2003)
Outcome Indicator ­ During each year of the The Government reports that no registered          Same as in last PSR
crisis relief program, 95% of schools that      school closed during the crisis period due to
receive DBO will remain open (1998-2003)        the inability to meet operational costs
Outcome Indicator ­ By the end of project,      697 school mergers recommended/                Same as in last PSR
50% of all school mergers which have been       planned; 79% have been completed
recommended in school consolidation plans
will be carried out


Output Indicators:
                                                                                    1
                Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Output Indicator ­ The project will finance     The project provided 1562 public schools       The project provided 1562 public
the provision of Quality Block Grants to                                                       school grants and 433 matching
schools (no target)                                                                            private school grants.
Output Indicator - The project will finance the The project financed the construction          Same as in last PSR
construction of about 35 (revised target, May   of 97 schools (about 277% of target)
2002) new schools
Output Indicator - 90% of USB schools will      94% have met all technical specifications for Same as in last PSR
meet technical specifications for completion    completion
by end of project
Output Indicator - The project will finance the The project financed the rehabilitation of 923 Same as in last PSR
rehabilitation existing schools (no target      schools
Output Indicator - Greater than 90% of all      About 95% have met the required                Same as in last PSR
rehabilitated schools will meet the required    specifications.
technical specifications for completion by the
end of the project
Output Indicator ­ The project will finance     There were 3084 teachers trained/              Same as in last PSR
the training and certification of 1278 (revised certified (about 241% of target).
target, May 2002) teachers required to
support the increase in school capacity and
quality enhancements (no target)
Output Indicator ­ At least 75% of all those    About 73% are teaching subjects in which       Same as in last PSR
participating in the teacher training/          they were trained.
certification program will complete their
training successfully and teach subjects in
which they were trained
Output Indicator ­ The project will finance     The project employed 1,160 contract            The project employed 3,227 (about
the employment of at least 2000 (revised        employees                                      327% of target) contract employees
target, May 2002) contract teachers
Output Indicator ­ At least 75% of all contract About 98% of head teachers surveyed            Same as in last PSR
teachers have a good performance evaluation indicate that they have given good
(as assessed by their head teacher)             performance evaluations to their contract
                                                teachers
Output Indicator ­ The project will train 156   data not available                             About 223 officers (about (142% of
education officers to support the                                                              revised target, May 2002) were
management and enhancement of education                                                        trained and assigned to key positions to




                                                                   - 17 -

quality (no target)              support the management and
                                 enhancement of education quality
                                 in West Java

1End of project




                       - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                           Estimate       Estimate       Appraisal
                       Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Improving basic education in the district                   100.80           30.56           30.32
Management capacity building in district and province        22.00             5.37           30.6
District Education Program                                                   42.51
Provincial support for District Education Program                              8.65
Central support for District Education Program                                 6.66
Central support for District Education Program                               30.60

Total Baseline Cost                                         122.80          124.35
 Price Contingencies                                          7.40
                          Total Project Costs               130.20          124.35
                  Total Financing Required                  130.20          124.35


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB            NCB                2        N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                            0.00            25.60        17.70          2.50        45.80
                                    (0.00)         (20.50)      (14.20)         (0.00)      (34.70)
2. Goods                            4.20            4.20          8.10          0.20        16.70
                                    (4.20)          (3.30)      (6.50)          (0.00)      (14.00)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         47.20                      47.20
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (36.40)           ()        (36.40)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         19.40          1.10        20.50
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (18.40)         (0.00)      (18.40)
   Total                            4.20            29.80        92.40          3.80        130.20
                                    (4.20)         (23.80)      (75.50)         (0.00)     (103.50)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB            NCB                2      N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                            0.00            0.00        39.96          12.27       52.23
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (36.37)         (0.00)      (36.37)
2. Goods                            0.00            0.00         3.16           0.00        3.16
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)       (1.95)         (0.00)      (1.95)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00        50.57           0.00       50.57
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (42.13)         (0.00)      (42.13)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00        18.40           0.00       18.40
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (18.40)         (0.00)      (18.40)
   Total


                                                 - 19 -

                                            0.00               0.00            112.09             12.27            124.36
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)           (98.85)            (0.00)           (98.85)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Improving basic education      79.08        22.10                    23.03         7.53                  29.1      34.1
in the district
Management capacity            18.82         2.80                     3.64         1.73                  19.3      61.8
building in district and
province
District Education                                                   33.45         9.06
Program
Provincial support for                                                3.18         5.47
District Education
Program
Central support for                                                   4.92         1.74
District Education
Program
Crisis Relief                                                        30.59         0.00
Total Cost                     97.90        24.90                                                         0.0      0.0
Unallocated                     5.60         1.80                                                         0.0      0.0
Total Project Cost             103.50       26.70                    98.82         25.53                 95.5      95.6




                                                           - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Economic costs and benefits were not estimated for this project.




                                                 - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year   Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/8/1997                  8    ED (3); OP (1); RD (1);          S               S
                                              PR (1); EC (1);AT (1);
              11/12/1997                 8    ED (3); OP (1); RD (1);          S               S
                                              PR (1); EC (1);AT (1);
              12/15/1997                 4    ED (1); EC (1) ; AT (1);         S               S
                                              OP (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              1/30/1998                  4    ED (1); EC (1) ; AT (1);         S               S
                                              OP (1)
              2/20/1998                  0    no mission required              S               S

 Supervision
              11/13/1998                 5    ED (1); EC (1); OP (1);          S               S
                                              DS (1); PR (1);
              12/23/1998                 5    ED (1); EC (1); OP (1);          S               S
                                              DS (1); PR (1);
              4/30/1999                  6    OP (1); DS (1); PR (1);          S               S
                                              EC (1); AT (1); ID (1)
              8/11/1999                  3    OP (1); AT (1); CE (1)           S               S
              11/13/1999                 5    OP (1); EC (1); PR (1);          S               S
                                              FM (1); CH (1)
              9/16/2000                 15    ED (4); OP (1); PR (2);          S               S
                                              DS (1); FM (1); OP (3);
                                              EC (1); UC (2)
              2/6/2001 (joint            4    ED (3); OP (1)                   S               S
              mission)
              5/11/2001 (joint           7    ED (1); OP (2); PD (1);          S               S
              mission)                        FM (1); PR (1); PM (1)
              7/6/2001 (joint            5    ED (1); OP (2); PD (1);          S               S
              mission)                        FM (1)
              11/23/2001 (joint          7    ED (1); OP (2); FM (1);          S               S
              mission)                        PR (1); PM (1); CO (1)
              6/14/2002 (joint           8    ED (1); OP (2); FM (1);          S               S
              mission)                        PR (1); SR (1); TT (1);
                                              PM (1)
              11/13/2002 (joint          6    ED (1); OP (1); FM (1);          S               S
              mission)                        ME (1); PR (1); UC (1)
              5/15/2003 (joint           8    ED (1); OP (2); PR (1);          S               S
              mission)                        FM (1); ME (1); PM (1);
                                               SR (1)
              6/10/2004 (joint          14    ED (2); OP (2); PR (1);          S               S
              mission)                        FM (2); CS (2); SM (3);
                                              CT (1); EM (1)
              12/23/2004 (joint         10    ED (1); OP (2); PR (1);          S               S



                                               - 22 -

               mission)                            FM (2); CS (1); ME (1);
                                                   SB (1); CN (1)


Specialist Skills:
AT=Architect; CE=Civil Engineer; CH=Computer Hardware; CN=Construction; CO=Costing; CS=Community
Construction; CT=Contract and Teacher Certification; DS=Disbursement; EC=Economist; ED=Educator;
FM=Financial Management; ID=Institutional Development; ME=Monitoring and Evaluation; OP=Operations;
PD=Project Design; PM=Project Management; PR=Procurement; RD=Regional Development; SB=School Block
Grant; SM=School-based Management; SR=School Rehabilitation; TT=Teacher Training; UC=Unspecified
Consultant;

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                        Actual/Latest Estimate
                                      No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                    N/A                          1,143
  Appraisal/Negotiation                         N/A
  Supervision                                   N/A                            495
  Total                                         N/A                          1,637




                                                   - 23 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Borrower's Implementation Completion Reports for Loan 4308-IND

Loan Agreement ­ Loan Number 4308-IND ­ West Java Basic Education Project, between Republic of
Indonesia and The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Washington, May 1, 1998.

Project Appraisal Document, (Report Number 17266-IND) ­ West Java Basic Education Project, The
World Bank, Washington, March 10, 1998.

Project Status Report Files for Loan 4308 ­ IND, The World Bank, Jakarta and Washington.

Project Communication Files (Aide Memoires and other formal communications) for Loan 4308-IND, The
World Bank, Jakarta and Washington.

E.M. Sweeting, Ph.D, Teacher Training Study for the Project Supervision Mission, Loan 4308-IND, The
World Bank, Jakarta, September 2000.

Vicente B. Paqueo, Indonesia, Short Renstra Education Finance Note, Working Paper, Human
Development Unit, East Asia and Pacific Region, The World Bank, Washington, April 4, 2005. (with
additional comments by Mr. Cristobal Ridao-Cano)




                                                 - 26 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Comments

A. Program Implementation

West Java Basic Education Project which has been implemented since 1998 has introduced new strategies
to develop education in Indonesia. Some activities have been developed in a comprehensive program to deal
with the education problems facing this country especially after the economic crisis. The aim of the
program is to improve quality education including educational access, quality of teaching and learning,
school management, and community participation in education.

The activities of the project include scholarship, school mapping, school renovation (rehabilitation), new
school building for junior secondary school, contract teachers, matching grant for private school, school
block grant, teacher certification, and fellowship programs. New strategies were introduced to
implementation the most activities of the project. Some advantages and disadvantages have been
experienced by both, government and Bank sides.

Scholarship program was to protect the students from drop-out as an impact of the crisis. There were
amount of students of primary, junior, and senior secondary education in West Java and Banten Provinces
got benefit from this program which could be described as the following:



                                      Description of Schools that the Students Received Scholarship

                      Primary School                   Secondary Junior School                   Secondary Senior School
     AY                             Scholarship                            Scholarship                            Scholarship
            Schools     Students    [Students]   Schools      Students      [Students]     Schools    Students     [Students]

    98/99   17,025      1,730,474    204,429      3,345       588,857        2,14,075       1,572     268,421       56,444

    99/00   24,049      4,438,269    283,374      4,446      1,581,507       276,570        2,106     860,522       73,664
    00/01   19,393      3,590,203    233,179      2,872      1,090,768       202,522        1,449     584,698       58,842

    01/02    9,324      1,819,880     88,918      2,384       779,402        100,693        1,213     477,593       28,683



Most of mentioned students that received scholarship have got benefit from the program. The mechanism
of allocation has directly from the center to the individual of students at school levels. All of these activities
conducted by the management that separated from BEP-I, named SIGP. As a result, the net ratio of
enrolment was remained stable, at least at these three levels.
School mapping, started from the first year of the project, has been conducted in all of West Java BEP-I
Districts, and used as the base of the plan of the project activities, such as in selection of school grants
allocation, school rehabilitation and new school construction building. Most of them has adopted the model
of the used of school mapping in the process of district education planning in accordance with the
decentralization of the government system. The model were quite good and effective to regularly monitor
and used in all of educational policy for all of district, province and central levels.

The program of rehabilitation conducted, at least to minimize the amount of the primary school buildings
that were in under-served group caused by the damaging of school buildings. The selection of them used the
school mapping and yearly up-dated results. The decided schools were selected by rank firstly, based on the
criteria such as total and/or hard damage levels, numbers of students, location (rural or remote area), etc.
During the project period, 1999 to 2004, the management of BEP-I had already good and excellent
finalized the rehabilitation of 923 units of primary schools distributed in 28 districts of West Java and
Banten Provinces. The primary schools were consisted of SD / Sekolah Dasar (about 75%) that managed



                                                      - 27 -

under the MONE, and MI / Madrasah Ibtidaiyah of MORA responsibilities. Both got grants for
rehabilitation from the project just by the fulfilled of the decided criteria. The rehabilitation of schools have
been done by community participation with the concept of transparency, effectively and efficiency. During
and after the project the model of it adopted by the local government in continuing the program of
remaining damage schools that need to be rehabilitated by the districts. They already used the school
mapping in process of planning and decision making, especially in district school rehabilitation program.

New school building for junior secondary school has been started in the second year of the project period.
There were 97 units of new secondary junior schools built in 21 of 28 districts of West Java and Banten
provinces of BEP-I region during FY 2000 to FY 2004. All of them have already used for school activities,
at least a 6 months after the developing process has been finished. This program was very helpful,
especially in problems solving of educational access of secondary junior school. Compared with the real
needs, the amount of the new school that built by BEP-I maybe was too small. But as a simulation, this
program has been evaluated as succeed in inspired the principles to take action and use the model of BEP-I
in developing the more new school building in the future. This has been proved by the built of 249 new
junior secondary schools in 2004, and also plan of much more again in 2005. The concept of BEP-I new
secondary junior school development has also gave the special meaning in create the solution of the
problems that caused by the crisis, and in developing the community remembered and spirit in basic
education.

School block grant as the one of BEP-I program has been conducted in relation with improvement of the
quality of basic education in the districts of West Java and Banten provinces. This program reached 1,562
that described as 1,016 primary schools (SD-MI) and 456 of Junior Secondary schools. By the program
that held in 3 (three) years continuously, schools received a block grant to be used in purchase the needs for
continue the school activities and to developed the school based management in each of them. This program
has also aimed to stimulate the local government to take a role in developing the school management based
on the concept that has been developed by the BEP-I school block grant which just given for around 3% of
schools population in West Java an Banten provinces. At the end of the project, some of the project
districts were informed that they adopted the model of it in distributing the local grant directly to the school.
They also supervised and monitored the program of the grant conducted by the school as is has done before
in the similar BEP-I program.




                                                      - 28 -

- 29 -

