FILE -COPY,.
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
Report No. p-1487a-ZA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR A
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
May 8, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, qucted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for ij;e
accuracy or completeness of the report.                        I



MEASJRES EQUIVALENT
1 Kilometer (la)           0.621 statute mile
FISCAL YEAR
January 1               December 31
TITLES AND ACRONYMS
ADB     - African Development Bank
CIF     - Cost, Insurance, and Freight
DEL     - Direct Exchange Line
GDP     - Gross Domestic Product
Gentex - Telegraph exchange switching system
used by public telegraph service
GNP     - Gross National Product
GPO     - General Post Office of Zambia
ITU     - International Telecommunications Union
PABX    - Private Automatic Branch Exchange
PTC     - Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
SIDA    - Swedish International Development Authority
SNDP    - Second National Development Plan of Zambia
SSB     - Single Sideband Radio System
SWEDTEL - Swedish Telecommunication Consulting, AB
Telex   - Teleprinter Exchange Service
UHE     - Ultra High Frequency Radio (300 - 3,000 MHz)
UNDP    - United Nations Development Programme
VHF     - Very High Frequency Radio (30 - 300 MHz)



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR A TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (PTC) with the guarantee of the
Republic of Zambia for the equivalent of US$32.0 million, to help finance
a project for the extension and improvement of the country's local, long dis-
tance and international telecommunications facilities. The loan would have a
term of twenty years including four years of grace, with interest at 8.5
percent per annum. Parallel financing of approximately US$5.2 million equiva-
lent from the African Development Bank and US$2.5 million equivalent from
the Swedish International Development Authority would be applied to specific
items of the proposed project (para. 36).
PART I: THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report on Zambia (Report No. 4-ZA) was issued on
December 26, 1972. An updating mission visited Zambia in October/November
1973. A basic economic mission will visit the country in June/July 1975. The
most recent economic data are summarized in Annex I.
3.        With its large mineral reserves and wide area of land suitable for
crops and livestock, Zambia has the potential for rapid and sustained
development. Over the past decade, real gross domestic product has grown at
4% per annum despite levels of investment that have averaged more than 25%
of real GDP. However, the annual growth rate during the five years ending in
1969 (5.7%) was considerably higher than the rate since then (2.2%). The
economy is characterized by a pronounced dualism between a large modern sector
dominated by copper mining and a rural subsistence sector. The national
average per capita real income of US$380 (1972) disguises a large differential
in incomes between the urban and rural sectors which has led to rapid migration
to towns. The rate of unemployment in urban areas has been rising in recent years.
4.        The modern sector of the economy continues to be dominated by
copper mining which contributes about 40% of GDP and over 90% of the value
of exports, shares which have not changed significantly during the past
decade. The dominance of copper means that fluctuations in world copper
prices have a large impact on the balance of payments as well as on the



- 2 -
whole economy. Since 1969, when the Government obtained a majority interest
in the two major mining companies, it has attempted to promote the growth of
copper production through tax incentives and other measures. The Second
National Development Plan 1972-76 (SNDP) projected that copper production
would rise from 700 to 900 thousand tons over the five year period. However,
to date production has not increased due to (a) the failure of a major mine,
flooded in 1970, to regain its former level of production; (b) the 1973
border closure with Rhodesia which caused a major rerouting of imports and
hence delays in obtaining equipment and parts; and (c) a decline in productivity
due to poorer ore grades, declining accessibility of deposits, and the policy
of Zambianization of staff which has somewhat reduced the quality of skilled
manpower.
5.        Since 1965, manufacturing output has expanded at a    rate of 13%
per annum and its share in GDP (13.2% in 1974) now exceeds that of agriculture
(10.5%). In 1965, the Government announced its intention to foster industrial
development by direct state intervention and control; today the Government-
owned Industrial Development Corporation (INDECO) holds a majority interest
in virtually all major manufacturing industries. Private enterprise is only
involved in the ownership of small concerns or a minority interest in large
concerns, often combined with management contracts. The expansion of output
in manufacturing has consisted mostly of import substitution for consumer
goods behind the protection of tariffs and quota restrictions; further
expansion along these lines is limited by the small size of the market. Since
the production of manufactured goods in Zambia is relatively capital-intensive,
even the rapid growth of output recorded has not provided sufficient employment
opportunities for the growing urban labor force.
6.        The performance of the agricultural sector over the past decade has
been disappointing. Real output has grown only at about 2.0% per annum
and the import bill for agricultural products has risen steadily. The sector
consists of medium- and large-scale commercial farmers who produce about 60%
of the value of marketed output and small-scale subsistence farmers. Commercial
farmers (some 600 of whom are expatriates) are favored by their location or
the most fertile soils mainly along the line-of-rail and by freehold possession
of their land. Subsistence farmers are scattered over the remainder of the
country on land of varying quality held under customary tribal law.
7.        The broad economic and social goals of Zambia's two national
development plans may be summarized as follows: (a) raising the general level
of welfare; (b) diversifying the economy to make it less dependent on copper;
(c) raising the level of education and developing a wide range of technical
and managerial skills; and (d) narrowing the gap between urban and rural
incomes. During the years since Independence, Zambia's economic development
has been greatly influenced by external events which altered the pattern of
priorities from those set out in the plans and placed a great strain on its
limited administrative capacity. Southern Rhodesia's unilateral declaration



of independence in 1965 and the subsequent border closure in 1973 forced
Zambia to undertake inves e ent programs to reorient trade routes away from
the south and make the country less dependent upon vital imports; this invest-
ment program involved an oil pipeline, road, and railway to the north as well
as the development of local coal and electricity resources.
8.        Zambia has made a major effort to develop its education system.    The
shortage of skilled and experienced manpower has been a continuing critical
constraint on Zambian development. In 1964, there were only about 100 citizens
with university degrees and 1,000 with secondary school level certificates.
Since then remarkable progress has been achieved in expanding education at
all levels.  The primary school enrollment ratio has been raised from 42% in
1960 to 85% in 1970. There are now over 800 Zambian university graduates and
the annual output froni secondary schools has risen to over 6,000. Despite
the recent emphasis on vocational and technical training, skilled manpower
remains an important constraint to development.
9.        The objective of reducing the urban-rural gap has proven far less
tractable, however. The rapid rise in African wages in the first five years
following Independence virtually eliminated pay differentials between
Africans and expatriates for comparable jobs in urban areas. In addition,
the prices of most agricultural products set by Government marketing boards
were not allowed to rise as rapidly as the prices of manufactured goods. To
curb the growing gap, the Government has adopted an incomes policy to limit
wage increases to productivity gains while allowing some differentiation of
Zambian and expatriate salaries by allowing the payment of "inducement
allowances " to essential expatriates. Recently, wages have risen less rapidly
than in the 1960s although increases appear still in excess of productivity
gains. The Government has also raised the prices of some agricultural commod-
ities (most notably, the price of maize), but more changes are necessary to
raise farm incomes and give farmers a greater incentive to expand production.
10.       The Government has not as yet devised a strategy which would increase
the welfare of the rural poor by raising their productivity while increasing
production to stem the rising import bill for agricultural products. A recent
Bank Agricultural and Rural Sector Mission may provide the Zambian Government
with some basis for formulating a long-run development strategy. The major
elements that have been identified in that strategy are: (a) an improved
allocation of Government infrastructure investment and provision of supporting
services to rural growth centers chosen on the basis of high land potential,
access to transportation, and population density; (b) greater allocation of
skilled manpower to the planning and execution of rural development projects
and the decentralization of these functions to the lowest feasible level
consistent with the existing manpower constraint; (c) an improvement in the
efficiency of Government marketing organizations; and (d) an improvement in
the level and structure of agricultural producer prices bringing them more in
line with the opportunities that Zambia faces in world trade and with regional
comparative advantage.



- 4 -
11.       Zambia's SNDP, which targeted small increases in Government capital
formation over the levels in the First Plan, is now largely of historical
interest. Two years of low copper prices and the 1973 border closure led to
sharp reductions in Government capital expenditures below planned levels
in 1972 and 1973; despite high copper prices, these capital expenditures
increased only modestly in 1974, reportedly due to shortages of building
materials and bottlenecks in the construction industry which had been depressed
for several years because of low Government capital expenditures. In real
terms, Government capital expenditures during the first three years were only
75% of the Plan targets. In view of Zambia's current tight financial situation,
it is highly unlikely that capital expenditures during the final two years of
the Plan will allow overall Plan targets to be reached.
12.       Since 1970, Zambia's economic fortunes have been in sharp contrast
with those of the previous period. Through 1969, increases in copper prices
put Zambia in a strong financial position. The Government's budget and the
balance of payments produced growing surpluses. National savings were more
than adequate to finance capital formation while foreign reserves were
accumulated. At the same time, Government current expenditures were allowed
to grow rapidly to cover rising wages and public employment, subsidies of
agricultural inputs and commodities (notably maize and milk), and defense
expenditures without endangering the Government's development program. The
stagnation of agricultural production did not create a problem because foreign
exchange earnings were sufficient to pay for food imports. A number of factors
were involved in the change in Zambia's economic climate since 1970: (a) world
inflation combined at times with low copper prices has led to a deterioration
in Zambia's terms of trade from the levels of the late sixties, and (b) since
1969, legal and illegal capital flight have been increasing probably in response
to increased Government intervention in manufacturing and commerical trade.
13.       The Government has taken a number of measures to mitigate the
adverse developments of the past few years. On the budget side, it has
attempted to diversify its tax base away from dependence on copper by
restructuring the personal income tax, introducing new excise taxes, and
raising the rates on most taxes. However, except in 1972, increases in
Government current expenditures have not been curbed. Consequently, there
were only small recurrent surpluses in 1971 and 1973 and a small deficit in 1]972;
only in 1974 (a year of relatively high average copper prices) was the
recurrent surplus large enough to finance all of Government capital expenditures.
On the balance of payments side, the Government has banned the imports of
certain goods and subjected others to quota restrictions, increased customs
duties, and levied a temporary surcharge on all dutiable goods while attempting
to control capital flight by restricting remittances. Nonetheless, Zambia's
balance of payments was in deficit in 1971-73 and showed only a modest surplus
of US$47 million in 1974.



- 5-
14.       Zambia has been hardhit by the current crisis in the world economny.
The copper price fell from an April 1974 peak of US$1.37/lb. to US$0.58 in
December. In November, the CIPEC countries (Zambia, Zaire, Peru, and Chile)
agreed to cut back copper exports by 10% of the amount exported from June
through November and more recently to cut production by 5%; at this date,
it is too early to determine the long-run effect of these measures on
copper prices. During 1974, the prices of imported goods increased by 22%
while a loosening of import quotas led to a 17% rise in import volume. At
the same time, the value of oil imports (excluding lubricants) tripled over
the previous year to US$71 million. As a result, foreign exchange reserves
fell from a peak level equivalent to four monch's imports (at the 1974 level)
in June to the equivalent of two month's imports last January. In 1975, real
GDP is expected to grow at a 4% rate assuming normal weather conditions and
some reduction in the current congestion in the ports of Lobito and Dar es
Salaam. Domestic expenditure is expected to grow rapidly due to wage increases
in the public and private sectors and increases in Government current
and capital expenditures. The prospect of rising domestic demand plus a
forecast for copper prices 27% below their 1974 average led the Zambian
authorities in January 1975 to restrict import licenses in order to stem the
deterioration in the balance of payments. Even if this measure is successful
in bringing about the 14% decline in import volume the authorities desire,
a large gap in the balance of payments will remain which will have to be
financed by increased foreign borrowing since the level of foreign exchange
reserves is already at an indispensable minimum. The Government has indicated
that it might wish to use the 1975 IMF Oil Facility but no formal steps have
yet been taken.
15.       Over the past two years, the Government has successfully mobilized
foreign assistance for its public sector investment program. At the same
time, it has stepped up its borrowing from commercial sources. Because of
its limited borrowing in the past, Zambia's debt service obligations are
relatively low (4.3% of exports of goods and non-factor services in 1974).
Thus, there is considerable scope for further borrowing abroad on conventional
terms. In real terms, GDP is expected to grow at a rate of about 4% a year
over the next decade (3% in the mining sector and 5 to 6% in the rest of
the economy). Such a growth rate would lead to an increase in imports of
4.5 to 5% a year in real terms. Exports (mostly copper) are not expected
to grow faster than 3% in real terms but, from 1975 on, copper prices are
expected to increase more rapidly than international prices generally. In
these circumstances, Zambia's foreign borrowing will have to amount to some
US$350 million a year over the next decade, in order to cover the expected
current deficits on the balance of payments and to provide for a reasonable
build-up of foreign reserves. If two-thirds of the required borrowing is on
commercial terms (10% interest per annum repayable over ten years) and the
remainder on IBRD terms, Zambia's debt service obligations are not likely to
exceed 15% of export earnings by 1985.



- 6 -
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
16.       The Bank has made seventeen loans in Zambia and IFC has two invest-
ments there. Four loans were made for railways and electric power before
Zambia became independent and are guaranteed by the UK. Since Independence,
four loans have been made for agricultural development, three for education,
two for highways, two for power, one for program assistance, and one for urban
development. Total lending to date has been about US$400 million (net of can-
cellations), of which US$241 million is for electric power, US$47 million
for transportation, US$56 million for education, US$25 million for agricul-
ture, and US$20 million for urban development. Eight loans are fully dis-
bursed, one has been cancelled (No. 627-ZA), and the first loan made in 1953
(No. 74-RN) was repaid in full in February 1972. IFC made its first investment
in Zambia in February 1972, providing US$1.1 million for expansion of a shoe
manufacturing company. A second IFC investment in the same company, totalling
US$1.2 million, was made in June 1973. In 1974, the Bank's share in Zambia's
total debt (disbursed and undisbursed) was 32 percent, while the Bank's share
in Zambia's total debt service payments was 20 percent. Present projections
indicate that these percentages will be about the same in 1985. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as of March 31,
1975, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
17.       Progress on Bank operations in Zambia has been adversely affected
by the difficulties Zambia has faced over the past decade. The Unilateral
Declaration of Independence in Southern Rhodesia in 1965 led Zambia to sever
her close economic ties with Southern Rhodesia at a considerable cost, dis-
rupting the development program. Shortage of skilled manpower has interfered
with progress on some projects, while recent cost escalations have caused dif-
ficulties on others, especially the Kariba North Project. Finally, the sharp
fall in copper prices in 1971 and 1972 forced the Government to rephase capi-
tal expenditures on several programs; this affected the Bank's first education
project. The Zambia-Rhodesia border closure in January 1973 created an addi-
tional financial burden, but has not caused significant delays to Bank-financed
projects. Substantial assistance was provided by various bilateral sources
to Zambia during this emergency. To help maintain Zambia's development effort
in the face of these financial problems, the Bank made a US$30 million program
loan in June 1973. However, the unexpected improvement in Zambia's financial
position during the second half of 1973 and the first quarter of 1974, caused
primarily by an increase in copper prices, diminished the need for part of
this loan. In March 1974, after discussions initiated by the Bank, the Govern-
ment requested the cancellation of US$17.5 million of the loan.
18.       We propose to continue assisting Zambia in achieving her develop-
ment objectives as discussed in paragraph 7. To ensure that our lending
program is focussed on the priorities for development, we have undertaken
several sector studies, and are planning further missions. Recent missions



7-
have studied urbanization, rural-urban migration, and water supplies and
sewerage. In addition, a rural sector mission, which visited Zambia in
September and in November 1974, has studied rural development and the problems
of rural poverty and income distribution. The mission's report is scheduled
to be discussed with the Government in mid-1975. A basic economic mission,
scheduled for May/June 1975, will study in particular the industrial and
mining sectors and manpower planning in its widest aspects. Through these
missions we also hope to provide the Government with assistance in the pre-
paration of the Third National Development Plan (1977-81).
19.       In harmony with Zambia's development plans, we propose to continue
our participation in particular sectors and institutions (e.g. power, tele-
communications and urbanization) and to assist Zambia in breaking some of her
main development constraints (e.g. in agriculture, manpower development, and
transport). In line with these objectives, in July 1976, the Bank made one
loan for an urban project and one for power development. The former is assist-
ing the Government in the upgrading of squatter settlements and in the provision
of serviced sites for self-help housing in Lusaka and has been designed to
help combat urban problems caused by the rapid drift of large segments of the
population to the towns. The other loan provided supplemental financing for
the Kariba North (hydroelectric) project for which the Bank has previously
made a loan of $40 million in FY 1970 to help meet the heavy cost overruns
experienced during construction of the project. The project presently being
proposed for telecommunications will be a major step towards meeting the need
for improving and extending the country's communications facilities.
20.       In the industrial sector, a project was appraised in February 1975
that will involve assistance to the recently formed Development Bank of
Zambia, which provides medium and long-term financing for industrial, tourism,
transport and large corporate agriculture projects. Our involvement in Zambia's
power sector will be continued with a project presently being prepared that
will comprise the construction of the third stage of the Kafue River hydro-
electric scheme. A continuation of our efforts to assist the Government
to meet the pressing needs of the urban poor should take shape in the near
future through a second squatter upgrading and site and services project in
cities other than Lusaka. The project is now being identified in the context
of a dialogue between the Government and the Bank on the sector priorities
and needs highlighted in the report of our urban sector survey mission. In
the agriculture sector, a second forestry project is in the preparation stage.
The project will help to finance the second phase of the Government's affores-
tation program to provide raw materials for wood processing industries in
Zambia. Two other projects in this sector - a mixed farming project and an
intensive development zone project - were fully prepared and appraised but
were withdrawn by the Government because of its own'doubts as to its capacity
to implement them effectively. The Government is presently re-examining its
strategy for rural development and in this regard, the forthcoming report of
our recent rural sector survey mission is expected to be of assistance. We
expect that the report will serve as a focus for discussions between the
Government and the Bank on the needs of the sector, and on the Government's
plans for organizing its support for the sector. It is hoped that these
discussions will lead to the identification of Bank projects directed towards
simall farmers.



- 8 -
21.       Further Bank involvement is also foreseen in the education sector.
Previous Bank loans have provided substantial assistance to Zambia in achiev-
ing the tremendous advances made in increasing the number of skilled Zambian
graduates. To determine future strategies, the Government is preparing an
education sector plan. Upon its completion, we expect to review with the
Government the scope for further Bank assistance in this sector. In other
sectors, projects are being planned for roads, possibly emphasizing road
maintenance and staff training as well as construction, and water supply. The
latter is expected to focus on the development of water supply systems in
provincial towns.
PART III - TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
22.       The Borrower, the Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (PTC),
a statutory corporation with responsibility for all aspects of public telecom-
munications and postal services in Zambia, was established in only recently. It
succeeds the General Post Office (GPO), a department of the Ministry of Power,
Transport and Works, which had been set up to provide both public telecommu-
nications services and postal services, but did not have the requisite control
over all activities necessary to enable it to function like a commercial enter-
prise. While the GPO was responsible for the day-to-day operation of the
telecommunication service and the execution of works, the Ministry retained
the planning and partly the engineering functions through a planning unit
provided by Swedish consultants (SWEDTEL). The GPO was also subject to the
financial and administrative regulations of the civil service, and the detailed
planning, engineering, execution, and supervision of its building works were
entrusted to various Government departments. The Government, aware that these
arrangements did not provide the autonomy necessary for the GPO to function
properlv, converted it into a statutory corporation. The new corporation will
separate adequately the postal and telecommunications services with respect to
investment, finance, and accounts (refer para. 30), and has the necessary
control over all activities required to enable it to function as a commercial
enterprise. The Government has retained only the usual powers, which include
approval of tariffs, budgets, and development plans.
23.       As of January 1974, the total number of telephone stations 1/having
access to the public telephone transmission network operated by the PTC
comprised 43,000 stations connected to exchanges operated by the PTC and
16,000 stations connected to privately-owned and operated exchanges -- a total
of 59,000. About 2,200 of the private telephone stations are connected to
exchanges operated by mining companies. Including private stations, the
telephone density in Zambia is about 1.3 telephones per 100 population
which is relatively high in comparison with other countries in Africa,
but which is well below Zambia's requirements as indicated by the
existence of a large waiting list for telephone connections (para. 25).
Apart from the Borrower, the Ministry of Information, National Guidance and
Culture, with its affiliated broadcasting service, and the Civil Aviation,
Railways, Police and Defense services have specialized telecommunication
networks for their own purposes. The Zambia Broadcasting Service operates
1/   One or more telephone stations may be connected to a direct exchange
line.



broadcast and television stations, but leases the interconnecting circuits
from the Borrowc. The Borrower is currently responsible for allocation of
radio frequencies, controlling sites of radio stations and licensing of all
private telecommunication facilities.
24.       As of January 1975, the PTC's network consisted of 47 local tele-
phone exchanges of which 29 were automatic and the remainder manual. The
total installed capacity of these exchange As about 35,500 lines (34,700
automatic and 800 manual), and their fill -   is an acceptable 75 percent
on average. The long distance telecommunications network consists of a
backbone microwave system connecting the Copperbelt Province and Lusaka that
serves about 90 percent of all telephone subscribers in the country, and also
VHF/UiF radio systems and open-wire lines. The principal towns along the
line-of-rail through the Copperbelt, Central, and Southern Provinces are
served by automatic trunk switching exchanges in Lusaka, Kitwe, Ndola, and
Livingstone. Telegraph service is available in about 70 towns and telex
service is presently provided to about 400 subscribers by means of exchanges
in Lusaka, Kitwe, and Ndola. International telegraph and telephone services
to overseas destinations are facilitated by an earth satellite station,
commissioned in late 1974, while services to Nairobi and Dar es Salaam are
by HF radio, and to Malawi and Rhodesia by land-line carrier.
25.       In recent years the pace of domestic telecommunications develop-
ment in Zambia has fallen far behind that of general economic development.
Consequently, the Borrower's existing exchanges, long distance network, and
telegraph service are inadequate in both quality and quantity to meet Zambia's
development needs. The local telephone service is poor because existing
facilities are overloaded and in many cases old and unreliable. Similar
problems exist with the long distance network and telegraph service. Both
telex and international services, however, are reasonably satisfactory apart
from shortages of facilities. As of January 1974, there was a waiting list
of 8,400 applicants for local telephone service, about 32 percent of the
direct exchange lines in service (25,900). In addition, there is a latent
demand in both the areas currently served and the areas not yet served that
is estimated at about 3,000. Total demand is estimated at 37,000 lines at
the beginning of 1974 and is conservatively forecast to increase at 9 percent
per annum through 1980 to about 68,000 lines. Demand for long distance ser-
vice is also expected to increase annually through 1980 by about 15 percent.
As of January 1974, the demand for telex connections stood at 504, including
a waiting list of 100 applicants, and is expected to grow at nearly 10 percent
per annum in the coming years leading to a demand of about 1,000 at the end
of 1980. Demand for international telephone and telex service is forecast to
grow annually at 25 percent and 19 percent respectively over the project period
(1975-1980), partly as a result of better quality service to be provided by the
new international and long distance facilities now planned.
2/ Percentage of installed capacity of a telephone exchange actually in service.
Generally this percentage ranges between 70 and 80 percent in national net-
works since there must be some spare capacity for immediate requirements.



- 10 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
26.       A report entitled "Zambia; Appraisal of a Telecommunications Project"
No. 729a-FA dated April 14, 1975, is being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.   A loan and project summary is provided as Annex III.
27.       In 1972, the Government commenced discussions with the Bank regard-
ing assistance to the telecommunications sector and a project pre-appraisal
mission visited Zambia in December 1972. The project was appraised in the
field in November and December 1973 and negotiations were held in two stages -
in October 1974 and March 1975 - as the Government wished to consider certain
issues. The Zambian delegation was led by Mr. L. J. Mwananshiku, Permanent
Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Planning, and Mr. P. Siwo, Permanent
Secretary, Ministry of Power, Transport and Works.
The Borrower
28.       The organizational structure of the PTC is along the normal lines
for an entity operating both postal and telecommunication facilities. The
headquarters is presently divided into five divisions: Telecommunications,
Posts, Finance and Accounts, Personnel and Administration, and Training - the
last three divisions dealing with both postal and telecommunications services.
29.       PTC's staff employed for telecommunications activities totals about
1,600, giving a reasonable staff ratio of about 35 per 1,000 telephones installed.
Both the Director of Telecommunications and the Director of Finance are well
experienced and qualified. Senior engineering and financial staff also are
generally well qualified, experienced, and capable of managing present and
prospective operations. However, most of the senior executives and technical
staff in the telecommunications division are expatriates (about 200). The
policy of the Government is to Zambianize posts filled by expatriates as soon as
qualified and competent nationals are available. The Postmaster-General is a
Zambian and a further step towards Zambianization has been taken recently at
the management level with the appointment of a Zambian to an Assistant Director's
post. In the past,recruitment of skilled Zambians from the University of Zambia
and the Zambian Institute of Technology has been slight but is expected to
increase in the future with the growing number of graduates. A new modular
and job-oriented training system, recently adopted by the Borrower's training
school at Ndola, should make it possible to train enough skilled technical
staff to meet future requirements. Recruitment of lower grade staff has
already improved considerably with the increased number of secondary school
graduates. To determine its manpower and training requirements more closely
for the next five to six years, the Borrower is undertaking a study of its
needs. The study is scheduled to be completed by December 31, 1975. The
Borrower will discuss the results of the study with the Bank before implement-
ing its recommendations.



- 11 -
30.       The PTC's accounting system, which it inherited from the GPO and
which is based on the accrual concept, presently has a number of deficiencies
in that: (i) it does not provide for separate accounts of the postal and
telecommunications operations which are necessary to assess the financial
performance of each service and which are required under the legislation
establishing the Corporation; (ii) it lacks a work order system, which is
required to improve the efficiency of cost control and manpower planning,
and (iii) it lacks an effective budgetary control system. Since the PTC
does not have the necessary staff to overcome these deficiencies, it has
retained financial/accounting consultants to make recommendations for a new ac-
counting system, and to assist in its implementation. The consultants will
also review the billing system which is presently satisfactory but may need
some modifications with the expected growth in volume of services over the
next five years. It has been agreed that the Borrower will take all necessary
steps to ensure that the study is completed by September 1975 and that those
recommendations of the consultants that are mutually acceptable to the
Borrower and the Bank will be implemented according to an agreed time-
schedule (Section 5.06, Loan Agreement). It has also been agreed that, begin-
ning with the accounts for FY1975, annual audits will be performed by an inde-
pendent auditor acceptable to the Bank and that the requisite reports will be
submitted to the Bank within eight months after the close of each fiscal year
(Section 5.02, Loan Agreement).
31.       Past financial performance of the posts and telecommunications entity
as a whole and of its telecommunications operations separately has been satis-
factory with estimated rates of return in 1971 of 10 percent and 20 percent
respectively, and in 1972 of 11 and 17 percent respectively. The postal
service, however, is being operated at a loss and in the past the surplus
from telecommunications operations has been used to cover postal deficits.
As this does not promote operational and developmental efficiency or good
financial management, the two services need to be financially separate and
transfers of funds should only be made after the implications have been
critically analyzed. Assurances have been obtained that telecommunications
funds will be used by the Borrower for other purposes only when these funds
are not needed for telecommunications operations, debt service and investment
requirements (Section 5.08, Loan Agreement). Moreover, in the event of deficits
arising in other activities carried out by the Borrower, the Guarantor has
agreed to take steps satisfactory to the Bank to cover these deficits (Section
2.04, Guarantee Agreement).
Project Description and Costs
32.       The proposed loan, the Bank's first for telecommunications in
Zambia, would assist in financing part of the Borrower's telecommunications
development program to be implemented over the period 1975-1980. The
program aims at meeting most of the demand for additional telecommunications
service, removing the present congestion of the network and improving the
quality of service, extending higher quality service to rural centers, and
providing improved international telecommunications links. The facilities
to be provided under the program are based on the use of common control
switching equipment for telephone exchanges and microwave links for the long
distance network. This will provide for the least cost system development.



- 12 -
33.       The program consists of both ongoing works and the proposed project.
Under the ongoing works, 19 new cross-bar exchanges are expected to be commis-
sioned in 1976-1977 that will replace old lines and add an additional 13,000
lines; the Lusaka cable network is to be improved and expanded by the end of
1975; and the telex network is being expanded and modernized through the
provision of a new 800 line electronic exchange expected to be commissioned
in early 1976. The proposed project consists of the new works to be imple-
mented during the period 1975-1980 and comprises the following main items:
(i) installation of local exchange equipment for about 31,000 lines
in 60 towns throughout Zambia's eight provinces, of which
7,900 would replace worn out equipment, and about 23,100
lines would be a net addition;
(ii) expansion of the cable networks in 79 towns to provide about
31,000 connections; and provision of PABX's (including a 1,000-
line PABX in Lusaka for the Government) and subscriber apparatus;
(iii) expansion of the long distance network including new microwave
links between Lusaka, Kasama and Nakonde, on the Tanzanian
border, between Lusaka, Chipata, and Malawi, and between
Livingstone and Mongu; construction of about 2,500 km of VHF/UHF
radio links; and addition of multiplex equipment on existing and
new routes to provide about 2,200 additional long distance
circuits;
(iv)  extension of gentex service-/to about 25 additional localities
which are at present served by means of point-to-point tele-
graph circuits; and
(v) installation of an international switching center in Lusaka.
34.       The cost of the program, which includes the preliminary expenditure
for the preparation of the subsequent program of expansion to commence in
1981, is estimated to be about US$109 (K 70) million equivalent, including a
foreign exchange component of US$69 million equivalent. The estimated total
cost of the project is about US$78 (K 50) million equivalent, including a
foreign exchange component of US$52 million, or 67 percent of total costs.
The estimates are based on the PTC's recent experience with respect to the
ongoing works and have been updated to reflect conditions at the beginning of
1975. The estimates do not include any customs duties or import taxes on
telecommunication equipment as this equipment is at present exempt from such
charges. Provisions for expected price increases represent 24 percent of the
project's foreign costs and 30 percent of the project's local costs (both before
contingencies). Physical contingencies represent 4 percent of the project's
total cost (before contingencies) and are included to cover a possible growth
of the long distance traffic at a faster rate than projected.
3/ Telegraph exchange switching system used by public telegraph service.



- 13 -
Project Execution
35.       The planning, detailed engineering, and preparation and evaluation
of bids will be carried out by the Borrower with the assistance of telecommu-
nications consultants (Section 3.02(a), Loan Agreement). The switching equip-
ment and the main trunk bearers will be installed by the suppliers while the
expansion of the cable networks in the main centers will be executed up to
1976 by contractors with the assistance of local staff. After 1976, these and
other works included in the project will be installed by the Borrower. However,
the Borrower may need assistance for the supervision of the installation and
commissioning of the switching equipment. Assurances have been obtained that,
should assistance be necessary, the Borrower would contract the services of
suitable consultants (Section 3.02(b), Loan Agreement).
Financing Plan
36.       The proposed Bank loan of US$32.0 million equivalent represents
about 41 percent of the total project costs, and would be used to finance
about 61 percent of the foreign exchange costs of the project. The loan
would be used for financing all items in the project referred to in para. 33
with the main exceptions of:
(i)  the microwave link between Lusaka, Kasama, and the Tanzanian
border including various spurs of this link (estimated cost
US$8.6 million equivalent including a foreign component of
US$5.2 million), being financed with a 15-year loan of $5.2 million
equivalent at 7 percent interest from the African Development Bank
(ADB) which was made available by agreement of November 8, 1974
(Recital D and Section 7.01(a), Loan Agreement));
(ii) the domestic trunk and international switchina eauiDment
(estimated cost US$3.7 million equivalent) to be financed
with a grant of $2.5 million equivalent from the Swedish
International Development Authority (SIDA) which was made
available by agreement of April 12, 1974 (Recital E and
Section 7.01(b), Loan Agreement);
(iii) a 5,000 line extension of the Ridgeway exchange in Lusaka
(estimated cost US$1.3 million equivalent) to be financed
with assistance from the Guarantor (Recital F and Section
7.01(d), Loan Agreement); and
(iv) the 1975-76 expansion of cable networks in the Copperbelt
towns (estimated cost US$4.8 million equivalent) under a
turnkey contract, also to be financed with assistance from
the Guarantor (Recital F and Section 7.01(d), Loan Agreement).



- 14 -
37.       The financing plan for the Borrower's telecommunications development
program, including the proposed project, to be implemented over the period
1975-1980 is as follows:
K        US$
Million  Million      %
USES
Ongoing Work                                    10.0     15.6      14
Proposed Project                                50.1     78.2      72
Future Project                                   9.8     15.3      14
Total Uses                                69.9     109.1     100
SOURCES
Internal
From Operations                                 41.5     64.7      59
Less:  Debt Service & Other                     20.5     32.0      29
Net from Operations                             21.0     32.7      30
Decrease in working capital                      1.9      3.0       3
Subtotal                                   22.9     35.7      33
Grants and Borrowings
Proposed IBRD                                   20.5     32.0      29
ADB                                              3.3      5.2       5
SIDA                                             1.6      2.5       2
Government                                      17.0     26.5      24
Future Borrowing(for works
to be completed after 1980)                    4.6      7.2       7
Subtotal                                  47.0      73.4      67
Total Sources                             69.9     109.1     100
Financial Position of Telecommunications Operations
38.       Through 1980, the earnings of the Borrower's telecommunications
operations are forecast to increase by an average of 13 percent per annum
while expenses are forecast to increase at 18 percent per annum. The operating
ratio would correspondingly decrease from a high of 83 percent in 1975 to 74
percent in 1980. As a result of the increase in assets from the development
program, the rate of return on telecommunications operations is projected to
decline from 12 percent in 1974 to 9 percent in 1975 and then increase to



- 15 -
about 11 percent in 1976, remaining steady thereafter through 1980 (refer
para. 40). The debt/equity ratio is forecast to rise from 55 percent in 1975
to 72 percent in 1980 while debt service coverage is expected to decline from
2.5/1 to 2.1/1 during the same period.
39.       The Borrower's telecommunications operations will be adequately in-
sulated financially by assurances obtained from the Borrower on transfers of
funds between the telecommunications and postal operations, and on coverage
of postal deficits from the Guarantor (Refer para. 31). With the exception
of a covenant on dividends, the other financial assurances provided by the
Borrower have therefore been limited to telecommunications operations. These
assurances are:
(i) The rate of return will be maintained at not less than
11 percent from FY76 onward (Section 5.04, Loan Agreement).
(ii) Bank approval will be obtained before any new long-term debt
is incurred unless the maximum debt service requirements for
any succeeding fiscal year are covered at least 1.4 times by
actual present internal cash generation (Section 5.05, Loan
Agreement).
(iii)  Payments of dividends will not be made during the project
construction period without Bank approval (Section 5.08,
Loan Agreement). It is not expected that dividend payments
would be feasible during this period; hence, it is intended
that Bank approval would require a satisfactory revised
financing plan.
During the construction period, short-term finance is expected to be required
by the Borrower to overcome temporary funds shortages. Assurances that the
Guarantor will make these funds available have been obtained (Section 2.03,
Guarantee Agreement).
40.        The level   of the present telecommunications tariffs will have to
be gradually increased to generate a reasonable rate of return and to generate
funds necessary for expansion. To obtain the proposed return on assets,
increases in revenue of about one-third will be necessary over the project
period. The tariff structure is basically sound. The annual rental of
US$27.00 and the call charge of US$0.045 are both within the range encountered
in many countries, and long distance charges are reasonable.
Procurement and Disbursement
41.       Procurement of all goods provided under the project will be by
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. In
accordance with the Government's request, local manufacturers will be accorded



- 16 -
a preference of 15 percent of the CIF cost or the applicable customs duties,
whichever is lower, on bids for telephone distribution cables. The cost of
these cables is not expected to exceed US$4.5 million equivalent.
42.       The Bank would disburse against 100 percent of the CIF costs of
imported equipment and materials, 100 percent of the foreign costs of ser-
vices and 100 percent of the ex-factory cost of any locally awarded contract
for goods specified under the loan. Any unused balance of the loan would be
made available for purchase of additional goods or services similar to those
already procured under the loan. Expenditures on the project that are in-
curred after January 1, 1975, would be eligible for disbursements from the
loan. These expenditures are estimated to total less than US$200,000.
Justification
43.       The Government is well aware that Zambia's presently inadequate
telecommunications services are having an adverse influence on the achieve-
ment of the country's economic and social objectives. The Government's
telecommunications development program, which includes the proposed project,
is a major step towards meeting the demand for good quality service and the
extension of communication links domestically and internationally. In
particular, local exchange equipment will be installed in 60 towns throughout
Zambia's eight provinces and the long distance network will be extended to
32 additional towns that are not served at present. By the end of the
project period, it is expected that the waiting list of applicants for local
service will have been reduced from the present 44 percent, including esti-
mated latent demand, to about 28 percent of direct exchange lines in-service.
Demand for long distance, international, and telex service should be met in
full. Meeting these demands is essential for an efficient organization of
the production, distribution, and marketing functions in the Zambian economy.
44.       The internal rate of return on the project is estimated at above 16
percent when taxes and duties are excluded. A sensitivity analysis has been
carried out, showing that even an unfavorable combination of the main para-
meters would result in a rate of return of no less than 12 percent. These
rates are a minimum estimate of the real economic benefits, since they were
calculated using the expected revenues as the only measure of benefits.
45.       The fiscal impact of the Borrower's telecommunications operations
will be favorable. During the 1975-1980 period, Government is expected to
receive interest payments totalling US$15.1 million equivalent and tax payments
of US$11.7 million equivalent. Since the Government has already included about
US$8.3 million in the 1975 budget for the telecommunications capital develop-
ment program and a further contribution of US$17.6 million equivalent is
required in 1977-1979, the net fiscal impact is US$0.3 million receipt by
Government. After the construction period, the net payments to Government would
become larger.



- 17 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
46.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Posts and Tele-
communications Corporation, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic
of Zambia and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft
resolution approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
47.       Features of the Loan and Guarantee Agreements of special interest
are referred to in paragraphs 30, 31, 35, 36, 39, and 41 of this report.
48.       Additional conditions of effectiveness would be:
(i) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the ADB Loan
Agreement and the SIDA Grant Agreement shall have been satisfied,
or alternative arrangements satisfactory to the Bank shall have
been made for the financing of the microwave link between Lusaka,
Kasama, and Nakonde and the trunk and international switching
equipment;
(ii) the Guarantor and the Borrower shall have entered into an
agreement satisfactory to the Bank providing for the Guarantor
to make to the Borrower loans equivalent to US$26.5 million,
and all such additional amounts as are required by the Borrower
for the purposes of the Project;
(iii) all necessary governmental and corporate action shall have
been taken for the assumption by the Borrower of the assets,
liabilities, and reserves of the GPO; and
(iv) the Guarantor shall have prepared recommendations for the
initial capitalization of the Borrower acceptable to the
Bank and shall have agreed with the Bank on a time-table
for their implementation.
49.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 18 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
50.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 8, 1975



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 3 Peage
ONONTRT SATA - ZAMBI.A
AREA                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POPULATION                      DENSITY
752,611   baD21L.5                                            mUiUon (.id-1972)Pe                                      tfarbeln
SOCIAL Il(DICA74ORSbi
Reference Countries
GNIP PIR CAPITA US$ (ATLAS BASIS)                                                 380               880 /a        800 /a       810 /a
DENYIRAPHIC
Croda birth rat. (per thobsand)                                   51 /b          50330d
Crud. death rate (per thousand)                                   19 T~          21   c             5918
Infec.t aort:lity.rtat (per thousend live births)29~                             ..                              79           43
Li xepeotaccy at birth (yaaro.)                               140    f        4L Li             3             62 L&        68
GrIoe repootinrt.                                                .3.3 /c                          2.0           2.2 5.       1.3
PPopoltio   grwt    Zrot                                         3.0            2.9 7!i           0.9(4         2.3    I     I-O l.0
Population growth rain - .rb..                                   ..              11MO               8(            i            3
Age structure (parenut)                              ~6                                              o3
0-11                                                          45             463                              3
15-6L                                                          12   f          51o6                            556
65 and over                                                                     359
Age dapendancy ratio /41                                                         1.                0.8           0.8            5
E,concac dependency rmtio /1.                                                    1.8 Jo0.9                       1.6          09
Urhban population as percent of total                            .31 /d.k                          32 (4.        76 (     ~   39 /k-
F.0i1y planning, No. of acceptor, c-moltivo (thous.              .              .
No. of caer   (% of earne.d womn)             ..
EMPLOYMNTN
Total l bor foro. (thoceand.)                                    ..           1,210LL,r                       3,0           ,0
Peroentage eeplyad.in agriculture                              ..                 Jo1                                       L
eceortege onmlyd.                                                              0 
Pe    RS1Rcet  BDatona  incom  re..aiv:d by highest 5%             38 /t.~y   .                                   30 Z9,y      15 /,
Per-et of catiocal ircos    rceived by blgh.st 20%                57 78t                          ..57 7.,v                   L2L    i
Per.cent of natnlin..'e reci,ed by lowet 20%                       6g                              ..                   y ~j  7J
Percnt of natioa ...  ocos-e recived by Iacot 40%                 15             .                 .13 7--.l7                    i .y
DISlIBUNTION OF LAND 0OWESHIP
N .-cd by top 10% of owne,.
8 oaned by enal1eet 10% of cnr                                    ..
HEALTH AND NTI=TION
PouainprphyAdrla                                       12,000 (   ~   13,580 /9          5,100 Ic      2,1          " 101
Popelotioc par cnursing pereon                                 3,060 4py      2,914  /            600 To      5,320" Li      11
Popul-tton per hospital bed                                      350            310 /             100 T.        250          180
Par capita calorie spply as % of r-qoireeete(                     87 /9          88                96           101          121
Per capita protein supply, total (grams per day    L               3   i          156719
Of hioh, .oinalncd pelea                                                       259               30/9          32           2   9
Deth rote 1-yer/7.                                                                               .               3(         2.6 
EDUCATION
Adje ted /5 primary e-hool enrolbeent ratio                       12             85               168 /n.ab     119 /o.ab     91,
Adj.etod     secondary echoo Ierorlleent ratio                     2             12                16            29           15
Teare of scooling provided, firet and second leve.l               12             12                13            12           12
Vnc tion.1 enolleent as 8 of sac, school onroi11ent               28             15 /9,15                        33           72
Adoot literacy rota %                                            ..               3                30 /v..d.ee   90 A      d  ~85 /.e
HOUSING
A-erage No. of pere..e per robe (arbac)                          ..2. ,L.                                       1.3          1.3
Per cent ofo-pied unit. aithoat piped water5L,.5                                                  .               0 ,~6
1000  t ootri lty (a, % of total population)                2   9.         .1                               5i/~1
Percen.t of tura1 pepulatimo cocoted to Ol1-tricity              .              .20                     j7       30   di      80 LI~
CONSUMPTION
Raio   .-eilers per 1000 pepulation                                9 Li)         23               126 (    ~    11.9 /       1781
Paseengor core per 100   population                               11             15!               ~1.(          1    i       1 
Elctic peee  -ocoption (kWh p.o.)                             681 Lz       1,074                263           89   a    1570 /
News.print ronouptito  p.c. kg per year                         0.8            C,0.6 La            .5.7Z                     4.2Ls
Nctee, Figre     refer either to the lnteet periods or to              aecoant of evrnetltmeaue                 oywih.        i
the loteet years.   latest periods refer In principle to            /  dietrib~ti.n by age and am    f national PoPulation..
the Year   1956-60 or 1966-70; the latest years 1,0 prm-               pretelo  standards (reqofrmeot.) for ell countries am"tab-
ciple to 1960 and 1970.                                                Iithd by USDA. Eoonnie Reeearoh Service provide for a       ainmo
(4. Th. per Capita GNP estiante to at earket prioro for                allowance of 60 gream  of total protein per day, and 2O grassa of
Ye-r    th-r than 1960,.calculted by the cane conversion           ani-al and pulae protein, of which 10 grmae should be animal
technique o. the 1972 World Bank Atlas.                            protein.  Theae Standards ere some8What 10e0   than thoee of 75
12 Avera.ge -orb-r of daughters par wona    of reproductive            grams of total protein and 23 gram    of animal protein amoa
age.                                                               averge for the world, proposed by PAO to the Third World Food
LI  P6oplation grooth retes are for the de-das ending in               Surrey.
1960 and 1970.                                                 /7 Sw,,e studies have suggested that erde death rates of      hilidren
A9  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to pepola-           aMeI1threugh I myj he used as a first appronimation index of
tien of age. 15-66 for age dependency ratio and      D labor       ealnotr ition.
force of agee 15-61 for esoooajo dependency     atio.          /8  Percentage enrol led of oorrespn,aing poplation of school age
FA PO refererce standard. represent pkwslologhcal m-                  as defined for seh ooantry.
quiremeotB for norc.e activity and health, taking
/a    1972;   /b  Ketimate for Afric-n population based on analysis of 1963 conems;         49>  1965-70, UN metimate;    /d  1973;
7-    1950;   7f  1963;    a~ 1969-70;     /h  1970-71;    Li 1960-72;     a,   1965-69;    M_ ain towns and asm any ea-il
towns:hips as cauld be separately identified;     /I   Settleaments having a populatimn over 2,000 inhabltants;       /.  Populated
cetrs which hare definite urban cha~raeterietice contributed by certain public and anninipal aervices;            (    For
deftinition of urbaone    UN Daor      i   earbook 1972.pg      17;    (    1969;   (P   1971;   /9  Retimete; ~r      15-4,9 year.;
ap   Perso    seekin   work;Huaehe da;                         /   1968     Li1962;      (   Perena-I to goverment services only;
Inldi.g aidwive    and nuring noxili-riem;     /a   1961;   /-.    91-66;     /ab  Including overage etudenta;      /&-  1965;
/d 15 yeae and over;     /ao   Definition not .allailfe;     laf  Piped water insId-.;    /&g   Data refer to houaeholds;
7W    Peroentage of dwelli.ng;   Z9.L  Urban only;    III   Data for Southern Rhodesia and Malawi ar     icldodd.
a   gogn -invi  Is esaleted as an objective coonry beonue    It hes a higher degree of development with extensive etate
participati on in indctry and cosnrce; also the agricultural sector, the d-1inant sector of employment, ia
developing fro a reintively low level of prodootivity.
R3 April 26, 1975



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1973                                     ANNUAL RATE OF GROWrH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.       %                      1965 -69          1970 -73
GNP at Market Prices         2,356       100.0                       5.6              2.1
Gross Domestic Investment      666        28.3                      19.5              6.2
Gross National Saving          837        35.5                      10.2              3.0
Current Account Balance        171         7.3
Exports of Goods, NFS        1,216        51.6                       0.4              1.6
Imports of Goods, NFS          783        33.2                       9.6             -1.4
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added                  Labor Force-/                V. A. Per Worker
US$     _n.                    Mln.       %                   us $
Agriculture                    219      15.2              o.656      54.3                   331k      28.0
Industry                       718      49.8              0.176      1L.5                 4,087      342.0
Services                       506      35.0              0.298      2L.6                 1,698      142.0
Unallocated                     .        .                0.079       6.6
Total/Average         1,713     100.0              1.209     100.0                 1,193      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                        2/
General Government                           Central Government
Mln.1 )       of GDP                  (Kwaa Mln.)        A of GDP
1972         1972      1970-72                1973       1973        1971- 73
Current Receipts          )                                                     396         21            26
Current Expenditure      )                                                      360         22            25
Current Surplus           )                                                      32                        1
Capital Expenditures      )                                                     153          9            12
External Assistance (net) )                                                      Li          3             2
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                1965         1969        1970       1971        1972        1973
(Million K. outstanding end periodT
Money and Quasi Money                   113.7        281.5       355.6      318.5       3!,l.l      410.8
Bank credit to Public Sector            -8LI.9      -120.5     -169.7        18.3       148.0       199.3
Bark Credit to Private Sector 3/         42.5        lib.2      142.9      183.1       165.4       176.8
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP        ..           20.7        28.3       27.0        26.0        25.2
General Price Index (1963 = 100)        107.9        135.7       141.9      151.1i      161.1       170.8
Annual percentage changes inX
General Price Index                      +4.9         +6.2        4.6         6.7         6.4         6.o
Bank credit to Public Sector              .            .           .          .         708.7        34.7
Bank credit to Private Sector 3/         ..          +24.9      +25.1       +28.1        -9.7         6.9
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed wrkers seeking their first job.
2/ FigureE do not differ significantly         .. not available
from "Ceni-ral Governimnt".                  . not applicable
3/ Includes parastatal organizations.



ANNEX I
rage j or 3 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                  MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1970-73)
1973     1974                                                         US $ Mln     %
(Mil1ions US$)
Exports of Goods, NFS        1,216.4   1,425.8                     Copper                             921.0     94.0
Imports of Goods, NFS          783.3   1,101.4                     Lead, Zinc, Cobalt                  39.3      4.0
Resource Gap (deficit = -)     433.       Z                        All other commodities               19.9      2.0
Total                970O.2  100.0
Factor Payments (net)         -134.7   -112.3
Net Transfers                 -142.3   -140.4
Balance on Current Account     15T        (71.7(
Direct Foreign Investment       ..       ..                        EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1973
Net MLT Borrowing (Public)
Disbursements               187.9     81.1                                                                us $ Mln
Amortization                -56.o    -40.5
Subtotal                    131.9     40.6                        Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             966.9
Capital Grants                  15.3      1.6                        Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)           -281.6    -28.1                        Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i              -39.9    -39.0
Increase in Reserves (+)                -7.7                       DEBT SERVICE RATIO (%)
Gross Reserves (end year)      190.4    171.1                                                                 1974
Net Reserves    (end year)     106.1    152.9                        Public Debt, incl. guaranteed            4.3
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total outstanding & Disbursed
IBRD/IDA LENDING, (March 31, 1975) (Million US$):
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                      IBRD         IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed              132.7
Before February 1973           Since February 1973             Undisbursed                          184.2
US   1.   = Kwacha 0.714          K 1.00 = US $1.4             Outstanding incl. Undisbursed        316.9
t Ratio of estimated Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services in 1971.
not available
not applicable



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAMEIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as at March 31, 1975) Amount (less cancellations)
US$ million
Loan
No.    Year    Borrower           Purpose           Bank                        Undisbursed
8 loans fully disbursed                            104.4
562     1968    Zambia            Furest Planting      5.3                            0.14
592     1969    Zambia            Education           17.4                            8.1
645     1969    Zambia            Education            503                            1.2
685     1970    Zambia            Crops Farming        5.5                            1.9
701     1970    Kariba North      Power Station       40.0                            1.8
701-1           Bank Company                          42.1                           34.5
882     1973    Zambia            Integrated Family   11.5                           10.4
Farming
900     1973    Zambia            Education           33.0                           32.1
919     1973    Zambia Electric-  Hydroelectric      M15.0                           93.8
ity Supply Corp. Power
1057    1974    Zambia            Urban Develop-      20.01=                         20.0
ment
Total                        399.5                          204.2
of which has been repaid    50.9
Total now outstanding        348.6
Amount sold      38.6
of which has
been repaid    26.3         12.3
Total now held by Bank       336.3
of which is undisbursed      z                            204.2
(Undisbursed of partici-
pations)                    10.1
1/ Recane effective April 1, 1975.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B. STATEMET OF IFC INVESTMENT
(as at March 31, 1975)
(US$ million)
Year         Obligor       Type of Business        Loan     Equity     Total
1972    Zambia Bata Shoe   Shoe manufacturing      o.85      0.23      1.08
Co. Ltd.                                   1
1973    Zambia Bata 1boe    Shoe manufacturing     1.20       -        1.20
Co. Ltd.
Total gross commit-
ments                 2q05     0.23       2.28
less cancellations,
terminations, re,pay-
ments & sales       1.27        -        1.27
Total now held by IFC    .78     0.23       1.02
Total undisbursed         0        -           0



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
C. Projects in Execution 1/
Loan No. 562-ZA - Industrial Forestry Project:   US$5.3 milliorn loan of
October 5, 1968; Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Execution of the project is making more rapid progress than ex-
pected at the time of appraisal and is likely to be completed a year ahead
of schedule. However, there are several staff vacancies which gives cause
for some concern. The Government is making strong efforts to recruit the
requisite staff and it is expected that the vacancies will be filled shortly.
Loan No. 592-ZA - First Education Project:   US$17.b million loan of April 11,
1969; Closing Date: March 30, 1977
As a result of, inter alia, prolonged negotiations with the archi-
tectural consultants, a reduction in 1972 of budget allocations due to a de-
line in copper prices, and poor management in the early stages of implementa-
tion, the project is about 2-1/2 years behind schedule. Progress is now satis-
factory. To allow for the completion of the project, the original September 30,
15'7 Closing Date has been extended to March 30, 1977.
Loan No. 645-ZA - Second Education Project; US$5.3 million loan of Novem-
ber 30, 1969; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Construction work was completed in April 1975 and procurement of
furniture and equipment is expected to be completed in May 1975. Delivery
of some equipment is likely to extend beyond the September 30, 1975 revised
Closing Date. However, payments to suppliers and submission of all with-
drawal applications are expected to be finalized prior to the Closing Date.
Educational objectives are being met but slower than originally envisaged.
Precise cost information is not available but it is likely that a saving
of US$0.75 million in the Loan proceeds can be expected,   due to, inter alia,
savings resulting from equipment contributions by bilateral agencies.
Loan No. 685-ZA - Commercial Crops Farming Project: US$5.5 million loan of
June 5, 1970; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
The project is making satisfactory progress but the 1973/74 crop
season suffered from adverse weather conditions and development of new
project land was delayed due to late arrival of farm machinery. The Tobacco
Board took over the management of the Mukonchi Training Unit from the Com-
monwealth Development Corporation at the end of 1974. The take-over arrange-
ments are satisfactory but staffing will depend on the success of the Board's
current recruitment program. At headquarters level, the Board still requires
strengthening, particularly in its accounting department.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport, to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Loan No. 701-ZA - Kariba North Project: US$82.1 million loan of July 29
1970, as amended on December 6, 1974; Closing Date:
July 1, 1976
Steady progress continues on this project, which is now in the
last stages of construction, but delays in completion of some of the civil
works and in erection of generators may cause a postponement in commission-
ing of the station by three months. There is no change in the cost esti-
mates, as such a delay was foreseen. The Central African Power Corporation -
the Agent - and the engineers are now making concerted efforts to obtain
better performance from the contractors and to limit the delay in commis-
sioning to less than a month after the target date of October 1, 1975.
Loan No. 882-ZA - Integrated Family Farming Project: US$11.5 million loan
of February 28, 1973. Closing Date:   June 30, 1979
The project, which is also being implemented by the Tobacco Board,
achieved 87% of its farmer recruitment target of 1,650 farmers during 1973/
74, and management is confident this shortfall will be made up next season.
Dae to adverse weather conditions in 1974, the tobacco yields were about
50% lower than expected while the maize crop was reduced 25% after being
affected by diplodia followed by a fungus attack.
Loan 900-ZA - Third Education Projects US$33.0 million loan of June 6,
1973; Closing Tate: September 30, 1979
Problems, now resolved, in recruitment of staff for two of the
three Project Units created some initial delays in project implementation.
However, work being implemented by the Project Unit previously established
under the First Education ProJect (Loan 592-ZA) is proceeding on schedule
with the bulk of the civil works contracts awarded as a result of the
utilization of previously approved standardized drawing and tender docu-
ments. Due to the early stage of project implementation, it is likely that
time lost in recruitment of Project Unit staff will be overcome during the
overall project implementation period.
Loan 919-ZA - Kafue Hydroelectric Project (Stage II): US$115.0 million
loan of July 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Construction of the project is proceeding satisfactorily. About
30% of the work on the main dam, which accounts for 75% of the project
cost, has been completed without significant geological problems, and dis-
bursements are on schedule. On the basis of firm price contracts placed
for all the electrical and mechanical equipment, and physical progress of
civil works, about US$10.0 million of the loan may remain undisbursed. The
Borrower's financial performance, however, has been unsatisfactory, chiefly



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
because the revised retail tariffs have not yielded the anticipated rev-
enues while administrative expenses have soared. A considerable increase
in revenues is needed and the Government and 7ESCO are examining alter-
native courses of action for meeting this objective. In addition, the
Borrower's management, particularly on the financial side, needs strengthen-
ing. Management consultants are now being hired and a new Financial Con-
troller will be recruited in the near future.
Loan No. 1057-ZA - Lusaka Squatter Upgrading and Site and Services Project:
US$20.0 million loan of December 6, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
The loan became effective on April 1, 1975. The staffing of the
Project Unit has been completed, tender invitations for most infrastructure
work have been issued, and the training of new community development workers
has commenced. Community leaders in the squatter areas to be upgraded have
been fully briefed on the project and the Project Unit's community develop-
ment section is now working with the communities concerned, making prepara-
tion for relocation to make way for infrastructure.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3 pages
ZAMBIA - TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                 Posts and Telecommunications Corporation.
Guarantor:                Republic of Zambia.
Amount:                   US$32.0 million equivalent
Terms:                    Repayment in 20 years including 4 years of grace
at 8.5 percent interest per annum.
Project Description:      The project aims at improving and expanding Zambia's
telecommunications facilities by (i) installing
31,000 lines of local exchange equipment (a net
increase of 23,100 lines), cables and subscriber
apparatus to provide about 31,000 connections,
(ii) expanding long distance equipment through
three 960 channel microwave links, 2,500 km of
UHF/VHF radio links, multiplex and trunk switching
equipment, and (iii) expanding telegraph, gentex,
and international facilities.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3 pages
Estimated Cost:
US$ millions
Local      Foreign       Total
1. Local Service:
Switching Equipment    0.7        9.4         10.1
Distribution Networks   4.0       10.0         14.0
Subscribers' Equipment
and PABX               0.6        1.0          1.6
2. Long Distance Service:
Microwave & UHF/VHF     2.2       13.9         16.1
systems
L.D. & International
Switching Equipment     -         4.6         4.6
3.  Vehicles                  -         1.5          1.5
4.  Consultants               -         0.4          0.4
5.  Sites and Buildings     12.4         -          12.4
Sub-total         19.9       40.8        60.7
6. Contingencies:
Physical                0.2        1.3          1.5
Expected Price
Increases             6.0       10.0         16.0
Total             26.1       52.1        78.2
Financing Plan:           The proposed Bank loan of US$32.0 million
equivalent would be used to finance about
61 percent of the foreign exchange costs
of the project and would meet about 29 per-
cent of the Borrower's total requirement of
funds for telecommunications over the 1975-1980
period (US$109 million equivalent). The
other sources of funds include PTC's internal
resources (33 percent), Guarantor (24 percent),
African Development Bank (5 percent), Swedish
International Development Authority (2 percent),
and expected future borrowing (7 percent).



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3 pages
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ millions; IBRD Fiscal Year
1976   1977   1978    1979     1980    1981   Total
Annual         1.0    4.7    7.0     8.5     7.3     3.5    32.0
Cumulative     1.0    5.7   12.7    21.2    28.5    32.0    32.0
The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed
against 100 percent of the CIF cost of imported
equipment and materials, the foreign costs of
services and the ex-factory cost of any locally
awarded contract for goods specified under the
loan.
Procurement Arrangements:      Procurement of all goods financed by the Bank
would be subject to international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank's guide-
lines. A preference margin of 15 percent
of the CIF cost or the applicable customs
duties, whichever is lower, would be afforded
to local manufacturers of telephone cables.
Consultants:                   Consultants will be employed to provide assistance
to the Borrower in planning, detailed engineering,
and bid prenaratinn and evaluation (about 6U man-months).
Consultants will also be employed for surveying
microwave links and VHF/UHF radio systems (approx-
imately 18 man-months). Consultants may also
be required to assist the Borrower in the super-
vision of installation and commissioning of
switching equipment (about 60 man-months).
Financial/accounting consultants have already
been retained for improvement of the Borrower's
accounting F-tems (about 20 man-months).
Rate of Return:                Above 16 Dercent.
Appraisal Report:              Report No. 729a-ZA, dated ADril 14. 1Q75.






IBRD 10940R
2~~~~-                                 A- ~~~~~~~~~W          W                                                                , 
Z A M B IA                                                                           T A N Z A N    I A
TELEPHONE          NETWORK                                                     MIflg' <
xRSTIbIG FACti TIES;   ONIGOING WOR2_           P.ROPOSED PROJECT                           WiM
.   Axrrr2 s'  A'e        New Automllc El gD A           :ic  AA. !  _  *  -g
o  M~owoi Tr,lzo~Pn0 Eodhor.goo  ^  ISuosnipS R  oios S&ong hkntl2hanorg   ^ ch Amr3rRr23roc Mrc lrh35  > 1Z   Ecjleng  >  Wpoork00A  t_e   ill   b n
Mco-e Sy.tt       A   A.:- R.JnAcc.tncyxgcE  c,cn ogc AAWof,ooEReo1oc.AAA.o-o0 ERcio A t &   <p Hil
__ _ ViUHE R  Sstns *nd Cnbles_____ ViIUHF Rndo Systems nnd C-bIes  ,A A ot s Adder in        */
\,....   ....... ....  L-61-   Rour tr7wreSfegF- . \'/ 
jardIne Fairer~~~d.b                    be-K
-hi--.   HPA do                                  ______  Mainan odr S antens   t-                   .  '                            iO
*          H ~ovrn:ioi Porsrdori-                  Chn,uok   >Mii1iihr=                      X       tE   ee eN    P    g 
Ch
K~~Ul-   . .. .
C / ~+ _i_ _ =;ola J yfi ___ \ S hiwo Ngandu  hiNd
< ( <n unsu ~~~~~~~Z      A ! R                                                         p,k\ .E ^ 
|  X    <          1  E  ~~S  T  .E ,1  9                    g45 
4~~~~~~~~.-P.~~~~~~~~~~~~
>! ~~~~~_                                       os                    mC IL Y / /{
- - - - - -- -  A- -                                                                                h.p
\     ,"        -O,=,S 9M U                                                                           A eo  5  I A-  E
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AM                                  N GOLAmu /ftundle  -  A rr.r*e snT  4s                        A OLn7an *
s +-  u A  M I S IE A                                                            ren-atab
<M~ b-                         ,[co-         .              _
Z  So  -                        rjIr.Oj5D  0 E  5R    00e00 5/
a8*~ ~  -    N A M I S    A              A0~~.                                                                     -
2          2~~* ,..J\~~~OTSWANAZ



