CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1131 ZA
Guarantee Agreement
(Telecommunications Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JUNE 24, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1131 ZA
Guarantee Agreement
(Telecommunications Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JUNE 24, 1975


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 24, 1975, between REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
(hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank
and Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (hereinafter called the Borrower),
a statutory corporation established under the Posts and Telecommunications Act,
1975, of the Guarantor, the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan
in various currencies equivalent to thirty-two million dollars ($32,000,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to guarantee the obligations of
the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in Section 1.02
of the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Minister" means the member of the Cabinet of the Guarantor
responsible for finance under the Loans and Guarantees (Authorization) Act,
Chapter 601 of the Laws of Zambia; and
(b)   "local authority" means, with respect to the Guarantor, a city council,
a municipal council, a rural council, or any other governmental authority of the


﻿4
Guarantor (other than its central government) which has power to raise revenues
by taxation and to charge such revenues or any of its assets as security for external
debt.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally
guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual
payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and
the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section
2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifically undertakes, whenever there is
reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of
the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide
the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed
to meet such expenditures.
Section 2.03. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Sections
2.01 and 2.02 of this Agreement, the Guarantor shall take all necessary steps to
ensure that short-term financing necessary to meet an expected temporary shortage
of funds required by the Borrower during the construction period of the Project,
shall be available to the Borrower on reasonable terms as and when required.
Section 2.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall
make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, to cover any cash deficits incurred
by the Borrower in respect of its operations other than its telecommunications
operations. For the purposes of this Section, the term "cash deficit" means the
excess of total cash requirements (including operating, maintenance and
administration expenses, taxes, if any, or any payments in lieu thereof, and interest,
amortization and other charges on debt) over total revenues pertaining to such
operations. Such cash deficits shall, to the extent possible, be covered on a current
basis. Such deficits may be covered out of revenues derived from the Borrower's
telecommunications operations only in accordance with the limitations provided
under Section 5.08 of the Loan Agreement.


﻿5
ARTICLE I
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making loans to, or with
the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in normal circumstances, special security
from the member concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member. To that end,
if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security
for any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit
of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect;
provided, however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such
provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its local authorities, the Guarantor shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank
secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on
property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the
purchase price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c)   As used in this Section, the term   "public assets" means assets of the
Guarantor, of any local authority thereof and of any entity owned or controlled
by, or operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any such local
authority, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held by any institution
performing the functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar
functions, for the Guarantor.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of the Guarantor is designated as representative
of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿6
For the Guarantor:
Ministry of Planning and Finance
P.O. Box R.W. 62
Ridgeway
Lusaka, Zambia
Cable address:
FINANCE, RIDGEWAY
LUSAKA
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
WASHINGTON, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
By /s / S. G. Mwale
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


