CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1131 ZA
Loan Agreement
(Telecommunications Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
DATED JUNE 24, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1131 ZA
Loan Agreement
(Telecommunications Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
DATED JUNE 24, 1975


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 24, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (hereinafter called
the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower is a statutory corporation duly organized and
existing under the Posts and Telecommunications Corporation Act, 1975
(hereinafter called the Act) of the Republic of Zambia (hereinafter called the
Guarantor);
(B)   By the terms of the legislation referred to in Recital A there shall
vest in the Borrower, on a vesting date to be fixed in accordance with the Act,
all the property, rights, liabilities and obligations which immediately before the
vesting date were the property, rights, liabilities and obligations of the General
Post Office of Zambia, a department of the Ministry of Power, Transport and
Works of the Guarantor, or the Government in connection with postal and
telecommunications services;
(C)   The Guarantor and the Borrower have requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of Part I of the Project described in Schedule 2 of this Agreement
by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(D) The Guarantor has entered into a loan agreement with the African
Development Bank (hereinafter called the ADB Loan Agreement), dated
November 8, 1974, by which the ADB has agreed to make a loan in an aggregate
amount equivalent to four million two hundred thousand units of account
(U.A.4,200,000) (as defined in Article 5(1) of the Agreement establishing the
African Development Bank) (hereinafter called the ADB Loan) for the purpose
of assisting in the financing of the Lusaka-Kasama-Nakonde micro-wave link
included under Part II of the Project, and the Guarantor has agreed to relend
to the Borrower the proceeds of the ADB Loan;
(E)   The Guarantor has entered into an agreement dated April 12, 1974
with the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden (hereinafter called the SIDA
Agreement) by which the Swedish Government has agreed to provide financial
assistance to the Guarantor to assist in the modernization of the Guarantor's
telecommunications sector, including an amount not exceeding eleven million seven
hundred thousand Swedish Krona (S.Kr. 11,700,000) (hereinafter called the SIDA


﻿4
Grant) for the purpose of assisting in the financing of the trunk and international
switching equipment included under Part II of the Project, and the Guarantor has
agreed to lend to the Borrower the proceeds of the SIDA Grant;
(F)   The Guarantor has agreed to lend to the Borrower for the purposes
of the Project, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, in such currencies
as may be required, (i) an amount equivalent to Kl7 million (representing the
presently estimated financing gap for the Project after taking into account the
other sources of financing presently available for the Project) and (ii) all such
additional amounts (if any) as are required by the Borrower to enable it to meet
expenditures incurred or to be incurred for purposes of the Project;
(G)   The Guarantor has agreed, inter alia, to guarantee all of the obligations
of the Borrower under this Loan Agreement, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of a Guarantee Agreement of even date herewith between the Guarantor
and the Bank; and
WHEREAS The Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing,
to make a loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set
forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as' if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "ADB" means the African Development Bank, and includes any
successor thereto;
(b)   "SIDA" means the Swedish International Development Authority, an
agency of the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden, and includes any successor
thereto;


﻿5
(c)   "GPO" means the General Post Office of Zambia, a department within
the Ministry of Power, Transport and Works of the Guarantor prior to the
establishment of the Borrower;
(d)   "Act" means the Posts and TelecoM.munications Corporation Act,
1975, of the Guarantor; and
(e)   "Kwacha" means the currency of the Guarantor.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to thirty-two million dollars ($32,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures inade (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for the carrying out of works or services (other than
consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Bank and the Borrower.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight and one-half
per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
May 1 and November 1 in each year.


﻿6
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering, public utility,
administrative and financial practices.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower (i) to carry out planning
and detailed engineering for the Project, (ii) in the preparation of bidding
documents, and (iii) in evaluating bids, inter alia, for the procurement of equipment
required for the Project, the Borrower shall employ telecommunications consultants
whose qualifications, experience and contract of employment shall be mutually
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.
(b)   If the Borrower shall not have at the required time a staff of its own
with adequate qualifications and experience for the purpose, in order to assist the
Borrower in the supervision of installation and commissioning of the switching
equipment required for the Project, the Borrower shall employ telecommunications
consultants whose qualifications, experience and contract of employment shall be
mutually satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall obtain title to all goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan free and clear of encumbrances.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and work and


﻿7
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c)
of this Section, enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan and any records and documents relevant thereto;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to inspect relevant
plant, installations, sites, works, buildings, and records of the Borrower for purposes
of supervising the Project and the implementation thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall (i) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges
and franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its
telecommunications operations; (ii) operate and maintain, or cause to be operated
and   maintained,    all  its  plants, equipment     and   property   used   in  its
telecommunications operations and from time to time make, or cause to be made,
all necessary renewals and repairs thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
public utility, administrative and financial practices; and (iii) at all times manage
its affairs, plan its future expansion and maintain its financial position in accordance
with sound engineering, public utility, administrative and financial practices and
under the supervision of qualified and competent management.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times (i) render its accounts due
for telecommunications services promptly after the close of each service period,
and (ii) take all necessary measures required on its part to ensure that all such
accounts are settled on a current basis.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.


﻿8
(b)   Without limitation or restriction on the provisions of Section 5.01(a),
the Borrower shall maintain separate accounts in respect of its postal and
telecommunications operations.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of changes in financial position, and
statements of income and expenses) for its fiscal year 1975 and each fiscal year
thereafter, audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank
as soon as available, but in any case not later than eight months after the end
of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year
as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish
to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time
to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of this Agreement
no lien exists on any of its assets as security for any debt except as otherwise
currently reported to the Bank or stated in writing.
(b)   The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree
(i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any of its assets as security for any
debt, such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the Bank; and (ii)
if any statutory lien shall be created on any assets of the Borrower as security
for any debt, the Borrower shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent
lien satisfactory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing provisions
of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien created on property, at the
time of purchase thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price
of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after the date
on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
take or cause to be taken, from time to time, all necessary steps within its power
as shall be required to provide from its telecommunications operations revenues
sufficient to produce for its fiscal year 1976 and thereafter an annual rate of return
of not less than 11%.


﻿9
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         the annual rate of return shall be calculated by relating the net
operating income for the year in question to the average of the
value of the net fixed assets of the Borrower in operation at
the beginning and at the end of that year;
(ii)        the term  "value of net fixed assets in operation" shall mean
the gross value of such assets, used for telecommunications
services, less the amount of accumulated depreciation, both as
valued from time to time in accordance with sound and
consistently maintained methods of valuation acceptable to the
Bank; and
(iii)       the term  "net operating income" shall mean the difference
between:
(a)   gross operating revenue accruing from   the Borrower's
telecommunications services; and
(b)   the operating, maintenance and administration expenses,
taxes (if any), or any payments in lieu thereof, and
adequate provision for depreciation (based on the rates
as will be determined in accordance with Section 5.07 of
this Agreement) but excluding interest and other charges
on    debt,   all  attributable   to   the   Borrower's
telecommunications services.
Section 5.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not incur any debt in respect of its telecommunications operations unless the net
revenues of the Borrower in respect of such operations for the fiscal year next
preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended
prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be not less
than 1.4 times the maximum debt service requirements for any succeeding fiscal
year on all the debt of the Borrower incurred in respect of such operations,
including the debt to be incurred. For the purposes of this Section:
(a)   the term "debt" means all debt, including debt assumed or guaranteed
by the Borrower, except debt incurred in the ordinary course of business and
maturing by its terms on demand or less than one year after its incurrence, and
except guarantees of loans made to its employees in accordance with Section
17(3)(p) of the Act;


﻿10
(b)   the term "incur" with reference to any debt includes any modification
of the terms of payment of such debt. Debt shall be deemed to be incurred (i)
under a contract or loan agreement, on the date the loan contract or agreement
providing for such debt is entered into, and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee shall have been entered into;
(c)   the term  "net revenues in respect of telecommunications operations"
means    gross  operating   revenues   of   the   Borrower    derived  from    its
telecommunications    operations,  adjusted   to  take   account   of  rates  for
telecommunications services in effect at the time of the incurrence of debt even
though they were not in effect during the entire fiscal year or twelve-month period
to which such revenues relate, less all operating expenses, including adequate
maintenance, taxes, if any, or any payments in lieu thereof, and administrative
expenses, but before provision for depreciation and debt service requirements, all
in respect of the Borrower's telecommunications operations;
(d)   the term  "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of
amortization (including sinking fund payments, if any), interest and other charges
on debt of the Borrower; and
(e)   whenever it shall be necessary to value in the currency of the Guarantor
debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of
the rate of exchange at which such other currency is obtainable by the Borrower,
at the time such valuation is made, for the purposes of servicing such debt, or,
if such other currency is not obtainable, at the rate of exchange that will be
reasonably determined by the Bank.
Section 5.(6. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
(i) take all necessary steps to ensure that the study being undertaken by its
accounting consultants shall be completed by September, 1975; (ii) consult with
the Bank following the completion of said study regarding the findings and
recommendations thereof; and (iii) with the assistance of said consultants,
implement, according to a time schedule to be agreed between the Borrower and
the Bank, those recommendations of said consultants as shall be mutually acceptable
to the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 5.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall,
in respect of its telecommunications operations: (i) carry out a review of its
depreciation rates, and of the adequacy of its depreciation reserves; and (ii) within
six months of the date of this Agreement, implement such changes in its
depreciation rates and reserves and thereafter maintain such rates and reserves as
are required to ensure that annual depreciation charges are realistically related to


﻿11
the economic lives of telecommunications assets, and that accumulated depreciation
reserves appropriately reflect the revised depreciation rates.
Section 5.08. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower (i)
shall not, until the completion of the Project, pay any dividends; and (ii) shall
not apply funds arising out of or obtained in connection with its
telecommunications operations, for purposes other than its telecommunications
operations, unless such funds are surplus to the Borrower's operational, debt service,
and investment requirements, including the maintenance of adequate reserves, in
respect of its telecommunications operations.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the Borrower's right to utilize the proceeds of the ADB Loan shall
have been suspended or terminated in whole or part and alternative financing
arrangements    satisfactory  to   the   Bank    for   the   financing   of   the
Lusaka-Kasama-Nakonde microwave link included under Part II of the Project shall
not have been made;
(b)   the Borrower's right to utilize the proceeds of the SIDA Grant shall
have been suspended or terminated in whole or part and alternative financing
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for the financing of the trunk and
international switching equipment included under Part II of the Project shall not
have, been made;
(c)   the Borrower's right to make withdrawals under the agreement referred
to in Recital (F) of this Agreement shall have been suspended or terminated in
accordance with the terms thereof;
(d)   any other loan to the Borrower (including any obligation assumed by
the Borrower, and including any securities issued in connection with any such loan
or obligation) shall have become due and payable prior to its agreed maturity
pursuant to the terms thereof; and
(e)   a substantial change shall have been made in the Act so as to affect
adversely the ability of the Borrower to carry out its obligations under the Loan
Agreement, or to affect adversely the organization, operations or financial condition
of the Borrower.


﻿12
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (e) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower and the Guarantor; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) or (d) of Section 6.01
of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c)
of the General Conditions:
(a)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the ADB Loan
Agreement, referred to in Recital (D) hereof, shall have been satisfied, and the
Guarantor and the Borrower shall have entered into a relending agreement in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank for the relending to the Borrower of the
proceeds of the ADB Loan, or alternative arrangements satisfactory to the Bank
shall have been made for the financing of the micro-wave link between Lusaka,
Kasama and Nakonde included under Part C of the Project;
(b)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the SIDA Agreement,
referred to in Recital (E) hereof, shall have been satisfied, and the Guarantor and
the Borrower shall have entered into an agreement in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank for the lending to the Borrower of the proceeds of the
SIDA Grant, or alternative arrangements satisfactory to the Bank shall have been
made for the financing of the trunk and international telephone switching
equipment included under Part II of the Project;
(c)   the Guarantor and the Borrower shall have entered into an agreement
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank providing for the Guarantor to
make to the Borrower the loans referred to in Recital (F) of this Agreement;
(d)   all necessary governmental and corporate action shall have been taken
for the vesting in the Borrower of the property, rights, liabilities and obligations
of the GPO, or the Government in connection with postal and telecommunications
services; and


﻿13
(e)  the Guarantor shall have prepared recommendations for the initial
capitalization of the Borrower acceptable to the Bank and shall have agreed with
the Bank on a time-table for their implementation.
Section 7.02. The date September 22, 1975 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
WASHINGTON, D.C.
For the Borrower:
Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
P. 0. Box 1630
Ndola
Zambia
Cable address:
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
NDOLA


﻿14
IN 77ITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatiL. thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respecti :t names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day anL "ear first above written.
TERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Eastem Africa
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
By  /s / W. B. Silweya
Authorized Representative


﻿15
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Subscriber and                5,250,000           100% of foreign or
junction cables                                   local expenditures
and associated                                    (c.i.f. cost of im-
plant items                                       ported items or ex-
factory cost of
locally manufac-
tured items)
(2)   Local telephone               8,730,000     )
exchange equip-                             )
ment (including                             )
installation)                               )
(3)   Subscriber appara-             1,040,000    )     100% of foreign
tus and PABX                                )     expenditures
(including installa-                        )
tion for PABX)                              )
(4)   Microwave systems,            9,290,000     )
UHF/VHF radio sys-                          )
tems, long distance                         )
cables and multi-                           )
plexing equipment                           )
(including installa-                        )
tion)                                       )
(5)   Vehicles                        390,000
(6)   Consultants'                    400,000     )
services                                    )
(7)   Unallocated                   6,900,000
TOTAL        32,000,000


﻿16
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Guarantor; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
Zambia and for goods or services supplied from Zambia.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account
of payments for taxes levied by or in Zambia, on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if any event
occurs which shall affect the amount of any such taxes included in the cost of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank may, by
notice to the Borrower, correspondingly adjust the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made:
(i)        in respect of expenditures prior to January 1, 1975; and
(ii)       in respect of expenditures for the Lusaka-Kasama-Nakonde
micro-wave link to be provided under Part II of the Project
(which is to be financed under the ADB Loan Agreement
referred to in Recital (D) of this Agreement), trunk and
international switching equipment (which is to be financed under
the SIDA Agreement referred to in Recital (E) of this Agreement),
and other equipment or works financed in whole or in part from
suppliers' credits or other external sources, and consultants'
services financed in whole or part from external sources.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the disbursement
percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the Bank has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, in consultation with the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category
to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall proceeds of the Loan which
are then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank
are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot
fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then


﻿17
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement of any
item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the current development program of the Zambian
telecommunications network, other than works completed or on-going works for
which commitments have been entered into as of January 1, 1975, and consists
of the following Parts:
Part I .   Investments Financed Partly by the Bank.
A.   Purchase and installation of local telephone exchange equipment for
about 31,000 lines, including replacement of worn out equipment for
about 7,900 existing lines, giving a net addition of about 23,100 lines.
B.   Expansion of the cable and subscriber distribution networks to provide
about 31,000 additional connections; and purchase and installation of
private automatic branch exchanges (including a 1,000 line PABX in
Lusaka for the Government) and associated subscriber apparatus.
C.   Expansion of the long distance network including provision and
installation of microwave links between Lusaka and Chipata, and
between Livingstone and Mongu; construction of about 2,500 km of
VHF/UHF radio links; and addition of multiplex equipment on existing
and new routes to provide about 2,200 additional long distance circuits.
D.   Extension of gentex service to about 25 additional localities which
are at present served by means of point-to-point telegraph circuits.
Part II. Investments Financed Partly by ADB and SIDA.
A.   Provision and installation of a Lusaka-Kasama-Nakonde microwave
link, to be financed partly with the assistance of ADB.
B.   Purchase and installation of (i) new trunk switching centers in Ndola,
Kitwe, Lusaka and Livingstone; and (ii) an international telephone
switching center in Lusaka, to be financed partly with the assistance
of SIDA.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                 ( expressed in dollars)*
November 1, 1979                                        490,000
May 1, 1980                                             510,000
November 1, 1980                                        530,000
May 1, 1981                                             555,000
November 1, 1981                                        575,000
May 1, 1982                                             600,000
November 1, 1982                                        625,000
May 1, 1983                                             655,000
November 1, 1983                                        680,000
May 1, 1984                                             710,000
November 1, 1984                                        740,000
May 1, 1985                                             770,000
November 1, 1985                                        805,000
May 1, 1986                                             840,000
November 1, 1986                                        875,000
May 1, 1987                                             910,000
November 1, 1987                                        950,000
May 1, 1988                                             990,000
November 1, 1988                                      1,030,000
May 1, 1989                                           1,075,000
November 1, 1989                                      1,120,000
May 1, 1990                                           1,170,000
November 1, 1990                                      1,220,000
May 1, 1991                                           1,270,000
November 1, 1991                                      1,325,000
May 1, 1992                                           1,380,000
November 1, 1992                                      1,440,000
May 1, 1993                                           1,500,000
November 1, 1993                                      1,565,000
May 1, 1994                                           1,630,000
November 1, 1994                                      1,700,000
May 1, 1995                                           1,765,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿20
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                1-1/4%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                               2-1/2%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                               4-1/2%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                          6-3/4%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                          7-1/2%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                               8-1/2%


﻿21
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
Contracts shall be let under procedures consistent with those set forth in
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Cables specified under Category 2 of the allocation of the proceeds of the
Loan, as set forth under paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and
manufactured in Zambia, may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Zambia if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Zambia equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Zambia.


﻿22
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be deemed to be the most
advantageous bid; if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be deemed
to be the most advantageous bid.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   Promptly after the bids have been received, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the names of the bidders and the respective amounts of the bids.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder


﻿23
to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intended award
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report,
by the consultants referred to in Section 3.02(a) of this Agreement, on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the recommendation
for award of the said consultants and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


