Document of                    v ff s
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3312-MAS
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
(SIXTH LINE OF CREDIT)
TO THE
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS
WITH THE
GUARANTEE OF MAURITIUS
MAY 12, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizat ion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar                    April 30, 1982
Average Year 1981
Unit                   Mauritian Rupee (Rs)           Mauritian Rupee (Rs)
US$1              =    Rs9.0911                  -    Rs10.6688
R-A 1,000         =    US$110.00                 =    US$93.73
tThe rate of Rs10=US$l has been used for the purpose of project analysis.
ABBREVIATIONS
DBM       - Development Bank of Mauritius
ECGS      - Export Credit Guarantee Scheme
SAL       - Structural Adjustment Loan
SFC       - State Finance Corporation
SSE       - Small-scale enterprise
FISCAL YEAR
(DBM and Government)
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MAURITIUS - SIXTH DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Development Bank of Mauritius (DBM)
Guarantor:                Mauritius
Amount:                   US$6.0 million equivalent
Terms:                    Repayable substantially in conformity with the aggregate
of the amortization schedules of the sub-loans, and
fixed schedules of repayment of loan funds used to fi-
nance equity investments to be determined at the time of
DBM's request for approval of the investment, but not
exceeding a period of 17 years. Amounts disbursed for
studies repayable over 17 years including 4 years
grace. Interest would be 11.6 percent per annum. Front
end fee (1.5 percent) capitalized.
Relending Terms           DBM would make up to $300,000 equivalent from the loan
to Sub-Borrowers:       available to Government to finance studies, on the same
terms as those of the Bank loan to DBM. DBM would
relend the remaining proceeds of the loan at an annual
interest rate of 14.5 percent, except for SSE sub-
borrowers receiving loans of Rs 25,000 or less for which
the relending rate would be 10 percent; or at interest
rates that would ensure a minimum margin of 2 percent on
the proceeds of the loan. Repayment of the subloans
would be over periods of up to 15 years, with appropri-
ate grace periods. Except for SSE loans of Rs 25,000 or
less, DBM would pass to its sub-borrowers the foreign
exchange risk between the rupee and the US dollar.
Government will bear the differential between the dollar
and the current value of the DBM's repayment obligation
for the particular maturity as determined under the
currency pooling system, without a fee. The foreign
exchange risk for SSE loans of Rs 25,000 or less will be
carried in full by Government at no charge.
Project                   The Project has two main purposes:  (i) to finance
*              Description:             studies of the industrial and financial sectors, to be
carried out by Government with the aid of consultants,
intended to develop policies and institutional arrange-
ments conducive to growth of industrial production and
exports; and (ii) to assist DBM in financing the foreign
exchange component of loans and investments in industry,
agro-industry and tourism, including the foreign ex-
change component of investment by small-scale
enterprises.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Risks:                    DBM is a financially sound, creditworthy institution
that has financed worthwhile and profitable projects.
Consequently there are no specific risks associated with
this project.
Resource Requirements
& Financing Plan:                        ($ million)
Local    Foreign    Total
Resources available                 3.5       3.1        6.6
IBRD                                -         5.6        5.6
Other foreign sources                -        7.3        7.3
Total          3.5       16.0       19.5
Estimated
Disbursement:           Fiscal Year      $ million       Cumulative $ million
1983            0.43                  0.43
1984            1.38                  1.81
1985            1.55                  3.36
1986            1.24                  4.60
1987            0.84                  5.44
1988            0.56                  6.00
Rate of Return:           n.a.
Appraisal Report:         No separate appraisal report has been prepared, for the
reasons given in paragraph 54.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF MAURITIUS
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
for a sixth line of credit to the Development Bank of Mauritius (DBM) with the
guarantee of Mauritius, for the equivalent of US$6.0 million to help provide
foreign exchange for industry, agro-industry, tourism and the investment needs
of small-scale enterprises. Up to $300,000 of the loan proceeds would be passed
to Government to finance studies of the industrial and financial sectors. The
loan would have a term substantially in conformity with the aggregate of the
amortization schedules of sub-loans for medium- and large-scale operations, and
fixed schedules of repayment by DBM of loan funds used to finance equity
investments and small-scale enterprise sub-loans, but not exceeding a period of
17 years, with interest at 11.6 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report on the economy of Mauritius (No. 2962 MAS) was distributed to
the Executive Directors on September 22, 1980. An economic mission visited
Mauritius in November-December 1981, and is preparing its report. Recent
economic developments are summarized in the ensuing paragraphs. Country, social
and economic data sheets are provided in Annex I to this Report.
3.        Mauritius had in 1981 a population of 971,000, of which 940,000 live
in the main island. It has an area of about 2,000 square kilometers, just over
half of which is cultivable. The main island has a high population density of
470 per square kilometer, or about 810 per square kilometer of arable land.
Despite significant expansion of other sectors since the early 1970s, sugar
production utilizes about 90 percent of the cultivable area. Because of the
small size and the monocultural character of the economy, foreign trade is of
vital importance. With a GNP per capita of about $1,3501/ in 1981, Mauritius
enjoys the standard of living of a middle-income developing country, with high
standards of nutrition, health care, and general education, exceeding by far the
standards of neighboring nations. The adult literacy rate is over 80 per cent,
life expectancy is about 65 years, and basic needs are extensively covered.
4.        Land constraints and continued population growth led the government in
the early 1970s to revise its economic development strategy which had placed
1/ A number of statistics shown in this report are not consistent with the
social indicator data sheet, since they are based on the findings of the
November 1981 economic mission. The data sheet is being updated.



- 2 -
heavy emphasis on agriculture. Because of the limited potential offered by the
agricultural sector, the government strategy focussed on industrial growth to
reverse the rising trend of unemployment. The first step had been the
introduction in the 1960s of the Development Certificate scheme to stimulate
import substitution. Because of the small national market size, the government
decided in 1970 that production for export based on imported raw materials
appeared to be more likely to produce industrial growth. Accordingly, generous
incentives were introduced under the Export Processing Zone (EPZ) scheme to
attract export processing industries. Government efforts in this field were
remarkably successful in the first part of the 1970s and the share of
manufacturing exports increased from 7 percent of exports in 1973 to 25% in
1979. (The industrial sector is discussed further in Part III.)
5.        After economic stagnation from 1964 to 1972, growth in production in
1973-1979 was estimated at an average rate of 8 per cent per year. The salient
features underlying the increase in economic activity were: a) the sharp upward
swing in world sugar prices, the good sugar crop years of 1973 and 1974 and the
multiplier effect of the sugar sector on the rest of the economy; b) the
development of Mauritian exports of manufactured products; c) the current and
capital expenditure of the government which increased faster than current
revenues; d) the increase in demand resulting from a government policy until the
end of the decade of increasing wages and salaries faster than the cost of
living to improve income distribution; and e) the growth of imports financed
through extensive external borrowing.
6.        During the course of 1979 it became apparent that the expansionary
financial policy and resulting distortions and imbalances were not sustainable.
The slackening economic growth and the slowdown of the growth of manufacturing
exports led to a deficit situation in which the Government was forced to ini-
tiate restrictive demand management measures. The decision to undertake the
necessary adjustment measures was difficult, since the Government was not ready
to compromise its achievements in terms of income redistribution and the satis-
factory delivery of basic needs. In October 1979 it devalued the Rupee by 30
per cent to correct the balance of payments disequilibrium by restoring the
competitiveness of manufacturing industry. This also served to increase the
proceeds from import tax duties and to contain the government deficit. As a
complementary policy to the devaluation, wage and salaries were increased by an
amount less than the increase in the consumer price index expected on account of
the devaluation. To support the overall adjustment efforts, a two year stand-by
agreement was signed with the IMF. The Government's measures were however
undercut by adverse exogenous developments, most notably the cyclones of 1980
which reduced the sugar crop, and the appreciation of the dollar in 1981, and
thus of the rupee which is fixed to the SDR, vis-A-vis the currencies of
Mauritius' main European export markets.
Current Economic Situation
7.        The economic performance of 1980 was extremely disappointing.  Cyclone
damage reduced the sugar crop by 30 percent from its 1979 level. Moreover, con-
trary to what happened in 1975, the impact of the shortfall was transmitted
immediately to the rest of the economy, and there was a sharp contraction of
economic activity. With the exception of tourism and government services, all
sectors of the economy registered a significant decline. In 1980 GDP was about



- 3 -
8.8 percent lower than in 1979. There was a slight economic recovery in 1981,
which did not compensate for the decline of 1980. Sugar production recovered
but was still below normal because of a drought in the early part of the year.
The good performance of non-sugar manufacturing which benefited from the success
of knitwear exports to new markets and a shift in domestic demand towards
locally produced goods was offset by the decline in construction activity
resulting from higher costs for materials and credit restraints. On the demand
side, gross capital formation continued to follow the declining trend initiated
in 1978, largely as a consequence of the successive losses incurred by the sugar
industry in 1979-81. Stock levels, reflecting mainly the swings in sugar
production, were replenished in 1981 as output recovered and shipments proceeded
at a slower pace.
8.       The slowdown of economic activity was associated with a decline in
employment. Employment surveys in September 1980 and March 1981 indicate
successive reductions in the numbers employed, while unemployment increased
sharply, to about 12 percent of the labor force in 1981.
9.        The Government's current budgetary accounts for 1979/80 and 1980/81
continued to show a deficit. The Government's success in reducing the 1979/80
deficit to only about one third of the 1978/79 deficit was short-lived, since
current expenditures grew faster than tax revenues due to the bad sugar crop,
the 1979 devaluation, and falling sugar prices in 1981. The current fiscal
deficit for 1980/81 was about the same as in 1978/79. With continued growth of
government expenditure, the overall deficit increased from 10.8 percent of GDP
in 1979/80 to 12.8 percent in 1980/81.
10.       After a slight improvement in 1980, the balance of payments again
deteriorated in 1981. From $145 million in 1979, the current deficit fell to
$119 million in 1980, and then increased to $140 million in 1981; expressed as a
proportion of GDP, the deficit remained about 11 percent. However, the change
between 1980 and 1981 is to some extent misleading, being due entirely to low
sugar exports in 1981. Net of exports of sugar and molasses, the current
account balance of payments in fact improved substantially in 1981, compared
with 1980. The disappointing sugar exports, combined with unfavorable terms of
trade, more than offset a reduction in the volume of imports, and the fact that
the increase in interest payments, resulting from the increase in external debt
and the surge of interest rates on the international inarkets, was partly offset
by higher transfer receipts.
11.       The increased recourse to foreign borrowing had a direct impact on the
outstanding and disbursed foreign public debt, which reached about $375 million
by the end of 1981.  With increased borrowing froma commercial banks and other
financial institutions, and the rise of interest rates on the international
market, overall terms of external borrowing hardened. As a consequence, from
$19 million in 1979, debt service obligations increased to $47.6 million in
1981, i.e. about 9.3 percent of export earnings.
12.       Structural Adjustment.  In view of the present macro-economic
situation, the Government has now had to reassess its whole development policy.
This reassessment has led it to develop a full adjustment program, including
measures designed to increase output and exports, as well as demand management
policies.  The adjustment program envisages an annual ^DP growth rate of 3.0 to



- 4 -
3.5 percent over the period ending in 1986. This objective is consistent both
with the medium term development potential of the economy, and with a decline in
the current account balance of payments deficit from an estimated 11 percent of
GDP in 1981 to a projected level of 3 percent in 1986. An essential feature of
the program is the expected improvement in capital productivity to be achieved
through fuller utilization of existing capacity and, more importantly, a shift
in the allocation of both private and public investment towards directly produc-
tive sectors and supporting facilities. The public sector investment program
(PSIP) shows a switch from social sector investment to economic infrastructure,
and a reduction in public sector investment from about 13 percent of GDP in
1979/80 to 9 percent in 1984/85. The share of health, education and housing in
public investment, which had risen from 5 percent in 1973/74 to as much as 25
percent in 1978/79, is planned to be brought down to about 9 percent by
1984/85. At the same time, the allocation for basic infrastructure - power,
transport, telecommunications, water and sewerage - is to go up from about 20
percent to 46 percent of total public investment.
13.       In May 1981 the World Bank approved a $15 million loan to Mauritius in
support of this program of structural adjustment. In the Statement of Develop-
ment Policy, on which the loan was based, Government indicated that a major
purpose of the program was, by increasing the efficiency of the public sector
and other means, to free resources for private investment in manufacturing,
tourism, agriculture and other areas necessary for further growth of the economy
and for maintenance of the capital stock, particularly in the sugar sector. The
program complemented the IMF stabilization program which had been developed as
part of a series of stand-by agreements between 1979 and December 1981. The
structural adjustment program described in the Statement focused on:
(a) implementation of a series of measures aimed at stimulating
production, export and investment in the industrial sector, and
development of further measures to this end;
(b) development of policies and technical proposals to stimulate
agricultural production other than sugar;
(c) establishment of a commission of enquiry, and a preparatory unit
for this commission, so as to assess the present status of the
sugar industry and to develop policies conducive to the long term
strength of the industry;
(d) establishment of an energy planning unit and the drawing up of a
national energy plan, including an assessment of the potential use
of bagasse for power generation;
(e) an assessment of the problems facing the tourist industry;
(f) a series of measures aimed at greater efficiency in public sector
agencies and at reducing their demands on the budget;
(g) a restructuring of the public sector investment program, placing
greater emphasis on production; and
(h) definition of a debt management policy and strengthening debt
management capacity.



- 5 -
The Government has also sought the Bank's support for its program, through
organization of a Consultative Group, which met in October 1980, and technical
assistance in a number of areas.
14.       The various elements of the adjustment program should bring about a
decline of about 60 percent in real terms in the resource gap between 1979/80
and 1984/85. Yet external capital will still be needed during the period on a
much larger scale than in the past. Forecasts of capital requirements take
account of the need to build up foreign exchange reserves, while servicing
existing external debt. A sizeable part of the existing debt was contracted on
hard terms.  These unfavorable factors are compounded by the likely deteriora-
tion in the terms of trade. Gross external capital requirements are projected
to rise from $135 million in 1980 to about $190 million in 1985. The amount of
public external borrowing needed, however, will partly depend on Mauritius'
ability to attract foreign private investment. Lending from private souces
could average $30 million a year over the period 1982/85, and as a result of
Government's investment promotion effort and growing confidence, direct invest-
ment inflows could increase to $30 million by 1985. In view of the economy's
heavy dependence on imports of food, energy, and essential industrial imports,
borrowing to finance the balance of payments deficit will be important for some
years to come.
15.       Prospects for mobilizing aid are reasonably favourable, having regard
to the recent diversification of official sources of external loans. In recent
years Mauritius has benefited from assistance from a number of donors. The
African Development Bank, France (which committed about $45 million in 1979 and
80), the European Investment Bank and the European Economic Community (which
provided about $40 million during the period of the first Lome Convention,
1976-80), the OPEC Fund, BADEA, IJK, USA, and the Kuwait, Abu Dhabi, and Saudi
Funds have been among those countries and agencies which have provided, or which
now expect to provide, aid on a significant scale. During the 1980 Consultative
Group meeting all donors present indicated a continuing interest in supporting
Mauritius with project aid. In addition, France extended about $10 million in
program assistance in 1981, while Australia and the EEC also provided emergency
assistance, and the USA is providing about $8 million in PL480 food aid and
other non-project assistance in 1981/82. Sizeable balance of payments
assistance is likely to be forthcoming from the TMF, which indicated at the CG
meeting that it was prepared to make available additional resources amounting to
about SDR 30 million ($37 million) annually over the next three years, if
appropriate agreement could be reached with the Government. In December 1981,
the IMF approved a Standby Agreement of SDR 30 million, to be released in four
tranches. The first two tranches have been drawn, the third depends on a
m id-term review in about June 1982.  In addition to project assistance, the Bank
has fully disbursed the $15 million structural adjustment loan of May 1981 and
will consider further such loans in subsequent years if the Government's
structural adjustment program proceeds satisfactorily.
Creditworthiness
16.       The borrowing program described above, together with the effect of the
supply-side measures in the adjustment program to increase exports, imply a
debt service ratio rising to about 15 percent by 1985 and then declining
slightly by the end of the decade. Many developing countries have experienced
higher ratios than this. Nevertheless, Government recognizes that the present



-6-
level represents a warning signal, for the following reasons:  (i) Mauritius is
an open economy where exports account for almost 40 percent of GDP; (ii)
Mauritius is heavily dependent on one single export crop for which prices
fluctuate on the world market, and production is affected by cyclones; (iii)
Mauritius no longer has sufficient foreign exchange reserves to face the
eventuality of a major cyclone; and (iv) any growth in the debt service ratio as
rapid as the one recently experienced by Mauritius requires careful attention.
Given the Government recognition of the problem, and its determination and
demonstrated ability to follow a program of structural adjustment, complemented
by continued standby programs with the IMF, and given the continued strength of
its major export earning industries, Mauritius is creditworthy for the borrowing
program described above.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
17.       To date Mauritius has received five IDA credits and twelve Bank loans
(including one loan on Third Window terms) totalling $130.5 million, to help
finance projects in industry ($33.5 million), power ($22.0 million),-the port
($13.6 million), agriculture and rural development ($9.2 million), urban
development ($15.0 million), and education ($22.2 million). The most recent
loan approved by the Executive Directors was of $15.0 million for Structural
Adjustment (the SAL) on May 26, 1981 (Number 2010-MAS). An IFC loan for hotel
construction was approved by the Board in 1981, but was subsequently cancelled
because the sponsors decided to postpone the project. IFC is at present
considering other proposed investments.
18.       The Bank plans to support the program of structural adjustment with a
lending program which places a heavy emphasis on transfer of resources through
non-project aid, and with technical assistance through economic and sector
work. The program will also continue to concentrate on supporting the
Government's strategy of economic diversification and employment creation
through the development of industry, energy, and necessary infrastructure to
meet the needs of growing industrialization. We intend accordingly to
participate in projects designed to improve and expand public infrastructure and
related institutions. Following the recent Government decision to strengthen
the Central Water Authority's financial position by allowing an increase in
water tariffs, we are processing a water supply project; a road maintenance
project is under preparation. We may also support the Government's educational
reforms through a third education project, depending on steps taken by
Government to strengthen its program of technical education and training. A
small-scale agriculture project has recently been appraised on behalf of IFAD.
19.       Implementation of current projects is generally satisfactory.  On the
other hand, the first rural development project had mixed success in achieving
its objectives, while the tea project, also recently completed, encountered
problems caused by falling international tea prices, inadequacies in project
management and equipment, and lack of interest from laborers in working on tea
plantations and from smallholders in taking over tea plots. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank Group operations in Mauritius as of March 31, 1982,



- 7 -
as well as notes on the status of ongoing projects. Mauritius' disbursement
performance has been reasonable. Although in fiscal years 1980 and 1981 it was
below the Bank-wide average, that average includes disbursements on non-project
loans. The inclusion of the rapidly disbursed first SAL, signed on May 12,
1981, effective on June 24, 1981, completely disbursed by January 7, 1982, will
probably show that Mauritius currently has a record better than the Bank-wide
average. A comparative disbursement table is included in Annex II. A follow-up
unit is being established in the Ministry of Economic Planning and Development,
with IFAD support, under the recently appraised small-scale agriculture project:
this unit should lead to some improvement in project implementation. By and
large, Mauritian implementing agencies are well able to handle project
responsibilities.
20.       Two audit reports have so far been prepared by the Operations
Evaluation Department: Report No. 2101 of June 20, 1978 on the first line of
credit made to the Development Bank of Mauritius (Credit No. 313) and Report
No. 3761 of December 31, 1981 on the Tea Development Project (Credit No. 238).
The DBM report showed that the project had made a valuable contribution to
development of the Mauritian economy (below, paragraph 48). The tea project
report discussed the problems encountered by the Project (paragraph 19),and
concluded that it had not been successful, especially because of the
institutional difficulties arising from the agency created in connection with
the project, the Tea Development Authority.
LII. SECTORS RELATED TO DBM OPERATIONS
A. The Industrial Sector
Background, Strategy and Incentives.
21.       Sugar milling and related activities were the main forms of industrial
activity until the mid-1960s when the Government embarked on a policy of
economic diversification. Its strategy was to stimulate private foreign and
domestic investment in manufacturing and tourism through: (a) provision of
physical infrastructure; (b) fiscal and financial incentives; and (c)
encouraging the financial sector to provide credit facilities, in particular
through the government-owned Development Bank of Mauritius (DBM). The strategy
initially focussed on developing import substituting activities, and only later
emphasized export-oriented industries and tourism.
22.       The first comprehensive set of policies aimed at diversifying the
economic base of Mauritius was the Development Certificate (DC) Scheme,
introduced in 1964 and still in operation with some modifications and
amendments. This aimed at encouraging the development of import substitution
enterprises. The scheme provides exemptions from corporate income tax for five
to eight years and from duties on imported capital goods. Domestic
manufactures, especially in new sub-sectors, are given a varying degree of
protection against import competition, on a case-by-case basis. As of June



-8-
1981, 115 manufacturing enterprises and 12 hotels, employing 8,800 workers, had
benefited from this scheme.
23.       Because of the limited scope for viable import substitution, in 1970
the Government sought to promote export-oriented manufacturing through the
Export Processing Zone (EPZ) Scheme. EPZ firms are exempt from import duties on
capital goods and raw materials. They are granted (i) a corporation tax holiday
for ten years, and tax at reduced rates for a further ten, (ii) a waiver of
taxes on dividends for five years, (iii) free repatriation of profits, (iv)
export finance at preferential rates, (v) liberal work permits for necessary
expatriate staff, and (vi) preferential rates for electricity and harbour dues.
Local sales by EPZ enterprises are restricted, to prevent competition with other
local manufacturers, but a small proportion of output can be sold on the local
market with the approval of the Customs authorities, after payment of duty. As
of June, 1981, 103 enterprises were operating under the EPZ scheme, employing
about 22,500 people. Their 1981 exports were estimated at about Rs 1,100
million, representing 90 percent of their total production; EPZ value-added has
been estimated at about 40 percent of output.
24.       Industrial estate development began in 1968 when DBM started the
construction of the Plaine Lauzun estate in Port Louis. The first line of
credit to DBM (Credit 313-MAS, approved in 1972) allocated $400,000 for
buildings at Plaine Lauzun. Completed in 1978, this estate (427,000 sq.ft.) is
Inow fully occupied, by firms employing about 6,000 people. The Credit also
financed a feasibility study of a second estate at Coromandel, near Port Louis,
for which an IDA Credit (No. 411-MAS) of $4.0 million was approved in June
1973. The factory space at Coromandel (625,000 sq.ft.) is 60 percent occupied,
with 39 industrial and non-industrial establishments. Coromandel also provides
serviced land, which is over 60 percent leased, to establishments that need
special structures, or prefer to build according to their own specifications.
About 1,600 people are employed at Coromandel. Occupancy at Coromandel has been
lower than expected at appraisal because of the slowdown in economic activity
and industrial investment at about the time construction was completed. In
addition, the multi-floor design makes upper level space less attractive. DBM
has accordingly allowed temporary non-industrial use of some parts of the
estate. For a brief summary of the conclusions of the Project Completion Report
on this credit see paragraphs 49 and 50.
25.       The existence of Plaine Lauzun and Coromandel has been a positive
factor for industrial development in Mauritius. DBM has also acquired land for
other estates or for serviced land for industry, but does not believe that
demand exists at present. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry believes that
built space and serviced land should be available well in advance, so that
prospective investors would not be deterred because of the lack of facilities.
Government has undertaken, in the context of the SAL, to review the administra-
tive arrangements governing the industrial estate program and the need for
factory space and serviced land in the future. The report of this study and an
implementation program will be reviewed with the Bank by March 31, 1983 (draft
Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.04).



-9-
Recent Industrial Performance
26.       Following introduction of the EPZ scheme, the manufacturing sector
grew rapidly until 1975. Annual growth in constant price value-added between
1971 and 1975 averaged 17 percent, in employment 17 percent and in current price
value of exports over 100 percent. Growth slackened between 1976 and 1981, with
employment rising by about 11 percent p.a. and exports by about 35 percent per
annum in current terms. In 1980, the sector, excluding sugar milling and tea
factories, contributed about 13 percent of GDP at factor cost and about 37
percent of total exports; employment in large manfuacturing establishments (that
is those employing ten or more people) was approximately 36,000, representing 30
percent of employment in large enterprises. Small manufacturing enterprises
employed an estimated 14,000 people. The manufacturing sector's principal
products are shown in Table 1:
Table 1
Employment and Value Added
in Manufacturing Industries - 1980
Employment             Value Added
No.       %         Rs million    _
Food, beverages & tobacco         5,139      14.2          224         26.5
Textiles & clothing              19,570      54.0          272         32.2
Wood & paper products             2,492       6.9           65          7.7
Metal & mineral products          3,909      10.7          136         16.1
Other manufacturing               5,138      14.2          147         17.4
Total                  36,272    100.0           844        100.0
of which: EPZ                 21,208      58.5         306         36.3
DC & Others        15,064      41.4          538         63.7
Source: Central Statistical Office
Textiles and clothing, principally knitwear, are the major manufacturing
activity, accounting for a little over half the sector's employment and about
one-third of the value added. Mauritius is now the fourth largest exporter of
knitwear in the world.
27.       EPZ enterprises, particularly in textiles and clothing, accounted for
a large part of the arowth in manufacturing in the 1970s. Initially, the EPZ
scheme succeeded because of Mauritius' relatively low labor costs, its invest-
ment incentives, and its preferential access to the EEC. These gave Mauritius
an advantage over other developing countries seeking access to the EEC market,
in particular those in the Far East. In the mid-1970s, rising wages and other
domestic costs reduced that relative advantage; the competition for foreign



- 10 -
capital and entrepreneurship became very keen, with many countries providing
generous incentives and setting up export processing zones; the EEC extended the
preferential treatment to other countries, and industrial countries increased
protection, particularly for textiles and clothing. Finally, the deteriorating
financial situation of the sugar industry and the general slowdown in the
economy reduced the availability of risk capital, and adversely affected the
initiative and entrepreunerial activities of Mauritius' main commercial and
industrial groups, whose ownership is closely linked to that of the sugar
industry.
28.       Industrial enterprises in Mauritius are 98 percent owned by the
private sector.  Foreign ownership is much larger in EPZ enterprises than those
producing for the local market. While ownership of smaller enterprises is
widely dispersed, local ownership of large establishments is mostly in the hands
of major Mauritian commercial and sugar interests, through a complex system of
holding companies.
29.       Small-scale enterprises are especially assisted by Government in that
they benefit from DBM's scheme to provide financial support under advantageous
terms (below, paragraphs 67 and 70). Government provides DBM with a guarantee
on losses under its SSE loans. A Small-Scale Industries Unit has existed in the
Ministry of Industry and Commerce since 1975, staffed with two foreign experts
and two local professionals. This unit has so far restricted its activities to
ad hoc assistance and data gathering.
Sectoral Issues
30.       The present levelling off in the rate of industrial exports, the drop
in industrial investment, both from domestic and foreign sources, some
weaknesses in infrastructure and communications, and deficiencies in the
existing administrative arrangements, will all continue to constrain the growth
of industry, unless decisions are taken to reduce these constraints. Increased
export promotion is desirable: Mauritius needs to maintain its position in the
export markets where it is already established, such as the EEC, and to
establish new export markets. The world recession, increasing protection in
Western Europe and the US, and the rising competition from many other countries
who are following a similar export strategy, could complicate this task.
However, since Mauritian industrial output in most sectors (except knitwear) is
small, relative to consumption levels in most major overseas markets, it needs
only to increase its share in any market by a small amount, to increase
production by a relatively significant amount. Its chances of future industrial
growth are thus less affected by the world recession than are larger countries.
31.       Mauritius has recently taken several additional measures to promote
exports, partly in the context of the SAL. Tax relief was extended to firms
exporting services or re-exporting merchandise, and to non-EPZ firms which
expand exports. An Export Credit Guarantee Scheme was started in May 1981 by
DBM, with the Government and the Bank of Mauritius underwriting the scheme for
the first five years of operation (paragraph 73). This scheme provides coverage
to commercial banks in Mauritius against default by Mauritian exporters. DBM
also plans to introduce an Export Credit Insurance Scheme that would cover the



- 11 -
exporter against risk of non-payment by the foreign buyer, a need which is felt
by both exporters and commercial banks. An Export Promotion Unit has been
established in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry; Mauritius participated in
trade fairs in Paris and Berlin, and the potential for Mauritian exports in
mid-Eastern markets was assessed by consultants. Finally, Mauritius took an
active part in the negotiations for a preferential trading area among Southern
African States. Exchange rate adjustments in 1979 and September 1981 reduced
the relative cost of Mauritian labor. The improved competitive position has
been maintained by wage policies over the past three years, during which wages
have fallen substantially in real terms. Better management and lower absentee
rates have reportedly led to increased productivity to levels that compare well
with those in other competitive countries.
32.       A second major constraint to the growth of the industrial sector has
been the decline in investment. Gross fixed capital formation in manufacturing
fell by 50 percent between 1976 and 1980, and its share of total investment
declined from about 31 percent to about 16 percent during the period. Mauritius
needs to intensify efforts to promote investment both from domestic sources and
by foreign investors. Over the past two years, in the context of the SAL, the
Government has accordingly undertaken several initiatives aimed at fostering
investment. It extended the tax holidays for EPZ enterprises on a declining
scale, and introduced a tax credit of 12.5 percent of funds invested in shares
of new manufacturing enterprises, up to certain limits. Double taxation
agreements were signed with the U.K. and France, and another is being negotiated
with India. A U.K. firm has been hired, with EEC finance, to promote
investment, in addition to that operating in France.
33.       Although the above measures are useful, a number of issues remain.
There is need for a clearly enunciated, long term industrial policy, so as to
give an assurance of stability in incentives and protection. The high income
tax rates (70 percent for individuals and 66 percent for companies) may be
substantial disincentives to entrepreneurs, and may encourage certain firms to
move out of Mauritius once their tax holiday expires. The system for
administering industrial policies and promotion could usefully be reorganized
and strengthened, so as to make it more simple, efficient and so as not to
discourage new investors. One possibility would be to centralize within one
body the necessary powers to formulate and implement policies for promotion of
industry, with appropriate participation from the private sector. This needs to
be accompanied by an increase in the promotion budget.
34.       The above issues would be addressed by a study of the industrial
sector that Government has stated its intention to undertake under the SAL. The
study would evaluate the system of incentives to investors, and identify
measures which could promote and sustain industrial investment and growth. A
major aspect that deserves attention and is also to be studied, under the SAL,
is the need for industrial estates and serviced land, and the organizational
framework for administering industrial policy and industrial estates. In
addition, Government plans to review the structure of the financial sector and
its adequacy for channelling funds into productive activities, and for providing
facilities which might foster development of export industry. Results of all of
the above studies, and a program for implementing reforms, would be discussed
with the Bank by March 31, 1983. Funds would be available from the proposed



- 12 -
loan for the Government to finance these studies, as appropriate. (draft
Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.04; draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.01).
Prospects
35.       The declining growth in manufacturing output over the past three
years, the precarious financial situation of several enterprises in the textile
subsector, the fall in foreign investment, and the generally depressed economic
situation, all indicate that the industrial sector will experience at best
modest growth in the near future. In the medium to long term, the prospects
could be significantly brighter, provided that the Government moves to
implement the policy initiatives required to promote industrial investment and
exports, that the sugar industry can regain its strength and leading role in the
Mauritian economy, that Mauritius does not encounter significant additional
trade barriers, and that demand in industrial countries does not fall further.
If these factors are favorable, Mauritius has the potential to generate
significant industrial growth.
B. The Sugar Sector
36.       Despite the increasing importance of manufacturing and tourism, the
sugar sector still dominates the Mauritian economy. In 1980, it employed about
28 percent of the labor force, provided nearly 70 percent of exports and about
13 percent of GDP, and used about 90 percent of cultivable land. The sugar
industry in Mauritius is efficient and well organized, but its potential for
future growth is limited. Sugar production has averaged 675,000-700,000 tons
per year, although in 1980 and 1981 it has been reduced by cyclones and
drought. Mainly because of these events, and also because the export duty on
sugar was increased in 1979 to average 19 percent of exports, the industry
reportedly operated at a loss in those years. The 20 large miller-planter
companies, which contribute almost two-thirds of the crop and who pay duty of
23.625 percent on exports, claim they have been particularly hard hit.
37.       Partly because of this situation, commercial banks had started by
mid-1981 to curtail their credit for financing the sugar harvest. The crisis
was averted when the September 1981 devaluation restored the industry's
liquidity. Unless long-term profitability prospects improve, the sugar industry
may have little inclination to proceed with the necessary investments to improve
productivity or to modernize facilities. The Government is aware of the
importance of a healthy sugar industry to the economy, and has stated in the
context of the SAL that it will set up a Commission of Enquiry to examine the
sugar industry's long-term problems and prospects; the Commission's report is
expected by June 1983, and implementation will be discussed as part of the
continuing SAL dialogue. When prospects for the industry do improve, the sector
will have significant needs for investment, both to continue present harvest
mechanization programs and to replace and upgrade existing machinery. It
expects also to pursue its diversification efforts and thus to continue to
invest in other sectors.



- 13 -
C. The Tourism Sector
38.       Tourism is now Mauritius' third most important foreign exchange
earner, after sugar and manufacturing. Tourist arrivals increased rapidly in
the early seventies, from 28,000 in 1969, reaching 128,400 in 1979, the peak
year. Bad weather, increased airfares and recession in the countries of origin
reduced tourism in 1980, but in 1981 there was a revival to about the 1979
level. Foreign exchange earnings increased from Rs 280 million in 1979, to Rs
360 million in 1980, mainly as a consequence of devaluation. The industry is
seasonal with the main peak arrival period between December and February and a
secondary peak in August. The most important countries of origin are Reunion
(about 25 percent), South Africa (about 20 percent) and France (about 19 per-
cent). In 1980, tourism provided about 18,000 jobs and 4 percent of GDP. At
the end of 1981 there were 49 tourist accomodation establishments (including 38
hotels) with a total of 2,175 rooms and 4,419 beds (of which hotels accounted
for 3,888). The rapid increase in hotel capacity between 1970 and 1978, which
kept well ahead of the pace of growth of tourist arrivals, meant that occupancy
was low in the mid-1970s and most hotels were operating at a loss. By 1979 the
average occupancy rates had risen considerably and most of the main hotels are
now operating at between 65-75 percent of capacity, or above break-even levels.
Given the present capacity, no significant investment is expected in the sector
in 1982.
39.       Mauritius' tourist clientele is from the narrow, high income segment
of the market, which is increasingly being sought by other countries. The
increasing cost of air travel has also made Mauritius an expensive holiday loca-
tion for tourists from Europe, who constitute about 40 percent of tourist
arrivals and provide over 50 percent of total tourist expenditures. The future
prosperity of the tourist industry in Mauritius therefore depends on its ability
both to continue to attract its clientele from traditional markets and to   dev-
elop alternative sources, such as expatriates working in the Middle East.
Mauritius needs to reconsider the size and orientation of its tourism promotion
effort, which to date has made relatively good use of an extremely limited pro-
motional budget (Rs 7 million for 1981-1982), and to consider the use of air
charters. A review of current air access facilities and costs is being carried
out by consultants for the Government, financed by UNDP with the Bank as execut-
ing agency. The report of the study is expected by June 1982. It should permit
identification of an access strategy to facilitate access at a reasonable cost
while maintaining the market image Mauritius has cultivated:  implementation of
the recommendations will be discussed as part of the SAL dialogue.
D. The Financial Sector
40.       The financial system in Mauritius is relatively well developed.  It
consists of the Bank of Mauritius (the Central Bank); eleven commercial banks
which have branches around the country, all of which are private, except the
public-sector State Commercial Bank; two financial corporations making medium-
and large-term loans, the Mauritius Finance Corporation, subsidiary of the
Mauritius Commercial Bank and the newly established but not yet operational



- 14 -
State Finance Corporation, subsidiary of the State Commercial Bank; the
Mauritius Cooperative Central Bank which extends credit to cooperatives,
especially to small sugar planters cooperatives; the Post Office Savings Bank;
the Development Bank of Mauritius (DBM); the Mauritius Housing Corporation
(which benefits from a component of the IBRD loan for the Urban Project, No.
1926); a number of other institutions such as pension funds, insurance
companies, investment trusts, pension funds; and the Sugar Insurance Fund, which
charges a premium on all sugar production and pays benefits following drought or
cyclone damage to sugar crops.
41.       DBM (paras. 56 to 83 below) is the country's sole institutional source
of medium and long-term foreign exchange loans; it also provides some local
currency term finance. In recent years, DBM appears to have provided around one
fourth of the funds for investment in industry, the other main sources being
internal financing (which is important because many firms belong to corporate
groups), borrowing from Mauritius Finance Corporation, and rolled-over funds
from commercial banks. Direct foreign investment has been low. Since exchange
controls have not been operated to restrict imports, firms having local currency
were able to obtain imported machinery without borrowing from DBM. DBM's
advantage of offering somewhat lower interest rates is obviated by the foreign
exchange risk, which sub-borrowers are increasingly reluctant to assume after
two devaluations. However, the Bank of Mauritius may now become more
restrictive in administering exchange control. The Government's consideration
of plans to establish the State Finance Corporation (SFC) was accelerated in
mid-1981 in response to the liquidity crisis affecting the sugar industry. SFC
was intended to mobilize resources locally, primarily to provide funds to the
sugar industry, but has the power to lend to other sectors. Since it is expected
SFC will lend only in local currency, it is unlikely to have a significant
impact on DBM. Both the date when SFC will start operation and the type of
financing it will in fact provide are still uncertain, but its role in the
financial sector needs to be carefully assessed by the Mauritian authorities.
42.       Mauritius' relatively sophisticated financial system seems to be per-
forming its function adequately. However, there are certain aspects of this
system that need to be studied to determine if changes could facilitate the
development of Mauritian industry. The availability of credit to EPZ enter-
prises and the impact of the maximum lending rate for EPZ firms, which is fixed
by the Bank of Mauritius, could usefully be examined. Analysis of the relative
roles of the various institutions involved in providing term resources to
industry, and how these can be rationalized and made more effective, would also
be important, particularly in the light of the creation of the SFC. Government
has decided that as a part of its study of the industrial sector, being carried
out in the context of the SAL (paragraph 34), it will review the role of the
financial sector and its impact upon industrial development. The results of
this review would form a good basis for discussions of what changes, if any,
need to be made to make the financial sector more conducive to industrial
development.
Credit Policy and Interest Rates
43.       Between December 1978 and December 1981, commercial bank credit to the
private sector increased by nearly 50 percent; in real terms this represented



- 15 -
a reduction of some 15 percent. Total domestic credit increased at an annual
average rate of 25 percent, but this was largely due to the growth in credit to
the public sector (annual average of 34 percent). The continued balance of
payments deficit contributed to a moderate monetary expansion at an annual rate
of 12 percent. Credit expansion was achieved largely by mobilizing savings from
the private sector.
44.       The Bank of Mauritius has since 1977 increasingly sought to limit the
pace of commercial bank credit expansion, both by credit ceilings for individual
banks and by the use of a minimum liquid reserve ratio. Currently, each
commercial bank has to observe an overall credit ceiling as well as a specific
ceiling on credit to traders, and to maintain liquid reserves of 30 percent of
deposits. Banks have been encouraged by the authorities to favor EPZ and sugar
lending, within the overall ceilings. DBM and the two finance corporations are
exempt from the ceilings.
45.       Sectoral distribution of commercial bank credit has remained generally
stable in recent years with the sugar sector showing seasonal and annual
variations which were absorbed mainly by the lower priority sectors, such as
personal loans. Despite the tight liquidity situation, commercial banks over
the past two years were generally able to accommodate credit demand by the
directly productive sectors, although by mid-1981 the commercial banks were
showing signs of uneasiness about the high indebtedness of the sugar sector.
Although the prime rate is still controlled, it does not seem that it has had a
negative effect upon the availability of credit to exporters. The financing of
short-term needs of EPZ enterprises will improve once the export credit
guarantee scheme is complemented by an export insurance scheme. The Bank of
Mauritius, however, recognizes the need to keep the lending rates for EPZ
enterprises under review. To ease the exposure of EPZ enterprises to foreign
exchange risks, the Bank of Mauritius has also stated that it will allow them to
take forward cover. Few enterprises take advantage of this possibility,
however, probably because the procedures are complex.
46.       Until November 1981, the structure of interest rates for commercial
bank lending was set by the Bank of Mauritius. The interest rate structure has
increased substantially in recent years; the prime rate has since November 1981
been 14 percent, compared to 8 percent in March 1977. The maximum rate
applicable to EPZ and other priority borrowers is now also 14 percent, compared
to 8 1/4 percent in 1977. Other lending rates were freed in November 1981, as
part of the package for the December 1981 IMF Standby Agreement, and currently
vary between 15.5 and 20.0. Minimum deposit rates currently range from 9 to 12
percent depending on the term. Goverment is keeping the effect of the present
limits under review. DBM interest rates are discussed in paragraphs 67-68.
Inflation rates have come down in the past year, so that the structure provides
broadly positive real rates of interest.
World Bank Sector Strategy
47.       The Bank strategy is to support the Government in stimulating
development of activities to complement the sugar sector in generating foreign
exchange earnings and employment. Growth of such activities must mainly come
from export-oriented industry, tourism, agriculture and agro-industry other



- 16 -
than sugar, and import-substitution industry, for which scope is more
restricted. These activities are generally undertaken by the private sector,
which dominates the productive sectors of the Mauritian economy. They can
therefore best be financed through support to DBM. The Bank, in the context of
the SAL, is assisting in a series of measures to encourage the growth of
industrial products and exports. Industrial sector work has been carried out in
the context of the 1976 basic economic mission, the 1981 economic mission, and
in our structural adjustment work.
Experience Under Previous Projects
48.       The World Bank Group has made two IDA credits and four IBRD loans to
DBM. The conclusions of an audit report dated June 10, 1978, on the first IDA
Credit to DBM (No. 313-MAS) were: (i) DBM had generally developed into an
effective development bank; (ii) DBM's procedures were satisfactory, with only
supervision needing improvement and measures to do so were under way at the time
of publication of the report; (iii) DBM's financing had succeeded in helping to
diversify the industrial sector; and (iv) DBM had succeeded in promoting
employment. It was noted that because of the nature of projects financed (e.g.
textiles) most new employment was for women.
49.       After the completion of the construction of the Coromandel Industrial
Estate, which was assisted by an IDA Credit (No. 411-MAS), a project completion
report, dated August 28, 1981, concluded that the general objective of the
project of facilitating industrial development and generating employment through
the provision of advance factories and serviced sites had been met, but that the
specific targets on investment and employment had not been achieved, due mainly
to the slowdown of economic activity in Mauritius and inappropriate design of
buildings. Four lessons may be learned from experience with this project: (i)
in view of difficulties encountered in attracting labor to this large estate, it
might have been more appropriate to construct a larger number of smaller
estates, or to have phased construction as originally planned; (ii) it may have
been more economical to construct more one-level buildings rather than
multi-level ones because of strong preference for ground floor space; (iii) it
might have been better to proceed with construction in two or more phases,
following demand but with some space always available for immediate occupancy,
rather than to construct the whole estate at once; and (iv) more attention
should have been paid to management and promotion of the industrial estate.
50.       Improvement in the investment climate, the development of an adjacent
housing project and the improvement of public transportation should permit an
improvement in the occupancy rates at Coromandel soon. There are, however,
questions that need to be answered about the course of future industrial
estate/serviced site development in Mauritius. The DBM has operated unoffi-
cially as a national agency responsible for industrial estate development and
has acquired valuable experience, but it does not have adequate power or finan-
cial and staff resources for this role. The need for reorganizing the adminis-
trative responsibility for the industrial estate program has been discussed on
several occasions since 1975, but no concrete action has been taken. The
Government has committed itself to review the situation, and to formulate a
comprehensive action program by March 1983 (above, paragraph 25).



- 17 -
51.       Commitment under the IBRD loans for the second, third and fourth DBM
lines of credit (Nos. 979, 1168, and 1481) has now been completed, and Loans 979
and 1168 are fully disbursed. Of Loan 1481, $1.8 million remains undisbursed.
Although not all the sub-projects that have been financed are operational, some
rough estimates of their overall contribution can be made. These three loans
which totalled $20 million helped create 4,680 jobs at an average cost of Rs
95,600, or about $16,000, in 51 sub-projects. The aggregate annual output of
the sub-projects is in excess of Rs 750 million, with about Rs 200 million in
value added and Rs 165 million in foreign exchange earnings or savings.
Commitment and disbursement in general proceeded well. A further completion
report for DBM projects will be prepared in 1983.
52.       Experience under the loan for the fifth line of credit (No. 1789) has
been broadly similar.  This $6.0 million loan, signed in January 1980, included
three components: (i) support for DBM's medium and large industrial/tourism
projects ($3.0 million); (ii) refinancing projects approved by eligible
commercial banks ($2.0 million); and (iii) support for the SSE program ($1.0
million). Implementation under (i) proceeded as expected and the funds were
committed by the specified date; subsequently, however, DBM cancelled a $1
million commitment a hotel which was to be cofinanced with IFC (paragraph 17),
because the sponsors decided to postpone the project, and the funds are
available for re-commitment. Progress under (iii) was slower than expected at
appraisal, partly because of the general deterioration in economic
circumstances, and probably partly because projected commitments had been
optimistic. DBM's lending to SSEs has increased since appraisal, both
absolutely and as a proportion of total lending, but still less rapidly than
expected at appraisal, despite the active promotion undertaken by DBM's SSE
unit. Since only about $500,000 is expected to be committed to SSEs by
December 1982, $500,000 was accordingly reallocated for general use in
January 1982.
53.       On the other hand, the pilot program for refinancing commercial bank
projects could not be implemented. Agreement by the IBRD on the terms and
conditions under which such funds would be made available by DBM to the
commercial banks was reached by the deadline specified in the Loan Agreement,
June 30, 1980. However, the three eligible banks could not reach agreement with
DBM: legal objections were raised, and it became increasingly evident that the
clients of commercial banks were reluctant to carry the foreign exchange risk.
Those firms to which the commercial banks were prepared to lend for investment
purposes in any case preferred to borrow local currency, even at higher interest
rates. They could use local currency loans to finance imports of capital goods,
since under Mauritian law an importer has the right to purchase foreign exchange
once he has an import licence, and import licences were granted freely for
capital goods. The funds thus earmarked appeared unlikely to be used and were
reallocated to DBM's general lending operations. DBM expects to commit the
balance remaining under the fifth line of credit within the next six months.
IV. THE PROJECT
54.       The proposed project would be the seventh World Bank Group operation
with DBM, a major institutional source of term finance. It is the sixth to



- 18 -
provide a line of credit for part of DBM's foreign exchange requirements. The
project was appraised in November 1981. A staff appraisal report (No. 2544-MAS)
recommending the previous loan to DBM, the Fifth Line of Credit, was distributed
to the Executive Directors in December 1979. It showed that DBM was a finan-
cially sound, profitable institution, with capable management and staff, which
played a vital role in the development of the Mauritian economy. The financial
data in that report have been updated (Annexes IV through VII); other results of
the recent appraisal have been incorporated in Parts III and IV of this Presi-
dent's Report, which are accordingly somewhat expanded. A separate appraisal
report is not being distributed. Negotiations took place in Washington during
April, 1982, with a delegation including Messrs. D.P. Gupta, Managing Director
of DBM and Mr. R. Maugendre, Permanent Secretary of Commerce and Industry. A
Supplementary Data Sheet is attached (Annex III).
Objectives of the Project
55.       The general objective of the proposed loan would be to build on the
generally successful six previous projects, which have strengthened DBM as a
development bank. At the same time, it would reinforce Bank Group efforts to
assist development of industry and tourism in Mauritius, which is a major part
of the Government's adjustment program.  It complements the SAL approved in
1981. Specifically, the loan would provide DBM with untied foreign exchange
resources for 1982/83 and 1983/84, necessary for it to continue to play a
meaningful role in the development of the Mauritian economy by financing econom-
ically justified productive investment through term financing in the above
sectors. It would also provide up to $300,000 to finance studies of the indus-
trial and financial sectors (above, paragraph 34).  If these funds are not used
by December 31, 1983, they will revert to DBM to be used in its normal
operations.
History and Objectives of DBM
56.       Established in 1964 as a Government-owned statutory corporation to
finance worthwhile development projects, DBM has over the years established
itself as a major term lending institution, particularly of foreign exchange re-
sources, for projects in industry and tourism and to some extent in agricul-
ture. It is financially sound, and competently operated. It provides term
loans, equity investment or guarantees, as well as managerial and technical
assistance. DBM also has responsibility for constructing and operating indus-
trial estates in Mauritius, providing loans for small-scale enterprises (SSEs),
and operating the export credit guarantee scheme. By providing term finance,
DBM continues to play an important role in supporting the country's development
strategy, which places special emphasis upon continued growth by manufacturing,
in general, and by export-oriented industry in particular. It may however be
that despite its central position, DBM has recently not demonstrated as
aggressive an investment promotion policy as this strategy requires.
57.       In the light of the changing economic situation, the Bank has proposed
to DBM that it reexamine its operational strategy. A strategy statement was
accordingly prepared by DBM management, and approved by its Board. However,
this statement contained little more than a summary and a re-affirmation of
Government's industrial policy. It did not provide, as the Bank considers



- 19 -
necessary, an active investment strategy for DBM, nor did it propose relevant
action programs. DBM would prepare and review with the Goverment and the Bank a
new strategy statement by December 31, 1982 (draft Guarantee Agreement, Section
3.03; draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.06). Details of what might be included in
such a statement were discussed at negotiations. We would expect it to include
an expression of the role that DBM expects to play in the various sectors, in
supporting Government's adjustment program, as well as plans and programs that
it will develop to do so. It should include further an estimate of the
resources, both financial and staff, required for that purpose.
58.       DBM has developed close relationships with other financial
institutions both within and outside Mauritius. It is a shareholder in the
State Commercial Bank (SCB), a Government-owned institution, with which it has
cooperated on a scheme to assist SSEs, whereby DBM provides the term resources
and the State Commercial Bank finances working capital. DBM remains ready to
collaborate with commercial banks to refinance appropriate investment projects,
although there are differences in approach between DBM and the commercial banks,
who are concerned more with security for their loans than the economic
justification of a sub-project. These differences make it unlikely that such
refinancing will become an important part of DBM's operations. DBM has also
succeeded in establishing close working and financial relationships with several
institutions outside Mauritius. Beside the World Bank Group, DBM has
successfully mobilized term resources from the CCCE from which it obtained two
loans (totalling about $3 million), the Industrial Development Bank of India
which lent DBM $4.5 million to finance transport equipment, and the EIB and ADB
which provided loans of $3.4 million and $2.4 million respectively.
DBM's Share Capital and Ownership
59.       DBM's authorized share capital was increased in June 1979 from Rs 31.4
million to Rs 50 million and is now fully paid. DBM is owned by the Government
(75 percent), the Bank of Mauritius (20 percent) and the State Insurance
Corporation of Mauritius (5 percent).
DBM's Management, Organization and Staffing
60.       DBM's Board of twelve Directors includes representatives of
Government (4), the private sector (4), the University of Mauritius (2) and the
Bank of Mauritius (1), as well as the Managing Director. The Financial
Secretary of the Ministry of Finance is currently chairman. The Board has
generally been reasonably effective in monitoring DBM's operations and providing
general policy guidance to management. However, its role has been more modest
as regards periodical review of DBM's operational plans and strategy. The fact
that it is composed of busy senior officials is at once a strength and, if
management does not try to involve the Board in consideration of appropriate
issues, a weakness, since they have little time to devote to DBM.
61.       DBM has had expatriate senior management since its creation.  The
current managing director, an expatriate with long development banking
experience in a developing country, joined DBM in May 1978 on a three-year
contract, which was extended until May 1982. Government and DBM are considering
a further extension of his contract and DBM would consult the Bank on the



- 20 -
qualifications and experience of any proposed appointee to the post of managing
director prior to appointment (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(c)).
62.       The Managing Director is assisted by an Assistant Managing Director, a
post now occupied by an experienced Mauritian. Together they oversee DBM's five
operating and one administrative divisions. The operating divisions include
three lending divisions (one each for industry, including tourism, small-scale
enterprise, and agriculture); the industrial estate division; and the newly
created industrial finance and guarantee division, which is responsible for
operating the Export Credit Guarantee Scheme (ECGS). DBM's staff, who are
competent, total 98: 32 professionals (including an advisor from India
assisting the ECGS division), 49 sub-professional and clerical staff, and 17
others. This represents an increase of 21 in total staff, and 5 in professional
staff, since the 1979 appraisal. About one-third of the increase is in the SSE
division, which has experienced considerable growth in the number of approvals,
though not in the total amount approved.
DBM's Operating Policies and Procedures
63.       DBM's overall operating policies are defined in its Statement of
General Policy, which is adequate: it is similar to that of many other
development banks. DBM keeps its lending rates under continuous review; they
have been increased twice since the 1979 appraisal, in order to maintain DBM's
sound financial position, while remaining competitive with other financial
institutions.
64.       DBM's appraisal and supervision procedures are satisfactory.  The
quality of project appraisal continues to be good and project supervision, as in
the past, concentrates on the projects encounteringS problems. However, because
the operations of DBM have levelled off and the staff increased both in number
and experience, more time is now being devoted to regular follow up of projects,
and streamlining of supervision procedures seems to have achieved improvements.
The establishment of a separate supervision department, as discussed at the time
of the last appraisal, no longer seems justified. The follow up of major
problem projects has been successful, except in the case of two large textile
projects which are being liquidated.
65.       DBM's procurement procedures require clients to seek competitive
quotations for equipment and construction contracts, which are then verified by
the investment officer responsible for appraisal. Thus for medium-sized
building contracts, quotations from reputable local contractors are obtained,
while for large-size construction, open tenders from classified contractors are
required. Similarly, for plant and equipment quotations are obtained from local
suppliers for smaller loans, and at least three quotations from suppliers are
required for larger loans. These procedures are similar to those followed by
other DFCs and are adequate.
66.       DBM's accounting procedures continue to be efficient and the
accounting division is well staffed with qualified personnel. Recently, DBM
changed auditors. The new auditor, Lamusse, Sek Sum and Co., is a local firm,
affiliated with the firm of Pannel, Kerr, Forster International Associates. It
is the second largest firm in Mauritius, with a diversified clientele in the
financial, manufacturing and commercial sectors, including engineering



- 21 -
enterprises and a commercial bank.  On the basis of the information provided by
DBM and discussions between the mission and the new auditor, it appears that the
latter is qualified. A particular problem, identified by the Industrial Estate
Project Completion Report, is that DBM does not at present have separately
audited accounts for its industrial estates: separate audited accounts for
1981/82 and subsequent years will be sent to the Bank within six months of the
end of each fiscal year (draft Loan Agreement Sections 4.01 and 4.02).
DBM's Terms of Lending
67.       The interest rates that DBM charges its clients depend upon the sector
and the size of the loan. The rate for medium and large industrial and tourism
projects was increased in April 1980 from 12 to 13 percent on foreign currency
loans and to 13.5 percent for local currency loans; rates were increased again
in November 1981 to 14.5 percent for both local and foreign currency loans.
Rates for agricultural borrowers, which in 1979 ranged from 8.5 percent to 12
percent, depending upon the size of the borrowers' holdings, were increased in
April 1980 and again in November 1981 and now range from 10 percent to 14.5
percent. The rates for SSEs were increased in November 1981, from 9 percent to
10 percent for loans of Rs 25,000 or less, and from 12 to 13 percent for larger
amounts. Clients also pay a commitment fee of 1 percent. For loans made from
foreign exchange resources, the Government carries the foreign exchange risk, at
no fee, on SSE loans of Rs 25,000 or less. On other loans, the borrowers carry
the exchange risk between the rupee and the U.S. dollar,2/ and the Government
carries the exchange risk between the U.S. dollar and the currencies of
disbursement. These arrangements which were agreed under the fourth and fifth
lines of credit are proposed to be continued under this sixth line of credit in
an appropriately modified form to take into account the establishment of the
currency pooling system.
68        Given the above interest rate structure, DBM4 borrowers who carry the
foreign exchange risk between the rupee and the U.S. dollar pay a positive real
cost on their borrowings. Three-fourths of DBM's operations belong to this
category. For the remaining fourth, that is loans made in local currency, with
an inflation rate of 42 percent in 1980 and about 15 percent in 1981, the real
cost has been negative. Since most of the local currency disbursements are
accounted for by SSEs and small agricultural borrowers, the concessionary
element is a reflection of Government's policy to encourage small borrowers to
develop and grow to provide employment. With inflation projected at an average
of 13 percent during 1982-84, the real interest charged by DBM would be positive
for all new loans, with the exception of those of Rs 25,000 or less for SSEs and
for the smaller agricultural borrowers, which Government wishes to continue to
encourage. These two groups are expected to account at most for 10 percent of
DBM's disbursements over the next five years. Overall, DBM's interest rate
policy seems satisfactory.
Operations
69.       DBM's operations reflect the rapid increase in industrial investment
in Mauritius during the 1972-78 period and the slowdown of economic activity
2/ Under the CCCE and IDBI loans, the borrowers carry the risk between the
Mauritian Rupee and the French Franc or the Indian Rupee, respectively.



- 22 -
since 1979. DBM's total approvals reached a peak of Rs 84.4 million in 1977,
declined slightly in 1978 (Rs 82.6 million), and sharply in 1979, to Rs 48.8
million, or by about 45 percent from 1977. Approvals then increased to Rs 51
million in 1980 and Rs 64 million in 1981 in nominal terms (Annex IV, Section
C). This represents a fall of 16 percent in real terms compared with 1979, but
a 4 percent increase over 1980. Nearly 90 percent of approvals are loans, the
bulk of which was made to medium and large industrial and tourism projects.
Commitments and disbursements followed a path somewhat similar to that of
approvals, with commitment averaging about Rs 57 million annually during
1979-1981, and disbursements about Rs 40 million.
70.       DBM has operated a successful small-scale enterprise (SSE) lending
scheme since 1971. Until 1979, the funds were provided by Government, and
subsequently from the fifth line of credit; the State Commercial Bank financed
working capital for SSEs obtaining term loans from DBM. The Government reim-
burses DBM the estimated cost of operating this scheme and also guarantees DBM
against loss from default from SSE loans of less than Rs 25,000.q/   The level
of activity as reflected by approvals has varied from year to year, both in
amount and number. DBM made about 700 SSE loans in 1979/80 and 1980/81, total-
ling Rs 6.2 million, compared to 2,753 loans for Rs 22.2 million since the
inception of the scheme in 1971.  These SSEs are small units, some of which are
artisanal, mostly managed by their owners, and employing few workers. Their
activities cover a wide range, with garment-making the most popular (30 percent
of total number but only 17.5 percent by amount), followed by light engineering,
furniture, mixed farming, leather-work and fishing. The average cost per job
created continues to be low, under Rs 10,000.
71.       Loans to medium and large-scale industrial/tourism enterprises
including agro-industry, have traditionally represented about 75 percent of
DBM's operations. During the last two years, the loan size ranged from
Rs 300,000 to Rs 8.6 million. A significant proportion of tha amount approved
(60 percent in FY81) was accounted for by existing enterprise> that borrowed for
either expansion or modernization. The average cost per new job was about
Rs 144,000 and the estimated economic rate of return ranged from 15 to 46
percent.
72.       Agriculture and Transport loans totalled Rs 1.5 million in FY81, and
varied in size from as low as Rs 2,500 to Rs 100,000. Agricultural loans were
for rehabilitation and new planting of sugarcane, tobacco, bananas and coconuts
by individual farmers. Transport loans expanded during 1977-80, under the IDBI
line of credit, which was specifically to finance transport activities, and
subsequently declined in 1981.
73.       The Export Credit Guarantee Scheme (ECGS) which DBM introduced in May
1981 had outstanding guarantees amounting to Rs 76.8 million by the end of
November 1981, issued to five commercial banks. DBM estimates that about 40
percent of the business not covered by confirmed irrevocable letters of credit
3/ DBM has requested Government for permission to increase this ceiling to
Rs 50,000. The Bank would consider sympathetically a request, when re-
ceived,for consequential amendments to the loan documents.
An increase would be reasonable, given the substantial inflation since 1979
when the ceiling was last changed.



- 23 -
is now covered by the scheme. Following wishes expressed by many exporters and
commercial banks, DBM now plans to introduce an Export Credit Insurance Scheme
to cover the risk of non-payment by foreign buyers. Although it is difficult to
assess whether the ECGS has enabled firms to obtain credit that would not other-
wise have been able to do so, the ECGS together with the planned insurance
scheme should help new firms to obtain credit and existing ones to seek new
markets. DBM's industrial estate operations are described in paragraph 24
above.
Portfolio
74.       DBM's total outstanding portfolio of loans and equity investments
amounted to Rs 303.5 million at the end of June 1981. Medium and large
industrial/tourism loans amounted to Rs 258.2 million (85 percent), SSE loans
Rs 9.0 million (3 percent), agriculture Rs 20.2 million (6.7 percent), and
equity investments Rs 16.1 million (5.3 percent). Of the 371 medium and large
industrial/tourism loans, 43 loans, accounting for Rs 36.2 million, are in
projects that are either facing difficulty or are in liquidation. Another 20
loans (Rs 11.2 million) are for projects that are not yet fully operational.
The balance, 308 loans for Rs 210.8 million, is in profitable projects. DBM has
equity in 23 firms, in hotels and entertainment, manufacturing, banking and
construction materials production. They range from nominal amounts to Rs 5
million in a fertilizer manufacturing firm. Of the total, 14 firms accounting
for Rs 14.2 million are operating profitably, seven (Rs 294,000) are losing
money and two firms (Rs 1.6 million) are in liquidation.
75.       The quality of DBM's loan portfolio has deteriorated somewhat in the
last two years as a result of the increasing economic difficulties. At June 30,
1981, 15 percent of the outstanding total portfolio was affected by arrears of
more than three months; a similar proportion of the medium and large
industrial/tourism loans was affected, as were 27 percent of SSEs, and 11
percent of agriculture loans. Given the level of provisions (about 4 percent of
total portfolio), the value of security that DBM has on projects under
liquidation, and the Government's guarantee of losses under the SSE scheme and
for loans to small agriculturists, DBM's overall portfolio is of good quality.
Financial Condition
76.       DBM's financial performance continues to be satisfactory and its
financial structure is sound (Annex V to VII). Net profit over average net
worth was about 11 percent in 1979/80 and 1980/81, after having declined to 6
percent in 1978/79, from 10 percent or higher in earlier years. DBM's policy of
continuously reviewing and increasing its interest rate structure has permitted
it to maintain a satisfactory level of profitability, despite the rapid increase
in administrative expenses due to wage and staff increases. Administrative
expenses, 1.3 percent of average total assets in 1981, remain substantially
lower than those of comparable institutions in other countries. The ratio of
term debt to equity, net of sinking fund, declined from 4.6 in 1979 to 3.8 in
1981. The ratio would be lower (2.6) if adjustment were made to exclude the
subordinated Government loans to DBM from debt and to include a part of them as
quasi-equity, as defined in the Agreements for the fourth and fifth Bank loans.
77.       DBM's resource position for June 30, 1981 is shown in Section 'D' of
the Basic Data, Annex IV. At June 1981, DBM had uncommitted foreign currency



- 24 -
resources equivalent to about Rs 49 million, of which Rs 18 million were under a
tied line of credit from the CCCE. The balance of Rs 31 million was available
under the fifth Bank loan. DBM's local currency position at the end of June
1981 appeared to be comfortable with resources of Rs 34.6 million available for
new approvals.
Forecast Operations and Resource Requirements
78.       DBM's forecast of lending operations for the period 1982-86 (Annexes
VII to X) calls for a gradual increase in total approvals, from an actual
Rs 55.5 million in 1980/81 to Rs 91 million in 1985/86. This amounts to a rate
of growth of about 10 percent p.a., which implies that the level of DBM's
lending operations would remain constant in real terms. This rate is more
conservative than the economic projections underlying the conclusions of Part I
of this Report, which assume that Government will take a number of key policy
decisions to foster industrial growth. If such steps are taken and are
successful, they would lead to a faster growth in investment, and so in lending
by DBM. The forecast of lending operations, which is somewhat conservative,
assumes that the bulk of growth will be from medium and large-scale industry and
tourism projects, followed by agro-industrial projects. DBM and we believe that
it is appropriate to adopt cautious forecasts and to commit funds accordingly,
recognizing that this may require recourse to the Bank and other sources of
funds if growth proves more rapid.
79.       Commitments for all of DBM's lending activities are estimated to
increase from an actual Rs 34.2 million in 1980/81 to Rs 71.5 million in
1981/82, largely because of clearing a backlog of uncommitted approvals; to fall
to Rs 58 million in 1982/83 and then to increase gradually to Rs 77 million in
1985/86. In addition, commitments for industrial estates have been assumed to
stay constant at Rs 2 million throughout the projection period to provide
basically for maintenance of existing facilities. Disbursements would increase
from Rs 38.8 million in 1980/81 to about Rs 67 million in 1985/86.
80.       Foreign currency commitments for lending operations are estimated at
Rs 160 million ($16.0 million) from April 1982 to December 1984. DBM still has
about Rs 31 million equivalent of uncommitted resources, and expects to borrow
over Rs 70 million from EIB and ADB. The proposed loan (of which DBM would use
about Rs56 million equivalent) would cover the remaining foreign exchange gap or
about 35 percent of DBM's overall foreign exchange needs over the period under
consideration.
81.       DBM has about Rs 35 million available in local currency resources and
its position should remain comfortable throughout the projection period,
assuming Government would continue on average to provide Rs 10 million in local
currency loans to DBM annually. Even if Government had to postpone such a
contribution for one or two years, DBM's local currency position would remain
positive, particularly if it did not declare dividends in those years.
Projected Financial Performance
82.       DBM's financial performance is expected to remain satisfactory during
the projection period of 1982-86. Net profit as a percentage of average net



- 25 -
worth would increase gradually to about 14 percent in 1985/86, with the
increase in income from the loan portfolio being partially offset by the
expected slow decline in the average return on the equity portfolio from the
exceptionally high level of 27.5 percent in 1980/81. Existing IBRD and DBM
rates would produce a weighted average margin of 2.5 percent under the proposed
loan, which would be adequate; DBM would maintain a minimum margin of 2 percent
on loans made from funds provided by the proposed Bank loan (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 3.01(d)).
83.       DBM's total assets would increase from about Rs 465 million at June
1982 to about Rs 570 million in 1986. Over the same period, DBM's liquidity
position would remain satisfactory and its debt/equity ratio would fluctuate
around 2.6. Provisions as a percentage of the average total loan and equity
portfolio have been conservatively increased from 4.4 percent in 1982 to 6.4
percent in 1986. Overall, DBM would remain creditworthy for the foreseeable
future.
Terms of the IBRD Loan
84.       The proposed Bank loan of $6.0 million (including the capitalized 1.5
percent from end-fee) would be guaranteed by Mauritius. The loan would bear
interest of 11.60 percent per annum. Up to $300,000 of the proceeds would be
relent to Government on the same financial terms and conditions as the Bank loan
to DBM, to finance studies.  The remaining proceeds would be relent by DBM at an
interest rate of at least 10 percent on SSE loans of less than Rs 25,000, and
for other loans, 14.5 percent, or such other rate that would produce an average
margin of at least two percent on the funds borrowed under this proposed line of
credit.   DBM would also charge a commitment fee of 1 percent on undisbursed
commitments. Funds allocated to Government would revert to DBM for its normal
operations if not used by December 31, 1983.
85.       The split foreign exchange risk arrangement that existed under the
last two lines of credit would be continued under the proposed loan. Thus the
DBM would pass to its sub-borrowers the foreign exchange risk between the rupee
and the US dollar, while the Government will bear the differential between the
latter and the current value of the DBM's repayment obligation for the partic-
ular maturity as determined under the currency pooling system, without a fee.
The foreign exchange risk on SSE loans of Rs 25,000 or less would be carried in
full by the Government at no charge. This would continue Government's policy of
providing incentives to the development of small and artisanal enterprises in
l4auritius (draft Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.02(b), draft Loan Agreement
Section 4.07).
86.       The amortization schedule of the loan would conform substantially with
the aggregate of the amortization schedules of the sub-loans and fixed schedules
of repayment of loan funds used to finance equity investments, to be determined
at the time of DBM's request for approval of the investment. It would not
exceed 17 years. Sub-loans would have a maximum maturity of 15 years, including
appropriate grace periods. The subloans to Government to finance studies would
have a maximum maturity of 17 years, including four years grace. An amorti-
zation schedule for the SSE loans would be fixed at the time of project comple-



- 26 -
tion and generally would conform to the forecast aggregate amortization
schedules of the SSE sub-loans. The free limit will remain at $600,000 and the
aggregate free limit at $3.0 million. The limit on the debt/equity ratio would
continue to be 4.0 (draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.06). The proposed loan is
expected to be fully committed by December 31, 1984 and to be fully disbursed
and the loan account closed by December 31, 1988.   Disbursement forecasts
follow the profile of DFC disbursements for DFC lines of credit in the Eastern
Africa Region.
87.       The studies component will provide up to 30 staff-months of consultant
time, calculated at $10,000 a month. If the funds have not been used by
December 31, 1983, or such other date as shall be agreed, they will revert to
the use of DBM. (draft Loan Agreement, Section 2.02 (d)).
Project Implementation and Reporting Requirements
88.       The proposed project would be implemented by DBM, with the assistance
of Government, if necessary, through such measures as the provision of local
currency resources when needed. DBM would continue to submit quarterly reports
including a summary of operations, financial statements, resource position,
statement of arrears and notes on sub-projects facing serious difficulties. It
would also submit audited ann.iil accounts prepared by accountants acceptable to
the Bank including an audit report on disbursements against statements of
expenditure (below, paragraph 89), together with its annual report. Finally,
within six months of the closing of the loan account, the DBM will submit a
report in format and content acceptable to the Bank, on the results of the
project at completion.
Procurement and Disbursement
89.       Procurement for sub-projects under the proposed loan would be under-
taken in accordance with DBM's procedures, which are consistent with the Bank's
procedures for DFCs. Disbursements under the loan would cover the foreign
exchange component of DBM's sub-projects which are estimated as follows: (i) 100
percent of foreign expenditures, (ii) 70 percent of local expenditures,and
(iii) 60 percent of the cost of building construction. Disbursement for SSE
sub-loans will be on the basis of statements of expenditures that would be
submitted by DBM periodically. The invoices and other supporting documentation
would be available for inspection by Bank missions and statements of expenditure
disbursements would be audited. Consultants for the studies component would be
recruited according to Bank guidelines.
Benefits and Risks
90.       By continuing to support DBM's operations with untied foreign exchange
resources, the proposed loan would contribute to the renewed growth of the
industrial, tourism and agriculture sectors, with emphasis on earning foreign
exchange from exports, and economically sound import substitution. It would
also contribute to modernisation of the sugar industry, which is crucial to
maintenance of what must remain Mauritius' major export. It will enable DBM to
maintain its position as an effective, financially sound and creditworthy devel-
opment institution, which is an essential part of the Mauritian financial



- 27 -
sector. The studies component should make a major contribution to the Govern-
ment's current efforts to redefine and strengthen its industrial development
strategy.
91.       With the help of the loan proceeds, DBM expects to finance sub-
projects with an aggregate total cost estimated at about $22.5 million, and to
help to create at least 1,600 new jobs, which are greatly needed in the present
situation of high unemployment. This estimate assumes the same average cost
per job as under the most recent line of credit ($14,000): since however the
proportion of EPZ industries is likely to be higher, the labor intensive nature
of most EPZ firms in Mauritius may in fact mean that more employment will be
created. The continuing association between DBM and the IBRD would, through
field visits and the review of sub-projects, ensure that DBM would maintain and
continue to improve its policies, standards and procedures. Finally, the pro-
vision of foreign exchange funds for DBM would help at a time when Mauritius is
facing severe balance of payments problems that could otherwise cause worthwhile
productive investments to be abandoned or postponed for lack of resources.
92.       Since DBM is financially sound and creditworthy, and has in the past
shown itself able to finance productive projects and to follow satisfactory
policies and procedures, there are no specific risks associated with this
project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
93.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and DBM, the draft Guarantee
Agreement between Mauritius and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee pro-
vided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
94.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
95.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
96.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
by Ernest Stern
May 12, 1982
Attachments



- 28                                                    A-= I
Pas* I
TABLE 3A
PAURITIUS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MAURITIUS                       REFUENCE (aQWPS (WEIGTED AVE4ES
LAND AKRA (rOOUSANIJ SQ. KM.                                                              MST RECN  ESTIVATIE)
TOIAL               2.0                                  MST RECENT           MIDDLE INCW(E             KIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL        1.1              1960  Lb    1970 2 ESTIMATE j    AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMUICA * CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                   240.0       340.0    1030.0                  794.2                   1616.2
ENhRGY CONSUMPTlUN PER CAPITA
(KILOURAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      130.8        370.7     410.4                 707.5                    1324.1
POPULAIION AND VITAL STATlSTICS
POPULATIOU, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   662.0         829.0     941.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 33.2          42.0       51.2                  27.7                     64.2
POPULAIION PROJECIlOUS
PUPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIUNS)                          1.3
STATIOhARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)
YEAR STAIOUNARY POPULATION IS REACHEU
PUPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       331.0        414.5     470.5                  55.0                      34.3
PER Sq. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    681.0         746.0     810.5                  130.7                     94.5
PUPuLATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
U-14 YRS.                          45.8         42.1      35.3                  46.0                     40.7
15-64 Y8S.                          51.3         54.6      61.0                  51.2                     55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.9          3.3       3.7                   2.8                       4.0
PUPULATION GROUTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               3.2          2.2        1.4                   2.8                      2.4
URSAN                               4.7          4.6       3.6                   5.1                       3.7
URUDE BIKIRH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     40.9         27.5      26.4                   46.9                     31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       8.8          7.5        7.0                  15.8                      8.4
GROSS REPRODUCT1ON RATE               2.8          1.8        1.5                   3.2                      2.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPORSU   ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..         9.8       12.1
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          25.0      53.2
FOOD AND NUTRlITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (19B9-71-100)          111.0         95.0     101.0                  89.9                     108.3
FER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALuRIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   103.0        106.0     114.0                  92.3                     107.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           48.0         51.0      59.0                  52.8                      65.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        17.0         18.0      26.0                  16.1                      34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) PORTALITY RATE       10.5         7.6        6.0                  20.2                      7.6
HEALIH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    59.4          62.5       64.7                  50.8                     64.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            70.9         58.5      33.8                    ..                      70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
ITOAL                                ..         61.0      60.0                  27.4                      65.7
URBAN                                          100.0     100.0                  74.3                      79.7
RURAL                                ..         29.0      22.0                  12.6                      43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULAIION)
TOIAL                                ..         77.0      82.0                    ..                      59.9
URBAN                                ..         51.0      63.0                    ..                      75.7
RURAL                                *-         99.0     100.0                    ..                      30.4
PUPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           4662.0       4186.9    2417.6               13844.1                    1728.2
PUPULAIOUN PER NURSlNG PERSON      2102.ULc      815.9     641.3                2898.6                    1288.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOlAL                             230.0_Lc     254.U     282.3                1028.4                     471.2
URBAN                                *-        250.1     292.3                 423.0                     558.0
RURAL                                 ..       498.8     872.4                3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..        22.7       21.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               4.9          5.3/d
URBAN                               4.9           ..
RURAL                               4.8           ..
AVERAGE NUMNER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOIAL                               I.9           ..        .
URBAN                               1. 8.L        *
RURAL                                1.9/c        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              47.0/c       70.1
UR8AN                              81.9/c         ..
RURAL                              29 .- L        ..         .



- 29 -                                       ANNEX I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
MAURITIUS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MAURITIUS                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 98.0        106.0     104.0                   73.7                    101.7
MALE                 103.0       108.0      105.0                  96.8                    103.0
FEIALE                93.0       105.0      103.0                  79.0                    101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 24.0         31.0      51.0                  16.2                      35.3
MALE                  32.0        37.0       53.0                  25.3                     34.9
FEhALE                15.0        25.0       49.0                  14.8                     35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)   2.0           1.0        1.3                   5.3                     30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            36.0         32.0      21.0                  36.2                      29.6
SECONDARY                          22.0           ..      28.0                  23.6                      15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        60.8/c       80.0/d       ..                    ..                     80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         14.0         15.1      26.7                  32.3                      42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         60.4        102.5     223.7                  69.0                    215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..        22.9      45.9                    8.0                    89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  87.0         78.0      93.5                  20.2                      62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA 11.0          10.0       19.3                   0.7                      3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       199.9        256.9     325.1
rEMALE (PERCENT)                   19.5         19.9      22.0                  36.7                     22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              40.0         34.0      29.5                   56.6                     35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 26.0         25.0      24.1                  17.5                     23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                30.2         31.0      34.5                   37.2                     31.8
MALE                                 48.6         49.6       53.8                  47.1                     49.0
FEMALE                               11.8         12.3       15.2                  27.5                     14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.6         1.5        1.1                   1.3                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS   28.0            ..      31.0
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.0            ..      55.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.5            ..       4.5
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.0            ..      14.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     190.0                 381.2
RUkAL                                ..           ..     190.0                 156.2                     187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVLL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     290.0                 334.3                     513.9
RURAL                                 ..          ..     290.0                 137.6                     362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION i3ELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      12.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..      12.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962;  /d 1972.
May, 1981



- 30 -
ANNE I
PKPINITIUt OP SOCIAL ThpICAOX
Mtote.   Athoug  the dots Ill dance free enuaxe  ge-nal  jodgd the  =ena  stboritetiv  an .d teIilti, it *beed  ls  be toted ttosa they  sy est he tate-
eutbosaly tolr-hle ha.ox.e of the ihof etandardizad defltitoe  se _oe.P.. ne  by diffar.- aott                      e  ton o1t.loixg  the dets.  The date aelel      e
tbelese,  -uful to deet.ribe orders of -pgitude, indiata treed., sad tharaxeerle  _eraI    jo  difere_as  betwee  -oetti.a.
Th   c  rex   cap   o   1) the e-  coutr            .,as  ~f the eabjeot ta-ty and (2) a aenety Agroup with  ....ehat higti-  -vrs   uom   hntetaet   ru
ofth    bec  otety(ecpt for "Ospitel tuaplu  Oil Uap-rtere' groa.p titer. "Middle I-oem  H-eh Atrits aed Middle  eA.t' Is Tta '                    xu.   f  toea
etxi.-taloa .. sfffeitlee).  In the refer-a  geaup data the ave             llaar  pplseite weightad aritg tix  was f. to  ho  iditato  etA abov  only ha-
majorty o  the  atoeleein a groupV hea dat  for  hthe  lei-aor.  ti-n  the roverge at tonetoles ag the  ndiratoo.. Aspeeds Ix the availbility of data
an   c  a   niom   neoxio ale  te lxerlee.d On o1slsnt   -ergac of on  iedlx..t.r to untotbr.  Th..e enerege  are only usafol to coepar   btt  ale
to InIatra    daaag th e o-uty end  rtreo             -tope.
UAW A.gA (theeatd eq.ka.)                                                                        pooltt   e   oeia   a            oa, urar  ad arl   -  aplatot(total,
Total - Total sufae are  exeproeteg lard  -ra  led ta load ener,irbn,ad   rlM ) 'divided b   te  ropeti                                               b ae  of b-opi-a1 beta.
Auoil1ul.a.sl -tEtieste of egTiIaultxrl  -at  oIa  fePtosily or pereeetly                        araitbia in pablic atd prIvate getrl a1dheeil                 oepital nedte
no. aap., pasue ,keabt std kitahen garden  or oxlie fallo; 1975 data.                         -allnlncaaa    upital  are eatebliahe-ti  pecntl tf fed
by  11 et 'enaf ioto  ph.ct   fetbliaba-na  pro-idlcg pritlipally ...sta-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP Per c.plta ac- ae  a   ureo  ahe Iie,I                                  dial tar  ar  no  looIlodd.  1-ra  bnepltals        -. weer 1iclde boalab
nulsoed by anarasaosao   sWorld   A tee(979hal)  1~9610,                                         end meital cetr ot psoestealy  -fefd by   phya'iar(but by
1970, aed 1979 date.                                                                            eiedlxl..aiatuat, area, slAif.' etl.),hxch  ff. ta .t-psaxit at- m
datiotlend provide a llited range of meIcal fnxiltLaa.  Par  _t=ts
usia! coRtMTiiONiq  re  CAPITA - Annual -ttu- pio  of oerileeg    ca                               tioa1 pouroaa ube -boslol                 WH.od   titl  pinipal)gsteral heepltala,
ndlgIte   erlu,ntrl ...         5 en .d hydro-, nuclea  led ge-b.reI al.-                   sad rura  heainslg loca  or rura  heapitole and eadialtand eataroty
enftity) in kilogrsa of c-l eqolv-1at pea ceita; 1960, 1970, sad 1979                           tetrs        per ialted heapilt.ltar   i.leludedonly.unde  tonl.
data.                                                                                         Adelcaitn  pe  tepa  gad -tToe  toughe  of  deleati.. to or disohergas
true  dapt ls Aidedby ala t-b.r of bad.
POPULATIONI AOn VITAL STATISTICS
ToalPcrlxlt.Kid-Tea  taiaede   A- daf Jo1y 1; 1960. 1970, sad 1979                         HOUSINGl                                                                                                   ,
toban  orlnlo  Ier-t  of tota)   R-tiax  of arban an total poplatict;                          A.r9 bocefa .o.hold cootao     ga...p oft inivduls ld o aher  .lvin  ledtr
01ff aceet dafisitoeIIf  lrb'oun    a   t atcmaaIlt fda                                       en hb.       eteaa.Abadro  uda   o   r-    otb   nlddi
_eegt .ntia  1960  1970. nt    f97   aet                                                   the-besaboy  fnr satistcal pupoeca
Poaclaron ProjctionsAveoseetconberof necoas racrote-to":h"'ron. andrur tl 
totl  oplatonbyeg  an  st  ndther   oralty  edfetIityraaa            Aehllhnga, coepraiey   Oaalln... exlde to-peYranee  atr lturd and
ftatc.ctytrsnt           tc l -  ~ - lad  oeto  rItes -prns    ofehiato  or 1-racailayild DiAvItle
so   arlit  trend ifor prcjstio     ip;__A_utd  oolen  lt
f-ttio liyrclytiou. f.- Inateitua    populatio  chrAido rat  inePrc  arbool-i Rtotioesd  eae-Gce   oa,sleadfai
sates ronetent - Thie xs a .tiac_ad cd    fa   etca   ne   ain   tPrOy  achoc-tT                              ouaio;ural   nldaridaea    1
oha rapleceaxo level  f utit vetrspoatc  rt,lt or   esto.                           yaabut sdj-at   fcr dfttfeet 1e,tnthe of primacly ad-rtu;ta
of se cpaa  itselfIexctly.  The eanalory tpplaton eIa ens                                     coairiasith univer-l aduetio  atolet  cap etrad 1(0 peren
-aisated on the heaictof tep-ojar-dteeirsiao   h   ouaIot                                     sII= so         -tiae      o  or above abs tfftiuil achel aga.
xa the year 1100. nied thell cureicl d-cins of tacic try rats tov  lte                 atrvsho    ttlel  and femle-Cofue  asebva  sctdsr
art levs.                                                                                      aductioor-q.oireaat Iiu    or  er  of approve  prinry i..... tiox;
Tasretai-na       orlto   is -oathed -Teyaohcstin     pulinprcdas getarl., --ctinna, or Yeca   nato                                                       trcia   frpp
sine boa been ratobd.                                                                         usually of 121.o 17 y-ar  of age;  Iore od   .c..c..an  arc genraly
Per an. km. - Kid-year popuIlaic  psosoxer  cilcet-  (11 hlactates) of                        Voc.   to  enolet(acn  of ....oaderv  - oocatxotu  tn-itutloto
tota  Icaa  196,190  a  1979 det.                                                             ixciuda  iebae,tduanria1, or ather program  hdichoprt  ond.psd-
Per an ..he. gtiut-rl  lxvi.   - Cnpcd as ebos focar ti-1lool.  lead                             enaip Iv Ia      ..procn-  ofarndr  atirulttoe
ol:110, l9P0 and 197t data.                                                             Poc-avrcnt-raine   sd  asi andary-Tot   enedenta  -nrolld it
P.aatn   aaS -utr   rrcal-ChIldenl (0-14 yea-). vxrkiag-ags 115-                           prmary and .....ndry leal div ide  bPasr  of  etbar..ei athab
64 Psaca  . et  retired (65 yIllre ad over) as parcentaaa of eld-pyur papa-                     tarrapondang levels.
lation  1960, 15970, ted 1979  aa                                                             Adul 1t .inruoese  (nrat)    ietn   aut  (able.to read sod   itna)
PuuainGronbot  (-erre.. 0- tota  - Annual S-,eh rates of nt-I sod-                           IaeIsrc-eteee cf -mod  adult poI aio    sd  tpar              d  vr
Yearpopt naon  fr1950-t0, 1960-71,Iad1971-79.
PPnnlaxo irosab  ex _   (..eac.x) - urbec - A-olul groob rates of u-bo Po pen-              CtSIlOI
lutiota too 1951-il. 161~70, and1970-79.                                                    PexecCure (_a  thouc...d oolto)-Pa.ssege  oars oaplss stan
Crude etrab hate loer aouaad) - Aoauul liva birathe per   I oh`ua   of and-pao.ay  seaniIg Ilac  oboe eight poeona; lotdea aehbolat-as,                                  I'rsad
population; 1960, 1970, sod 1979 data.                                                        ailitryvahiole..
Crude teuh atie (car iboutod) - Annua deahs Per th-oxaods of eid-year                         hedi  htIve  (.er tbh od  tuetal- 221t          All typestof raess for radIo
ppoplation; 1960, 1970, and  91979dat.                                                        bronafoaca to      . gere Ipablir par tbou_d of papulanton; antiede  an-
uraaerdotoneate -OvA"rarn       b.m r ofdaughtarsi eoanibtri...saa  raca_ ner  incot_-s  and ir yearsnb..  oeitaiefra.din
he  nen    eprdxtilv  porid it -h.opvsae  prcn             Tasseifa  fe-                     es  s  le efar;id dI for rr-t years toy nut ha ceparabl  sinus
ti..yrtsausolly tic-yea  -vvgS.  endin   In 1990. 1970, and 1979.                              cattntIecaoih              lics-ixg.
famIly ln=oln--Aoeir.O oI l1ohenende I- Annul tobrof  -crpotr                               TO tec-avar  lsrrtheotoed, no..latMn   - V raeier  for broa.drast to
of birth-contro  davcaa under  ..Picas of annixan  famil  alunuine p--r1 gsa  roblir Per aboneod Purulnoat.;  -eius   elcnsdOr canr
Pely _lnics- U.lea     (car_et of earnedIoen       ecnaeo   are                             it cnaiatd in years ebateitrtonft TV sets  -  it efec.-
o~~f child-beaing age 715-4yranbus  birth-...rrtl  dscirsto                               Ne etrCrrlaca(e  tboaunroult ion    h-ths  the%aerge  le
.11 __i~~~~~~~~~~d  __. I. ._   gbiotin  eotd  ctsrlytoc_oror t                                                         nro  ets   t  i  onadee
P01 OllD    l1TC                                                                                   to be "daily" if it appears at 1-a  four atana a wesk
Indea of PTOud Prductio  col Cerita  6199.-71-10) - Inde  of par capita annual                CIeem   Anul Attandno  pe  Cait  Par IEr- based to the.             bro
productio  of all food tmoll           Prdutioa  nludos sed and feed and                      nicnte sol  duaeg the. yer   Inluin  .dei..iots nodiv-in cia:s
Insted of ..ugac) ehich are edible end c.nrein nu-tia  eg.cofe  n
_ten aenlnIdedl.  Aggcegere prodxcrtio  of nob couar  te basedf onLAtOR PYoga
exxc -ltSreg   - a ..rdvcI pr!c   enb   96-5  1971, and 1979 data.                     Tota  itbo, Porte  ithexasads) - tE-aelc-11y  enti-epro  ioloding
Per r -pe Ia -so I  0e -n1rs       rctotaurans- oleutdrx                                       redm-a fdunmtoe  tot ..c.uItsoaaiaa   tdet.  r
ex qgynn-v1et tf oat food aupplia available In country par. caincvtn    ooaint l  ages.  xt,ficitloos in va                                            .. riou  uare  are
pa a.Availabl s.oppltss copisdos-tic podxrtitt  Weatsln                                sotcusrbl   160  17I e   99dt.
eooraad changes in stok,  Net suplessolds eadia ftee, .ee.,                          Pe-le (rerona. t - 1P-l  labor force  atpeocrtge of total labor fonre
-~trocsua-       i  odprc Sing   an       .ossi.        tttolo.ocas                         aivrreOuro              ao   oc  iniiscmi fn.  -oetY. hunttI- and
cents nur  estimatd by PAl aaad on  hyciologial onedsfor n  -nx  aa-          fIshing  epeannsof tota  labor force; 196, 70P sad 1079 Ante
rify sad hsalrh tinid-rinoovrrcolgeenua  body umtgbtc. ag                                  ndsr  Ieosr    Labor forts In eining,  oarcl.mnfcuIng
end cn dirlhtioaof. PoPulation, lend al1onxng 10 percen  for  -es  an                 and clac-iciny, never and gSespr.           og  of t-aI labon force; 19t0,
hctodi. ise;1961-11I1970, and 1977 dat..                                                1970 cod 1979 dare.
Per -arto  -xaply of cr-otn (,es-  per day) - Proen oet-  of per capita                     Paraticiaalo  taa(e          ) - ttl,els   ndfmaI-Petitipatit to
net  xppl offoodperday. Nst anpply of foo  te defmd  e above.  xc-                    urllyaeeercopted es   tl, sl,nd feal  labor foins
qucmte  o   l   toorlse estabiashed by 1614 proida too mldo a                      percetages of totl1, sole ad f-sal aplair  t  l  a. gs tePerti-ely;
allota oft   rMs of tota  protei  Par day end ;  Ar-of anoml no                             1960, 1970..and.16979, dan.  Thsaax-  base.d o  It'  pettlutexvee
pule  rotic. of ebioh 11 gras should ba atona  potsio.  Thes  asand-                        rfltlotig age-ea   nu reof thn population. andlognin  tred 
ari   arelonr thxt thos   O  0grm  0   otl-  protein and 23 gras of                      ru   aom_     ea   frue ttionleo:n,e.;.
aitmalproten as e  soorge forthe iorld,prope   by PAl in abs Third            Icnm    eanec  Rto-  xtid apoIlaio- under 15 and 65 end ove
acId food Survey; 19111-65. 1970 nod 1977 dt-toth  total labor fxrcs
Per. Pitta orotein -Proly ftru   amlesd rules- Pronia supply of fond da-
cite  ....xe  =rte lead Px,:,, to  =xs-per day; 19,61-65, 1970 nod 1977.dste.           INCPIM  lItT1xITtI6
Child(sues 1-6) -otliny her  loe tooad  - Onacu  da-he Pec ihoc-d In                          Pencen.tene of Privae. tIcoe  (bortb In cah sod hind)- Olrcedb  rires-
uentroucl-yec,oobhildrenit-hisaego -P; focsst                     ..vlpitoou...             5  eret,r "scl  pecc,ccs   0P_rai   a onti   acn
a-iac data deaivd fro  life tublan; 1000,171ad199dt,ohusol.
LOAtTa                                                                                        POVttT  TAROT! cOUPS
hIfaOncatc  atth    ttrnth;ara   iva,tn nIbe  ofpar                life  Ieann                  h   olnngsretsaevt   P-comtesexosn  pnry  aas
tbIt;160t,1970           d an   99Iatn hul   eirrpee    b   consi,derble7 .ann..                                                                      -t    - ,
lItniat M.-tlity het. (cat thousand) - Jnnun.  dru.tha of ioft sotscdet .te y-x               OaE.l ted AbetePorymte  lee   IScr   rt)-ubex end ralo                           -
ofanprthousan d live births.                                                            Abetou-  povety iome love! is thea Inoe-  I'lanlbon  ahh a1 eitm
ccsto Safe t_n    racr   foruata  totxl. then   atduo..  ....               m-               -utrorolly adequar  dint plu .a.....iil nut-ftcd A-rquicesax   is  -l
her of proyle (ert1, urban. evd an-1) nithbreaenuleaooes.....  to safa                          ff-aeb
we_esuply (includes tneand surf err raer  or unIead bca unooaOote                            sttae  Robletv    oet   totO.vl(0   n   anl     ra   n   ua
aI -ouhstt from Protec a  hoc-hclee   pig,  e   ater   el)as                                  trlsaIv    oet  inctoleelinnu-rio   o  arare   pe  -eit
lenotneeo   htnertl-pplctn.I   nuba  arepbitpree  in -eoficcto.It                                                                       ieatsde.n cn  h   ua
.Sn.i reicretlctotohtn   he   0  etr  Io     hueca   eleebit   duamt  frhghrcsto Zca   n  re  aes
coad.e.s. eu  nti  resubo  ceeofta                                      IIe tcalru          fa-eoedi ioalelI tfelh. --alut  Povert 1-itto             LeelOeaeih. - u
AcctI- ospoaipootint   ato t                     he  ay  o 2t00o  tt..tb                    poor         oo - f.   ih-..
hoceaso Onuria lluo   ....(ercen   cicxuron -h hx.... uran  andI ruce  -I                                                     P-      l                      ) -
if                                1:r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Oy16
Porletocro  eteite  -Popoltio    tie   ytx     o   atitgpyt
cian  qul.Ifidio      aiclshot           nunvriyln
hocal-n pec  pxninero  -                p-plaio   divde  b.y lxeb  t-O pasturing2
ca Ie andfemle  r dlteotteof pclcl coce, sd-eetenotaxaes



- 31 -
Annex I
Page 4 of 5
MAURITIUS - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1981
Annual rates of Growth I/
US$ Mln.          %                1972-75           1976-81
GNP at Market Prices                  1230.7           100.0                7.2                6.7
Gross Domestic Investment              314.9            25.6               27.2               -0.3
Gross Domestic Saving                  180.7            14.7               -2.1                2.2
Current Account Balance               -139.7           -11.4                -                  -
Exports of Goods, NFS                  503.8            40.9               -8.0                1.2
Imports of Goods, NFS                  627.5            51.0                8.7               0.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1981
Value added2/            Labor Force 3/       V.A. per Worker
US$ Mln.         %         Thousand    %             U$S     %
Sugar                             119.9           10.9          47.3    24.5          2535   44.6
Other Agriculture                  48.0            4.4           6.2      3.2         7742  136.3
Other Industry                    271.9           24.8          48.0    24.9          5665   99.8
Services                          656.3           59.9         91.5    47.4           7173  126.3
Total           1096.1           100.0        193.0   100.0          5679  100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
Rs Mln.         % of GDP
1980/81      1979/80  1980/81
Current Revenue                       2058.7            21.8    20.1
Current Expenditures                  2318.2            22.5    22.6
Current Deficit                       -259.5            -0.8    -2.5
Capital Expenditure                    637.0             6.1      6.2
Foreign Financing (gross)              638.0             8.7      6.2
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES
1976      1977          1978       1979      1980      1981
(Rs million outstanding at the end of the period)
Money and Quasi Money                 2083.9      2351.6      2861.5    3113.7   3837.4   3992.5
Claims on Government (net)             580.6      1155.7      1608.1    1967.9   2396.9   3190.6
Claims on private sector              1157.2      1352.1      1508.1    1721.6   1881.1   2259.1
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP    43.3            42.3        45.1       41.1      42.5      34.8
GDP Price Deflator (1976 = 100)        100.0       105.5        115.5      131.5    171.6    202.4
Annual percentage changes in =
GDP Deflator                             -            5.5         9.5       13.8      17.9     -
Claims on Government (net)              59.5        99.1         39.1       22.4      21.8     33.1
Claims on private sector                55.0        16.8         11.5       14.2       9.3     20.1
Note:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
1/  In 1970 prices for the period 1972-75 and 1976 prices for 1976-81.
2/  At factor cost
3/ Employment in large establishments
May 1982



MAURITIUS - TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                               MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1979-81)
1978   1979   1980   1981
(US$ Million)                                       US$ mln.      %
Exports of Goods, NFS          440.5  509.1  578.5  503.8         Sugar                      241.3        62.0
Imports of Goods, NFS          566.2  649.5  694.9  627.5         Molasses                    12.3         3.2
Resource Gap                  -125.7 -140.4 -116.4 -123.7         Tea                           5.8        1.5
Clothings                   75.8       19.5
Investment Income (net)         -7.8  -16.6  -23.1  -35.2         Other products              44.5        11.4
Net Transfers                   13.8   12.2   20.8   19.2         Re-exports                    9.4        2.4
Current Account Balance       -119.7 -144.8 -118.7 -139.7
Total               389.1       100.0
Long-term Capital               12.2   10.0    6.0   23.3
Net MLT borrowing:              66.8   71.5   64.1   35.8                                                                  1
Disbursements                 69.0   75.6   75.7   48.7         EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1981                         L
Amortization                   2.2    4.1   11.6   12.9                     (US$ Mln)
Other capital (net) 1/          20.8   11.1   73.7  -27.3
Public Debt, outstanding and
Change in Reserves              19.9   52.2  -25.1  107.9           disbursed                           374.9
(decrease +)
Memo item                                                         DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981
Use of SDRs                     -0.8    1.1    0.8       -        Public Debt, incl. guaranteed    9.32/
Use of IMF credit                -      40.8   41.1   64.3
Net foreign assets              31.1  -32.1   -5.5  -12.7         IBRD/IDA LENDING, (March 31, 1982)
(US$ Mln.)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                 IBRD      IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed    57.98   20.15
1978            1979           1980            1981         Undisbursed                   42.26      --M
US$1.O=R6.140  US$1.0=6.4017  US$1.0=7.6896  US$1.0=9.0911   Outstanding including             100.204 20.15Ul
Rl.O=US$0.1628 R1.0=US$0.1562 Rl.O=US$0.1300 Rl.O=US$0.1100    undisbursed                                                 H
1/  Includes short-term private capital, SDR allocation and  errors and omissions
2/  Debt service payments as percentage of estimated export  earnings.
May 1982



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MAURITIUS
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1982)
Loan or
Credit
Number       Year    Borrower            Purpose           Bank      IDA      Undisbursed
Four loans and five Credits have been fully disbursed  30.48    20.20
976-MAS    1974    Mauritius   Port I                     10.00                 1.52
1168-MAS    1975    DBM           Development Bank III    7.50                    .44
1339-T-MAS  1976    Mauritius   Revised Port I              3.60                  .67
1481-MAS    1977    DBM           Development Bank IV       7.50                 1.83
1543-MAS    1978    Mauritius   Second Education           15.20                 8.60
1548-MAS    1978                  Second Power             15.00                10.82
1789-MAS    1980    DBM           Development Bank V        6.00                 5.24
1926-MAS    1981    Mauritius   Urban Rehabilitation
and Development          15.00               13.14
TOTAL                                        110.28    20.20       42.26
of which has been repaid                    10.04       .05        -
TOTAL now outstanding                        100.24    20.15-
Amount sold                       4.95
of which has been repaid        4.07           .88      .00
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA  1/            99.36    20.15       _
TOTAL undisbursed                             42.26       -        42.26
B. Statement of IFC Investments (March 31, 1982)
Year         Borrower             Type of Business         Loan      Equity      Total
1971        Dinarobin Inns             Tourism             0.6         -          0.6
& Hotels Ltd
Total gross commitment                      0.6          -         0.6
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                        0.4                    0.4
Net held by IFC                             0.2                    0.2
Total undisbursed                           0.0        0.0         0.0
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments



_ 34 _
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
C. Projects in Execution 1/
Loan No. 976-MAS      Port Project:  US$10.0 million Loan of April 12, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: June 13, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Loan No. 1339-T-MAS: Revised Port Project: US$3.6 million Third Window Loan of
December 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 27, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The main elements of the project have been completed including the
construction of three deep water berths, two transit sheds and open storage areas.
As a result of this increased capacity the port is now operating without congestion.
Physical execution is proceeding well. Construction work is well advanced on the
administration workshop and fire-station buildings. Port operating equipment has
been procured and cargo handling operations have improved. Technical assistance
financed under the project has had beneficial effects on the administration of the
Mauritius Marine Authority. The closing date was extended by one year in order to
finish construction of the administration building and to complete dredging works.
Loan No. 1481-MAS    Fourth Development Bank Project:  US$7.5 million Loan of August
29, 1977; Date of Effectiveness; October 6, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
The loan provides financing for the term foreign exchange needs of medium-
and large scale industrial, tourism and agro-industrial projects. The loan is fully
committed.
Loan 1548-MAS         Power Transmission Project:  US$15 million Loan of April 26,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: January 23, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The project consists of construction of 66-kV and lower voltage
transmission/distribution lines and substations; construction of a system control
center; consulting services and training.
Almost all material and equipment have already been ordered except that for
some distribution material and equipment. Construction is progressing satisfactorily
at various sites in the country to construct substations and powerlines and the
control center included in the project. The project is satisfactorily on schedule
and the original project cost estimate has not changed. Studies for long range power
planning, reorganization of CEB, energy sector planning and CEB training have been
completed, and recommendations of these studies are being implemented by the Central
Electricity Board.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the progress
in execution, and in particular to report any problems which are being
encountered and the action taken to remedy them. They should be read in this
sense and with the understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced
evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
Loan No. 1543-MAS    Second Education Project:  US$15.2 million Loan of April 26,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 8, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The Project Unit continues to operate satisfactorily. Construction of 12
of the 15 Junior Secondary Schools (JSS) has been completed. The remaining three,
where expansion and upgrading are involved, are expected to be completed in
mid-1983. All 15 schools are in operation, although some have not yet attained full
capacity. Contracts for the additions to the Mauritius College of Education and the
Mauritius Institute of Education are expected to be signed in March 1982 and
preliminary design work for the Ministry of Education (MECA) has been completed.
After substantial delay, the reorganization of MECA is now completed. Educational
objectives are expected to be substantially achieved upon completion of the project.
Project closing may have to be postponed by 18 to 24 months to complete construction.
Loan No. 1789-MAS    Fifth Development Bank Project:  US$6.0 million Loan of January
23, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
The Project assists the Development Bank of Mauritius in financing directly
or through Mauritian-owned commercial banks the foreign exchange component of loans
and investments in industry, agro-industry and tourism. It also helps cover the
foreign exchange investment needs of artisan and small-scale enterprises. Because
clients of commercial banks were reluctant to use refinancing due to fear of the
foreign exchange risks, the $2.0 million earmarked for the purpose have been
reallocated to DBM's general lending operations; $0.5 million from the $1.0 million
earmarked for SSEs was also reallocated to the same category, because the level of
DBM's SSE approvals was less than anticipated.
Loan No. 1926-MAS   Urban Rehabilitation and Development Project:  US$15.0 million
Loan of January 8, 1981: Date of Effectiveness: May 5, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The Project will assist the Government in implementing a change in its
policy for providing housing in the public sector, including a reduction in overall
Government expenditure on housing, and redirection from building rental units at
subsidized rates, to provision of housing credit for lower income groups. It will
also strengthen institutions responsible for urban planning, development and
maintenance. The project includes (a) an integrated housing development at a site
(La Tour Koenig) near Port Louis, housing credit and establishment of a physical
planning unit in the Ministry of Planning; and (b) traffic management and
rehabilitation of urban services, to be funded by the Saudi Fund for Development.
Project implementation has started and is progressing satisfactorily. The project is
expected to be completed on schedule by June, 1984.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
MAURITIUS
IBRD/IDA Disbursements
(Millions of U.S. dollars)
Fiscal Year                              1977     1978      1979    1980      1981
1.  Undisbursed balance at             32.11    27.36    53.65   42.15    40.66
beginning of fiscal yearl/
2.  Commitments during fiscal           3.60    37.70       --      6.00    30.00
year
3.  Total disbursed during              8.35    11.40    11.51    7.49        6.67
fiscal year
4.  Disbursement Rate line 3           26.01    41.69    21.45   17.76    16.40
as percent of line 1.
5. Comparators (%)
(a) Disbursement rate for          26.18    22.45    21.61   18.43    18.19
total of other loans in
the Region
(b) Bank-wide IBRD/IDA             24.53    21.19    21.73   21.31    21.47
average disbursement
rate 2/
(c) Selected comparators:
-Botswana                       19.33    10.99    19.81   18.75    22.59
Liberia                        21.02    23.59    23.10   22.64    32.47
Paraguay                       22.36    15.99    14.91   28.04    22.63
1/ Undisbursed balance includes signed but not effective loans and crdits for
all computations.
2/ Excludes IFC loans and IDA 6 credits.
Note: Above includes effects of program lending.



- 37 -
ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section 1: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: three months
(b) Project Prepared by: DBM
(c) Date of first presentation to Bank: September 1981 during supervision
mission.
(d) Date of appraisal: November 1981
(e) Date of completion of negotiations: May 4, 1982
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: August 1982
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Government would carry out industry sector studies and prepare
implementation programs for discussion with the Bank by
March 31, 1983 (paragraphs 25 and 34).
(b) DBM would prepare a strategy statement and discuss it with the
Government and the Bank by December 31, 1981 (paragraph 57).
(c) DBM would consult the Bank on the qualifications and experience of any
proposed appointee as managing director (paragraph 61).
(d) DBM would keep separate accounts for its industrial estate operations
(paragraph 66).
(e) DBM would maintain a limit on debt/equity of 4.0 (paragraph 86).
(f) Funds for the studies component revert to DBM if unused (paragraph
87).



ANNEX IV
- 38 -                       page 1 of 5
MAURITIUS
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS (DBM)
BASIC DATA
Exchange Rate: US$1.0 = Rsl0.0
A.  Date on which operations started:   March 1, 1964
B.  Ownership as of February 28, 1982                   Share Capital:(Rs million)
Authorized and Paid-In
Government of Mauritius                               37.5
Bank of Mauritius                                     10.0
State Insurance Corporation of Mauritius               2.5
TOTAL       50.0
C.   Operations
Actual              Projected
Year ending June 30                  1980     1981    1982    1983       1984
Approvals (Net of Cancellations)
Loans:
Medium/Large Scale Industry:  37.0       42.3    46.0    50.5       56.0
Foreign Currency            (32.0)   (41.7)  (42.0)  (46.0)   (51.0)
Local Currency              ( 5.0)   ( 0.6)  ( 4.0)  ( 4.5)   ( 5.0)
Agro-Industry                    3.0      6.2      7.0     7.5       8.0
Foreign Currency            ( -  )   ( -  )  (6.0)  ( 6.5)   (7.0)
Local Currency              ( -  )   ( -  )  (1.0)  ( 1.0)   (1.0)
Small Scale Industry            3.4       2.6     3.0      3.5       4.0
Foreign Currency            ( -  )   ( -  )  (2.5)  (3.0)   (3.5)
Local Currency              ( -  )   ( -  )  (0.5)  (0.5)   (0.5)
Agriculture                      1.3      1.5      2.5     3.0       3.5
Transport                       4.8       1.4     -        -        -
Equity Investments              -         1,5     2.0      2.0       2.0
Sub-Total                 49.5      55.5    60.5    66.5      73.5
Industrial  Estates             1.6       8.0     2.0      2.0       2.0
Total Approvals                    51.1     63.5    62.5    68.5       75.5



- 39 -
ANNEX IV
page 2 of 5
Actual              Projected
Year Ending June 30                        1980    1981    1982       1983    1984
Commitments
Loans:
Medium/Large Scale Industry           19.6    23.1    58.0       44.0    48.0
Foreign Currency                   (13.3)  (17.6)  (56.0)   (40.0)  (43.5)
Local Currency                     ( 6.3)  ( 5.5)  ( 2.0)   ( 4.0)  ( 4.5)
Agro-Industry                          -       5.7      6.0       6.5     7.0
Foreign Currency                   ( -  )  ( -  )  ( 5.5)   ( 5.5)  ( 6.0)
Local Currency                     ( -  )  (  -  )  (0.5)   ( 1.0)  (1.0)
Small-Scale Industry                   2.4     2.6      3.0      3.0      3.5
Foreign Currency                   ( -  )  ( -  )  (2.5)   (2.5)  (3.0)
Local Currency                     ( -  )  ( -  )  (0.5)   (0.5)  (0.5)
Agriculture                            5.7      1.4     2.5       2.5     3.0
Transport                              4.8     1.4      -        -        -
Equity Investments                     -       -        2.0      2.0      2.0
Sub-Total                          32.5    34.2    71.5      58.0    63.5
Industrial Estates                     1.6     8.0      2.0      2.0      2.0
Total Commitments                          34.1    42.2    73.5       60.0    65.5
Disbursements
Loans:
Medium/Large Scale Industry            21.7    28.7    34.5       46.0    42.0
Foreign Currency                    (14.3)  (25.7)  (30.0)   (43.5)  (38.5)
Local Currency                      ( 7.4)  ( 3.0)  ( 4.5)   ( 2.5)  ( 3.5)
Agro-Industry                           -       -        4.5       5.5     6.0
Foreign Currency                    ( -  )  ( -  )  (4.5)   ( 5.0)  ( 5.0)
Local Currency                      (-  )  (-  )  ( -  )   ( 0.5)  ( 1.0)
Small-Scale Industry                    2.0     2.2      2.5      3.0      3.0
Foreign Currency                    ( -  )  ( -  )  ( 2.0)   ( 2.5)  ( 2.5)
Local Currency                      ( -  )  ( -  )  (0.5)   ( 0.5)  ( 0.5)
Agriculture                             4.5      1.4     2.0       2.5     2.5
Transport                               3.7     4.5      -        -        -
Equity Investments                      -       -        2.0       2.0     2.0
*                   Sub-Total                         31.9    36.8    45.5       59.0    55.5
Industrial Estates                      1.6     8.5      2.0      2.0      2.0
Total Disbursements                        33.5    45.3    47.5       61.0    57.5



- 40 -
ANNEX Iv
page 3 of 5
D.    Resource  Position as of June 30, 1981 (Rs million)
In Local      In Foreign       Total
Currency      Currency
Resources
Capital and  Reserves                  85.1                           85.1
Debentures and Loans                    2.0                            2.0
Government of Mauritius
Loans                               106.5                         106.5
Term Deposits                           7.3                            7.3
Pulvinaria Credit                       1.5                            1.5
Long-Term Loans:
IDA                                  32.3                          32.3
IBRD                                               225.0          225.0
ADB                                                 20.4            20.4
IDBI a/                                             20.5           20.5
EIB                                                 35.7           35.7
CCCE                                                26.7           26.7
Total                               234.7          328.3          563.0
Uses
Net Fixed Assets                         2.0                           2.0
Industrial Estates
(less depreciation)                  77.1                          77.1
Sinking Fund Investments                8.9                            8.9
Portfolio (less provisions)           110.8          200.7          311.5
Total                              198.8          200.7          399.5
Resources available for
Disbursements                              35.9          127.6          163.5
Undisbursed Commitments                       1.3            6.6            7.9
Resources Available for
Commitments                                34.6          121.0          155.6
Uncommitted Approvals                         -             71.6           71.6
Resources Available for
Approvals                                  34.6           49.4 b/        84.0 b/
E.     Year-End Financial Position                    Actual
Year Ending June 30                 1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
Total Assets (Rs million)                  261.0   300.0   328.9   384.5   424.2
Net Worth (Rs million)                      48.4    55.1    57.6    75.8    86.5
Long Term Debt (net of sinking fund)/
Year End Networth (%)                       3.6     3.9      4.4      4.0     3.6
Provisions as Percentage of Loan and
Equity Portfolio                            2.1     2.1      3.7      3.8     4.2
a/ Excluding Rs 28.5 million in uncommitted funds expected to be cancelled.
b/ Of which Rs  18 million is under tied lines of credit.



- 4 1 -                         ANNEX IV
page 4 of 5
Projected Financial Position                      Projected
and Performance                   1982    1983    1984    1985        1986
Total Assets (Rs  million)         464.9   492.9   515.6   539.8    569.3
Networth (Rs million)               91.1    98.7   107.7   117.8    129.7
Long Term Debt (net of sinking
fund)/Year end Networth (%)         3.8      3.7     3.5      3.3       3.2
Net Income/Average Networth         12.4    13.2    13.5    13.3        13.6
Provision as % of Loan and
Equity Portfolio                    4.6      5.2     5.8      6.3       6.7
F.   Interest Rates and Commitment Fees                 November 1981
Industrial and Tourism Loans:                         14.5%
Commitment Fee                                          1.0%
Small-Scale Industrial Loans:
(Up to Rs 25,000)                                    10.0%
(Above Rs 25,000)                                    13.0%
G.   Basic Data on IDA Credits and Bank Loans
Status as of February 28, 1982
In   $ '000
Date of             Amount of
Credit/Loan  Effectiveness         Credit/Loan      Authorized      Disbursed
313-MAS     August 17, 1972         3,500            3,500          3,500
979-MAS     July   18, 1974         5,000            5,000          5,000
411-MAS a/  Oct.    1, 1973         4,000            4,000          4,000
1168-MAS     Dec.   19, 1975         7,500            7,064          7,064
1481-MAS     Oct.    6, 1977         7,500            7,372          5,669
1789-MAS     April  29, 1980         6,000            3,883             710
Summary of Features of Credit 313-MAS and Loans 979-MAS, 1168-MAS,
1481-MAS and 1789-MAS.
a/ For Coromandel Industrial Estates.



-42-
42 -                ~~~~ANNEX IV
page 5 of 5
313-MAS    979-MAS       1168-MAS      1481-MAS    1789-MAS
1. Foreign Exchange Government Subborrower Subborrower Subborrower/ Subborrower/
Risk taken by:                                           Government   Government
(split risk) (split risk)
2.  Terminal Date      June 30,    Dec. 31       Dec. 31      Dec. 31       Dec. 31
for Project       1974        1976          1979         1979          1982
Submission:
3.  Closing Date       June 30,    Dec. 31       Dec. 31      Dec. 31       Dec. 31
for Disbur-       1976        1978          1981         1982          1983
sements:
4.  Free Limit:          $50,000      $150,000      $400,000    $600,000      $600,000
5.  Aggregate            $750,000    $1 million   $2 million   $4 million  $3 million
Free Limit:
=_   ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 43 -
ANNEX V
THE DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS
SUMMARIZED BALANCE SHEETS 1977-1981
(Rs million)
Year ending June 30
1977      1978       1979       1980       1981
ASSETS
Cash                                               0.2        0.9        1.1       6.8       11.1
Other Current Assets & Accrued Interest            8.0       12.1       18.1      25.0       34.9
Short-term Investments                             8.4        3.0        3.0       -          -
Government of Mauritius Securities                 -          -          -                    3.0
Sinking Fund Investments                          11.2        5.9        5.9       5.9        5.8
Portfolio Investments
Agriculture (incl. tea)                          12.2       12.2       16.0      20.6       20.2
Industry (net of loan deposits)                 136.7      178.9     202.9      242.7      263.0
Provision for Bad Debts                          (3.3)      (4.3)      (8.7)    (10.7)    (12.1)
Equity Investments                                13.4       15.8       16.0      16.0       16.0
Industrial Estates (net)                          71.8       73.8       73.0      71.4       77.0
Fixed Assets                                       1.9        1.7        1.6       1.8        2.8
Staff Pension Fund Investments                     -          -          -         2.0        2.5
Total Assets                            260.5      300.0      328.9      384.5     424.2
LIABILITIES
Borrowings from Bank of Mauritius                  -          8.2        -         -          -
Bank Overdraft                                     9.4        -          -         -          _
Depositors                                        11.9       10.1        7.4       7.4        7.3
Other Current Liabilities                          4.6        5.4        6.4       6.7       14.6
Long-term Debt, Credits and Debentures            11.7        5.7        8.4      11.7       19.9
Government Loans                                  82.7       96.0      108.9     141.6      139.0
IDBI Credit                                        -          3.6        9.0      16.3       18.8
IBRD/IDA Credit                                   87.7      105,4     118.5      108.2      117.6
ADB Crecit                                         4.1       10.5       12.6       17.6      18.0
Staff Pension Fund                                 -          -          -         2.0        2.5
Paid-in Capital                                   27.5       31.4       31.5      41.8       50.0
Exchange Fluctuation  Reserve                      0.9        -           .6        1.0       1.4
General Reserves and Retained Earnings            20.0       23.7       25.6      30.2       35.1
Total Liabilities and Net Worth         260.5      300.0      328.9      384.5     424.2



-4-                                       ANNEX VI
THE DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS
Summarized Profit and Loss Accounts 1977-1981
(Rs 000)
Year Ending June 30
1977 -/    1978 L/    1979 -/    1980 1-    1981 -
Loan Interest Earned and Commitment Fees                      11,229      16,049      19,449      23,436      24,511
Dividend Income                                                  579       1,191       1,620       3,984       4,440
Rent on Buildings                                              3,593       5,498       6,649       6,700       8,536
Interest on Short-term Investments and Sinking Fund            1,641       1,189         830       1,454       1,500
Other Income                                                     708         174       1,156         254         490
Gross Income                                       17,750      24,101      29,704      35,828      39,477
Financial Expenses                                             8,915      13,434      15,755      20,315      21,895
Salaries and Administrative Expenses                           2,235       2,790       3,604       4,740       5,174
Depreciation on Industrial Estates                               785       1,748       2,342       2,291       2,497
Depreciation on Other Fixed Assets                                65          68          70          80         123
Expenses                                           12,000      18,040      21,771      27,426      29,689
Profit from Operations                                         5,750       6,061       7,933       8,402       9,788
Add:  Profit on Sale of Assets                                   -                        -          --        1,590
Profit before Provisions                                       5,750       6,061       7,933       8,402      11,378
Provision for Possible Losses                                    761         975       4,499       1,423       2,376
Net Income                                          4,989       5,086       3,434       6,979       9,002
Dividends                                                      1,175       1,375       1,570       1,570       4,190
Net Income/Share Capital (%)                                      16.1        16.2        10.9        16.7        18.0
Net Income/Average Net Worth (%)                                  11.2          9.9        6.1        10.8         11.2
1/  Foreign exchange gains realized have been directly credited to an Exchange Fluctuation Reserve account
and do not appear in the income statement.



- 45-
ANNEX VII
THE DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS
Past and Projected Financial Ratios
(Rs Million)
Year Ending June 30                                             Actual                                        Projected
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981           1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
A. INCOME STATEMENT ITEMS AS %
OF AVERAGE TOTAL ASSETS
Interest on Loans                                 4.7      4.0      6.2      6.6      6.1         7.2      7.4      7.6      7.9     8.3
V         Rents on Industrial Estates                        1.5      1.4      2.1      2.0      2.1         2.2      2.2      2.3      2.4      2.4
Other (Short-term Interest Dividends)             1.2      0.6      1.1      1.4      1.6         1.0      1.0      1.2      1.2      1.3
Profit on Sale of Assets                           _        -        _        -       0.4          -        -        -        -        -
Total Income                                      7.4      6.0      9.4    10.0    10.2         10.4    10.6    11.1    11.5    12.0
Interest Payments                                 3.8      3.3      5.0      5.7      5.4         5.3      5.4      5.6      5.8     6.1
Administrative Expenses                           0.9      0.7      1.1      1.3      1.3         1.4      1.5      1.6      1.7      1.8
Depreciation                                      0.3      0.4      0.8      0.7      0.7         0.6     0.5       0.5     0.5       0.5
Increase in Provisions                            0.3      0.2      1.4      0.4      0.6        0.6      0.6      0.6      0.6      0.5
Net Profit                                        2.1      1.3      1.1      1.9      2.2         2.5      2.6      2.8      2.9     3.1
B. ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES AS %
OF AMOUNTS APPROVED                           2.4      3.4      7.4      9.2      8.2        9.6    10.2    10.6    10.8    10.9
C.  SELECTED INCOME AND COST ITEMS
Dividends as % of Aver. Equity Portfolio          4.5      8.2    10.1    10.0    27.5          29.3    20.9    23.7    22.1    20.0
Income from Loans as % of Average Loan            8.8      9.6    10.2    10.1        9.4       10.8    11.1    11.4    11.9    12.6
Portfolio
Cost of Debt as % of Average Term-Debt            5.5      6.6      6.6      7.4      7.2        8.2       7.2      7.4     7.8      8.2
Spread                                           3.3      3.0      3.6      2.7      2.2        2.6      3.9      4.0      4.1      4.4
D. PROFITABILITY INDICATOR
Net Profit as % of Average Net Worth             11.2      9.9      6.1    10.7    11.3         12.7    13.2    13.6    13.4    13.7
Net Profit as % of Year-End Net Worth            10.1      9.2      6.0      9.5     10.4       12.1    12.7    13.u    12.o    13.U
E.  FINANCIAL STRUCTURE INDICATORS
Total Debt -/ Yer-End Net Worth                   4.1      4.3      4.6      4.2      3.8         4.0      3.9     3.7       3.5     3.3
Long Term Debt 1' Year-End Net Worth              3.6      3.Q      4.4      4.0      3.6        3.8       3.6     3.5       3.3     3.1
Long Term Debt l/ Year-End Net Worth              2.3      2.9      3.3      2.8      2.6         2.8      2.8     2.7       2.6     2.7
(As per Loan Covenant)
Provisions as % of Loan & Equity                  2.1      2.1      3.7      3.8      4.0         4.4     4.9      5.4       5.9      6.4
Portfolio
Interest Coverage Ratio                           1.6      1.5      1.7      1.4      1.5        1.5      1.5      1.5      1.5      1.5
1/ Net of sinking fund.



- 46 -
ANNEX VIII
THE DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS (DBM)
Forecast of Operations FY 1982 to FY 1986
(Rs. Million)
Year ending June 30                      1982      1983      1984    1985      1986
APPROVALS
Medium/Large Industry                  46.0      50.5      56.0    61.5      68.0
Foreign Currency Loans              (42.0)   (46.0)   (51.0)  (56.0)   (62.0)
Local Currency Loans                ( 4.0)   ( 4.5)   ( 5.0)  ( 5.5)   ( 6.0)
Agro-Industry                           7.0       7.5       8.0     9.5      10.5
Foreign Currency Loans              ( 6.0)   ( 6.5)   ( 7.0)  ( 8.0)   ( 9.0)
Local Currency Loans                ( 1.0)   ( 1.0)   ( 1.0)  ( 1.5)   ( 1.5)
Small Scale Industry                    3.0       3.5      4.0      4.5       5.0
Foreign Currency Loans              ( 2.5)   ( 3.0)   ( 3.5)  ( 4.0)   ( 4.5)
Local Currency Loans                ( 0.5)   ( 0.5)   ( 0.5)  ( 0.5)   ( 0.5)
Agriculture                             2.5       3.0       3.5     3.5       4.0
Equity                                  2.0       2.0       2.0     2.0       2.0
Industrial Estates                      2.0       2.0      2.0      2.0       2.0
62.5     68.5      75.5    83.0       91.5
COMMITMENTS
Medium/Large Industry                  58.0      44.0      48.0    53.0      58.0
Foreign Currency Loans              (56.0)   (40.0)   (43.5)  (48.0)   (53.0)
Local Currency Loans                (2.0)   (4.0)   (4.5)  ( 5.0)   (5.0)
Agro-Industry                           6.0       6.5       7.0     7.5       9.0
Foreign Currency Loans              ( 5.5)   ( 5.5)   ( 6.0)  ( 6.5)   ( 7.5)
Local Currency Loans                ( 0.5)   ( 1.0)   ( 1.0)  ( 1.0)   ( 1.5)
Small Scale Industry                    3.0       3.0      3.5      4.0       4.5
Foreign Currency Loans              (2.5)   (2.5)   ( 3.0)  ( 3.5)   (4.0)
Local Currency Loans                ( 0.5)   ( 0.5)   ( 0.5)  ( 0-5)   ( 0.5)
Agriculture                             2.5       2.5       3.0     3.0       3.5
Equity                                  2.0       2.0       2.0     2.0       2.0
Industrial Estates                      2.0       2.0      2.0      2.0       2.0
73.5     60.0      65.5    71.5       79.0
DISBURSEMENTS
Medium/Large Industry                  34.5      46.0     42.0    44.0       48.5
Foreign Currency Loans              (30.0)   (43.5)   (38.5)  (40.0)   (44.0)
Local Currency Loans                ( 4.5)   ( 2.5)   ( 3.5)  ( 4.0)   ( 4.5)
Agro-Industry                           4.5       5.5       6.0     6.5       7.0
Foreign Currency Loans              ( 4.5)   ( 5.0)   ( 5.0)  ( 5.5)   ( 6.0)
Local Currency Loans                ( -  )   (0.5)   ( 1.0)  ( 1.0)   ( 1.0)
Small Scale Industry                    2.5       3.0      3.0      3.5       4.0
Foreign Currency Loans              ( 2.0)   ( 2.5)   ( 2.5)  ( 3.0)        3.5
Local Currency Loans                ( 0.5)   ( 0.5)   ( 0.5)  ( 0.5)   ( 0.5)
Agriculture                             2.0       2.5       2.5     3.0       3.0
Equity                                  2.0       2.0      2.0      2.0       2.0
Industrial Estates                      2.0       2.0      2.0      2.0       2.0
47.5     61.0      57.5    61.0       66.5



- 47 -
ANNEX IX
THE DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS (DBM)
Projected Balance Sheet FY 1982 to FY 1986
(Rs. Million)
Year ending June 30
1982     1983      1984      1985      1986
ASSETS
Cash                                   10.0     10.0      10.0      10.0      10.0
Receivables, etc.                      41.0      48.0     56.0      64.0      74.0
Sinking Fund Investments and
Government Securities                 8.9      8.9       8.9       8.9       8.9
59.9     66.9      74.9      82.9      92.9
Portfolio Investments
Loans
Medium/large industry and
agro-industry                   279.6    303.0    320.5    338.7    360.1
Financial Sector                     15.9     13.6      11.3       9.0       6.7
Small-scale industry                  8.9     10.1      11.0      12.2      13.7
Agriculture                          19.0     19.1      19.2      19.8      20.2
Equity                               18.1     20.1      22.1      24.1      26.1
Less: Provisions for
doubtful debts               (15.1)   (18.1)   (21.1)   (24.1)   (27.1)
326.4    347.8    363.0    379.7    399.7
Industrial Estates (Net)               76.5     76.0      75.5      75.0      74.5
Other Fixed Assets (Net)                2.1      2.2       2.2       2.2       2.2
78.6     7.        7777.2              76.7
Total Assets                         464.9    492.9    515.6    539.8    569.3
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Depositors and  Current Liabilites  23.2        23.2      23.2      23.2      23.2
Long Term Debts                       211.6    237.5    255.2    273.5    295.9
- Foreign currency
- Local currency
subordinated                     135.7    132.4    128.6    124.6    120.0
unsubordinated                     3.3       1.1       0.9       0.7      0.5
Total Liabilities                     373.8    394.2    407.9    422.0    439.6
Share Capital                          50.0     50.0      50.0      50.0      50.0
Reserves and Surplus                   41.1     48.7      57.7      67.8      79.7
Total Equity                           91.1     98.7    107.7    117.8    129.7
Total Liabilities and Equity          464.9    292.9    515.6    539.8    569.3



- 48 -
ANNEX X
THE DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS (DBM)
Projected Income Statements FY 1982 to FY 1986
(Rs Million)
Year ending June 30                  1982    1983       1984    1985    1986
INCOME
Loan Interest earned               31.4    35.2      30.4    41.6    45.9
Dividends Income                    4.0      4.0       4.5     5.0      5.5
Interests on Sinking Fund
Investments, Government
Securities and Other
Deposits                           1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0
Rent Receivable                     9.5    10.5      11.5    12.5    13.5
Other Income                        0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5
TOTAL INCONE                       46.4    51.2      55.9    60.6    66.4
EXPENSES
Interest on Indebtedness           23.7    26.0      28.2    30.8    33.8
Administrative and General
Expenses                           6.0      7.0      8.0      9.0    10.0
Depreciation
- Industrial Estates                2.6      2.5      2.5      2.5      2.5
- Other Fixed Assets                0.1      0.1      0.2      0.2      0.2
Provision for possible
Losses                            3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0
TOTAL EXPENSES                     35.4    38.6      41.9    45.5    49.5
NET INCOME                           11.0    12.6       14.0    15.1    16.9
Dividends to Shareholders             5.0      5.0       5.0     5.0      5.0
NET SURPLUS                           6.0      7.6       9.0    10.1    11.9



- 49 -
ANNEX XI
page 1 of 2
THE DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS (DBM)
Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                  Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter Ending              Studies           Subloans          Total
FY82
June 30, 1982
FY83
September 30, 1982                   -                 89                 89
December  31, 1982                   -                117                117
March      31, 1983                  -                271                271
June      30, 1983                  -                 426                426
FY84
September 30, 1983                  -                 706                706
December  31, 1983                   -                987                987
March      31, 1984                  -              1,323              1,323
June      30, 1984                150,000           1,660             1,810
FY85
September 30, 1984                300,000           2,025             2,325
December  31, 1984                300,000           2,389             2,689
March      31, 1985                300,000          2,726             3,026
June      30, 1985                300,000           3,063             3,363
FY86
September 30, 1985                300,000           3,399             3,699
December  31, 1985                300,000           3,736             4,036
March      31, 1986               300,000           4,017             4,317
June      30, 1986                300,000           4,297             4,597
FY87
September 30, 1986                300,000           4,523             4,823
December  31, 1986                300,000           4,746             5,046
March      31, 1987               300,000           4,942             5,242
June      30, 1987                300,000           5,139             5,439
1/ Capitalized front-end fee



- 50 -
ANNEX XI
page 2 of 2
IBRD Fiscal Year                   Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter Ending              Studies           Subloans          Total
FY88
September 30, 1987                 300,000          5,279             5,579
December  31, 1987                 300,000          5,419             5,719
March     31, 1988                 300,000          5,560             5,860
June      30, 1988                 300,000          5,700             6,000
EAPID
May 1982



