OPFICIALs LOAN NUMBER 2164 MAS
DOCUMWNTS
Guaratee Agreement
(Sixth DBK Project)
between
MAURITIUS
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                             ,1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2164 MAS
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        4V Q                9, 1982, between
MAURITIUS (hereinafter calle the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and the Development Bank of Nauritius (hereinafter
called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower
a loan in various currencies equivalent to six million dollars
($6,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan
as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions Applic-
able to Loan and Guarantee Agreements, as so modified, being
hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen--
eral Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guaran-
tor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not
as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium,
if any, on the prepaymerit of the Loan, and the punctual perform-
ance of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set
forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to
believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be inade-
quate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carry-
ing on of the Borrower's operations, including the Project, to
make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide
the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds
as are needed to meet such expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for


﻿-3-
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)  The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Guar-
antor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall bear the risk of loss
resulting from:
(a)   changes in the rates of exchange between the curren-
cies, including Rupees, in which the proceeds of the Loan relent
to SSEs under Sub-Loans in an amount of 25,000 Rupees or less ace
repayable; and
(b) changes in the rates of exchange between the dollar and
currencies other than the Rupee in which the proceeds of the Loan
relent to Investment Enterprises, other than the SSEs referred to
in paragraph (a) are repayable.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall, not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1982, review with the Borrower and the Bank the proposals
referred to in Section 3.06 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 3.04. (a) The Guarantor shall promptly carry out a
study or studies on the following:


﻿-4-
(i) its policies for the promotion of and incentives
to industrial investment and exports;
(ii) its   organizational framework   for administering
industrial policy and industrial estates;
(iii)  the degree of protection effectively given to the
industrial sector;
(iv) the extent to which industry requires additional
serviced land, including industrial estates; and
(v) its financial sector, the facilities available to
export-oriented industries and the mobilization of
resources for productive investment.
(b)   In order to assist the Guarantor in carrying out the
studies referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, the Guaran-
tor shall employ consultants whose selection, qualifications,
experience and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Bank in accordance with the principles and procedures des-
cribed in the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" pub-
lished by the Bank in August; 1981.
(c) The Guaraotor shall furnish to the Bank copies of the
studies and reports prepared by the consultants, including drafts
thereof, as and when the Bank shall reasonably request.
(d) The Guarantor shall enter into the contractual arrange-
ments referred to in Section 3.01 (e) of the Loan Agreement with
the Borrower, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Guarantor shall not amend or fail to enforce any provision of
such arrangements.
(e) The Guarantor shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to show the use of the proceeds of the Loan
used for purposes of Part B of the Project as described in
Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement, and to record and monitor
the progress of said Part of the Project (including costs and
benefits to be derived therefrom).
(f)  Not later than March 31, 1983, or such other date as
the Guarantor and the Bank shall agree, the Guarantor shall fur-


﻿-5-
nish to the Bank the recommendations of such studies and afford
the Bank an opportunity to comment thereon. Promptly thereafter,
the Guarantor shall draw up a program for carrying out those
actions which it shall deem necessary or advisable taking into
account such recommendations and the Bank's comments thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor is
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministry of Finance
Government House
Port Louis
Mauritius
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINFIN                            249
Port Louis
For the Bank
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-6-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
MAURITIUS
By
Authorized  epresentative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  s3e>k day of         , 198  .
FOR SECRETARY


