CIRCULATING COPY               RESTRICTED
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK           Report No. P-606
IN GENERAL E C            PY
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR AN
EDUCATION PROJECT
May 29, 1968



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPNT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMM'NDATION OF THE PREZIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPNENT CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR AN EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to
$8.5 million to the Republic of the Sudan to assist in financing a
project for the expansion and improvement of facilities for agricultural
technician training, teacher training and secondary education.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.       In March 1965, the Government of the Sudan asked the Bank for
assistance in preparing a secondary school expansion project for Bank/IDA
financing. A Unesco project preparation mission visited the Sudan in
April/May 1966. In June 1966, the Government submitted a project consist-
ing of 60 new secondary streams of an academic type for 9,600 students,
several post-secondary agricultural institutes, a new intermediate teacher
training college and the expansion of a secondary teacher training insti-
tute.
3.        An IDA mission appraised the project in August/September 1966
and concluded that the proposed large-scale expansion of academic secondary
education was unwarranted and that the most urgent needs in education, in
addition to an expansion of training for agricultural technicians, were the
upgrading of teaching standards and a reorientation of the secondary school
program away from the literature-dominated curriculum, Accordingly the
mission suggested that the capacity of the intermediate teacher training
college should be increased and that a limited number of commercial and
science-oriented streams should be established within existing secondary
schools instead of the proposed academic streams. These proposals and
several other modifications in the project were accepted by the Sudanese
authorities in discussions with further missions in March and December
1967.
4.        Negotiations took place in Washington from May 2-1J., 1968.
The Sudanese delegation was headed by Mr. Mahdi Ahmed, Deputy Under
Secretary in the Ministry of Finance and Economics, and included repre-
sentatives of the Ministries of Agriculture and Education and of the
Office of the Attorney General.
5.        The proposed credit would be the Association's second to the
Sudan which so far has also received five Bank loans. The following is
a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits for projects in the
Sudan as at April 30, 1968:



-2-
Amount (US $ million)
Loan or
Credit No.   Year   Borrower         Purpose      Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
Loan 202     1958   Sudan           Railways      39.0
Loan 258     1960   Sudan           Managil
Irrigation    15.5
Loan 284     1961   Sudan           Roseires
Irrigation    19.5              2.5
Credit 2     1961   Sudan           Roseires
Irrigation           13.0       1.3
Loan 440     1965   sudan           Railways      31.0             15.1
Loan 522     1968   Central Elec-
tricity and
Water Corpo-
ration          Power         24.O*            24.0
Total                                     129.0   13.0
of which has been repaid
to Bank and others                       13.5
Total now outstanding                     115.5
Amount sold:             5.8
of which has been
repaid                 4.1                1.7
Total now held by
Bank and IDA                            113.8   13.0
Total undisbursed                          41.6    1.3      42.9
Loan 522 SU has not yet been declared effective pending ratification of the
Guarantee Agreement by the Sudanese Constituent Assembly. A bill to this
effect was before the Constituent Assembly when it was dissolved in February,
1968. A new Assembly has just been elected and is expected to take action
on the Guarantee Agreement shortly. Implementation of the other projects
has been generally satisfactory. It is planned to postpone the closing date
of the 1961 Loan (284 SU) and Credit (2 SU) for the Roseires irrigation
project, which is June 30, 1968,. for about one year to permit some further
payments to be made in connection with this project. Savings of about
$2 million are expected under these two operations. Disbursements under
Loan 440 SU were slow initially because of delays in awarding contracts,
but these difficulties have now been overcome.
* Not yet effective.



6.        IFC has made one investment in the Sudan in 1964 in the Khartoum
Spinning and Weaving Company Limited, consisting of a loan in the principal
amounts of $247,ooo and 635,000 and a subscription, at par for 12,000 shares
valued at $344,383 equivalent.
7.        As to future operations in the Sudan, a Bank loan of $5 million
for a mechanized farming project in the Gedaref region in central Sudan
was negotiated in April 1968 and will be submitted to the Executive Directors
for consideration within the next few weeks upon completion of land regis-
tration and legislative action. In an earlier stage is the Rahad irrigation
project which would require at least $80 million in foreign exchange. A
preliminary appraisal of this project has been completed and further discus-
sions will now be held with the Sudanese Government on various project
matters. The creditworthiness of the Sudan and the priority of this large
project within the overall development program of the country are now being
examined. In vie6t of the Sudants economic situation and given the size
of the project, its financing would be dependent in any case upon MA re-
plenishment and upon some arrangements being made for the participation
of other lenders.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
8.        BORROWER:                 The Republic of the Sudan.
PURPOSE:                  To assist in financing the construction
or extension of two institutes for
agricultural technician training, two
teacher training institutes and selected
secondary schools, and the provision of
specialist teachers and teacher fellowships.
AMOUNT:                   The equivalent in various currencies of
US $8.5 million.
AMORTIZATION:             50 years, including 10 years of grace,
in semi-annual installments beginning
August 1, 1978 and ending February 1, 2018.
SERVICE CHARGEs           Three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%).
PART III - THE PROJECT
9.        A report entitled "Appraisal of Education Project - Sudan' (TO-643b),
dated May 28, 1968 is attached.
10.       The Sudan education system consists of four years each of elementary,
intermediate and secondary schooling, followed by various types of post-
secondary and higher education. Student enrollment in 1965/66, as a percent-
age of the total number of children in the respective age groups, was 31%
for elementary, 4.5% for intermediate and 2.2% for secondary schools. The



Government expects enrollment in the intermediate schools to increase so
as to provide for attendance of 9% of the children in the relevant age
group by 1974. Together with the need to provide a sufficient number of
teachers to make this expansion possible, there is generally an urgent
necessity to improve the quality of teachers since at present only about
45% of all intermediate school teachers are properly trained. For secondary
schools, it is aimed to double enrollment by 1972 which would allow the
percentage of the secondary school age population attending school to rise
to 3.7 percent. This percentage is a modest target but its attainment must
be synchronized with efforts to increase the number of trained secondary
school teachers and to develop a better balanced instruction program,
particularly with a view to preparing students better for the technological-
scientific studies required by a modern economy.
11.       Agricultural education has particular significance in the Sudan
because of the predominant position of the agricultural sector in the
economy. The success of the Government's plans to increase the acreage
under cultivation and to raise gields through a coordinated program
of agricultural development, extension and research depends to a large
extent on the availability of a sufficient number of trained agricultural
personnel. The shortage of such personnel is especially acute at the level
of agricultural technicians wiho are trained in post-secondary agricultural
institutes. Against an estimated requirement of over 2,000 technicians
during the period 1966-76, only about 320 could be provided by existing
training facilities.
12.       The project which would be assisted by the proposed credit would
help to fill these important gaps in the Sudanese education system. It
would consist of the construction and equipment of the following institutions;
Estimated
New          Cost          % of Total
Institution                 Places    (US $ million)   Project Cost
Two Agricultural Institutes - new     630          5.5              35
Higher Teacher Training Institute -
expansion                          440          1.2               8
Intermediate Teacher Training
College - new                      600          2.1              14
Secondary Schools - 13 new streams
(6 commercial and 7 science) and
relocation of 6 academic streams 2,080          6.6              43
Totals               3.750         15.4             100



- 5 -
The cost estimates include $1.5 million for the employment of specialist
teachers and the training of Sudanese teachers abroad, of which $1.1 million
for the agricultural institutes and $0.4 million for the Intermediate Teacher
Training College. The Higher Teacher Training Institute is receiving tech-
nical assistance under a UNDP project.
13.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $15.4 million
including $1.8 million for contingencies. Of the total cost, the proposed
credit of $8.5 million would contribute 55%, of which the foreign exchange
component would represent approximately 45% and local currency expenditures
10%. This seems justified in view of the Sudan's substantial need for
external resources and the Government's budgetary needs. Approximately
75% of the total cost is for construction, including site development and
professional fees, 15% for teaching equipment and furniture, and 10% for
specialist teachers and fellowships. No costs have been included for land
which will be provided by the Government, including some 2,000 acres of
farmland for the agricultural institutes. Recurrent costs for the project,
estimated at the equivalent of US $2.9 million annually, will also be
carried by the Government.
14.       The project would be executed under the supervision of two
project offices to be established in the Ministries of Agriculture and
Education. Two project directors, acceptable to the Association, have
been appointed to head the project offices and to be responsible for the
overall implementation of the agricultural institutes and the other project
items respectively. The Government would employ consultants, acceptable
to the Association, to design the buildings and related facilities and to
supervise construction. All construction and equipment procurement contracts
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding. Construc-
tion is expected to be completed by the end of 1972. Disbursements for the
services of specialist teachers is likely to extend up to 1976.
15.       The project would help to meet important needs in intermediate
and secondary education and agricultural technician training in the Sudan
and would thus contribute to meeting the manpower requirements of economic
development. Particular benefits would be the improvement of teaching
standards in intermediate schools and the introduction of a more modern
orientation in secondary schools. In agricultural education, the project
would not only bring about a very substantial increase in the number of
agricultural technicians but also the introduction of teaching methods and
curricula better suited to the requirements of modern agriculture, both
irrigated and rainfed.



-6-
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
16.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
the Sudan and the Association and the Report of the Committee provided for
in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately. The draft Development Credit
Agreement follows generally the usual pattern for education projects.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
17.       An economic report on the Sudan (AF-49a) was issued on
January 30, 1967 and was followed by a memorandum on recent economic
developments dated November 24, 1967. It was concluded at that time that
while the closure of the Suez Canal made the short-term prospects for
the government finances and the balance of payments uncertain, economic
performance in the past year had not been discouraging. Since then the
implementation of the Government's stabilization policies succeeded in
reducing both the overall deficit of the public sector and its reliance
on bank credit.
18.       An economic mission returned from the Sudan in April and is
preparing a report on its findings. Inadequate performance of the Sudan
Railways became a major problem recently. This was due largely to the
closure of the Suez Canal which caused a concentration in the arrival of
imports after the summer and delayed the shipment of spare parts for the
Railways, to long interruptions of traffic resulting from unusually heavy
rains, to dif.iculties wiith a now type of locoriotiva and to the trans-itional
effects on management of reorganizing the Railways as an autonomous
corporation.    It affected the rate of dispatch of export crops and
resulted in a large accumulation of imported goods in Port Sudan, the
country's only major port. However, the Railways are taking various
steps, including acquiring additional locomotives, to increase operating
capacity. Some budgetary difficulties have recently arisen and taxpayers
have been urged to make part of their tax payments in advance of the time
when they would be due. The Government has negotiated a number of medium-
term external loans since June 1967 which would raise the debt service ratio
from its present level of about 7% of export earnings to about 13% in 1973
and this trend has been drawn to the attention of the Government. Notwith-
standing these difficulties, the Sudan would be a suitable recipient of IDA
assistance in the amount proposed for this project.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
19.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.



PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
20.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
Resolution:
RESOWUTION NO.
Aproval of Development Credit to The Republic of The
Sudan in an amount equivalent to US $8,500,000.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Association shall grant a development credit to The
Republic of The Sudan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to
eight million five hundred thousand United States dollars (U.S.$8,500,OOO)
to mature on and prior to February 1, 2018, to bear a service charge at
the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum, and to be
upon such other terms and conditions as shall be substantially in accordance
with the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Development Credit
Agreement (Education Project) between the Republic of The Sudan and the
Association, which has been presented to this meeting.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 29, 1968
Washington, D.C.



