RET UR T|
REpORTS  DES  |IRCULATING COPY                              RESTRICTED
I  wITHNMTO RE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK                Report No. TO-643b
ONE VEEK ~IN GENERAL FILES
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
AN EDUCATION PROJECT
IN THE SUDAN
May 28, 1968
Projects Department



CUIRRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1. 00            =      LSdO. 345
LSgd. 00            =        S$2, 872
LSdl, 000,000       =      US$2,872,000



SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paragraph
Numbers
BASIC DATA
SUMARY                                                         i
1. INTRODUCTION                                              1.01
Social and Economic Background                       1.03
2. THE EDUCATION SYSTEM                                      2.01
Organization and Administration                      2.01
Elementary Education                                 2.04
Intermediate Schools                                 2.06
Secondary Schools                                    2.09
Private Education                                    2.12
Teacher Training                                     2.13
Technical and Vocational Education                   2.16
University Education                                 2.23
Financing of Education                               2.26
3. NEED FOR THE PROJECT                                      3.01
Manpower conditions                                  3.01
Modernized Secondary Education                       3.03
Teachers for Secondary and Intermediate Schools      3.04
Technicians for Az,riculture                         3.07
4.  THE PROJECT                                              4.01
Technical Features                                   4.03
Costs                                                4.28
Construction and Maintenance                         4.31
5. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOIMNDATIONS                           5.01
This report is based on the findings of a Mission to Sudan in August-
September, 1966, composed of Messrs. J. J. Stewart, M. Ramirez and
C. van Dijk of the Bank and Messrs. D. Burns and J. Kulski (consultants
to the Bank). The project was further reviewed in Sudan by i-r. J. J.
Stewart in March, 1967, and by Messrs. A. J. I4acris and S. Kadleigh
of the B-nlc in December, 1967.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont.)
ANNEXES
1 - Outline of Public School System (1966)
2 - Administrative Structure of the Mfinistry of Education
3 - Enrollments by Irpes of Elementary Schools, 1963/64
4 - Student Enrollments, 1965/66
5- Educational Pyramid
6 - Summary of Private Education, 1963/64
7 - Short Training Programs of Various Agencies
8 - Total Expenditure on Education, 1961/62-1965/66
9 - Recurrent Expenditure per Pupil in Public Schools
10 - Public Capital Expenditure
11 - Public Recurrent Expenditure on Education
12 - Public Recurrent Expenditure by Level of Education
13 - Public Recurrent Expenditure on Education by Type of Expenditure
14- Public Recurrent Expenditure on Education, Summary and Projections
for 1970/71
15- Estimated Recurrent Costs of Project Schools
16 - High Level Manpower Requirements and Supply
17 - Projected Demand and Supply of Qualified Intermediate Teachers
18 - Additional Agricultural Technicians Required, 1966-76
19 - Summary of Estimated Project Costs
20 - Foreign Exchange Component of Project Costs
21 - Estimated Construction Schedule
MAP OF SUDAN



SUDkLAN
BASIC DATA - 1966
General
Size of Country:                      1,000,000 square miles
Total Population (1965 estimate):    13,500,000
Annual rate of population growth
(estimate);                         2.8 percent
Average density of population:       1  inhabitants per square mile
Gross domestic product:               US$1,326 million
GNP per inhabitant:                   US$90
Government current revenue as
percent of GDP:                     17 percent
Education (1965/o6)
Population aged 7-10 years:           1,580,000
Enrollment in Primary Schools:        31 percent of 7-10 years age group
Intermediate School Enrollment:       4.5 percent of 11-14 age group
Secondary School Enrollment:          2.2 percent of 15-18 age group
Education Expenditure Financed by
Government:
as proportion of GDP             3.5 percent
as proportion of national
budget                        22 percent
Total Education Expenditure (includ-
ing non-government):
as proportion of GDP             4.1 percent
per capita                       US$4.07



SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF EDUC.TION PROJECT
SU4VARY
i.        The International Development Association (IDA) has been asked
by the Government of the Sudan to assist in financing the construction and
equipment of classrooms, laboratories, workshops, offices, student hostels,
staff housing and related site development for (i) two new agricultural
institutes, (ii) one new college for training teachers for intermediate
schools, (iii) expansion of the Higher Teacher Training Institute (for sec-
ondary school teachers), and (iv) specialized commercial and science courses
in 13 secondary schools as a first step in modernizing the educational sys-
tem. The project includes also specialist teachers and fellowships to train
teachers abroad for the two agricultural institutes and the Intermediate
Teacher Training College.
ii.       Agricultural technicians are urgently needed for the implementa-
tion of the agricultural development plans. The proposed agricultural insti-
tutes would provide 630 new places and increase by four times the present
output of such technicians.
iii.      The proposed Intermediate Teacher Training College with 600 stu-
dent places would increase the capacity of the present intermediate teacher
training system by 160 percent, and would represent the most important
single development in the Ministry of Education's program to increase the
percentage of qualified intermediate teachers from the present 45 to 62
percent.
iv.       The project proposes additional facilities for the Higher Teacher
Training Institute to increase to 800 its present capacity of 360 student
places. One half of the total enrollment would be science teacher trainees
and 40 places would be allocated to students of home economics.
v.        The project would establish a total of seven specialized science
streams and six commercial streams in 13 existing secondary schools. The
science streams would be new to the Sudan and would provide 840 student
places, while the commercial streams would permit an expansion in secondary
commercial student places from the present 700 to 1,660. The proposed
streams would help to meet directly some of the country's manpower needs
and would provide experience for the Ministry of Education in the moderniza-
tion of the entire educational system.
vi.       Present and anticipated future outputs of the secondary schools
would ensure sufficient qualified entrants to the agricultural and teacher
training institutions. The small increased intake resulting from the proj-
ect secondary school streams could be satisfactorily filled by the output
from the present intermediate school system.



- ii -
vii.      The additional teachers required for the expanded science teacher
training and the new home economics programs at the Higher Teacher Train-
ing Institute are being provided by the extension and enlargement of a
technical assistance project of the United Nations Development Program
(UNDP). The UNDP project also provides for training abroad 15 Sudanese
teachers.
viii.     Instructors for the Intermediate Teacher Training College would
be graduates of the University of Khartoum and the University of Cairo,
Khartoum Branch, with pedagogic training and practice teaching. The costs
of employing four specialist teachers at the college for three years and
of providing 20 man-years of overseas studies for selected Sudanese teachers
would be included within the project.
ix.       Teachers of agriculture for the agricultural institutes would
be graduates of the Faculty of Agriculture of the University of Khartoum
with special training in agricultural educatica. The project would pro-
vide a total of 36 man-years of specialist teachers for both institutes
and 16 man-years of overseas studies for selected teachers at each insti-
tute.
x.        The project would be executed under the supervision of two proj-
ect offices to be established in the Ministries of Agriculture and Educa-
tion. Suitable building sites are available for all schools. Buildings
would be designed by firms of consulting architects and constructed by
private contractors. Contracts for civil works and equipment procurement
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding.
xi.       The schedules of accommodations for all project items are ade-
quate and conform to austere standards.  The estimates of cost are real-
istic.- Lists of instructional equipment are adequate and reasonably
priced.
xii.      The total project cost is estimated to be equivalent to US$15.4
million, of which US$13.9 million would be for buildings and equipment,
US$1.1 million for technical assistance for the agricultural institutes,
and US$0.4 million for technical assistance for the Intermediate Teacher
Training College. The foreign exchange component is estimated to be
US$7.1 million.  The proposed credit, equivalent to US$8.5 million, rep-
resenting 55 percent of the total project cost, would be made to the Gov-
ernment of the Sudan. The annual recurrent costs of the project, approx-
imately £Sd 1.0 million (US$2.9 million) would be met by the Sudanese
government. Construction and procurement would be completed by the end
of 1972.
xiii.     Agreement having been reached on the conditions described in para,.
5.02, the project is a suitable basis for a proposed development credit
equivalentt to US$8.5 million.



SUDAf
APPRAISAL OF EDUCATION PROJECT
1.  INTRODUCTION
1.01      In Marc4 196$ the Sudan government made a request to the Bank for
guidance in preparing a secondary school expansion project for Bank/IDA fi-
nancing.  A Unesco Project Preparation Mission assisted the Sudanese au-           1
thorities in April-May, 1966, to prepare the project.  As submitted to the
Bank in June,196C; the project consisted of 60 new academic secondary streams
for 9,600 students; three post-secondary agricultural institutes with an
enrollment of 180 each; a new intermediate teacher training college for
400 students; and an expansion of a secondary teacher training institute.
The total cost of the project was estimated to be US$24 million.
1.02      The project was appraised in August-September, 1966, by-an-IDA
mission consisting of Messrs. J. J. Stewart, technical oducation, M. Ramirez,
agricultural education, and C. van Dijk, economist, of the Bank and Messrs.
D. Burns, teacher training oonsultant, and J. Kulski, architect donsultant.
The mission did not find justifiable the proposed large expansion of academic
secondary education and concluded that the most urgent needs were a reorien-
tation of the secondary school program and an upgrading of teaching standards.
The mission also considered the proposed expansion of teacher training for
intermediate and secondary schools inadequate for producing the desired num-
bers of qualified teachers. The proposed three agricultural institutes were
found to be too small for economical operation. The project was reshaped in
discussions with the Sudanese by two subsequent IDA missions, Mr. J. J. Stewart
in March '1966, -and Messrs. A. MacrJs,, agricu1tnral educatios; -and S. Xadleigh,
architect, in December,'1967. Theproject as revised would introduce practical
courses into secondary schools and would place greater emphasis on science
subjects. It would further provide for larger teacher training programs and
for two agricultural institutes with a combined enrollment of 630 trainees.
Social and Economic Background
1.03      Sudan, the largest country in Africa, has an area of approximately
1,000,000 square miles, extending 1,200 miles from Egypt to Uganda and 1,000
miles from the Red Sea to Libya and Chad. Except for the highlands bordering
Ethiopia, the Sudan is an immense plain divided int6 three fairly distinct re-
gions: the northern zone consisting of the Libyan desert in the west,separa-
ted by the narrow Nile valley from the Nubian desert extending to the Red Sea;
the central zone, consisting of large fertile areas, such as the rainlands of
Kassala, Gedarif, Tokar and the Gezi plain; and the southern equatorial belt.
Nearly all of Sudan's exports and imports outside Africa move through Port
Sudan on the Red Sea, connected to Khartoum by railroad across 700 miles of
mostly barren desert.
1.04      The population is estimated to be 13.5 million, increasing at 2.8
percent per year, and living mostly in small clusters, except for the Khartoum
area. About one-seventh of the population is nomadic. In the central and
northern regions, the population is a mixture of Caucasian, African and pre-
dominantly Arab stock; in the southern provinces, the people are chiefly of
Nilotic stock. Arabic is spoken by about half of the population.



- 2 -
1.05      Agriculture is the predominant sector of Sudan's economy, contrib-
uting more than half of the domestic product and 85 percent of employment.
In addition to producing most of the basic foods consumed in the country,
agriculture is the source of over 90 percent of export earnings. Both irri-
gation and rainfed agriculture offer excellent development potentialities
which the Government plans to exploit.
2. THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
Organization and Administration
2.01      The Sudan educational system (Annex 1) consists of four years of
elementary, four years of intermediate and four years of secondary schooling,
followed by various types of post-secondary and higher education. Public
elementary and intermediate schools are operated by provincial councils, but
the curricula, syllabuses and academic standards are the responsibility of
the Ministry of Education.  Public secondary, academic and trades schools,
teacher training institutes and post-secondary technical schools, except
agricultural, are operated and financed by the Ministry of Education.
2.02      The Under-Secretary of the Ministry of Education (Annex 2), a per-
manent civil service employee, is the chief administrative officer at the
operations level. A Deputy Under-Secretary and nine heads of departments
comprise a departmental board which assists and advises the Under-Secretary.
Except for the Chief Inspector of Schools who is British, all administrative
personnel in the Ministry of Education are Sudanese.
2.03      Inspection of the elementary and intermediate schools, a responsi-
bility of the Provincial Education Officers, is adequate. Although plans are
underway to enlarge the Secondary School Inspectorate in the Ministry of
Education, at present it is under-staffed and overburdened with numerous ad-
ministrative duties.
Elementary Education
2.04      The standard elementary school in Sudan consists of four grades, en-
rolling pupils from ages seven through ten. Junior elementary schools with
only two or three grades have developed where local governments have been
unable to finance complete elementary schools.
2.05      In the 1963/64 school year, 1,506 government elementary and 1,442
junior elementary schools had 60 percent and 37 percent, respectively, of
the total primary -school ~wnr22aent of 417,C.O pupils.  Sixty private schools
enrolled the remaining 3 percent (Annex 3). In 1966/67, enrollment re&bh6d
489,o00 or 31 percent of the children seven to ten years old. The government
plans to open 250 new elementary schools and to upgrade 1,300 junior schools,
and thus increase by 1972 the percentage of the relevant age group enrolled
in elementary schools to 40 percent.



-3-
Intermediate Schools
2.06      Entrants to the intermediate schools are selected through the
Elementary School Final Examination, administered by a committee chaired
by an intermediate school headmaster. Promotion is dependent upon satis-
dactory performance in internal end-of-the year examinations. About 25
percent of the first year's class drop out before the last year (Annex 4).
"Repeaters" account for approximately 9 percent of the enrollment over the
four years. About 85 percent of the students who sat for the Intermediate
Schools Final Examination in 1966 were awarded certificates.
2.07      The educational pyramid (Annex 5) shows that the intermediate
school system is undersized in proportion to the other levels; only 21 per-
cent of the pupils taking the Elementary School Final Examination are ad-
mitted to intermediate schools. The comparable rate for admission to
secondary schools is 41 percent.  In 1965, enrollment in 229 public and 143
private intermediate schools totalled6l,400 pupils, constituting 4.5 percent
of the 11-14 years age group.  Private school enrollment r.epresented 40 per-
cent of the total. About half of the students were boarders.
2.08      The government plans to open new intermediate schools and is also
encouraging local committees and municipalities to construct "self-help"
schools by promising to recruit teachers for such schools and pay their
salaries. The gorernment thus expects enrollment to rise by about 150 per-
cent by 1974 so as to provide for a larger school age population and for
increasing enrollment to 9 percent of this population.
Secondary Schools
2.09      Admission is controlled by the Secondary School Acceptance Board
and is based upon performance in the Intermediate Schools Final Examination.
Promotion is dependent on performance in internal end-of-the year examinations.
Drop-outs over the four years equal 26 percent of the initial year's enroll-
ment. "Repeaters" average 7 percent during the first three years and 9 per-
cent in the last year. Boarding students average 60 percent of total enroll-
ment. At the completion of the course, students take the Sudan Secondary
School Certificate Examination, which is set and marked by the Sudan Exami-
nations Council. In 1966, of the 3,902 pupils who took the examination, 57
percent received certificates.
2.10      The academic secondary school curriculum throughout the 4-year
course provides no practical instruction other than handicrafts, and is
heavily oriented towards arts and literary subjects - 28 of 42 periods per
week.
2.11      In 1965/66, enrollment in all secondary level schools totaled
25,700 or about 2.2 percent of the respective age group (Annex 4). Of the
above, 13,000 were enrolled in 34 public general (or academic) schools; 1,700
were primary teacher trainees; 2,200 pupils were enrolled in technical or
trades schools of secondary level; 3,600 were enrolled in private schools
following the Sudan education system; and 5,200 in other private schools. The



Development Plan provides for secondary school enrollment in 1971/72 to
reach 53,000 - about double the 1965/66 enrollment. This increase would
allow the percentage of the secondary school age population attending
school to rise to 3.7 percent. In general, this percentage is a modest
target but its attainment must be synchronized with efforts to increase
the output of trained secondary school teachers and to develop a better
balanced instruction program.
Private Education
2.12      Private education in Sudan (Annex 6) is an important adjunct to
the public system beyond the elementary level; it accounts for 41 percent
of the total enrollment at the intermediate level, 34 percent at the second-
ary level and 34 percent at the post-secondary level. Largest of the pri-
vate systems are those following the same curriculum as the public school,
referred to in Annex 6 as Sudanese National Schools. The next largest is
the Egyptian system which consists of six years of-primary, three years of
preparatory and three years of secondary schooling.
Teacher Training
2.13      Elementary - Students who have successfully completed intermediate
schools are admitted on a competitive basis to a 2-year training program in
six elementary teacher training centers for men and three for women, with an
annual intake of 100 and 80 each, respectively.
2.14      Intermediate school teachers are being trained at one college
for men at Bakt er Ruda and one for women at Omdurman. Students are se-
lected among holders of the Sudan Secondary School Certificate on the basis
of marks obtained in the examination. Some 40 women are admitted annually
to a 2-year course from which about 35 graduate. The course for men was
reduced in 1963 from two years to one academic year to increase the annual
output, but the Ministry decided recently to restore the 2-year program.
Under the 2-year program the Bakt er Ruda College will enroll about 250
for an output of 120 annually. Prospective teachers are employed as super-
numeraries in intermediate schools, with approximately one-half of a regular
teacherts workload, before being admitted to the teacher training colleges.
Existing plans provide that the trainees should spend two years as super-
numerary teachers but, because of the insufficient capacity of the two
teacher training colleges, they now spend four to five years before gaining
admission.
2.15      Secondary - The Higher Teacher Training Institute at Qmdurman
was established in 1962 and is operated with assistance from UNDP. It
offers a 4-year diploma course to applicants with first or second class
standing in the Sudan Secondary School Certificate Examination. Students
are paid salaries equivalent to junior clerks in government service. At
present, 15 percent of the total enrollment of about 360 trainees are
women. Because the present annual intake of 95 is determined by space
limitations, the planned increases in enrollments to support expansion
of the secondary schools will require additions to the Institute.



- 5-
Technical and Vocational Education
2.16      Intermediate Technical Schools offer a 4-year curriculum which is
identical with the intermediate academic curriculum except for the substi-
tution of carpentry and metalwork for history and geography. At present,
25 intermediate technical schools are in operation with an enrollment of
160 each.
2.17      The Technical Secondary School provides a route to higher education
for deserving students from the intermediate technical schools.  It admits
annually 160 boys with the highest scores in the Intermediate Technical Schools
Final Examination. The 4-year curriculum comprises technical drawing, wood-
work or metalwork and academic subjects leading to the Sudan School Certifi-
cate. Students witlh sufficiently high grades in the school certificate exami-
nation may be admitted to the University of Khartoum, the Khartoum Technical
Institute or the Higher Teacher Training Institute.
2.18      Eleven Secondary Trades Schools admit 660 boys from the intermediate
technical schools who had the next highest scores after those admitted to the
technical secondary school. They offer 3-year courses in either mechanical or
building trades, with one-fourth of the time allocated to academic subjects,
one fourth to technological courses and the remaining one half to practical
work.
2.19      The Senior Trades School offers instruction in seven mechanical
trades and three building trades for three years, corresponding to grades 12,
13, and 14. Enrollment is restricted to 120 students, selected mostly among
those who had high marks in the Secondary Trade School Final Examination but
selected students from the academic secondary schools are also accepted, es-
pecially for the electronic course which requires a better mathematical back-
ground.
2.20      The Khartoum Technical Institute is a semi-autonomous post-secondary
institution within the Plinistry of Education. It is administered by a Board
of Governors consisting of representatives from various ministries and in-
dustrial and civic leaders. It offers 4-year diploma programs in civil,
electrical and mechanical engineering, fine arts and accounting, together
with a 2-year secretarial training program for girls. Admission to the
school is competitive, based upon performance in the Sudan School Certificate
Examination. Preliminary planning has been started to expand and upgrade
the institute. Present enrollment is about 1,000 pupils.
2.21      The Shambat Agricultural Institute was established in 1954 to train
agricultural technicians in a 2-year program, which was extended to three
years in 1963. The Institute and the University of Khartoum are the only
schools in Sudan offering professional instruction in agriculture, although
a number of short specialized courses are offered in training centers operated
by various government agencies. (Annex 7). The Institute can accommodate
60 pupils in each of the three years but drop-out rates ranging from 40 per-
cent in the first year to 20 percent in the third year have reduced the
present enrollment to 130 pupils. Applicants with the Sudan Secondary School
Certificate are admitted on a competitive nation-wide basis but approximately
half the enrollment is from the Khartoum area.



- 6 -
2.22      The curriculum is heavily inclined toward theoretical instruction
and allocates only ten of the 36 hours per week to practical work) including
laboratory periods. As a result,few of its graduates have been willing or
capable to undertake field work; the majority of the 300 graduates is em-
ployed in government services in Khartoum. The Institute has been further
handicapped by a very heavy dependence on part-time teachers and by the
failure of efforts made in the past to secure the services of specialist
teachers under technical assistance programs.
University Education
2.23      Sudan has three universities:  the University of Khartoum; the
University of Cairo, Khartoum Branch; and the Islamic University of Omdurman.
The University of Khartoum, an autonomous institution supported by government
funds, is the primary source of university graduates in Sudan.  Four to six-
year degree courses are offered in arts, economics, agriculture, engineering,
science, mathematics, law, medicine, pharmacy and veterinary science. Post-
graduate courses are also offered in many of these fields. If sufficient
financing can be obtained, it is planned to increase the enrollment from the
present 3,100 to 5,000 in 1972. Many graduates of the University of Khartoum
are employed as teachers in secondary schools but the university does not
offer any pedagogic or education courses.
2.24      The University of Cairo, Khartoum Branch, is an evening school
offering degree courses in faculties of arts, law and commerce. No post-
graduate studies are available and no expansion of the present enrollment
of 830 is planned. Students are admitted exclusively from the Egyptian
secondary schools.
2.25      The Islamic University offers degree courses in Arabic and religion,
including pedagogical training, and is the source of qualified Arabic and re-
ligion teachers in all the schools in Sudan. In view of the sufficient cur-
rent supply of Arabic and religion teachers, an expansion of enrollment above
the present 730 is unlikely.
Financing of Education
2.26      Total expenditure on education, including non-government expendi-
ture (Annex 8), increased from £Sa.12.7 million in 1961/62 to £Scd 19.7 million
in 1964/65, a 55 percent increase over the three year period, corresponding
to an increase from 2.9 to 4.1 percent of the GDP,. The sharp decrease of
£Sd 0.9 million in public capital expenditure in 1965/66 reduced the total
expenditure on education to £Sd 19.1 million or 3;8 percent of the GDP. Public
school enrollments increased at a more rapid rate than public recurrent ex-
penditures, resulting in decreased average recurrent expenditure per pupil
(Annex 9).
2.27      Public capital expenditures.  Construction and expansion of all
schools, from elementary schools to the university, are included in the cen-
tral government development budget. In the 10-Year Plan of Economic and Social
Development, 1961/62-1970/71, the amount of £Sd 36.2 million or 10.8 percent



- 7 -
of the total development funds has been allocated to the Ministry of Education
and the University of Khartoum (Annex 10). In 1961/67, the actual capital ex-
penditure for education was limited to $Sd 14.2 million, only 6 percent. of
total capital expenditure, and considerably below annual budgetary provisions.
This was due to difficulties encountered in administering the planned volume
of construction.
2.28      For the remaining years of the Plan period 1967/71, capital ex-
penditure for education will be £21.9 million. The budget estimate for 1967/
68 is £Sd 2.8 million and the estimate for the remaining years 1968/71 is
£Sd 19.1 million.
2.29      The government has recently encouraged the communities to construct
elementary and intermediate schools with local funds by promising financial
assistance to cover recurrent costs. Except for impoverished areas, the
major portion of elementary and intermediate school construction is expected
to be financed under this arrangement, which has met with an initial measure
of success.
2.30      Public recurrent expenditure.  The Ministry of Education pays 40
percent of the recurrent costs of junior elementary schools, which are run
by local councils and 20 percent of the recurrent costs of public elementary
and intermediate schools, which are operated by the provincial councils.
General grants-in-aid by the central government to local and provincial
councils, however, account indirectly for a further substantial part of the
recurrent costs of elementary and intermediate schools.
2.31      Public secondary and technical schools, teacher training institutes
and post-secondary technical education are operated and financed by the
Ministry of Education. Post-secondary agricultural education below the
university level is financed by the Ministry of Agriculture. The University
of Khartoum is financed directly by the Ministry of Finance.
2.32      The Ministry of Education budget increased from £Sd 1.3 million, oi
7.3 percent of the government's total recurrent budget, in 1951/52 to £Sd 8.0
million, or 16.0 percent of the recurrent budget, in 1961/62 (Annex 11). In
1962, the provincial governments assumed responsibility for a large part of
the recurrent expenditure on elementary and intermediate schools and, con-
sequently, the 1962/63 budget of the Ministry of Education was reduced to £Sd
4.76 million or 9.1 percent of the total recurrent budget. Since 1963, the
education budget has not varied significantly, in absolute figures, but de-
creased to 7.9 percent of the 1967/68 national budget.
2.33      Total public recurrent expenditure on education in 1965/66 con-
sisting of expenditures by the Ministry of Education, local and provincial
councils, the Department of Religious Affairs and grants to the University
of Khartoum totaled £Sd 13.7 million r-epresenting 18.9 percent of the total
central government budget (Annex 11). Elementary education constituted the
largest item in this expenditure-, 32.4 percent: university education, 18.9
percent; secondary education, 11.5 percent; intermediate education, 11.2
percent; and teacher training, 6.6 percent (innex 12).



- 8 -
2.34      Salaries and other personnel costs accounted for 56 percent of
recurrent expenditure on education in 1965/66; boarding costs equalled 20
percent and other costs (mainly material expenditure) the remaining 24 per-
cent (Annex 13).
2.35      The Bank's latest economic report on Sudan (AF-49) anticipated an
increase of 65 percent in expenditures for education and health during the
1965/66 to 1970/71 period. According to this forecast, recurrent expenditure
for education in 1970/71 would be £Sd 22.6 million, about 24 percent of the
projected total recurrent budget (Annex 14). Recurrent costs of the proposed
IDA project, when fully implemented, are estimated to reach £Sd 1.0 million,
(Annex 15).
3.  NEED FOR THE PROJECT
Manpower Conditions
3.01      The economically active population numbered 4.9 million in the
1955/56 census.  It is estimated to have increased to 6.4 million in 1966,
a 31 percent gain in ten years, and is expected to rise again by 15 percent
to 7.4 million in 1971.  The 1956 census showed that 86 percent of the
total employable population had not attended school, 12.7 percent had only
elementary education of up to four years, 1.0 percent had intermediate school-
ing and only 0.3 percent of the total employable population, or 25,929 persons.
had some post-intermediate education. Of this number, 21,700 completed at
least secondary education. This last group had increased to 43,700 in 1966.
3.02      A survey of manpower requirements and resources was completed in
May, 1967, by the government and the University of Khartoum with technical and
financial support from the Ford Foundation. The survey showed that 9 per-
cent of the posts requiring university or post-secondary education were oc-
cupied by expatriates and 7 percent were vacant. Projection of estimated
requirements and supply from all sources showed that by 1971 there would be
an overall shortage of 1,000 degree-level personnel (18 percent of require-
ments) and of 4,850 sub-professional personnel (62 percent of requirements).
The shortages are concentrated in technical and scientific professions, in-
cluding agriculturists, engineers and science teachers for secondary and
higher education (Annex 16). The survey concluded that the output of the
secondary school system was adequate numerically, but the instruction pro-
gram in the general secondary schools is ill-adapted to producing skilled
manpower. The survey recommended an expanded program of instruction in
commercial subjects throughout the secondary school system.
Modernized Secondary Education
3.03      The academically oriented, or literature-dominated, secondary school
system needs to be adjusted to preparing students for the technological-
scientific studies required by modern economies. It must also be more useful
as terminal education. The proposed project would initiate the needed reform
by emphasizing commercial and science instruction.



- 9 -
Teachers for Secondary and Intermediate Schools
3.04      A serious shortage of Sudanese secondary school teachers exists
at present. The 1967 manpower survey (Annex 16) showed that 515 of the
1,L41 secondary school teachers were expatriates and that 27 posts were
vacant. Requirements for additional teachers in 1971/72 to achieve the
government goals for expansion were estimated at 1,100 with no provision
for replacement of expatriates, while the anticipated supply from existing
programs will be 500, leaving a shortfall of some 600 teachers. The
shortages are concentrated mainly in mathematics and the sciences, and the
need to correct them becomes urgent under the proposed reorientation of the
school program towards emphasis on these subjects. The government has
obtained technical assistance from the UNDP to strengthen and expand the
program of the Higher Teacher Training Institute, but this development will
require additions to the buildings and equipment of the institute.
3.05      Approximately 45 percent of the 2,900 teachers in the public
and private intermediate schools have received teacher training at the
Higher Islamic Institute or the University of Cairo, Khartoum Branch, or
the intermediate teacher training coneges at Bakt er Ruda and Omdurman.
The remaining 55 percent of the total are not properly trained teachers.
They have completed secondary school and are employed as supernumeraries
while awaiting admission to an intermediate teacher training college.
Such a high percentage of unqualified teachers exerts a serious drag on
the educational system. Substandard teaching is undoubtedly one of the
principal causes of the high rates of drop-out and repeaters in the inter-
mediate schools, and its effects continue into the secondary schools.
3.06      The inadequate capacity of the existing intermediate teacher
training system has forced the Ministry of Education to adopt as a first
target a ratio of five trained to three untrained teachers. The size of
the present teacher training colleges at the planned rate of expansion of
intermediate schools would about maintain the percentage of qualified
teachers at 45 percent of the total. By 1974, 1,270 qualified interme-
diate teachers would be produced, compared with the need for training
2,320 to achieve the target ratio of five trained to three untrained teachers,
(Annex 17). Consequently, an urgent need exists for the establishment of
a new intermediate teacher training college.
Technicians for Agriculture
3.07      The government plans to utilize the country's agricultural potential
by bringing new acreage under cultivation and by increasing the yield of the
acreage already cultivated through a coordinated program of agricultural de-
velopment, research and extension. These plans cannot be implemented unless
facilities and programs for training agricultural personnel are expanded.
The 10-Year Plan, 1961/71, estimated that 2,000 additional "managerial,



- 10 -
professional and sub-professional" workers in agriculture and forestry
would be required during the plan period, but only 720 would be produced
by the existing agricultural schools (400 by the Agricultural Faculty and
320 by the Shambat Agricultural Institute). Estiraates of requirements for
agricultural technicians (of sub-professional level) were revised in 1966
and the iIinistries of Agriculture and Animal Resources concluded that their
requirements for the 1966-76 period would be 1,720 and 700, respectively
(Annex 18). The recent manpower survey confirmed these requirements,
(Annex 16).
3.08      The Agricultural Institute at Shambat cannot produce sufficient
numbers of technicians to meet this demand. It does not have enough land
to provide practical training for an expanded enrollment and its location
in the urban environment of Khartoum has failed to foster among its students
the attitudes required for effective service to the rural communities.
Therefore, additional agricultural institutes are required with sufficient
land for practice farming and preferably located near agricultural develop-
ment projects and regional experiment stations.
4. THE PROJECT
4.01      The project consists of the construction and equipment of the
following institutions with enrollments and estimated costs as summarized
below:
Estimated
New     Cost i/      % of
Institution                    Places  (US$ mill)  Project
Two Agricultural Institutes - new                   630    5.45L        35
Higher Teacher Training Institute - expansion       440    1.20           8
Intermediate Teacher Training College - new         600    2.15Y        14
Secondary Schools - 13 new and 6 relocated
streams                                         29080    6.60         43
TOTAIS  3,750   154.0        100
I/! Including contingencies of US$1.8 million
2/ Including US$1.1 million for technical assistance
2/ Including US$0.h million for technical assistance



- 11 -
4.02      Of the total cost of US$15.4 million, the amount of US$7.1
million, or about 45 percent, is estimated to represent foreign exchange
costs. Approximately 75 percent of the total cost is for construction
including site development and professional fees, 15 percent for teaching
equipment and furniture, and 10 percent for specialist teachers and
fellowships.   No costs have been included for the land required for the
project including some 2,000 acres of farmland for the agricultural insti-
tutes which will be provided by the government. Recurrent costs of the
project, estimated at the equivalent of US$2.9 million annually, will also
be carried by the government.
Technical Features
4.03      The two agricultural institutes would offer three year post-
secondary diploma level courses to prepare students for extension work
and other occupations requiring a broad understanding of modern farming
operations. After a common two years' course, students would specialize
in either livestock production, rain-fed agriculture, or irrigation agri-
culture. The programs would be strongly oriented towards practical
training with intensive utilization of the adjoining school farms. Assur-
ances have been received from the government that these institutes would
operate at the sub-professional level and that their academic programs
would be coordinated with other non-graduate agricultural programs.
4.o4      The curricula would be revised in consultation with the spe-
cialist teachers described below and would be forwarded to the Association
for comment prior to the opening of the institutes and periodically during
the employment of the specialist teachers. Further guidance on the develop-
ment of the agricultural institutes would be provided by an advisory com-
mittee consisting of representatives of the Ministries of Agriculture, Edu-
cation, and Finance, other governmental agencies concerned with agriculture,
and representatives of the agricultural sector, including major irrigation
schemes. Assurances have been received from the Sudanese government on the
above procedures.
4.05      The institute specializing in irrigation farming would have a
capacity of 360 students and would be located at Abu-Haraz on the eastern
bank of the Blue Nile, within the area proposed for the Rahad irrigation
project, and in close proximity to the Gezira Agricultural Experiment
Station. The Sudanese government has confirmed that at least 85 percent
of the enrollment in this institute would study irrigation farming. The
institute specializing in rain-fed agriculture would have a capacity of
270 students and would be located at Abu-Hugar on the western bank of the
Blue Nile adjacent to the Abu-Naham Agricultural Experiment Station. Each
institute would offer instruction in livestock production correlated with
the type of agriculture in which it specialized. The government decision
to site the institutes near the regional experiment stations would facili-
tate the coordination of the two programs and would make possible some
interchange of staffs.



- 12 -
h.o6      Student admission would be on a nation-wide basis among holders
of Sudan Secondary School Certificates with passing marks in general science,
mathematics and English. Selection would be competitive on the basis of
achievements in the above subjects. Rural background and farm experience
would also be considered desirable qualifications. Since no suitable pri-
vate facilities are available near the schools, boarding must be provided
for all students.
4.07      Agriculture teachers for the institutes would be mainly graduates
of the Khartoum Faculty of Agriculture with specialized advanced training
in the various subject matter fields and also in agricultural education.
Instructors with diplomas from agricultural institutes and in-service train-
ing would assist with management of the school farm and the practical train-
ing program. Due to the rural location of the institutes and in order to
ensure extensive supervision of student practice and farm operations, housing
would be provided for 20 teachers in each institute.
4.08     In order to plan and effectively implement a new practical program
for the institutes, Sudanese agricultural educators should be assisted by
specialists with experience in practical teaching. For this reason the
project includes provisions for the services of experienced specialists for
16 man-years at the Abu-Hugar institute and for 20 man-years at the Abu Haraz
institute. In addition, 16 man-years of fellowships for overseas studies
would be provided for each institute to assist in up-grading the Sudanese
teaching staffs. It is expected that an exchange program would be arranged
with one agricultural institution which would provide both the specialist
teachers and the training for the Sudanese teachers. The agricultural
institution, the terms of the contract, the specialist teachers and the
Sudanese study programs would be agreed in advance with the Association.
4.09      The facilities provided by the project have been adapted to the
requirements for practical training. Buildings would include adequate pro-
visions for laboratories, workshops and farm buildinigs. Equipment require-
ments have been determined so as to ensure a rounded instruction program.
Adequate provisions have been made for farm machinery and transport for
field trips and for student practice in extension work.
4.10      Certain urgent requirements for agricultural technicians arise
from the agricultural development program of the government, especially
from the Rahad project being proposed for B;jaV/IDA financing which would
irrigate and develop 426,000 acres of new land.  In order to meet these
requirements, the institutes may have to develop an accelerated training
program for the first two or three classes. By reducing vacation time,
the course may be shortened to 24 or even 18 months with provisions
for in-service training to compensate for the shortened pre-service
training.



- 13 -
4.11      Higher Teacher Training Institute - The project provides for
construction and equipment of a science wing and a Department of Home
Economics to be added to the Higher Teacher Training Institute of Omdurman.
The new facilities will enable the Institute to increase to 205 its present
annual intake of 95 students. Of the 800 places, 40 would be allocated to
home economics teacher trainees and the remaining would be about equally
divided between science and arts teacher trainees. The project does not
provide for common facilities or student and teacher housing because these
needs are being met through a government development program which is now
nearing completion.
4.12      Student admission will continue on the basis of the school cer-
tificate, first or second class standing, and for the science teacher
trainees, at least three credits in science. The number of eligible can-
didates in the past three years has exceeded 200 every year. With the
expansion of secondary education taking place, the supply of qualified can-
didates will be adequate to permit selective admission. The regular course
will be four years. In addition to this pre-service training, the Institute
plans to undertake an extensive program of short refresher courses for in-
service teachers.
4.13      The Higher Teacher Training Institute was established in 1962
through a joint project of the Sudan government and the UNDP with Unesco
as the executing agency. The first project agreement lasted until June,
1967, but the operation of the project was continued for one year through
UNDP contingency funds and a supplementary project was approved extending
the UNDP support to the institute for an additional 4-year period. The
project provides for 22 man-years of expatriate specialist teachers in
various subjects including home economics and fellowships, providing some
29 man-years of overseas training for Sudanese teachers of the institute.
4.14      The extended UNDP project aims to assist the Institute in (i)
expanding and strengthening its program, especially in the sciences and in
mathematics; (ii) developing a home economics teacher training program
adapted to local requirements; (iii) establishing a 1-year pedagogic course
for graduates of the technical institute to prepare them as teachers of
technical and commercial subjects; (iv) conducting short refresher courses
to upgrade teachers in service; and (v) undertaking research work in curri-
culum development, textbooks, test materials and teaching methods, espe-
cially in science, mathematics and English. The government has been con-
sidering the advantages of close links between HTTI and the University of
Khartoum. WJith the extended support of UNDP and Unesco, the institute
could play a central role in the development of a modern educational system
in Sudan.
4.15      The Intermediate Teacher Training College of Omdurman would be
a new college with 600 places. The present capacity of the intermediate
teacher training program consists of 250 places in the college for boys
at Bakt er Ruda and 75 places in the Omdurman college for girls. The
latter would be replaced by the proposed new college with 225 places re-
served for girls. In addition to providing a 160 percent increase in the



- 14 -
size of the teacher training system, the college with its improved facili-
ties and with technical support from a team of specialist teachers would
help raise standards of teacher training, especially for the technical and
scientific subjects.  In view of its central role in the expansion and
improvement of teacher training, the college should not be under the super-
vision of the Principal of the Bakt er Ruda College as originally proposed
by the Sudanese authorities. The government has given assurances that the
college would be under the direct supervision of the Under-Secretary or
Deputy Under-Secretary of the Ministry of Education.
4.16      The schedule of accommodation is well adapted to the requirements
of the above training program. Provisions are also included in the project
for the necessary furniture and equipment including demonstrational and
audio-visual teaching aids. Students will be recruited on a nation-wide
basis and boarding facilities are proposed for all girl students and for
20 percent of the boys. Three houses are also provided for the senior
staff of the College.
4.17      The curriculum presently used in these colleges needs to be re-
vised to provide a wider choice of subjects and to place greater emphasis
upon pedagogical courses including practice teaching. To advise on the
revision of the curriculum and the up-grading of teacher training standards,
four specialist teachers from an advanced teacher training institution
would be employed at the new college for three years. Their services would
begin six months before the opening of the college for preparatory work
in curriculum development and instructional methods and media. The cost
of these teachers would be included within the project.
4.18      It is proposed to continue the present system whereby teacher
trainees are selected on the basis of their performance in the Sudan Sec-
ondary School Certificate Examination, and posted without teacher training
to intermediate schools. Normally, trainees may be admitted to a teacher
training college after two years, but because the intermediate school sys-
tem has expanded at a far greater rate than the capacity of the two exist-
ing colleges, a backlog of teacher trainees has accumulated who are unable
to find places in the intermediate teacher training colleges.
4.19      With the current wastage rate of 5 percent in teacher trainees,
output from the present and proposed colleges in the period 1967 to 1974
is estimated to total 1,520 (Annex 17) compared with the need to train
2,315 so as to achieve a target of five trained teachers for every three
untrained teachers. Obviously this goal cannot be reached by 1974 but it
could be attained by about 1980, while the achievement of a fully qualified
teaching force will require further expansion of the teacher training pro-
gram in the future.
4.20      The University of Khartoum and the University of Cairo (Khartoum
Branch) will be the principal sources of teachers for the new college.
Candidates will spend two years as trainees in the college before being
appointed as teacher trainers. All qualified teachers employed in the
existing college for women at Omdurman will transfer to the new college.



- 15 -
In order to raise the professional level of the teachers, the proposed
project would finance the cost of one year of overseas studies for 20
members of the teaching staff of the new college. These studies would
be completed prior to the opening of the college. It is expected that
an exchange program would be arranged with one teacher training institu-
tion which would provide both the specialist teachers and the training
for most of the Sudanese teachers who would be sent abroad under this
program.  The overseas institution, the terms of the contract, the spe-
cialist teachers, and the study programs of the Sudanese teachers would
be agreed in advance with the Association.
4.21      Secondary school streams - The project would provide for 13
specialized streams (commercial and science streams as described below)
to be added to eight secondary schools as a first step in a national pro-
gram to modernize the educational system and adjust it to the country's
economic and social needs. In addition, six academic streams would be
added to five other schools to receive the students being displaced by
the new commercial streams. The specialized streams would be an integral
part of the expanded school under the administrative control of one prin-
cipal.  Students in the academic as well as in the commercial and science
streams would use the same classrooms and laboratories and would receive
instruction from the same teachers in the general subjects.  They would
also share hostels, library and other communal facilities. Admission to
the specialized courses would be based on similar qualifications as those
required for the academic schools. Additional criteria for selection
would include preference and special aptitudes for the course of study.
The 4-year course would lead to the Sudan Secondary School Certificate
based upon satisfactory performance in an examination framed especially
for each stream. The government has given assurances that the above
procedures as well as the curricula for the specialized streams would
not be changed without consulting the Association.
4.22      Six commercial streams (with 40 students per year) to be intro-
duced into three secondary schools would add 960 new commercial student
places to the present 700 places available in two public commercial schools.
4.23      The curriculum of the existing commercial schools consists of
42 periods of 40 minutes duration per week. The time allotted to English,
Arabic, mathematics, religion, history and geography differs only slightly
from the academic curriculum and would be reduced in the new streams with
a corresponding increase in the time allotted to bookkeeping, commerce,
office management, Arabic typing and English typing. Total time for these
subjects would be increased from the present 12 to 18 period per week. In
addition, instruction in shorthand would be offered during the last two
years.
4.24 [iost teachers of commercial subjects would be graduates of the
commercial course at the Khartoum Technical Institute who had taken a
1-year teacher training course at the HTTI. Others would be graduates
from foreign institutions who had specialized in commercial subjects.



- 16 -
4.25     A HiEher Science Stream to be established in each of seven
secondary schools would provide specialized courses irn science and mathe-
matics to a total of 840 students.  The objective of the program would be
to stimulate interest among able students and prepare them for higher
studies in scientific and technological fields. Students for the course
would be selected from the students of all streams at the end of the common
first year on the basis of demonstrated interest and performance in the
sciences and mathematics. Science and mathematics would be emphasized in
the second year and an intensive science progran would be followed in the
last two years.
4.26      The project provides for special demonstration rooms and properly
equipped laboratories to make possible more effective student participation.
A combined metal and woodcrork shop is also provided to help the students
acquire basic manual skills as useful background for modern technical
careers.
h.27      Teachers of science and mathematics to staff the science streams
would be assured by the expanded science teacher training program of HTTI.
The teachers would also receive help from the institute in developing suit-
able teaching methods and materials and in introducing instruction programs
emphasizing student projects during the last year of the course.
Costs
4.28      Construction cost estimates for the project (Annex 19) were
derived by the appraisal mission in September 1966 from recent building
experience and were updated by a furtheE mission in Decemeber 1967. The
estimates are based on unit costs per m of building to modest standards.
To the project costs has been added 12 percent for contingencies sufficient
to cover the normal quantitative fluctuations during design and price
escalation during iaplementation. Contingency allowance for secondary
schools includes an additional 8 percent to cover unforeseen expenditures
resulting from remodeling and expanding existing facilities. This would
bring contingencies to a total equivalent of US$1.8 million or approxi-
mately 12.0 percent of the total project cost.



- 17 -
4.29      The estimated capital costs and foreign exchange component of
the various parts of the proposed project are shown below in US$ million.
% of      Foreign
Categories of Expenditures              Total     Project    Exchange
Academic and Common Facilities                  4.16        30.7       1.46
Student Hostels                                 2.05        15.1       0.72
Staff Housing                                   1.17         8.6       0.41
Site Development                                1.48        10.9       0.52
Professional Services                           1.11         8.2       0.78
Total Construction Cost                    9.97        73.5       3.89
Instructional Equipment and Library Books       1.35        10.0       0.94
Furniture                                        .76         5.6       0.38
Technical Assistance                            1.48        10.9        1.04
Sub-Total                                 13.56         100       6.25
Contingencies                                   1.84                   0.83
Total Project Cost                        15.40                   7.08
4.30      Capital cost (excluding contingencies and technical assistance)
per student is estimated at approximately US$6,200 for the two agricultural
institutes and US$2,600 for the two teacher training institutions.  The
capital cost of US$5.5 million for additions to thirteen secondary schools
would be about equally divided between new and remodeled facilities which
would be shared by all the pupils (8,640) in these schools at an average
cost of US$320 per pupil, and staff housing, student hostels and academic
facilities required for the 2,080 pupils in the new streams at an average
cost of US$1,300 per new pupil place. The foreign exchange component
(Annex 20) is estimated to average about 45 percent of the project cost.
Expenditures for construction are expected to be small in the first two
years, reaching a peak in the third and fourth years.
Construction and Maintenance
4.31      Irrigable land for the agricultural institutes has been selected
by the Ilinistry of Agriculture in close proximity to agricultural research
centers. A site for the Intermediate Teacher Training College has been
selected in Omdurman and is satisfactory. The expansions to the Higher
Teacher Trairing Institute and the secondary schools would be built on
available land adjoining the existing sites.  Most of this land is govern-
ment-owned and the balance could be acquired quickly under existing acquisi-
tion procedures. The government has affirmed its intention to complete
the acquisition of all sites within four months after the signing of the
Credit Agreement.



- 18 -
4.32      With Unesco assistance, econortLical space standards were developed
for the secondary schools and similar standards have been established and
agreed for the other institutions in the project; space standards are there-
fore satisfactory. Standards for the structure and thermal performance of
the buildings will be established in the design stages.
4.33      The Plinistry of Works is responsible for school building mainte-
nance but heavy work schedules and budgeting restrictions have resulted in
a poor standard of maintenance being achieved. The Borrower has given
assurances that the buildings in the Project would be adequately maintained.
4.34      Two full-time Project Directors, acceptable to the Association,
have been appointed. One would be employed within the M4inistry of Agri-
culture to supervise the implementation of the agricultural institute
project item; the other would be employed within the Ministry of Education
to supervise the implementation of the other project items. With the
assistance of his supporting staff, each Project Director would administer
the agreements with the consultants, select and procure equipment, account
for project expenditures, report progress and prepare applications for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit.
4.35      Consultants acceptable to the Association would be aDpointed on
terms satisfactory to the Association to design the project buildings and
supervise their construction. Agreements with consultant architects would
include investigations such as a survey of existing secondary school physi-
cal facilities, the siting of buildings and related site development, and
lists of furniture. The estimated costs of special investigations have
been included within the project (Annex 19).
4.36      The construction industry in Sudan has the capacity to handle
efficiently the volume of construction in the project.  The individual
capacity of the many Sudanese building contractors is small but the current
practice of local contractors forming consortia to execute large projects
has proven to be successful. In addition, a number of foreign contracting
firms maintain permanent branch offices in Sudan. Tendering procedures
conform to good practice. The construction schedule which has been based
upon the efficient implementation of the project is considered to be
feasible (Annex 21).
4.37      All construction and equipment procurement contracts will be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding.
4.38      Withdrawals from the Credit Account would reimburse the direct
foreign exchange costs of the amounts expended in executing the project
subsequent to the date of the Credit Agreement. In addition, a percentage
of the local and indirect foreign exchange costs would be reimbursed.
This percentage would be adjusted so that withdrawals would not exceed
US$8.5 million equivalent or 55 percent of the project cost, whichever may
be the smaller; lndisbursed amounts would be available for cancellation.
In the event that expenditures should exceed the present estimated project
cost of US$154. million, such excess would be met by the Sudanese government.



- 19 -
5. CONCLUSIONS AND RLCOiENDATLONS
5.01      The proposed project would assist the agricultural and educational
development of Sudan by: (i) providing a four fold increase in the output
of agricultural technicians, needed for the continued growth of the agri-
cultural sector; (ii) expanding and up-grading teacher training for inter-
mediate and secondary school teachers; and (iii) initiating a reform of
the secondary school system by orienting the curricula of the project second-
ary school streams towards more practical and scientific studies. The nec-
essary elements for successful implementation of the project are present,
and with the assurances which have been received, the project should achieve
its objectives at a reasonable cost.
5.02      Assurances have been obtained from the Sudanese government partic-
ularly on the following:
(i) The training programs of the proposed agricultural institutes
would be sub-professional and would be coordinated with other non-graduate
agricultural training programs in the Sudan. (Para. 4.03).
(ii) The agricultural institutes would be assisted in curricula
development by an advisory committee with broad representation. Curricula
would be sent to the Association for comment. (Para. 4.04).
(iii) Specialist teachers and fellowships for overseas studies
would be provided to the agricultural institutes and the Intermediate Teacher
Training College under arrangements agreeable to the Association. (Paras.
4S.o3, 4.17 and 4.20).
(iv) Acquisition of the sites selected for the project schools
would be completed within four months after the signing of the Credit
Agreement. (Para. 4.31).
(v) Two project directors, acceptable to the Association and
already appointed, would be provided with adequate supporting staff.
(Para. 4.34).
5.03      The project would provide a suitable basis for the proposed IDA
credit of UVS,$8. million, equivalent, to the Government of the Sudan.
May 27, 1968



SUDAN: OUTLINE OF PUBLIC SCHOOL SYSTEM (1966)
POST-INTERMEDIATE TRADE SCHOOLS
X~~~~~~~~~~
* UNIVERSITY DEGREE
A SECONDARY TEACHERS' DIPLOMA
A INTERMEDIATE TEACHERS' DIPLOMA                                                                                      SENIOR TRADE SCHOOL
V DIPLOMA FOR AGRICULTURAL TECHNICIAN, ENGINEERING,
COMMERCE OR SECRETARIAL STUDIES
CITY AND GUILDS (INTERMEDIATE) CERTIFICATE
x
Z CITY AND GUILDS (FINAL) CERTIFICATE                                                                                                       ENGINEERING
O SUDAN SCHOOL CERTIFICATE
E SECONDARY SCHOOLS' ENTRANCE EXAMINATION
* REPORTS ON STUDENTS' WORK
O INTERMEDIATE ENTRANCE EXAMINATION                 TECHNICAL INTERMEDIATE SCHOOLS        TECHNICAL SECONDARY SCHOOL                         COMMERCE
@ ELEMENTARY TEACHERS' CERTIFICATE                                                                                                                                      KHARTOUM
E3 PRACTICAL TRAINING                                                                                                                                                    TECHICAL
TRAINEE TEACHERS                                                                                                                                                      INSTITUTE
AGRICULTURAL INSTITUTEl
ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS                  INTERMEDIATE SCHOOLS              ACADEMIC SECONDARY SCHOOLS                                UNIVERSITYl
,                             j                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HIGHER TEACHER TRAINING INSTITUTEl
JUNIOR ELEMENTARY
OR SUB-GRADE SCHOOLS
|TEACHER TRAININGl
l  CENTERS                                         -      ll
(ELEMENTARY)                          INTERMEDIATE TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGES
SCHOOL YEAR       I       2       3       4           5        6       7        8          9       10       11      12              13       14      15       16      17       18
I       II      I                    I       I       I        I          I        I       I        I                       lll                                               13
z
AGE              6        7       8       9           10       I I     12      13          14      15       16      17                                                                          Z
m
(4R)IBRD- 3143 _



SUDAN: ADMINISTRATIVE STRUCTURE OF THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
MINISTER
KHARTOUM TECHNICAL INSTITUTE                                                             UNDER SECRETARY
l                       |   | AND~~~~~~~~~~N DEVLOMETISETIONS       |            HIGHER TEACHERS'                          GOEN NTMSU
X    03    4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DPT    UNDER SECRETARY                                                L  OPMNT1X SECTONDA        Y       SHOS  T RA NULINGS INSITUT            I    NTERNMENITE MUSEDUCAIO
UNDER SECRETARY                                       ~~~~~~~~UNDER SECRETARY        ASASANSASSTATARICIA
UDRSCEAYUNDER SECRETARY                          UNDER SECRETARY          UNDER SECRETARY           ELEMENTARY AND          UNDER SECRETARY          UNDER SECRETARY           UNDER SECRETARY            INTTT     FUNDER SECRETARY
CULTURAL RELATIONS            TCNALPERSONNEL                                    SOTENINTERMEDIATE                                SECONDARY             NON- GOVERNMENT            ADMINISTRATION              EDUCATION            ADULT EDUCATION
EDUCATION                                        PROVINCES                EDUCATION                EDUCATION                EDUCATION                                        BAKHT ER RUDA
DEPUTY AUSISTANT       EDUCATIONL AFFAIRS                                                                                                               ELEMENTARY A
UNDER DECRETARY          EOR THE THREE          PRUDINCE EDUCATION       SECONDART SCHOOLS                                     BUSl_CNGS AND           ELEMENTRY              AN
INTERMEDIATE
TECHNICAL SCHOOLS,                       SUB-GRADE
TRADES SCHOOLS AND                      AND ELEMENTARY            SCHERMEOLST
SECONDARY TECHNICAL                        SCHOOLS                                      ANDOOLS
| NON-UOVERNMENT  | F    CULTUBAL     l l   EXAMINATIONS    l lTUNESCO
l  SCHOLARSHIPS    l l    ATTACHES   l l      SECTION      l l       SECTION
(BOYS AND GIRLS



ANNEX 3
SUDAN
ENROLLLIENTS BY TYPES OF ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS
1963/64
Number of
Schools      Enrollment
Public Schools
Complete Elementary (4 grades)                      1,5o6          251,256
Junior Elementary (2-3 grades)                      1,442          154,000
Total Public Schools                   2,948         405,256
Private Schools
Arabian Missionary school (Egyptian)                   19            4,385
Private Arabic School                                   9            1,914
Catholic Missionary                                    14            3,209
American iJon-Catholic Missionary                        5             934
Other Missionary                                         3             268
Greek                                                   4              467
Indian                                                  4_             393
Armenian                                                1               23
French                                                  1               97
Total Private Schools                     60          lL90
*/   Estimated.
Source: Sudan, Ministry of Education, Educational Statistics, 1963-64.



SUDAN
STUDENT ENROLLMENTS, 1965/66
Grade        Government Schools                Private Schools               Total for all Schools
%~ of                        % of                                 % of
Grade 1                      Grpde 5                              Grade 1
Enroll-                      Enroll-                              Enroll-
Boys    Girls   Total    ment       Boys Girls Total   ment       Boys    Girls   Total    ment
Elementary
1  99,6145  145,863  1145,508   100.0   919   952 1,871      -      100,564 146 815  147,379   100.0
2  98,075  45,739 143,814    98.8       8914   936 1,830     -        98969  46,675  145,644    98.8
3  75,375  38,377 113,752    78.2       863    940 1,803     -       76,238  39,317  115,555    78.5
4  53,312  25,399   78,711    54.2      816    906 1,722      -       54,128  26,305   80,433    54.5
Intermediate
I   7,838   2,352   10,240     7.1   4,446 2.531 6,977   100.0    12,3314  4,883   17,217    11.7
6   7,518   2,149    9,667      6.6    4,236  2,353 6,589    94.5    11,754   4,502   16,256    11.0
7   7,233   1,745    8,978     6.2   3,983  2,001 5,984    85.9    11,216   3,746   14,962    10.1
8   6,084  1,386    7,470      5.1   3,585  1,890 5,475    78.5        9,669   3,276   12,945     8.8
Secondary*/      9   4, 045  1,032    5,077      3.5   1,598    597 2,195    31.5       5,643   1,629    7,272     4.9
10   14,059  1,019    5,078      3.5   1,723    520 2,243    32.2       5,782   1,539    7,321     4.9
11    3,295    691    3,986      2.7   1,595    523 2,118    30.4       4,890   1,214    6,104     4.1
12   2,261    522    2,783       1.9   1,755    457 2,212    31.7       4,016    979   14,995      3.4
Post-SecondarY  13   1,563     180   1,7143      1.2   1,127      73 1,200    17.2      2,690     253    2,943     2.0
14   1,420    132    1,552       1.1     712    63   775    11.1        2,132     195    2,327     1.6
15   1,0144     93    1,137      0.8     361      40  1401    5.7       1,405     133    1,538     1.0
16 and 590      91      681      0.5     169      31  200      2.9        759     122      881     0 .6
Higher
*/  Including teacher training and technical cf secondary level.
Source: IT±nistry of EdlJucation, Governmemnt of the Sudan.



SUDAN: EDUCATIONAL PYRAMID
ENROLLMENT IN PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SCHOOLS (1965-66)
YEAR OF
SCHOOL
16
15
HIGHER EDUCATION (6,986 BOYS AND 703 GIRLS)
14
13
12                                                                            4,016    979
BOYS                                                          GIRLS
4,890     1,214
SECONDARY (25,692)
10                                                                           5,782      1,539
9                                                                           5,643       1,629
___     9___ __ __ _ __ __ __________                                                    3,276
7                                                                              .1 :1,216.     3,746
INTERMEDIATE (61,380)
5J                                                                            1 .2,3 34    ...................................................4,883
4                                                   -:54,12             . ....
3    ELEMENTARY (489,011)
2
L                                                                                            1 1    IN -: ,   EJ
100,000        80,000         60,000          40,000          20,000            0            20,000          40,000          60,000
BOYS                                                          GIRLS                           D
z
m
(R)IBRD - 3142  (n



ANNEX 6
S'UDAN
SUMThNAY OF PRIVATE EDUCATION, 1963/64
NO. OF           ENROLMENT            NO. OF
SCHOOLS   BOYS    GIRLS     TOTAL     TEACHERS
(National                 83   9,571    3,820    13,391        583
SUDANESE (
(Religious                34   4,o98         0     4,098       262
(Arab Missionary         53    8,544    2,358    10,901       597
EGYPTIAN    (
(Private                 20    2,151      846     2,997       149
(Catholic                43    3,324    4,108     7,432       350
MISSIONARY  (American Non-Catholic   13    1,012    1,090     2,102         78
(Others                 10       681      478     1,159        63
(Greek                    9      442      339       781        45
(
(Indian                   8      233      239       472        19
FOREIGN     (
(American                 2       44       33        77         5
(French                   2       81       70       151         8
COMBINED TOTAL                   277   20,181   13,380    43,561     2,159
Source: Ministry of Education, Government of the Sudan.



SUDAN
SHORT TRAINING PROGRMS-OF VARIOUS AGENCIES
ACTIVITY           SCHOOL                  TYPE OF COURSE                   INTAKE           LEVEL OF COURSE
Ministry of         Farm Machinery         Six months in either tractor    4O - 75           Post-Intermediate
Agriculture       Training Center,       operating, tractor preventive   semi-annually
Tozi                  maintenance, diesel fitting.
Ministry of        Omdurman Training       Six months to one year in        15 - 20          Post-elementary and
Animal           School                  animal hygiene and animal        annually         post-intermediate
Resources                               husbandry                                          plus two years of
field experience
Department of      Forest Rangers Sch.   Two months in principles           10 - 20          Post-secondary
Forests                                  of forestry                      irregularly
scheduled
Gezeira Board      Farm Training Sch.    One-season course in               40 annually      15 to 19 years of
at iflasad             practical cultivation for                         age
tenants' sons
M4inistry of        Two Centers for        Training and up-grading of       60 annually.    One center for
Labour           Vocational Training,  semi-skilled personnel                              employed workers.
Khartoum               for industry                     200 - 300        One center for
annually         intermediate
school leavers
Institute of        l.Administrative and  Conferences & seminars of         Irregular        Post-university
Public             Professional Trg.      2 - 8 weeks
Administration   2.Middle Management   Annual 4 - 6 months'               Irregular        Post-secondary
Training               course                                          plus three years'
experience
3.Clerical Training   Two to three 4-months'             Irregular        Post-intermediate
Center                 courses per year
Source: Ministries of Agriculture, Animal Resources, and Labor.



ANNEX 8
SUDAN
TOTAL EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION 1961/62-1965/66
(£Sd Iooo)
Expenditure                  1961/62   1962/63   1963/64   1964/65   1965/66
Public capital               1,031.3   3,655.4  3,069.5  3,446.2  2,549.6
Public current               9,882.2  12,225.6  14,025.3  13,631.3  13,696.4
Non-government (est.)        1,800.0   2,100.0  2,300.0  2,600.0  2,900.0
Total                  12,713.5  17,981.0  19,394.8  19,677.5  19,146.0
Gross Domestic Product
(I.Sd million)               440.8    449.3    465.1    480.1    507.3
Education expenditure as
a percentage of GDP            2.9%      4.0%      4.2%      4.1%      3.8%
Source:  Annual Budgets of the Republic of the Sudan
Ministry of Finance Development Budgets.



ANNEX 9
SUDAN
RECURRENT EXPENDITURE PER PUPIL IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS
(in £ZSd)
1/            ~~~~~2/
1958/59   1959/61- 1961/62   1962/61.r 1965/66
Junior Elementary
Day-pupil                    1.3       n.a.      n.a.       n.a.      4.0
Boarding pupil               5.0      n.a.       n.a.       n.a.     21.2
Elementary
Day-pupil                    9.8      12.6       13.4       12.1      7.9
Boarding pupil              2h.0       24.0      32.5       25.4     23.8
Intermediate
Day-pupil                   23.4      28.4       47.1      49.6      34.2
Boarding pupil              53.0       56.3      73.0       72.7     56.9
Secondary
Day-pupil                   94.8     100.0      107.8     109.8      92.4
Boarding pupil             138.2     146.2      146.4      143.4    124.0
Technical
Day-pupil                  162.1     111.3      192.3     190.8    120.8
Boarding pupil             199.6     148.0      219.1      213.9    146.9
Teacher Training
Boarding pupil3/           417.6      322.0     330.0      356.7    353.7
University
Boarding student3/         708.2      767.7     747.9      887.9    995.7
1/   Average for the two years 1959/60 and 1960/61.
2/   Average for the two years 1962/63 and 1963/64.
3/   All pupils are boarders.
Source: Annual Budgets of the Republic of the Sudan.



ANNEX 10
SUDAN
PUBLIC CAPITAL EXPENDITURE
Education in the Ten-Year Plan, 1961-1971
(-£Sd 1000)
Revised 10-year EKpenditure
allocation    1961-1967
Total Ten-Year Plan                                336,151.7      229,532.3
Ministry of Education:
1. Consolidation, take-over, expansion
and improvement of existing schools
and sundry items                                 4,171.4        2,754.4
2. Elementary Schools                               10,694.0        2,712.9
3.  Intermediate Schools                             4,900.5        1,962.2
4. Secondary Schools                                 5,860.5        2,694.8
5. Technical Euucation                               2,523.5          523.0
6. Teacher Training                                  2,262.5        1,107.3
7. Transport (school buses)                            207.0           54.6
8. Antiquities                                         645.8           5.1
9. Administration and publications                   1,615.9          825.5
Total Ministry of Education              32,881.1       12,639.8
10. University of Khartoum                            3,313.8       1.597.5
Education Total                          36,194.9       14,237.3
1961/62 1962/63 1963/64  1964/65  1965/66 1966/67
Annual budget provisions:
- Ministry of Education   3,997.1  8,055.8  6,651.9  3s433.0  2,414.1  1,999.5
- University of Khartoum      10.0   961.2   849.0   352.5   288.0   240.0
Total             4,007.1  9,017.0 7,500.9  3,785.5  2,702.1  2,239.5
Actual expenditure:                                                           2/
-  M4inistry of Education   1,031.3  2s792.0  2,987.8  2,131.3  1,428.0 1,595 3
- University of Khartoum       -     863.4    81.7   168.5   302.5   263.0g./
Total             1,031.3  3s655.4 3,069.5  2s299.8  1,730.5  1,858.3
Source: Ministry of Finance Development Badgets.
/ Actual expenditure for the years 1961/1966 and budget provisions for the last
year, 1966/67.
2/ Estimated.



SUDAN
PUBLIC RECURRENT EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION
(£Sd '000)
1960/61      1961/62       1962/63       1963/64       1964/65       1965/66      1966/67*    1967/68 *
Budget Provisions
1. Total current budget              47,841.4     50,258.0      52,152.3      58,209.3      56,963.9      72.114.2      83.267.5     85,659.3
2. Budget Min. of Ed.                 7,523.4      8,026.2       4,761.0       5,588.3       5,444.3       5,814.0      5,8140.       6,730.8
2 as a percentage of 1               15.7         16.0           9.1           9.6           9.6           8.1           7.0          7.9
3. Budget M.o.E. plus
local and provincial
expenditure                     8,250.4      8,781.2       9,961.8      11,718.8      10,444.3      10,462.7         n.a.         n.a.
3 as a percentage of 1               17.2         17.5          19.1          20.1          18.3          14.5              _           _
Grant to University of
Khartoum                        1,129.3      1,314.0       1,600.0       1,900.0       1,900.0        2,500.0        n.a.         n.a.
Dept. of Religious
Affairs                                                                                  587.7         648.9         648.9        870.4
Total budgeted public             9,379.7    10,095.2       11,561.8      13,618.8      12,932.0      13,611.6         n.a.         n.a.
recurrent expenditure
on education
As percentage of total
recurrent budget                   19.6         20.1          22.2          23.4          22.7          18.9             -            _
Actual Expenditure
Ministry of Ed.                   6,635.9      4,547.0       5,328.2       6,112.6       6,206.1        5,814.0      6,241.3
Local and provincial
councils                          727.0      4,151.2       5,200.8       6,130.5       5,000.0       4,648.7         n.a.
University of Khartoum            1,055.6      1,184.0       1,696.6       1,782.2       1,837.5        2,584.8        n.a.
Dept. of Religious
Affairs                               -                             _                    587.7          648.9        702.5
Total                   8,418.5      9,882.2      12,225.6      14,025.3      13,631.3       13,696.4          _
*) For 19b66/7 and 1967/60 no data were available relating to expenditure
by local and provincial governmenrts and to grants to the University.
Source:  Annual Budgets of the Republic of the Sudan
Ministry of Finance Development Budget



AMIEX 12
SUDAN
P23LIC iEC911ENT EXPENDITURE BY LEVEL OF EDUCATION
(in £Sd 000)
1957/58    1960/61    1961/62    1962/6)41/ 1965/66
Administration            273.1      322.1      288.3      307.1      h93.4
Junior Elementary         350.4+/    727.0      755.0   1,449.9+/  1,073.2
Elementary              1,725.1    2,689.5    3,186.2    3,650.9    3,376.6
Intermediate              600.9   1,056.2    1,436.6   1,655.3    1,531.5
Secondary                 604.8      798.6      929.1   1,255.3    1,568.5
Technica12.               240.6     4433.4      773.5   1,015.1       915.5
Teacher Training2/        308.2      367.9      502.0      624.2      898.6
University of Rhartoum    699.6   1,055.6   1,184.0    1,739.4    2,584.8
Extraordinary and mis-
cellaneous expenditure   509.3      968.2      827.5   1,428.2   1,254.3
Total    5,312.0    8,418.5    9,882.2  13,125.4  13,696.4
(in percentage of totals)
Administration             5.1         3.8        2.9        2.3        3.6
Junior Elementary          6.6         8.6        7.6       11.0        7.8
Elementary                32.5        31.9       32.3       28.0       24.6
Intermediate              11.3        12.6       14.5       12.6       11.2
Secondary                 11.4         9.5        9.4a       9.6       11.5
Technical                  4.5         5.2        7.8        7.7        6.7
Teacher Training           5.8         4.4        5.1        4.7        6.6
University                13.2        12.5       12.0       13.2       18.9
Extraordinari/and mis-
cellaneous                9.6        11.5        8.4       10.9        9.1
Total     100.0       100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0
1/    Average of the two financial years 1962/63 and 1963/64.
2/    Technical education and teacher training at all levels.
3/   Including, for the last few years, religious education.
+/    Estimate.
Source: Annual Budgets of the Republic of the Sudan.



ANNEX 13
SUDAN
-,LIC ECJ.7Rirr EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION BY TYPE OF EXPENDITURE
(in £Sd 0OO)
Expenditure Concerning    Expenditure
All Pupils         Concerning
Personnel   %  Other  %  Boarders       %   Total   %
Junior Elementary
1965/66             531.2  49  142.0 13         400.0   38   1073.2  100
Elementary
1957/58            1072.3  62  303.5 18         349.3   20   1725.1  100
1961/62            1714.0  54  672.2  21        800.0   25   3186.2  100
1965/66            1800.2  53   676.4 20        900.0   27   3376.6  100
Intermediate
1957/58             288.5  48  126.9  21        185.5   31    600.9  100
1961/62             714.1  50   423.3 29        299.2   21   1436.6 100
1965/66             759.3  50  398.3  26        373.9   24   1531.5  100
Secondary
1957/58             402.5  66   6)4.7  11       137.6   23    604.8 100
1961/62             456.5  49  283.8  31        188.8   20    929.1  100
1965/66             859.0  55   452.1  29       257.5   16   1568.6  100
Technical
1957/58             148.3  62   55.5  23         36.8   15    240.6 100
1961/62             334.3  43  351.7  46         87.5   11      773.5 l1o
1965/66             502.6  55  292.7 32         120.2   13    915.5  100
Teacher Training
1957/58             184.9  60    44.4 14         78.9   26    308.2  100
1961/62             252.9  50  171.4  34        77.7   16    502.0  100
1965/66             488.6  54  303.3  34        106.7   12    898.6  100
University
1957/58             478.3  68  133.8  19         87.5   13      699.6  l0o
1961/62             812.1  68   269-1  23       102.8     9   i184.0 l1o
1965/66            1746.1  68   594.6  23       244.1     9   2584.8  100
All Levels
1965/66            6687.0  56  2859.4  24    2402.4   20 11,948.8  100
Source: Annual Budgets of the Republic of the Sudan.



ANNEX 14
SUDAN
PUSLIC ECURIITT EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION
Summary and Projections for 1970/71
(In £Sd '000)
1965/66                                                               %
Ministry of Education                            5,814.0        42.5
Provincial and Local Councils                    4,648.7       33.9
University of Khartoum                           2,584.8       18.9
Department of Religious Affairs                    648.9        4.7
Sub-Total     13,696.4      100.0
1970/71
Projected Increase (65% target)                  8,902.7 V
Total         22,599.1
*/ The IDA project when fully implemented would cause an increase in the
annual recurrent expenditures of the Ministry of Education and the
Ministry of Agriculture of £SdO.68 million and £SdO.29 million,
respectively.



SUDAN
ESTIMATED RECURRENT COSTS OF FROJECT SCHOOLS
Students Enrolled            Cost/Student/                Total Cost
Institutions                 (new)                per Year LSd _/       _       in 1,000 LSd
Total    Boarding          Boarding    Day       Boarding      Day      Total
2 Agricultural Institutes    630        630               460        -           290        -        290
Intermediate Teacher
Training College            525       300               460       390          138        88       226
Higher Teacher Training
Institute                   440         -                -        390           -        171       171
13 Streams in Secondary
Schools                   2,080       880               160       120          141       144       285
TOTAL RECURRENT COST OF PROJECT  972
1/  Actual 1965/66 costs (Annex 9) increased by 30%
for anticipated price escalation.



SUDAN
HIGH-LEVEL MANPOWER REQUIREMENTS AND SUPPLY!'
Employment 1967                      Projections for 1971-72
Additional      New
Occupation                Total    Expatriates    Vacancies        Requirements    Supply    Shortfall
CATEGORY A (University Level)
Civil Engineers                      461           25            38               461          173         288
Degree-level Agriculturists          422           19           116               628           330        298
University Science Teachers
and Tutors                         472          112            44               403           345         58
Secondary School Teachers          1,441          515            27             1,144           525        619
All occupations in Category A-t    6,411          804           488             5,394         4,440        954
CATEGORY B (Sub-Professional)
Intermediate School Teachers        2,290         229            50             1,865         1,472        393
Agricultural Technicians              740           5           174             2,602           236      2,366
3/
All occupations in Category B-      8,1489        471            600            7,814         2,967      4,847
Total for all occupations in
Categories A and B              14,900        1,275         1,088            13,208         7,407      5,801
1/  Compiled from data given in the "Republic of the Sudan High-Level Manpower - Requirements and Resources -
1968-1972", May 1967.
2/  Including the occupations detailed in the table but excluding eight occupations (employing 304 persons) on L
which data was incomplete.  At the average rate, those occupations would raise the shortfall to 1,010.         S
3/  Including occupations detailed in above table.                                                                 O



ST AN
PROJECTED DE AND A [D S'JPFLY OF CUALIFIED INrTEfEDiAT  TIEACHERS
Trained Teachers Required                            I.T.T. College
Teachers                                         at 5/6 of Total Teacher Force                             Graduates
In               In               Total                                            Arabic              I.T.T.
Govt.         Non-Govt.             in                                               College           College                            Cumulative
Year          Schools          Schools          Service         Increment            Total         Graduates         Graduates            2ntp           Shortfall
1966/67          1,652            1,228            2,380                -              1,300           720 l/           1,080 21              (185)            500
1967/68          1,824            1,505            3,32Y              449                281           112                 169                185              484
1968/69          2,027            1,815            3,842             513                 320           128                 192                155 3/           521
1969/70          2,266            2,165            4,431              539                368           1h7                 221                155              587
1970/71          2,522            2,565            5,087             656                 410           164                 246                155              673
1971/72          2,734            3,010            5,791             707                 442           177                 265                155              788
1972/73          3,040            3,255            6,295              501                313           125                 188                155              821
1973/74          3,300            3,650            6,950             655                109           164                 245                155              911
1974/75          3,570            4,150            7,720             770                 481           192                 289                405 -            795
1/ All actually employed. Supply of graduates from Arabic colleges is sufficient to supply trained teachers of Arabic and religion at the present level
of 25% of total.
2/  Trained teachers actually employed in this category are only 580 leaving a backlog of 500 untrained teachers.
3/  Reduction caused by lengthening of the course and smaller intake of Bakt er Ruda College.
;/  Proposed new college with 600 places would open in 1972 and replace one existing college with output of 35.  Expected output of the new college, with
5% attrition rate, would be 285 per year after 1974.



ANNEX 18
S'JDAN
ADDITIOAL   GICOTICULTURAI TECH KICIL;S R3QUI2-,3D 1966-1976
Additional Agricultural
Ministry of Agriculture                           Technicians Required
I. Extension Services
Areas under cultivation                   250
Expansion of cultivation,
3.5 million acres                      700
Private schemes:  existing                 90
extension               30
Rain-fed Areas:  existing schemes             150
(1.5 million acres)
expansion
(1.5 million acres)         100
Total         1320
II.  Research                                       40
III.  Education                                      30
IV.  Supporting Services                           250
V.  Managerial Services                            80
Total         1720
Ministry of Animal Resources
I.  Existing shortfall                            100
II. Projected requirements based on 4
technicians per veterinarian or
agricultural engineer                       600
Total           700
Note: Against the above requirements the output of the Shambat Agricultural
Institute in the period 1966-1976 would total about 320 technicians.



SUDAN EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS IN us$ MILLION, EQUIVALENT
Staff
New Enrollment                      Academic and Communal            Boarding         Housing        1/                                                  Total Cost
Site                                                                         Professional    Total       Total       Total
Item                      Total Boarding  Development  Buildings  Furniture  Equipment  Buildings Furniture  Buildings    Sereices    Buildings   Furniture  Equipment             US$       L3d
A. AGRICULTURAL INSTITUTED
1. Agricultural Institute - Abu Haraz       360    360         .395        .494        .o80       .300       .347       .054       .243          .177       1.084        .134        .300         2.090       .728
2. Agricultural Institute - Abu Hugar       270    270         .309        .466       .062        .217       .287      o.42        .277          .161       1.030        .104       .217          1.821      .634
Sub-total       630    630         .704        .960        .142       .517        .634      .096       .520          .338       2.114        .238       .517          3.911 2/  1.362
B. TKACHER TRAINING
3. Higher Teacher Training ITstitute -
Omdurman            440    Nil         .092         .612       .120       .170         Nil       Nil         Nil         .I84         .612       .120        .170          1.078      .375
4. Intermediate Teacher Training College -
Omdurman            60o    300          .142        .646        .070       .258       .255       .030       .047         .130         .948        .100       .258          1.578 3/   .549
Sub-total     1,040    300         .234       1.258       .190        .428       .255       .030       .047         .214        1.560       .220        .428          2.656      .924
C. SECONDARY SCHOOLS
5. Berber Boys                              320    160         .054        .137        .016       .017       .179      .020        .0o9          .050        .365        .036       .017           .522      .182
6. Atbara Boys                              16o     80         .042        .163        .020       .057       .090       .oo8       .049          .042        .302        .o28       .057           .471      .164
7. Omdurman Ahlia Boys                      160    Nil        .033         .183        .016       .051        Nil        Nil       .o56          .032        .239        .o16       .051           .371      .129
8. Wadi Seidna Boys                         160     No        .045         .198        .016       .040       .o95       .oo8       .052          .045        .345        .024       .040           .499      .174
9. Khartoum Girls                           160     80         .030        .135        .012      .029        .084       .008        Nil         .030         .219       .020        .029           .328      .114
10. Hantoub Boys                             160     8o         .032        .097        .010       .029       .093       .009       .055          .033        .245        .019       .029           .358      .125
11. Kassela Boys                            160      80         .043        .128        .012       .005       .107      .010        .059         .0o1         .294        .022       .oo5           .405      .141
12. Gedaref Boys                             160     80         .045        .133        .013       .005       .111       .010       .062          .o42        .306       .023        .005           .421       .147
13. Port Sudan Boys                          160     80         .038        .154        .013       .054       .083      .oo8        .046          .039        .283       .021        .054           .435      .151
14. Khor Taggat Boys                         160     80         .054        .219        .019       .040       .106      .010        .059         .053         .384        .029       .040           .560      .195
15. ER Obeid Boys                            320    Nil        .045         .205        .018       .0o9        Nil        Nil        Nil         .030         .205        .018       .049           .347      .121
16. Singa Boys                               160     80         .040        .094        .013       .010        .110      .010       .062          .037        .266        .023       .010           .376      .131
17. Kosti Boys                               160     80         .037        .091       .011        .021        .107      .010       .059          .035        .257        ,021       .021           .371      .129
18. Physical Inventory of Existing           Nil    Nil          Nil         Nil        Nil         Nil        Nil        Nil        Nil         .050          Nil         Nil        Nil           .050       ,017
Secondary Schools
Sub-total     2,400    960         .538       1.937        .189       .407      1.165       .111        .608         .559       3.710        .300       .407          5.514      1.920
Totals        4,070  1,890        1.476       4.155        .521      1.352       2.054      .237      1.175         1.111       7.384        .758      1.352         12.081 4/  4.206
V  Inclsdes fees for architects, engineers and quantity surveyors for all schools.
2/ Add US$1.080 million for teachers' fellooshics.
3/ Add U01  .400 million for teachers' fellowships.
41/ Add 0591.839 million for co-tingencies.                                                                                                                      fotal -stimatad cost of the ProJect: Us$15.1 milion
May 27, 1960



ANNEX 20
SUDAN
FOREIGN EXCHANGE COMPONENT OF PROJECT COST
Estimated Cost,      Foreign Exchange
U.S.$ million,          Component,
Item                       equivalent       percentage U.S.$ million
Buildings                               7.38             35           2.59
Site Development                        1.48              35          0.52
Instructional Equipment                 1.35             70           0.94
Furniture                               0.76             50           0.38
Professional Services                   1.11             70           0.78
Technical Assistance                    1.48              70          1.04
13.56                         6.25
Contingencies                           1.84             45           0.83
Total                         15.40                          7.08



ESTIMATED CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE 1/
Months   3 6  9 1 1  11  22   21 34 3  33 3' 41 4  4  5  5  57 6  636   Months
A. AGRICULTURAL INSTITUTES
1. Agricultural Institute - Abu Haraz)   ..            _ _ _X 2                           L. x X 
2. Agricultural Institute - Abu Hugar)
B. TEACHER TRAINING
3. Higher Teacher Training Institute -)
Omdurman                          )  .. __* L*                X {   ] I                mX
4. Intermediate Teacher Training       )-----------
College - Omdurman                )
C. SECONDARY SCHOOLS
5. Berber Boys                                                                                                 0
6. Atbara Boys                         Ci-
7. Omdurman Ahlia Boys
8. Wadi Seidna Boys                                                                                            %Q
9. Khartoum Girls                      0
10. Hantoub Boys                                                                        Y .....  XX XX  X 
11. Kassala Boys
12. Gedaref Boys
13. Port Sudan Boys
14. Khor Taggat Boys
15. El Obeid Boys                        0
16. Singa Boys
17. Kosti Boys
18. Physical Inventory of
Existing Secondary Schools
Legend:   ........ Survey and/ir master plan.
_ _ Final design, working drawings, specifications, bills of quantities,
contract documents, prequalification of contractors, selected tender list.
XXXXXXXXXConstruction.
---------Guarantee period.
1/ Based on data available in February, 1968.
N)



.   jUN   I T E D    A R A B   R        E P U B   L                                                          Red
c~~~~~~~~~~e
)   f                                  +\              a         ,'                               T-   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S e a   7
5          -    .    -    .,                           f                         X   ,,                         130   Port S.don
\ \    !                        * ~~~~~~N O R T H XE R  Nt                                                               f
1            '                           \          Dz~~~~ ~~                 ~          ~      ~     ~~~~~rowe  ,<< E
§             ~~~~S  U  D  A  N                              09 '                                 ;                          \:
C      EDUCATION  PROJECT                                                          6 t
C   H   A   D          |                                                                                        /     <         ()r 
Omdu     m0       l RoutOs
.}                 ,              |                     KHARTOU*'  ...................KHARTOUaKa   t
'Medani         El
© El Fasher        .'                       015
C.    0 D A   R   F   U   R
5           ~~~Nyal'a'.                                                                        ' *     
~~~B~~a  b an u sc                                                        8
)                   ~~~~~~Ed Da'ein*   t.                                                          
,  --'-\.        ''':  I                                       /         .,,       fan    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L an
" "''     , l oMolokol               E  T   H   I  0   P   I  A
t-~~~7   ~    ~          tiA~wei                   '                                    .^<
C E N T R A L           ** BaHR                   E L \Gg                           
.....                           U   P  P E R.
A F  R  I C  A   N      TRAINING                                                        N  I L E OMlURMAN.
'>. < 2 g-"') ''''' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..  >-....... .. ..
_     t   X    Ex 00 t ~~~~U   A   T  0  R  I  A                                  >
-~~~ 2 s i \ ~~~~~~~~~juba  L   Rueo/f
I . HIGHER  TEACHER  TRAINING  INSTITUTE, ODRAN               h   _Sx                                                             S
-.    2. INTERMEDIATE TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGE, OMDURMAN.                                                         /
3. ABU-HARAZ AGRICULTURAL INSTITUTE                                                 _
4. ABU-HUGAR AGRICULTURAL INSTITUTE                                                                                       K    E      N    Y    A
SECONDARY SCHOOLS
5. BERBER BOYS' SCHOOL
ATBARA BOYS' SCHOOL.
3AGRICULTURAL INSTITUTES (NEW)
7. AHLIA BOYS' SCHOOL, OMDURMAN.
A HIGHER TEACHER TRAINING INSTITUTE (EXPANSION)
8. WADI SEIDNA BOYS' SCHOOL
A    INTERMEDIATE TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGE (NEW)
T. KHARTOUM GIRLS' SCHOOL.
0 SECONDARY SCHOOLS (EXPANSION)
10. HANTOUB BOYS' SCHOOL, WAD MEDANI.
11. KASSALA BOYS' SCHOOL.                                                                         *   NATIONAL CAPITAL
12. GEDAREF BOYS' SCHOOL .                                                                             PROVINCIAL CAPITALS
13. PORT SUDAN BOYS' SCHOOL.                                                                           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
14. KHOR TAGGAT BOYS' SCHOOL                                   0            100          200 ..         PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
15. EL OBEID BOYS' SCHOOL.                                                MILES
16. SINGA BOYS'    17. KOSTI BOYS'                       0       Loo     200      300     400      s50
KILOMETERS
MARCH 1968                                                                                                                                            IBRD - 2227R



