                                    Document of
                                The World Bank


                                                     Report No: ICR00001950




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-47300)

                                      ON A


                 LOAN IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 39.5 MILLION


                                     TO THE

                           GOVERNMENT OF INDIA

                                    FOR THE

              Karnataka Urban Water Sector Improvement Project

                                November 30, 2011




Sustainable Development Department
Urban, Water and Disaster Risk Management Unit,
India Country Management Unit
South Asia Region
                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective October 31, 2011)
                          Currency Unit = Indian Rupees (INR)
                                 US$ 1.00 =INR 48.87
                                    FISCAL YEAR

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DBO       Design, Build, Operate            KUIDFC  Karnataka Urban Infrastructure
                                                    Development Finance Corporation
DEA       Department of Economic Affairs    M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
DIP       Draft Investment Program          MTR     Mid Term Review
EA        Environmental Assessment          MLD     Million litres per day
ERR       Economic Rate of Return           NGO     Non Government Organization
EMP       Environmental Management Plan     O&M     Operations and Maintenance
FGD       Focused Group Discussions         PAD     Project Appraisal Document
FIP       Final Investment Program          PDO     Project Development Objective
FMR       Financial Monitoring Report       PIU     Project Implementing Unit
GO        Government Order                  PMU     Project Management Unit
GoI       Government of India               PPP     Public Private Partnership
GoK       Government of Karnataka           PSP     Private Sector Participation
HH        Household/s                       QAG     Quality Assurance Group
IBRD      International Bank of             RAP     Resettlement Action Plans
          Reconstruction Development
ICRR      Implementation Completion Results TF      Trust Fund
          Report
IEC       Information, Education and        UDD     Urban Development Department
          Communication
JNNURM    Jawahar Lal Nehru National Urban  ULBs    Urban Local Bodies
          Renewal Mission
KTP       Karnataka Transparency Act        UWS     Urban Water Supply
KUIDFC    Karnataka Urban Infrastructure    UWSS    Urban Water Supply Sanitation
          Development Finance Corporation
KUWASIP   Karnataka Urban Water Sector      WASIS   Water and Sanitation Information
          Improvement Project                       System
KUWS&DB   Karnataka Urban Water Supply and WSP      Water Sanitation Program
          Drainage Board
KUWSDP    Karnataka Urban Water and
          Sanitation Development Program
KSUWSC    Karnataka State Urban Water
          Supply Council



                             Vice President: Isabel M. Guerrero
                           Country Director: Roberto Zagha
                            Sector Manager: Ming Zhang
                       Project Team Leader: Raghava Neti
                          ICR Team Leader: Srinivasa Rao Podipireddy

                                           i
                                         India
                     Karnataka Urban Water Sector Improvement Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 8
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 15
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 15
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 18
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 19

  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 20
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 21
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 29
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 36
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 38
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 39
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 41
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 47
  Annex 9. Performance Indicators ................................................................................. 50
  Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 53
  MAP
 IBRD32942




                                                             ii
                                     DATA SHEET


A. Basic Information
                                                                           Karnataka Urban Water
Country:                India                    Project Name:             Sector Improvement
                                                                           Project
Project ID:             P082510                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-47300
ICR Date:               12/02/2011               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Borrower:
                                                                           INDIA
Original Total
                        USD 39.50M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 36.49M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 36.49M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Karnataka Urban Infrastructure Development & Finance Corporation (KUIDFC)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process               Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       02/13/2003     Effectiveness:              05/18/2005       05/18/2005
Appraisal:            10/13/2003     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             04/08/2004     Mid-term Review:            03/21/2007       06/07/2007
                                     Closing:                    12/31/2008       03/31/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:

                                                iii
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Sub-national government administration                                 5                     5
Water supply                                                          95                  95


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                               14                  14
Decentralization                                                      14                  14
Other urban development                                               29                  29
Pollution management and environmental health                         14                  14
Urban services and housing for the poor                               29                  29

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Isabel M. Guerrero                   Praful C. Patel
Country Director:          Roberto Zagha                        Michael F. Carter
Sector Manager:            Ming Zhang                           Sonia Hammam
Project Team Leader:       Raghava Neti                         Oscar E. Alvarado
ICR Team Leader:           Srinivasa Rao Podipireddy
ICR Primary Author:        Srinivasa Rao Podipireddy




                                                iv
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objectives of the project are to; (i) launch Government of Karnataka's urban water
sector reform process based on the "Urban Drinking Water and Sanitation Policy
Statement of GOK", and (ii) improve urban water supply services in the participating
urban local bodies (Hubli-Dharwad, Belgaum, and Gulbarga) and demonstrate that
sustainable, efficient, and commercially-oriented service provision can be achieved.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target       Formally         Actual Value
                                              Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                approval            Target        Completion or
                                               documents)           Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 : 1.1 The reform base is established and initial reform activities are carried out
                                                                               Proposal to
                                                                               establish the Water
                                                                               Council is under
                                                                               Finance
                                                                               Department review.
                                           Water Council
                                                                               The Urban
                                           established and
Value                                                                          Technical Cell is
                                           reform studies are
quantitative or                                                                active in its place
                                           completed and
Qualitative)                                                                   as required.
                                           implementation
                                           commenced.
                                                                               Five out of six
                                                                               studies were
                                                                               completed and
                                                                               implementation is
                                                                               ongoing.
Date achieved                              12/31/2008                          03/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                1.2 The ground for private sector participation is prepared as a realistic option for
Indicator 2 :
                water and sanitation provision
                                                                               Project exceeded
                                           Project                             target. Both urban
Value
                                           demonstrated the                    and rural water
quantitative or
                                           need for PPPs in                    sectors are using
Qualitative)
                                           the sector.                         PPPs extensively in
                                                                               several programs,


                                                 v
                                                                            building on the
                                                                            experience gained
                                                                            under this project.
Date achieved                             12/31/2008                        03/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                1.3 Enabling legal, regulatory and financing frameworks are established for the
Indicator 3 :
                sector
                                                                            Financing
                                                                            framework was
                                           Legal, regulatory                established.
Value
                                           and financing
quantitative or
                                           frameworks are                   Work continues on
Qualitative)
                                           established.                     establishing legal
                                                                            and regulatory
                                                                            frameworks
Date achieved                              12/31/2008                       03/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 : 2.1 Feasibility of Continuous water supply is demonstrated
                One to two hours every
                                                                            24X7water is fully
                two days in Belgaum and
Value                                                                       achieved and
                Gulbarga, and one to two 24X7 water supply
quantitative or                                                             proved sustainable
                hours supply every three demonstrated
Qualitative)                                                                and commercially
                to five days in Hubli-
                                                                            viable.
                Dharwad
Date achieved 04/08/2004                   12/31/2008                       03/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 : 2.2 Priority bottlenecks to improve quantity of water supply are solved
                                                                            Increase in the bulk
                                           Improve bulk                     supply in Belgaum
                                           water in the three               27 MLD; Gulbarga
Value                                      ULBs: Belgaum                    30 MLD and Hubli-
quantitative or                            10 MLD;                          Dharwar 11MLD
Qualitative)                               Gulbarga 22
                                           MLD; Hubli-                      24X7supplies in
                                           Dharwar 11 MLD                   demonstration
                                                                            zones.
Date achieved                              12/31/2008                       03/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                2.3 Increased consumer awareness, commitment, and ownership for reform are
Indicator 6 :
                attained
Value                                      Awareness in                     Consumers are

                                               vi
quantitative or                            consumers created                   fully aware of
Qualitative)                               and consumers are                   reforms
                                           committed; have                     implemented (based
                                           ownership on                        on the 2010
                                           reforms                             consumer survey),
                                                                               and are paying bills
                                                                               regularly, and
                                                                               conserving water
Date achieved                              12/31/2008                          03/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                2.4 Capacity, Institutional structures, and accountability for water and sanitation
Indicator 7 :
                operations of the participating ULBs are improved
                                                                                ULBs appointed an
                                                                                operator,
                                            Capacity,                           introduced
                                            institutional                       volumetric tariffs,
                                            structure,                          and are supporting
Value
                                            accountability for                  scaling up of
quantitative or
                                            water supply                        operations. ULBs,
Qualitative)
                                            operations                          through the
                                            demonstrated in                     operator, are
                                            the three ULBs                      accountable for
                                                                                water supply
                                                                                service.
Date achieved                               12/31/2008                          03/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                                            Values (from                      Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                          Revised
                                               approval                      Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                             documents)                       Target Years
Indicator 1 : State Urban Water Council proposal ready for presentation to cabinet
                No policy/ regulation     Council
                body for urban water in established and                   Proposal to
Value           the state. Proposal for   operational                     establish the State
(quantitative   creation of State Urban covenant complied                 Urban Water
or Qualitative) Water Council to be       with when note is               Council presented
                presented for adoption to presented to                    to the Government.
                competent authorities     cabinet
Date achieved 04/08/2004                  12/31/2008                      03/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

                                                vii
                Demonstration zones in the three participating ULBs achieve proposed service
Indicator 2 :
                standards
                                           In demonstration
                                           zones, there are 8
                                           water supply                    All the service
                Deficient water service service indicators                 indicators achieved
Value
                indicators; water provided with weights.                   and weighted
(quantitative
                for a few hours every 2 -5 Weighted average                average almost
or Qualitative)
                days; no tariffs           should exceed                   100%. Volumetric
                                           75%. Volumetric                 tariffs adopted.
                                           tariffs to be
                                           adopted
Date achieved 04/08/2004                   12/31/2008                      03/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                Actual
        Date ISR
No.                             DO                         IP               Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                            (USD millions)
 1      06/29/2004        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                         0.00
 2      12/29/2004        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                         0.00
 3      06/23/2005    Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                         0.00
 4      10/13/2005    Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                         2.20
 5      06/29/2006    Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                       11.11
 6      12/28/2006    Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                       18.98
 7      01/30/2007    Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                       18.98
 8      08/20/2007    Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                       24.96
 9      05/07/2008    Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                       30.14
 10     12/23/2008    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                30.35
 11     05/29/2009    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                31.92
 12     11/29/2009    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                32.12
 13     05/26/2010        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       32.74
 14     12/11/2010        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       34.27


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                             viii
I. Disbursement Profile




                          ix
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.1.1 The state of Karnataka encompasses 27 districts and has a population of
52,850,562 (2001 census). The state includes 218 Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) in
addition to Bangalore city, the capital. The total urban population is 17.96 million (34%).
At the time of appraisal, the quality of water supply services in most of Karnataka‟s
urban areas was poor, characterized by intermittent supplies. A large portion of the
population relied on public stand posts for their water. Most towns in northern Karnataka
provided their residents with water for between 2 hours every two days to 2 hours once a
week.
1.1.2 Both the Borrower and the Bank acknowledged that any reforms in the water
sector would need to address six interrelated factors which accounted for this low level of
service. They included: (a) diffused sector responsibility; (b) lack of accountability; (c)
user charges that did not cover operational costs, stemming from the prevailing view that
water should be a free good; (d) chronic lack of sector investment; (e) a non-transparent
and complicated system of subsidies; and (f) lack of a regulatory framework.
1.1.3 On the basis of the above factors, the Borrower with Bank assistance designed a
project that blended the needed sector reforms with complementary investments to
improve water service levels in three ULBs in Northern Karnataka: Hubli Dharwad,
Belgaum, and Gulbarga. It was also decided to demonstrate the feasibility of providing a
continuous water supply (24X7) to consumers, which would be the first time such a
service level would be provided to any town in India. To that end, the GoK selected five
zones in the three project towns to pilot the 24X7 urban water supply (UWS). To sustain
this level of service, the project also would aim to deliver broader water sector
improvements. Thus, while upgrading service levels in the five zones (hereafter referred
to as demonstration or demo zones), the project would address the chronically low levels
of cost recovery by introducing better commercial practices. In a Government Order
dated May 3, 2003, the GoK announced its decision to support the Karnataka Urban
Water Sector Improvement Project (KUWASIP).

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

1.2.1 The original project development objectives (PDO) were to: (a) launch
Government of Karnataka's urban water sector reform process based on the “Urban
Drinking Water and Sanitation Policy Statement of GoK," and (b) improve urban water
supply services in the participating urban local bodies (Hubli-Dharwad, Belgaum, and
Gulbarga) and demonstrate that sustainable, efficient, and commercially-oriented service
provision can be achieved. As defined in the PAD, the original seven key outcome
indicators included:
   The reform base is established and initial reform activities are carried out.
   The ground for private sector participation is prepared as a realistic option for water
    and sanitation provision.
   Enabling legal, regulatory, and financing frameworks are established for the sector.
   Possibility of continuous water supply is demonstrated.
   Priority bottlenecks to improving quantity of water supply are solved.
                                             1
   Increased consumer awareness, commitment, and ownership for reform are attained.
   Capacity, institutional structures, and accountability for water and sanitation
    operations of the participating ULBs are improved.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification
The PDOs and key indicators were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
1.4.1 The main beneficiaries of the sector reforms (Component A) would be the general
urban population throughout the state of Karnataka totaling approximately 16.8 million
(about 33% of the total population). The project‟s support for the sector reform program
also would benefit the institutions involved in UWS delivery such as Karnataka Urban
Water Supply and Drainage Board (KUWS&DB), Karnataka Urban Infrastructure
Development Finance Corporation (KUIDFC), and Urban Local Bodies (ULBs).
1.4.2 The investments in improved water supply services (Component B) were
expected to benefit all water consumers in the 3 participating ULBs, totaling 1.8 million
(2001 census). They included 940,000 people in Hubli-Dharwad, 425,000 in Belgaum,
and 430,000 in Gulbarga. Among them, 7 to 14 percent or about 230,000 people living
the in the 5 demonstration zones would benefit from the investment in the 24X7 water
supply.
1.5 Original Components
1.5.1 The project had three main components (see Annex 2 for more details).
1.5.2 Component A: Sector Development and Technical Assistance. The objectives
of this component were to: (a) assist GoK in finalizing its policy reform agenda and to
carry out initial implementation of staged sector reforms; and (b) prepare a business
model and PSP process for service provision in the three participating ULBs and other
cities in Karnataka. The component included two main sub-components:
Al. Policy Implementation and State Level Institutional Strengthening (US$0.89 million).
This subcomponent would initiate implementation of the "Urban Drinking Water and
Sanitation Policy Statement of GoK," and involve: (a) establishing and operationalizing
the Karnataka State Urban Water and Sanitation Council (KSUWSC), (b) strengthening
service delivery in ULBs, (c) developing the state water and sanitation information
system (WASIS), (d) establishing water and sanitation sector investment and tariff
frameworks, (e) reviewing and establishing legal and regulatory frameworks, and (f)
preparing UWS Legislation.
A2. Strengthening of Service Delivery and Preparation of Follow-on Project in the Three
Participating ULBs (US$ 1.66 million). This subcomponent would finance: (a) city-
wide engineering feasibility studies, (b) transition plans, (c) other studies related to PPP
preparation, and (d) a strategy to scale up this project to other cities in Karnataka.

1.5.3 Component B: Physical Investments. This component aimed to: (a) improve
service provision and attain continuous water supply service in selected demonstration
zones in three participating ULBs; (b) generate credibility in the overall program and
learn lessons on the challenges faced in the demonstration zones for scaling up
                                             2
continuous service provision in the entire ULBs; and (c) simultaneously improve the
efficiency of bulk supply operations and distribution networks and attain initial
improvements in water service provision to all the residents of the ULBs.
B1. Priority Investments (US$27.63 million): This subcomponent would finance priority
investments to increase the bulk water supply to the ULBs.
B2. Works in the City Distribution Networks in all three ULBs (US$5.78 million): This
subcomponent would finance short term improvements for most water-stressed users in
each ULB.
B3. Demonstration Projects (US$13.79 million): This subcomponent would demonstrate
that a 24-hour continuous supply of water is achievable, and that this level of service has
health, technical, operational, and commercial benefits.
1.5.4 Component C: Project Implementation (US$1.39 million). This component
would finance incremental operational costs and studies related to project management
and implementation, including short-term consultants for KUIDFC, preparation and
establishment of a monitoring and evaluation system, financial management, PMU staff
training, and project supervision.

1.6 Revised Components

1.6.1 The components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

1.7.1 At the end of the project period, there was a reallocation of funds (US$6.3
million) from the “works? category to the “goods,? “consultant services,? and “operating
costs? categories. The funds for the works were not needed because there were
substantial cost savings achieved as a result of: (a) the delivery of the required service
improvements without the need for any additional expenditures, and (b) the operator
using cost effective HDPE pipes in the demo zones instead of the conventional more
expensive pipes (combination of cast iron and PVC). In addition, unspent funds from the
“consultant services category 3(b)? (US$150,000) and the front end fee (US$197,500)
were reallocated to the “operating costs? category to cover the additional expenditures
resulting from the loan extension.
1.7.2 The project closing date was extended 3 times due largely to the initial 13-month
delay in effectiveness caused by delays in obtaining clearances, creating a special account,
and meeting other start-up requirements, and the 17 month delay implementing the works
in the demonstration zones. Table 1 summarizes the length and reasons for extension in
each case. In addition, the grace period for claims of eligible expenses was extended
from July 31, 2011 to September 30, 2011.




                                             3
                    Table 1: Extensions of Closing Date and Reasons
Description         Time Period                    Reasons cited for extension
Project Extension   Loan closing date extended 6     To meet both legal covenants
Request 1           months - from December 31,       To compensate for loss of time due to delayed
                    2008 to June 30, 2009.            effectiveness (13 months)
                    Bank agreed to extend to         To compensate for 17 month delay implementing
                                                      demo zone works
                    December 2009 if legal
                    covenants were met during        To allow operator to manage the demo zones for
                                                      the full 2-year period of operations in accordance
                    this period.
                                                      with the performance- based contract
                                                     To complete construction of a pipeline needed to
                                                      improve the water supply in Gulbarga.
Project Extension   Loan closing date extended 9     To implement legal covenants related to
Request 2           months - from June 30, 2009       establishment of Water Council and tariff frame
                    to March 31, 2010.                work
                                                     To complete civil works cited in the earlier request
                                                      for extension and procurement and installation of
                                                      bulk meters
                                                     To scale up plans in the three towns
Project Extension   Loan closing date extended 1     To complete scaling up proposals/plans
Request 3           year - from March 31, 2010       To implement WASIS; tariff framework; etc
                    to March 31, 2011                To complete Gulbarga pipe line work and bulk
                                                      meters purchase and installation
                                                     To complete additional two small works in
                                                      Belgaum (feeder pipeline and dedicated power
                                                      line)
Grace period        Two month extension of           To complete payments for eligible expenses
Extension           grace period from July 31,
Request             2011 to September 30, 2011


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

2.1.1 Strong Commitment. From the start of project preparation, there was strong
political commitment to the project. Both the GoK and the institutions involved
proceeded with a project design that would demonstrate the feasibility of a dramatic
change in the water supply service, from an intermittent to continuous (24X7) supply.
This level of service had never been tried before in India in a systematic manner.
2.1.2 Project Development Objective and Key Project Indicators. Although the wording
of the PDO could have been better articulated, it had the correct focus on outcomes. The
intention to „launch‟ the sector reform process was appropriate because it reflects
moderate expectations for achieving sector reform. The focus on improving water supply
services and demonstrating the commercial viability of providing a 24X7 water supply
service also was appropriate because this level of service represented an innovative and
much needed approach for India. However, some outcome indicators were not realistic
(for example, establishing a new legal and regulatory framework).
2.1.3 Project Components. The project components were well designed and aligned
with the objectives. The institutional studies in component A, to be carried out in parallel
with the investment implementation, covered the main reform issues in the State.
Component B and its sub components were well planned, although the detailed means by
                                                   4
which the utility would switch from an intermittent to continuous water supply were not
fully clarified by project appraisal.
2.1.4 Quality at Entry. The World Bank and KUIDFC designed this innovative project
in consultation with all key stakeholders, including the ULBs and KUWS&DB. The
project also employed high quality consultants to investigate the main strategic
investment interventions that would be required for a continuous water supply in the
demonstration zones. The design, which included city wide bulk water supply
improvement programs, gave the local decision makers and communities the needed
initial confidence in the project. Community consultation and social mediation was
another important factor paving the way for ensuring public ownership and acceptance of
new tariff requirements to ensure the successful implementation of Component B
investments. The main weaknesses in the project design relate to use of key outcome
indicators that were not realistic for measuring progress in meeting the first PDO.
2.1.5 Institutional Arrangements. The responsibility for project implementation was
assigned to the KUIFDC which had extensive experience implementing externally
financed urban projects. Other important state institutions such as KUWS&DB and the
ULBs were also involved.
2.1.6 Safeguards and Project Risks. The project design was consistent with the Bank‟s
safeguard policies. In terms of environmental impact, the project was classified as
Category B (Partial Assessment). The project also triggered the policy on involuntary
resettlement because some minor land acquisition was likely given the nature of the
investment. The risk assessment at appraisal was highly relevant. The appropriate
mitigation measures were put in place to address the high probability risks relating to
sustainability, cost recovery, procurement difficulties, project ownership, and acceptance
of a private operator.

2.2 Implementation

2.2.1 Overall Project Implementation. The US$39.5 million loan for the KUWASIP
was approved by the World Bank Board on April 4, 2004 and became effective on May
18, 2005. The project closed on March 31, 2011 with disbursement of US$36.49 million
or 92%. Although it took almost a year for the GoI to meet all conditions for project
effectiveness, the PMU in KUIDFC was fully prepared after project approval to start
project implementatio and completed the procurement of consultants for Component A
and an operator for Component B (demo zone). Overall, the implementation
arrangements matched the project management needs and there were no major issues
either in funding or procurement.
2.2.2 The infrastructure investments and measures to ensure sustainable operations were
implemented as planned; all parties and heads of state remained committed to a 24X7
water supply. However, as is the case in many countries, sector reform is complex, and
producing the multiple outputs from Component A was constrained by political
instability in the state of Karnataka. During the project period, the Chief Minister (head
of the state) changed five times and there were three different ruling parties. The
Secretaries of the Urban and Finance ministries also changed. This was the most
important factor responsible for delays in moving forward with reforms, and by the end
of the project; the State had not authorized the KSUWSC or adopted the proposed legal
and regulatory framework. Nonetheless, the team of experts on the ground, which
                                            5
substituted for the KSUWSC, was successful in: (a) implementing the most urgently
needed reforms such as the new tariffs and financing framework, and (b) engaging with
the World Bank-supported Water and Sanitation Program India (WSP – World Bank) in
drafting a comprehensive road map for the sector reform building on the studies carried
out under this project.

2.2.3 Under Component B, implementation of priority infrastructure did not face any
challenges except procurement and routine construction related problems resulting in the
delayed commissioning of continuous water supply in five demo-zones (the reason for
seeking the project first extension). However, achieving the 24X7 water supplies under
Component B3 (Demonstration Projects) faced several challenges:

      Enhanced bulk supply to improve water supply in towns and demo-zones was
       essential to demonstrate service level improvements, but delays in completing
       priority infrastructure works caused serious concerns.
      The complete distribution network in demo-zones needed to be replaced because
       the old pipes could not withstand the high pressures, and the operator initially
       faced resistance from KUWS&DB in accepting HDPE pipes for network.
      Due to public concerns relating to tariffs, especially in the demonstration zones,
       the ULBs delayed adopting volumetric tariffs endorsed by the state government.
      Volumetric billing and use of water meters caused tensions for the public and
       politicians. To respond, the ULBs used flat tariffs for six months while producing
       dummy volumetric billing so that the consumer can moderate their consumption,
       thus demonstrating that they are not insensitive to the poor.
      Regularizing unauthorized connections, issuing new connections to every slum
       dweller based on states‟ pro-poor policy, and removing redundant public stand
       posts required extensive efforts to generate local political support.
      Social intermediation and communication had to be deployed strategically to
       drive the right messages at the right time.
2.2.4 Finally, with strong primary stakeholders and ULB participation, the project
demonstrated the commercial viability of operations using a private operator. Also as
result of the project, a new model for drawing on the skills of the private operators has
been accepted as a necessary condition for all subsequent 24X7 projects in the state as
well as the rest of the country, thus marking a major policy shift for the water supply
sector.
2.2.5 Mid-Term Review. The mid-term review was carried out through several
missions covering the period April to June 2007. The review noted the delays in
commissioning the 24X7 water supply systems in four zones due to water shortages
during the summer months. The review also highlighted that the Urban Development
Department (UDD) still needed to meet important legal covenants to the adopt the
investment framework and tariff policy as well as present a proposal to the state cabinet
to establish the Water Council. However, at the time of the MTR, tariff plans had been
finalized for the demo-zones and the State had announced its pro-poor policies in support
of this project. The M&E system also had been designed and was about to be launched.




                                           6
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

2.3.1 The M&E framework was developed at appraisal, but the indicators were largely
qualitative and not easily monitored. Moreover, the M&E system was delayed; at the
time of the MTR, the system still had not been launched. Eventually, the M&E system
was used to monitor performance of the contracts and to report results from the demo
zones. However, the system proved to be redundant. The operator that managed the
demo-zones was responsible for reporting on results/performance indicators established
for Component B3 because he was paid against the targets established. These results also
were monitored and certified by an independent third party auditor who was responsible
for certifying payments for investment programs and the operator‟s fee.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
2.4.1 Procurement. Supervision missions routinely monitored fiduciary compliance.
Throughout the project period, the PIU did not report any complaints. Day to day issues
were resolved amicably and expeditiously by the project authorities. This was likely due
to the training provided to the staff responsible for procurement. Thus, overall
procurement was rated satisfactory throughout the project period.
2.4.2 Financial Management. The project accounting system was set up and maintained
throughout the project implementation period. The system worked well because it
became part of the overall entity accounting system. The internal audit practice was set
up for KUIFDC during the life of the project. In addition, project accounts were brought
under the purview of the internal audit system and were reviewed on a timely basis.
Nonetheless, late audit report submissions were a constant issue. The PMU submitted the
FMRs and audit reports after the due dates; in some cases, they required recertification.
2.4.3 The lack of qualified accounting staff was another major concern. In one instance,
for example, the accounting staff did not submit some of the rejected claims due to
missing documentation, even though such approvals and documentation were
subsequently obtained. In addition, the project carried out overdraws in two categories
by more than 20%, but did not apply for reallocation until the last month of the project
period. The PMU could have responded to this issue by requesting reallocations of loan
proceeds in a timely manner. These issues could have been addressed by the client
during the life of the project by establishing an effective and dedicated team for
accounting and reporting. Such a team also could have made a significant contribution
toward streamlining the reporting requirements and other financial functions. Overall,
however, the PMU was able to meet the Bank‟s financial management requirements, and
project performance in terms of financial management was rated Moderately Satisfactory.

2.4.4 Environmental Safeguards. Environmental safeguard management was carried
out according to the project‟s Environmental Management Plan (EMP) prepared on the
basis of a Limited Environmental Assessment (LEA) study carried out by independent
consultants. In addition to the LEA and EMP, an Environmental Code of Practice
(ECoP) was developed through the project for water supply projects in the state. The
EMP was implemented by the Operator hired under Component B and was supervised by
the KUIDFC‟s environmental engineers. In addition, the Bank‟s task team closely
monitored overall environmental safeguard management performance, and the
performance ratings were generally satisfactory over the entire project period.
                                            7
2.4.5 Social Safeguards. OP 4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement) was triggered because the
project required land acquisition in two project towns. The Government prepared a land
acquisition and resettlement policy framework satisfactory to the Bank, and resettlement
action plans (RAPs) were prepared for Hubli-Dharwar and Gulbarga. Later, the Gulbarga
RAP was modified because of a decision was made to reroute the pipe lines on
unencumbered Government land, thus bringing down the number of affected families.
The total land acquisition for the project involved 8.41 hectares affecting 215 families,
primarily at Hubli-Dharwar and Gulberga. The RAPs were satisfactorily implemented
and there were no complaints recorded.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
2.5.1 Although the GoK did not establish the KSUWSC as planned, the Urban
Development Department (UDD) of GoK is continuing to advance the proposed UWS
reform agenda since project closure. Although the citywide engineering feasibility
studies and transition plans had a delayed start, the draft reports were available in
October 2011. They are now being financed by the state government and are expected to
provide a solid foundation for follow up investments in the water sector. In addition, the
KUWS&DB, which implemented the project‟s priority investments, is continuing to
operate these assets which are now integrated in the town water systems; not only in the
demonstration zones.

2.5.2 Studies are in progress for scaling up the private sector model in several cities in
Karnataka. KUIDFC also appointed an operator at the end of the initial two year
operations period for the pilot zones in order to sustain the continuous water supply
operations. The operator fee is being paid by the ULBs from the revenues generated
from selling water in the demo zones, thus demonstrating the sustainability and
commercial viability of the 24X7 operations. The ULBs are fully involved in the
schemes in all of the zones, and KUIDFC is helping to manage the operator‟s contract.
Thus, institutional arrangements are in place to sustain the 24X7 operations.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
3.1.1 The PDOs were and continue to be relevant to the country context as suggested by
its consistency with the Bank‟s current India country strategy. Specifically, the project
supports: institutional clarity, fiscal and financial viability (strengthened capacity of
ULBs and viable models for O&M), and services for the poor (reforms and investments
that lead to systematic improvements in the access by poor households to services and
assets). The PDOs are also aligned with the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal
Mission (JNNURM), the central government‟s flagship urban program.
3.1.2 The project design is path breaking not only for the state of Karnataka but for
India as a whole. The project results set a new benchmark to which other states and
ULBs now aspire. The project preparation studies were appropriate and guided the
direction in which urban water sector reforms would be directed. The findings of these
studies highlighted: the need for the specific investments and a transparent tariff
framework; the importance of financial and operational sustainability; and opportunities
                                            8
for the ULBs to involve the private sector. The design and implementation methodology
to be used in transitioning to 24X7 water supplies was the first in India. This approach
remains relevant and is being followed by numerous initiatives across the country.
3.1.3 Project implementation demonstrated a paradigm shift in UWS delivery because it
demonstrated that 24X7 water supplies could be a reality in India. The project also
highlighted the importance of good governance in the urban water sector by applying
volumetric tariffs, water meters for all connections, monthly billing, water auditing; and
the need for pro-poor policies by providing access house connections to all residents, and
introducing affordable tariffs that promote water conservation.
3.1.4 Although it was envisaged during project design that the state would lead the
reforms in UWS, decentralization put the onus on ULBs. In this regard, both the GoI and
Bank are now supporting this agenda by strengthening ULBs, as reflected in the Bank‟s
country strategy. Thus, while the original reform agenda continues to be relevant, it is
now expected to be led by the ULBs and supported by the state.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
3.2.1 The project achieved it PDOs to (a) launch the GoK‟s urban water sector reform
process based on the “Urban Drinking Water and Sanitation Policy Statement of GoK,
and (b) improve urban water supply services in the participating urban local bodies
(Hubli-Dharwad, Belgaum, and Gulbarga) and demonstrate that sustainable, efficient,
and commercially-oriented service provision can be achieved. The achievement of the
PDOs is based on the project meeting or exceeding most of the seven outcome indicators.
3.2.2 The reform base is established and initial reform activities are carried out
((Indicator 1.1). The state implemented the three most important water supply sector
reform activities: (a) establishing a tariff framework for the state, (b) defining the roles
and framework for setting up the KSUWSC, and (c) establishing a water and sanitation
information system (WASIS). Although the state did not put into operation the
KSUWSC, in accordance with the financing agreement, an ad-hoc Committee was
established and is fully functional in carrying out its role. The state is also implementing
the next phase of reforms based on the WSP‟s review of the five technical studies
supported by the project under Component A. These achievements mark the completion
of the first stage of reforms and thus the objective of launching the state‟s urban water
sector reform process is considered fully achieved.
3.2.3 The ground for private sector participation is prepared as a realistic option for
water and sanitation provision (Indicator 1.2). The original target for this indicator was
exceeded. Not only was the groundwork established for introducing private sector
participation, but a private operator model was successfully implemented, and has
become the standard practice for all 24X7 efforts in the state of Karnataka and across the
country. In Karnataka only, for example, the state invited bids from private agencies to
develop bulk water for both urban and rural areas in Bijapur and Chitradura districts on a
design, build, operate (DBO) model, and several multi-village water supply schemes are
now involving the private sector.
3.2.4 Enabling legal, regulatory, and financing frameworks are established for the
sector (Indicator 1.3). A government order established the financing and tariff
frameworks for the water supply sector in all ULBs. However, the decentralization
agenda delayed finalization of the legal and regulatory frameworks. Although the
                                         9
establishment of the regulatory and legal frameworks proved to be overly ambitious, the
government is currently moving forward on this agenda through a program called
“Karnataka Urban Water and Sanitation Development Program (KUWSDP).? Within the
project period, therefore, this outcome was almost but not fully achieved.

3.2.5 Feasibility of continuous water supply is demonstrated (Indicator 2.1). This
indicator was fully achieved and exceeded. The investments in the demonstration zones
showed that it was possible to achieve a sustainable and commercially viable 24X7 water
supply in India. This was demonstrated by:

•   The successful installation of 238 kms of water distribution network including house
    connections and repair of customers‟ water meters in all 5 demo-zones covering more
    than 25,640 new house connections.
•   Continuous (24X7) water supply with good pressure in all 5 demo zones;
•   Contracts completed for demo-zone network strengthening (necessary for 24X7) and
    the initial two-year period of operation (4/3/2008 to 3/31/2010). The second O&M
    contract for two additional years was awarded for the period 4/1/2010 to 3/31/2012.
•   Billing based on a volumetric tariff introduced in all 5 demo zones, with a cost
    recovery rate of over 70% by the project end, taking into account the costs for bulk
    water delivery, O&M, operator remuneration, technical auditor fee, and debt service.
    The cost recovery rate was 100% if bulk water delivery and O&M alone are
    considered. Therefore, this can be considered as more than fully achieved.

3.2.6 Priority bottlenecks to improve quantity of water supply are solved (Indicator 2.2).
The aim of the Priority Investments subcomponent was to increase the bulk water supply.
As such, KUWS&DB implemented about 11 bulk water investments resulting in
significant improvements in water supply delivery in the 3 participating ULBs, all of
which had experienced severe water scarcity for many years. As a result of the project,
the total water supply available in the 3 towns improved substantially: 27 MLD in
Belgaum, 30 MLD in Gulbarga, and 11 MLD in Hubli-Dharwad. The investments were
not designed to add additional production capacity but to be rolled out in a series of
efficiency measures including reduced leakages, and rehabilitation or improvement of
water production, transmission, and storage systems. The priority water works also
resulted in energy savings and charges (for example, in Hubli, about Rs. 10 million per
annum by changing the supply arrangement).

3.2.7 Under the City Distribution Improvements sub-component, two investments in
water supply were completed in Hubli-Dharwad. These works helped to provide a more
equitable supply across the towns, and in that process, guaranteed supplies to the demo-
zones. The other two towns were found not to need these investments (Gulbarga‟s
distribution network had been remodeled by KUWS&DB and Belgaum has a more recent
network still in good condition). This outcome is therefore fully achieved.

3.2.8 Increased consumer awareness, commitment, and ownership for reform are
attained (Indicator 2.3). Due to the project‟s dramatic success in providing the 24X7
water supplies, the population in other parts of the project towns is now demanding the
same level of service, as reported in the local and national media. In addition, there is
strong political support for this initiative, which in turn, places pressure on the state
government to scale up the 24X7 water supply service. In addition, the population in the
                                             10
demo-zones showed their awareness of the 24X7 water supply service, commitment, and
ownership by paying their water bills promptly. As shown in Table 2, moreover, the low
consumption consumers (less than 15 KL a month), which represent the poorer sections
in the demo-zones, pay water bills more promptly than those in the high water
consumption and higher income categories. Payments exceeding 100% mean that the
poor also are paying the backlog/ arrears accrued under intermittent supply regime. Thus,
this outcome was fully achieved.
                 Table 2. Revenue Collection Efficiency (Demo-Zones):
Consumption
     slab                                    Belgaum        Belgaum
                 Hubli        Dharwad                                                  Gulbarga
 (in KL per                                  (South)         (North)
   month)
      0-8         141%           85%          144%            106%                        75%
     8-15         111%           93%          120%             97%                        85%
    15-25          78%           78%          105%             95%                        88%
    25-40          58%           72%          102%             92%                        79%
     >40           44%           49%           84%             86%                        94%
   Overall         62%           71%           94%             88%                        88%
  efficiency
             (Source: Analysis of Revenues, Operator Report, Sept 2010)

3.2.9 Capacity, institutional structures, and accountability for water and sanitation
operations of the participating ULBs are improved (Indicator 2.4). In the project areas,
the ULBs are now fully responsible for UWS provision, and have appointed an operator
to continue to manage water supply in the demo-zones when the initial contract period
ends. In consultation with KUIDFC, the ULBs contracted out the operations for a second
two year term, and are closely working with KUIDFC in preparing scaled up proposals.
The ULBs are also collecting the water tariffs and paying the operator. They are now
more accountable for services, maintaining the 24X7 supplies in the demo-zones, and are
striving to secure funds to scale up the operations. The state agencies also gained
capacity from these operations. Table 3 summarizes some of the key changes as a result
of the ULB‟s improved capacity in water supply operations. More detailed performance
indicators are presented in Annex 9.

                             Table 3 Performance Improvements
 Indicators               Outputs from    Outputs from                    Outcomes
                          previous        24X7 supply
                          intermittent
                          supply
 Water Supply service     2 hours in 3    Continuous     Water supplied through network at all
 level                    days            water supply   times
 Quantity of water        22.14 MLD       18.40 MLD      Broke the myth that continuous water
 supplied in demo zones                                  supply needs more bulk water supply.
                                                         Reduction in leakages and water
                                                         conservation led to reduced demand under
                                                         the 24X7 regime.
 Average pressure in      Less than 0.5   17.7 m head    Water is now delivered to the overhead
 the network              m head                         tank in the second floor of a house directly.

                                                11
                                                        No need to pump water, thus saving energy
                                                        charges at the household level.
 Number of public      433            0                 All households in the demo zones now
 fountains in demo-                                     have water connections. No more
 zones                                                  drudgery in collection of water; or loss of
                                                        employment due to long waiting hours at
                                                        stand posts.
 Loss of water (non    About 50%      About 7%          Efficient delivery of water – more revenue
 Revenue Water)                                         water meant increased water available for
                                                        the consumer thus reducing the need to
                                                        treat more water. This is a climate change
                                                        friendly outcome.
 Customer service      Non-existent   24X7 customer     Operator provides dependable water
                                      care center and   services and responds to customers‟
                                      ongoing public    requests and concerns
                                      awareness
                                      program
                                      established
                                                              (Source: Operator‟s Progress Report)

3.2.10 In addition to the investments and efforts on the part of the operator to optimize
hardware systems, social mediation through intensive communications, IEC activities,
use of pro-poor policies, and customer satisfaction surveys was a significant factor
contributing to commercially viable operations. This was unheard of before in the
country.

3.2.11 The project also had a major influence on the way UWS is viewed by the
population in India, thus creating demand for a 24X7 supply across all urban areas in the
nation. This is visible by the sheer number of teams visiting the demo-zones from various
states consisting of elected representatives like Mayors, civil society representatives,
engineers, NGOs, and donors. This is regarded as an outstanding achievement, paving
the way for an effective Private Sector Participation in UWS sector for operators. Further,
there has been a notable change in the way government agencies are currently performing,
as seen in their more professional and consumer oriented approach to UWS service
delivery.

3.3 Efficiency

3.3.1 The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the project investments (Component B1
and B3) estimated at project completion is higher than the estimate at appraisal (29%
compared to 16%, respectively), indicating that the economic benefits of the project
investments are higher than initially expected. The main economic benefits from Priority
Investments (Component B1) are the increase in the bulk supply of water and power
savings. At completion, the estimated ERR for the Priority Investments is 30% is
substantially higher than the ERR estimated at appraisal (18%) because the investments
resulted in a larger increase in bulk water supply than estimated at appraisal. The main
economic benefit from the introduction of the 24X7 supply (Component B3) is the
reduction in coping costs associated with intermittent water supply. At completion the
ERR for 24X7 water supply in the demonstration zones is 28% compared to 14% at
appraisal because the coping costs associated with intermittent water supply were found
to be substantially higher than those estimated at appraisal (see Annex 3).

                                             12
3.3.2 A financial analysis was carried out on the basis of data provided in the Operator‟s
Progress Report. The analysis shows that the project‟s objectives in terms of sustainable
operation of the water supply defined at appraisal have been achieved. Due to the new
volumetric tariff framework adopted in the ULBs, the average price of water billed is Rs.
11.7/m3. The average billing efficiency is 87% and collection efficiency reaches 95%,
implying that 83% of the water distributed is actually bringing revenues to the utility.
This is well above the objective of 70% set at appraisal and leads to an average revenue
per cubic meter distributed of 9.67 Rs./m3. Based on the estimated unit cost of water
distributed of 8.1 Rs./m3, the level of O&M cost recovery is estimated at 119%, also well
above the target of 80% set at appraisal.
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
3.4.1 The overall outcome rating is “Satisfactory? on the basis of the following:
        The PDOs continue to be highly relevant in the country context and their impact,
         in terms of influencing the UWS sector policy at the national level far exceeded
         expectations from the standpoint of tariff policy, the involvement of the private
         sector, and expansion of the 24X7 supply approach to other parts of Karnataka.
        The main outcomes of the project were fully achieved and continue to be
         relevant.
        The ERR and the IRR exceeded expectations at project appraisal.
        The project not only influenced state policy on water supply, but influenced
         national policies on the importance and feasibility of 24X7 water supply
         services, the involvement of the private sector in water supply delivery, and
         tariff policies designed to ensure financial sustainability of the water supply
         service.
        The poor now have greater access to water supply services due to the project
         and their satisfaction is reflected in their willingness to pay the tariff on a timely
         basis.
        As a result of the project, private operators are now accepted in UWS delivery
         in Karnataka, and in other parts of India, thus far exceeding expectations at
         appraisal.
        The institutional systems worked in harmony; there was high degree of
         coordination among the public and private agencies involved in the project.
        The project design proved to be optimal for the conditions prevailing in the
         project ULBs, particularly the approach adopted to upgrade from an intermittent
         to a 24X7 supply.

3.4.2 Although the project did not succeed to operationalize the Water Council or
implementing the new legal and regulatory frameworks for the water supply sector, these
shortcomings did not affect achievement of the PDO, and are considered minor compared
to the significant impact this project has had on water sector reform at the national level.




                                             13
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
3.5.1 Based on the interactions with the primary stakeholders, especially the slum
dwellers in the demo-zones, the following impacts were observed.
   Due to the project, the poor now have direct access to a water supply. Every
    household has a water connection on their premises. There is no more waiting for
    water for days because it is now available round the clock, thus allowing the time
    saved to be used for gainful employment.
   The poor benefitted the most from the continuous water supply. This population is
    highly satisfied with the new service level as evidenced by the large number of
    households making timely water tariff payments.
   The poor benefited more than the higher income groups because they are solely
    dependent on public water systems; the others have alternate sources such as deep
    tube wells.
   The beneficiaries of the improved water supplies perceive a significant reduction in
    water borne diseases due to the availability of good quality water. Women and
    children appear to have benefitted the most in this regard.
   Women historically walk long distances to obtain water for their families. In the
    demo zones, this is no longer the case. The marked reduction in the drudgery
    associated with fetching water is a major gain for women who now have more time
    for their family.
   There is increased social interaction and social cohesion due to reduced poverty and
    health related problems.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening:
3.5.2 Public Private Partnerships. The private operator played a pivotal role in
delivering a 24X7 water supply in the demo-zones, thus providing an alternative to the
state agencies in management. Based on the success of the project, several of the new
24X7 initiatives across India are relying on the newly found private “operators? instead
of their state agencies. The operators are employed on a performance based DBO
contract (bonus paid for achieving results) which is unique in India.
3.5.3 Strengthening State Institutions. By observing the work of the operator,
KUWS&DB strengthened its own internal systems and capacity, and is expecting to
establish 24X7 water supplies in selected small towns. This will help improve
KUWS&DB‟s performance in the towns for which it continues to be responsible for
water supply. Recently, a proposal to provide 24X7 water supplies in 17 towns (for
example, Shimoga, Bijapur, and Mandaya) was submitted by KUWS&DB to the
government for approval.

3.5.4 Recognition of Prerequisites for Improved UWS. Through the project-financed
institutional strengthening, the state now recognizes the importance of making provider
agencies accountable, placing stress on achieving sustainability in operations, and
implementing supportive capacity building measures as prerequisites for improved UWS
service delivery. The GoI‟s Planning Commission also recognized the importance of
these measures and is likely to reflect this in the country‟s 12th plan.

                                          14
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
3.5.5 As an unintended outcome of the project, there is now reduced dependency on
state agencies, which are deemed to be inefficient to deliver services. ULBs are gearing
up to hire operators independently to improve UWS services. State agencies remain as
facilitators but with diminishing role as providers. Another positive outcome is the
increased use of water meters even in ULBs that cannot yet dream about a 24X7 supply.
This is likely to promote the use of volumetric billing and thus water conservation and
financial sustainability.
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
3.6.1 A full beneficiary assessment was not carried out. However, an independent
survey was carried out in 2010 confirmed that the project has had important benefits,
particularly in the demonstration zones, where the population reported a reduction in
coping costs, increase in water consumption, and time-savings. Annex 5 presents a more
detailed summary of the survey findings. Annex 6 summarizes the results of stakeholder
meetings carried out in September 2011.
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate.
4.1     The state water supply authorities and ULBs consider the project to be a major
success. They endorse the use of a private operator and the delivery of 24X7 supplies.
Many are planning improvements according to the principles established through the
project. The project processes are already institutionalized in several national programs
(for example, JNNURM) and state governments. There are no remaining perceived risks,
and there is no expectation of any future risks from external factors such as changes in
political or policy environments.
4.2     Nonetheless, some project specific risks remain. The reform processes “launched?
still need to be fully implemented; the project only supported initial measures such as
technical assistance studies. Similarly, demonstration of the 24X7 water supply was
limited to the demo-zones, which are relatively small in scale. Thus, there is an urgent
need to demonstrate commercial viability at the town level or the initial high visibility
created around 24X7 may start to dissipate.
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

5.1.1 The Bank‟s performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated Satisfactory,
considering all aspects of quality at entry as shown in Table 4.




                                           15
                 Table 4. Matrix on Bank’s Performance in Quality at Entry
Strategic            Project PDOs are highly relevant both at the time of entry and exit. The Bank
relevance and        proceeded with the investment on the basis of the Government‟s assigning priority
approach             to urban water sector reforms and demonstrating its commitment through a policy
                     statement. The resulting project design was a bold yet risky move to demonstrate a
                     24X7 water supply for the first time in India, thus opening the door for a dramatic
                     change in the way these services are delivered. Another step was to introduce private
                     sector participation in the area previously monopolized by the public sector.
Technical,           At a time when no one understood how to switch to 24X7 in India, the Bank hired
financial and        high quality consultants to show how to accomplish this. The investments
macro-economic       recommended a technical approach designed to turn around the water supply with a
aspects              high degree of precision, well adapted to the prevailing conditions. Priority was
                     given to cost recovery and financial sustainability. This was a first attempt to show
                     that water operations can be commercially viable and attract private finance.
Poverty, gender,     The Bank ensured that the focus was on the poor and that women in particular would
and social           gain from the improved services because they have the main responsibility for
development          obtaining the household‟s water. In this context, the project incorporated pro-poor
aspects              policies and build in the necessary social intermediation programs.
Environmental        Because the project largely depended on an increased bulk water supply; instead of
aspects              creating a new treatment facility that would use more raw water, the team was
                     justified in focusing on improving efficiency to prevent water losses. From the
                     supply side, this was a highly environmental friendly approach. However, the
                     project did not assign any priority to ensuring adequate wastewater management.
Fiduciary Aspects    Adequate arrangements were established for project implementation.
Policy and           The Bank was justified in supporting the use of existing institutional structures for
Institutional        project implementation, taking into account a role for all stakeholders in this
aspects              program. With few exceptions, the Bank demonstrated a realistic approach to the
                     reform agenda.
Implementation       KUIDFC was given key responsibility for implementing Component B, while
Aspects              Component A was expected to be driven by the Government through the Water
                     Council that was expected to be created under this project. However, the Water
                     Council was not established during the project period which may have been due to
                     the failure of the project to include financial support for its operational costs. This
                     risk was not recognized during the design of the project.
Monitoring and       The Bank could have ensured that the M&E system was functional prior to or at
Evaluation           least soon after implementation started. The indicators for measuring outcome also
Arrangements         could have been more appropriate for monitoring changes during the course of
                     project implementation. However, the project did use third party auditing and the
                     operator‟s contract was “performance based? which meant that the operator was
                     expected to report on project achievements.
Risk Assessment      The Bank realistically assessed most project risks and ensured that appropriate
                     mitigation measures were put in place. However, the Bank was too optimistic in
                     expecting more dramatic reforms related to the establishment of the Water Council
                     (see below) and new legal and regulatory framework.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
5.1.2 Bank supported the project extensively through regular supervision missions
involving multidisciplinary teams including international consultants. The Bank team
took timely actions as needed to resolve any issues that arose and provided sound
supervision support. Close support on the following critical areas after project
effectiveness helped to establish a strong foundation for success: selection of demo
zones and citywide investments, competitive selection of the operator, and intense social
interaction and communications campaign. In addition, the Bank‟s close supervision
                                                    16
helped to ensure that the project did not face any fiduciary or safeguards problems.
Proactive engagement with the client agencies led to timely identification of challenges
and identification of suitable actions to mitigate them.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

5.2.1 The rating is based on its strong ownership of the project from its initial issuance
of a policy statement in support of the project and throughout project implementation. Its
continued commitment is also reflected in its accepting and acting on study findings in
support of reforms. The latter included its decision to implement volumetric tariffs in
demo zones and a state wide tariff framework for urban water supply in general. In the
case of using the private operators, the government‟s support is not limited to this project;
it is now using private operators liberally in delivering other public services, including
rural water supply. In addition, the government‟s performance in the fiduciary aspects
and in the coordination between agencies and timely resolution of project issues was
satisfactory. The government also was proactive in formulating pro-poor policies in
UWS delivery. In this regard, the GoK targeted the urban poor by giving them
incentives to pursue house connections with a meter (with 100% subsidy on house
connection fee, but charging for meters in installments), which eliminated the need for
public stand posts entirely in the demo zones. This allowed every poor household to own
a tap at home. Nonetheless, due to the fluid state of politics during the implementation
period, decisions on reforms were delayed. The Water Council was not operationalized
as planned and other reforms progressed only up to the point envisaged in the project.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

5.2.2 KUIDFC, the implementing agency, remained highly committed to achieving the
PDOs and sustained throughout the project period its broader focus on outcomes,
including replication in several other interested ULBs. The central office in Bangalore
and its regional office are all highly focused and assigned utmost importance to getting
timely outputs from KUWS&DB and from the operator through close monitoring.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Both the government and the implementing agencies played key roles in the success of
this project. The performance of both is rated Satisfactory, and the combined rating is
Satisfactory.




                                             17
6. Lessons Learned
24X7 for Policy Makers
A continuous water supply (24X7) is achievable in India. However, this requires strong
commitment at both local and state levels and should be accompanied by strong pro-poor
policies (see below) and reform measures.
A continuous water supply does not require more treated bulk water supply. The project
proved that a 24X7 supply is achievable even at reduced rates of supply. Consumption in
the demo-zones with a 24X7 supply is 18.4 MLD as opposed to 22.14 MLD with
intermittent water supplies.
Good governance measures are vital for sustainability. Introducing new water meter
connections and affordable volumetric tariffs that promote water conservation proved
essential for ensuring the sustainability of the 24X7 supplies.

24X7/and Pro-Poor Pricing/Social Mediation
Individual household water supply connections increase consumer satisfaction and cost
recovery and conserve water. Public stand posts not only limit accessibility but result in
water wastage. Barriers to securing household connections for all households, regardless
of income, should be addressed through pro-poor pricing policies.
The poor benefit more from the 24X7 water supply than the higher income groups. They
seldom have alternate potable water sources and perceive that continuous water gives
them significant socio-economic and health benefits. The project also proved that the
poor are good customers and pay bills more promptly than the higher income customers.

Social intermediation is critical to secure the support of the beneficiary population. The
project incorporated a robust communication strategy during both the preparation and
implementation phases of the project. The strategy involved door-to-door distribution of
regularly updated FAQs, establishing public information centers in the demo zones to
ensure transparent access to information for all citizens, ward level meetings, media tours,
information sharing with media on a regular basis, and paid advertisements to place
factual information in the public domain. NGOs played a key role in the door to door
communications to ensure that the local communities had a clear understanding of the
project approach, project progress, billing and tariff arrangements, grievance redress
arrangements, and user responsibilities in a 24X7 water supply system. These measures
ensured consumer ownership and willingness to pay for the improved water supply.

PPPs in 24X7 Water Supply
PPPs are critical for introducing efficiency into water operations. The private sector is
willing to enter the water market and will bring technical and managerial skills if the
contracts are well designed with accountability clearly defined, risks evenly allocated,
and transparent procurement processes incorporated.
Building flexibility into the procurement process, where possible, will help to expedite
project implementation. The operator was dependent on purchaser approval for petty
purchases which led to some delays in completing the contract. Building flexibility into
petty purchases by building appropriate checks, balances, and a robust internal control
mechanism can help expedite timely completion of works.

                                            18
Monitoring and Evaluation
In designing similar projects, it would be helpful to carry out comprehensive benefit
monitoring and evaluation. The evaluation would focus on aspects such as (a)
improvements in the water quality, (b) reduction in instances of water logging, (c)
avoidance of cross contamination, (d) reduction in wastage of water at house hold level,
(e) change in storage of water and other coping strategies by the consumer, (f) impacts on
soil quality, (g) specific health improvements, (h) changes in habits of personal hygiene,
and (i) changes in wastewater generation, before and after the project. The resulting data
for these parameters could be used as a baseline for project M&E and thus demonstrate
the full impact of the project and highlight areas for improving project performance.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
KUIDFC‟s comments on the project identified many positive lessons from the project,
including: the need to ensure adequate bulk water supply; the need for ULBs to authorize
the operator to issue house connections and adopt pro-poor polices; the need to ensure an
uninterrupted power supply; the advantage of using HDPE pipes; the importance of a
communication strategy to support reform implementation; and the advantages of using a
strategic approach to roll out volumetric tariffs, and delinking collection of arrears
accumulated under the previous flat rate regime. With regard to procurement, KUIDFC
noted their negative experience with two procurement delays. However, these delays
occurred through the application of the Bank‟s normal procedures. They also contributed
useful suggestions related to future contracting arrangements, particularly in regard to
operator pre-qualification requirements and performance payments.

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
The operator provided a small list of challenges it faced during project implementation
and made a few suggestions on the way forward for future projects which are reflected in
the lessons learned section.




                                           19
                         Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                               Appraisal         Actual/Latest
                                                                    Percentage of
Components                     Estimate (USD     Estimate (USD
                                                                    Appraisal
                               millions)         millions)


Component A                    2.55              0.84               33%



Component B                    40.95             43.11              105%



Component C                    1.39              1.16               83%
Total Baseline Cost            44.89             45.11              100.50%
Physical Contingencies
                               1.73              0.00               0.00
Price Contingencies
                               4.51              0.00               0.00
Total Project Costs            51.13             45.11              88%
Front-end fee PPF              0.00              0.00               0.00
Front-end fee IBRD             0.40              0.20               50%
Total Financing Required       51.53             45.31              88%


(b) Financing

                                                Appraisal   Actual/Late
                                                Estimate    st Estimate
                                  Type of                                  Percentage
Source of Funds
                                  Cofinancing                              of Appraisal
                                                (USD        (USD
                                                millions)   millions)
Borrower                                        12.03       9.00           75%
International Bank for
Reconstruction and                              39.50       36.31          92%
Development




                                         20
                           Annex 2. Outputs by Component

1. Outputs of Component A1 & A2
Activity                               Status                Action taken
TA Studies to Support State Level Reform
Karnataka state urban water supply     Study completed;      Proposal to set up KSUWSC is
council (KSUWSC)                       recommendation        pending with the government
                                       sent to
                                       government
Strengthening service delivery in ULBs Draft                 State government not convinced
                                       recommendations       of the draft recommendations
                                       provided              and their feasibility; the draft
                                                             recommendations were studied
                                                             again under a broader a WSP
                                                             funded study
Development of Water and Sanitation      Completed           Established and being used
Information System (WASIS)
Water and Sanitation Sector investment   Completed        State government issued
and tariff framework                                      government order and a circular
                                                          –investment pattern and tariffs
                                                          are implemented all over the
                                                          state
Establishment of legal and regulatory  Draft              State government not convinced
framework                              recommendations of the draft recommendations
                                       provided           and their feasibility; the draft
                                                          recommendations were studied
                                                          again under a broader WSP
                                                          funded study.
Preparation of UWS legislation         Not carried out    Legislative changes are not
                                                          required as it is largely governed
                                                          by 74 CAA – decentralization
                                                          agenda.
Strengthening Service Delivery and Preparation of Follow-on project
Preparation of citywide engineering    Delayed start as   TATA consulting engineers are
feasibility studies                    results from demo working on this
Transition plans                       zone took time –   This was financed by the project
Other studies related to the PPP       the study work     till its closure and thereafter GoK
preparation                            envisaged          is financing.
                                       preparation of a
                                       proposal
Strategy to scale up in other cities                      No study is required; already
                                                          initiated in cities like Mysore




                                             21
2.        Outputs of Component B1: Priority Investments

2.1 Water Supply Improvements in Belgaum City:
          Details of Works                                                                                                                        Major reasons for delay
Sl. No.




                                                                                               completion

                                                                                                                                    completion
                                                Contractor




                                                                                                Period for
                                                                            Contract Value



                                                                                             (Rs in ‘00000)
                                     WBR No.




                                                                                               completion
                                                                                                Stipulated
                                                                                                     Actual




                                                                                              Due Date for
                                               Name of the




                                                                                              Expenditure




                                                                                                                                Actual Date for
1         BGW01
          a) Providing 1100 mm dia(8 Kg/cm2) PSC Gravity Main (14900 Rmtr) from Rakkaskop to Hindalga
          b) 1000 mm dia K-9 Class DI Transmission main (3210 Rmtr) from Hindalga to Laxmitek in Belgaum.
          c) Repairs and Reconditioning of Existing service road from Rakkaskop to Hindalga and Hindalga to Laxmitek.
          d) Construction of RCC Intake tower cum Control room on U/s Side of Rakaskoppa Dam with allied works.
          e) Construction of RCC Foot Bridge to Intake Tower cum control room on U/s Side of Rakaskoppa Dam with
          allied works.
              3                                                                                                                                   Permission from PWD
                                               M/s. Taher Ali Industries


          7-4-2005                                                                                                                                Authorities for road
                                                                                                                                                  cutting, Laying of pipeline
                                               & Projects (P) Ltd.,



                                                                                                                                                  was not taken in paddy
                                                                                                                                                  fields and muddy roads in
                                                                                                                                                  rainy season .Floods in




                                                                                                                   31-08-2006
                                               Hyderabad




                                                                                                       18 months




                                                                                                                                14-5-2008
                                                                                                                                                  river, Shifting of Electric
                                                                            1330.33

                                                                                             1383.75



                                                                                                                                                  power line.


2         BGW02
          a) Providing 508 mm dia 6.40 mm thick (1620 Rmtr) MS Transmission Main from Hindawadi to Anagol
          b) Providing 1168 mm dia 9.50 mm thick (10000 Rmtr) MS Transmission main from Kundargi to
          Tummaraguddi
          c) Construction of 55 Lakh Liters capacity RCC GLSR at Laxmitek, Belgaum.
              4                                                                         KEB pole Shifting,
                                               M/s. IVRCL Infrastructures




           7-4-2005                                                                     Flooded area, Delayed
                                                                                        shutdown for linking,
                                                                                        Delay from various
                                                                                        agencies for permission of
                                               & Projects Ltd.,




                                                                                        laying pipelines (Military,
                                                                                                                   07-09-2006




                                                                                        PWD, KEB, National
                                                                                                                                01.06.2009
                                               Hyderabad




                                                                                                       18 months




                                                                                        Highway, Railway) and
                                                                            1788.95

                                                                                             1764.54




                                                                                        Extra Items and variation.


          Additional Works under Package BGWO2
          a) Providing Water Supply arrangement to 2nd stage Ranichamnamma Nagar, Belgaum - 200mm dia DI
          pipeline 1400M in length.
          b) Construction of 15 lakh liters capacity RCC Shaft type OHT on 15 m staging at TB Ward, Civil Hospital,
          Belgaum.
          c) Construction of Sump cum pump house at TB Ward, Belgaum, Supply, Erection and Commissioning of 2
          Nos. 40 HP pumping machineries at TB Ward pump house.
          d) Removing and relaying of 525/ 500mm dia CI/DI pipeline from Laxmitek to Gumatmal, CI-2700m, DI-
          2600m in length

                                                                                  22
                                        M/s.     289 234.6 6          04.0 1.6.
                                        IVRCL .19 4           month 1.20 200
                                        Infrastr              s for   07     9
                                        uctures               all     04.0
                                        &                     works 4.20
                                        Project               and 9 07
                                        s Ltd.,               month for
                                        Hydera                s for   OH
                                        bad                   OHT. T
3   Installment of suitable capacity pumps at pump House 1 (PH1): HBGO1
    Providing Centrifugal pump sets at Amminbhavi in Hubli-Dharwad and at Hindalga in Belgaum
    At Hubli-Dharwad : 3 No of Pumps are commissioned in July 2007.
     At Belgaum : 3 No of Pumps are commissioned in May 2007.
                                                                                    Non-clearance of site due
        19                                                                          to existing running pump

                                       Engineering Projects
                                       Pvt. Ltd., Bangalore
     20-7-2006                                                                      sets and execution of
                                                                                    additional items and delay
                                                                                    in clearance from the




                                                                                           27-10-2006

                                                                                                        17-11-2007
                                       M/s. Arun


                                                                                    electrical inspectorate.




                                                                                6 months
                                                              375.78

                                                                       329.12
4   Capacity expansion of feeder mains to some of the reservoirs within the system BGWO4
    Providing 200 mm dia DI pipeline from Parsi Grave Yard to Kalmeshawar NAGAR CROSS Ward No.44 to
    provide water supply to non Demo Zone area adjoining Belgaum(North) Demo Zone
                                       Constructio
                                       M/s Maloo


                                       Bangalore




                                                                                           3/11/2010
                                                                                6 months




                                                                                                        4.2.2011
                                       84.42

                                                                       85.16
                                       ns




                                                                23
      2.2     Water Supply Improvements in Hubli-Dharwad City
S Details of Works




                                          Contractor




                                                                                                in ‘00000)
                                                                                                    Actual
                                                                                           Expenditure (Rs
                                                                          Contract Value




                                                                                                             Stipulated Period
                                                                                                                for completion
                                         Name of the




                                                                                                                                 Due Date for




                                                                                                                                                                              delay
                                                                                                                                                Actual Date for


                                                                                                                                                                   Major reasons for
                                                                                                                                  completion


                                                                                                                                                    completion
                             WBR No.
l.
N
o
.



5   HDW01                                                                                                                                                         1.Delay in land acquisition.




                                                                                                                                 18-10-2006


                                                                                                                                                31-07-2007
                                                                          3183.24

                                                                                           3136.36
                                                              Mumbai




                                                                                                             18 months
                                     8
                             30-6-2005

                                         M/s. Pratibha Industries Ltd.,
    Providing 1168 mm                                                                                                                                             2.Delay due to prolonged & heavy
    dia 9.50 mm thick MS                                                                                                                                          monsoon in the year 2005 and
    Transmission Main                                                                                                                                             2006 . Hence lining and gunitting
    (23000 Rmtr) from                                                                                                                                             works are not taken up.Also,
    Amminbhavi                                                                                                                                                    resulting excavation trenches were
    to Nrupathungabetta at                                                                                                                                        completely collapsed and partially
    Hubli-Dharwad.                                                                                                                                                submerged.




Pumps installed at Ameenbhavi
6 HBGO1                                                                                                                                                           Non-clearance of site due to
                             20-7-2006




                                                                                                                                 27-10-2006


                                                                                                                                                17-11-2007
                                                 375.78

                                                                                           329.12
                                         Ltd., Banglore
                                           Projects Pvt.




                                                                                                             6 months
                                    19


                                            M/s. Arun
                                           Engineering




   Providing Centrifugal                                                                                                                                          existing running pump sets and
   pump sets at                                                                                                                                                   execution of additional items and
   Amminbhavi in Hubli-                                                                                                                                           delay in clearance from the
   Dharwad and at                                                                                                                                                 electrical inspectorate.
   Hindalga in Belgaum




                                                                                                24
           2.3 Water Supply Improvements in Gulbarga City




                                                                                                                                                                                       completion

                                                                                                                                                                                                         completion

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     delay
                                             Contractor

                                                                                                                           Contract Value


                                                                                                                                                 (Rs in ‘00000)
                                WBR No.




                                                                                                                                                                  Stipulated Period
                                                                                                                                                                     for completion

                                                                                                                                                                                      Due Date for
                                                                                                                                            Actual Expenditure




                                                                                                                                                                                                     Actual Date for

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Major reasons for
                                            Name of the
           Details of Works
Sl. No.




Rehabilitation of only Transmission Main
7 GBW01                          ___ 9___                                                                                                                                                                                                 1) Land acquisition
                                30-6-2005




                                                                                                                           2876.24

                                                                                                                                            2746.47




                                                                                                                                                                                      17-10-2006

                                                                                                                                                                                                     22-04-2007
                                                          Secunderabad




                                                                                                                                                                  18 months
                                            Construction Co.(P) Limited,
                                                      M/s.Bhoorathnom
   Providing 1118 mm                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2) Shifting of Electrical poles
   dia 10 mm thick MS                                                                                                                                                                                                                     on the alignment of the
   Transmission Main                                                                                                                                                                                                                      transmission main,
   (19200 Rmtr) from
   Head works to IPS at
   Kotnoor in
   Gulbarga.




8         GBW02                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1) Railway crossing work
                                30-6-2005




                                                                                                                           1130.26

                                                                                                                                            851.24




                                                                                                                                                                                      17-07-2006

                                                                                                                                                                                                     22-04-2007
                                                                                                                                                                  15 months
                                       10


                                            M/s Megha Engig & Infrastructures Ltd. M/s. Pratibha Industries Ltd., Mumbai




          a) Providing 914mm                                                                                                                                                                                                              2) Handing over of land by
          dia 7.9 mm thick MS                                                                                                                                                                                                             KRDCL
          Transmission Main
          (7900 Rmtr) from
          Kotnoor to
          Shorgumbaz and
          b) Removing and
          relaying of 600mm
          dia CI Transmission
          main(10500 Rmtr)
          from Bennithora to
          BP Tank in
          Gulbarga.
9         Package GBWO4                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Shifting of poles
                                                                                                                           731.98

                                                                                                                                            349.69




                                                                                                                                                                                      30-05-2011
                                                                       Hyderabad




                                                                                                                                                                  12 months




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2011)
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Nearly completed (by end of August




          Removing of           23
          existing 600 mm        3-9-
          dia CI Pipes &        2010
          replacing the same
          with 610 mm dia
          (OD) M.S
          Transmission Main
          from Bennithora
          Head works to BP
          Tank in Gulbarga




Construction of additional filter beds at Shor Gumbaz

                                                                                                                                                 25
1   GBW03                                                                                                                     Completion of Rising Main and




                           30-6-2005




                                                                                                    11-04-2006

                                                                                                                 19-01-2007
                                                                      129.90

                                                                               129.90


                                                                                        12 months
                                                 Hissar, Harayana
                                  11


                                       M/s.Goel Projects Pvt. Ltd.,
0   Providing 15 MLD                                                                                                          Pumping Machinery
    capacity Water
    Treatment Plant at
    Shorgumbaz in
    Gulbarga.




Upgrade the Pumping Station at the Head Works
1   GBGO1                  20-7-2006                                                                                          1) Approval of drawings, issue




                                                                      402.01

                                                                               379.67




                                                                                                    27-12-2006

                                                                                                                 22-04-2007
                                       Pvt. Ltd., Bangalore
                                  14


                                                 M/s. Arun




                                                                                        8 months
                                       Engineering Projects
1   Providing Deep                                                                                                            of PIA certificate.
    well Turbine Pump                                                                                                         2) Renovation of existing pump
    sets at Saradagi and                                                                                                      house 3)Clearance from
    Centrifugal pump                                                                                                          electrical inspectorate.
    sets at Kotnoor in
    Gulbarga




                                                                                   26
     3. Outputs of Component B2:

     1. Distribution Network Improvements
S Details of Works




                                          Contractor




                                                                                       (Rs in ‘00000)


                                                                                                                   completion
                                                                 Contract Value
                                         Name of the




                                                                                  Actual Expenditure




                                                                                                                                Due Date for




                                                                                                                                                                            delay
                                                                                                                                               Actual Date for


                                                                                                                                                                 Major reasons for
                                                                                                        Stipulated Period for



                                                                                                                                 completion


                                                                                                                                                   completion
                              WBR No.
l.
N
o




1   HBQFXW01                                                                                                                                                     National Highway authorities


                                                    Bangalore
                              7-2-2006




                                                                                                                                18-06-2006
                                                                 338.09

                                                                                  321.97




                                                                                                                                               11/7/2008
                                                                                                        8 months
                                     5



                                            & Marketing Ltd.,
2   Strengthening and                    M/s. Subhash Projects                                                                                                   have stopped the work for
    Extension of                                                                                                                                                 want of written permission
    Distribution Mains in                                                                                                                                        from higher authorities, Delay
    Hubli City ( DI Pipe                                                                                                                                         due to existing, telephone
    length 16230 m of                                                                                                                                            cables, 11 KV UG cable all
    Diameter ranging from                                                                                                                                        along the pipeline trench and
    150mm to 300mm)                                                                                                                                              also due to small and narrow
                                                                                                                                                                 road.
    DWQFXW01                                                                                                                                                     Delay due to National



                                                                                                                                19-04-2006


                                                                                                                                               31-07-2006
                                                                 153.01

                                                                                  151.59


                                                                                                        6 months
                                                        Pune
                                          M/s. Sheth & Sura
                                         Engineers Pvt. Ltd.,




    Strengthening and                                                                                                                                            Highway authorities and
    Extension of                                                                                                                                                 PWD authorities have not
    Distribution Mains in                                                                                                                                        allowed to carry out the
    Dharwad City ( DI                                                                                                                                            pipeline work
    Pipe length 9185 m of
    Diameter ranging from
    150mm to 400mm)
In Gulbarga, Remodeling of Distribution network system to Gulbarga City has been taken up by Board. In
Belgaum there is already existing distribution system
    Other Miscellaneous work

1   HBGGO1-B                                                                                                                                                     Work rescinded since the
                                                                                                                                20-09-2007
                                                                 109.00

                                                                                  46.20


                                                                                                        4 months
                                                       Pune
                                         M/s. Chetas Control
                                            System Pvt Ltd,




3   Manufacture, supply,                                                                                                                                         agency has not completed the
    assembly, erection, testing, and                                                                                                                             work.
    commissioning of Woltman
    Helical Type Bulk Flow Water
    Meters at various locations in
    Belgaum, Hubli-Dharwad and
    Gulbarga cities.
1   Rehabilitation works at Gulbarga
4
    GBWO5                                                                                                                                                        1) Handing over of Reservoir
                                                                                                                                31-01-


                                                                                                                                               15-01-
                                                                                                                                 2009


                                                                                                                                                2010
                                                                 36.51

                                                                                  25.92
                                            Patil,
                                          Sri S.Y




                                                                                                        4 months
                                         Gulbarga




    a) Repairs to 8.0 Lakh Gallons                                                                                                                               site by the Corporation
    Capacity GLSR at Old Filter                                                                                                                                  Authorities
    Bed                                                                                                                                                          2) Change in structural
                                                                                                                                                                 designs
    b) Overhauling of Filters Beds
                                                                                                        4 Months




                                                                                                                                               28-06-
                                                                                                                                                2010
                                          Dharwad
                                             22.03

                                                                                  21.18




                                                                                                                                9/7/2010
                                          Sri M.N.

                                               na,
                                         Ramakrish




    at old filter bed in Gulbarga
    city.
       ----




                                                                                        27
     c) Supply and Installation of                                                                           Change in laboratory




                                                                                                29-12-
                                                                                                 2010
                                      Instrument

                                             5.86

                                                             3.46




                                                                                9/5/2010
                                        M/sRavi



                                           Hubli.
                                            s Co.




                                                                     2 Months
                                        Scintific
     Laboratory Equipments at Old                                                                            installation site
     Filter Bed in Gulbarga city
       ----

     d) Overhauling of 7.5 HP,                                                                               Handing over of site by the




                                                                                30-11-


                                                                                                11-03-
                                                                                 2008


                                                                                                 2010
                                                     13.27

                                                             16.13
                                           Hubli
                                      M/s Puneet




                                                                     2 months
                                      Electricals,
     9.0HP, 50 HP and 60 HP Pump                                                                             Dept. for 600mm dia MS
     sets and accessories                                                                                    pipeline which is under
                                                                                                             progress

     e) Supply, Erection,                                                                                    1) Handing over of site by the




                                                                                30-12-2008


                                                                                                04-07-2009
                                                             18.9
                                                     18.64
                                      M/s Chagi




                                                                     3 months
                                       Gulbarga
                                      Electricals,
     Electrification and                                                                                     Dept. for 600mm dia MS
     Commissioning of 60H.P                                                                                  pipeline which is under
     Centrifugal Pump set                                                                                    progress
     f) Supply, Erection,                                                                                    2) Third party inspection
     Electrification and
     Commissioning of 50 H.P
     Centrifugal Pump set

       4. Outputs of Component B3

 Sl                                    Sub-Contractor /Agency                                                           Expenditure
               Component                                                                     Quantity
No.                                    through which executed                                                         (in millions Rs)
1.       Pipe line works and         M/s. Jain Irrigation Systems               237.77 kms of                                    181.43
         House Service               Jalagaon                                   pipeline &
         Connections (HSCs)          WBR No.: 1259170 - 1A                      25383 no. of
                                                                                connections
                                                                                (HSCs)
2.       Procurement of              M/s. Actaris Industries Ltd.,              22450 nos. of                                        26.53
         customer water meters       WBR No.: 1259137- 1B                       customers water
         and test benches                                                       meters & 3 nos.
                                                                                of test benches (as
                                                                                per contract)
                                                                                25553 at the end
                                                                                of contract
3.       Road Restoration            City Corporations of                                                                            25.67
                                     Belgaum, Gulbarga and
                                     Hubli-Dharwad
4.       Billing and Collection      M/s. Debind Business                                                                             4.39
         and Customer Support        Solutions / National
         Software                    Informatics Centre Bangalore                                                                     1.26
5.       Hardware and Software       On quotation basis                                                                               4.57
         and other peripherals
         for Billing and
         Collection System
6.       Water quality analysis      M/s. Jalvahini Management                                                                        0.84
                                     Services Pvt., Ltd.,
7.       Operation and               On quotation basis                                                                              33.97
         Maintenance
8.       Training                                                                                                                     1.40

                                                                     Total                                                          280.06


                                                                28
                         Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1. The ERR for the project investments (Component B1 and B3) estimated at project
completion is higher than the estimate at appraisal (29% compared to 16%, respectively),
indicating that the economic benefits of the project are higher than initially expected.
(See Table 3). The following compares the ERR at completion with the ERR at appraisal
for Priority Investments (Component B1) and 24X7 water supply investments
(Component B.3). The main data inputs and assumptions used for the analysis are listed
in Table 4.

2. Priority Investments. The main economic benefits from Priority Investments
(Component B1) are the increase in the bulk supply of water and power savings. At
completion, the estimated ERR for the Priority Investments is 30%, which is higher than
the ERR estimated at appraisal (18%) (see Table 3). The ERRs at project appraisal were
13% for Belgaum, 16% for Gulbarga, and 21% for Hubli-Dharwar. The higher economic
returns of the component is due to the higher than expected benefits of the project
investments; overall, the investments resulted in a larger increase in bulk water supply
than the estimates at appraisal (see Table 1). For example, in Belgaum, the increase in
water supply is more than twice the estimate at appraisal (27 MLD compared to 10
MLD). A significant part of the increase in the bulk water supply has been attained
through leakage reduction, rather than capital investments.

                 Table 1: Priority Investments - Increase in Bulk Water Supply (MLD)

      ULBs                          Appraisal(1)                  Completion
    Belgaum                            10                            27
    Gulbarga                           22                            30
    Hubli-Dharwar                      11                            11
Total                                  43                            68
Note: (1) Project Appraisal Document.

3. 24X7 water supply demonstration zones. The main economic benefit from
continuous water supply in the demonstration zones (Component B3) is the reduction in
the coping costs associated with intermittent water supply. For households with piped-
connections, coping costs encompass those for investment in water-related equipment
and those related to the need to supplement water consumption with more expensive
water-sources. For households that rely on public-taps, coping costs include the value of
time spent in fetching water. Eighty focus group discussions (FGDs) were carried out to
estimate the coping costs at completion in the demonstration zones. The FGDs indicate
that all of the households that relied on water-fountains received a private connection,
thus eliminating the need for queuing for water. Moreover, the water supply service level
increased from 2 hours in 3 days to a 24X7 (continuous) water supply, thus reducing the
need to supplement water consumption with expensive water from tankers or other
vendors for those households who could not afford private water storage.




                                                   29
4. The results of the FGDs show that the coping costs associated with intermittent
water supply are significantly higher than the estimates at appraisal. At appraisal, coping
costs were estimated to be on average Rs 350/HH/month in 2010 prices1 (equivalent to
the cost of supplementing piped water supply with additional water sources and the loss
of productive time to cope with securing adequate water on a daily basis). The FGDs
indicate that coping costs are on the order of Rs 1,500/HH/month, with significant
variation across users, and on average almost five times the estimates at appraisal (see
Table 2). At appraisal, the assumption was made that coping costs would be reduced to 0
after the project. The FGDs revealed however that even after the 24X7 water supply was
achieved, households still invested a smaller share of their income in containers, water
tanks, and the like. Part of these expenditures can be considered “insurance costs? in the
event that the water system breaks down. Over the long-run, as household gain
confidence in the system, it is possible that these expenditures may be reduced as well.
The average insurance costs at completion are Rs 744 Rs/HH/months. Even with the so
called insurance costs, the net economic benefits associated with continuous water supply
(771 Rs/HH/month) are considerably higher at completion than the estimate at appraisal
(350 Rs/HH/month) in 2010 prices. Thus, the ERR for the 24X7 water supply in the
demonstration zones at completion (28%) is substantially higher than the estimate at
appraisal (14%). See Table 3.

                   Table 2: Demonstration Zones – Coping Costs (Rs/HH/month)

                                                Appraisal(1)                    Completion(2)
                                         Before   After      Chang        Before   After    Chang
                                         project Project       e          project Project     e
    Hubli-Dharwad
      General Households                        na        na       na        750     300      450
      Slum households (without prior
    connection)                                 na        na       na       1596       0     1596
      Slum households (with prior
    connection)                                 na        na   1. na        1376       0     1376
    Belgaum and Gulbarga
      General Households                        na        na       na       2250    1350      900
      Slum households (without prior
    connection)                                 na        na   2. na        2496     900     1596
      Slum households (with prior
    connection)                                 na        na       na       2276     900     1376
    Overall
        All ULBs                               350        0      350       1,516     744      771
Source: (1) Project Appraisal Document; (2) 80 Focus Group Discussions.

5. The FGDs indicate that the economic benefits from the 24X7 water supply are
substantial, and go beyond the reduction in monetary coping costs. Additional socio-
economic benefits from 24X7 water supply projects include: (a) a reduction in health
risks and costs resulting from the ingress of contaminated groundwater and raw sewerage
into the water system (such as lost productive time while sick); (b) improved quality of


1
    Equivalent to 250/HH/month, 2004 prices.

                                                     30
service and less customer inconvenience; (c) increase in property values; and (d) social
benefits associated with the ability to access water whenever it is needed. For example,
the Voluntary Health Association of India estimates that the country loses 73 million
working-person days because of illnesses caused by water-borne diseases.2 Continuous
water supply also improves the functioning and overall efficiency of the water system by
allowing leakage detection and more efficient demand and supply management.

                          Table 3: Economic Benefits, by Component

        Component                   ERR - Appraisal1                         ERR - Completion2
    Priority
    Investments(1)                          18%                                       30%
         Belgaum                            13%                                       81%
         Gulbarga                           16%                                       24%
         Hubli-Dharwar                      21%                                       21%
    Demonstration
    zones                                   14%                                       28%
    Total                                   16%                                       29%
Notes: (1) The overall ERR for Priority investments is calculated as the weighted average of the ERR for
individual components.
Source: (1) Project Appraisal Document; (2) 80 Focus Group Discussions as well as project data.

Financial Analysis
6. The financial analysis included in the PAD presents an analysis of the ULBs financial
situation, and highlights the fact that, at project appraisal, none of the ULBs covered even
half of their O&M costs through tariff revenues. The financial analysis then describes
how the project was designed to support the long term objective set out by GoK to
“establish an appropriate cost recovery mechanism through adequate tariffs to ensure
that revenues cover O&M costs, debt service, plus a reasonable return on capital?. The
proposed contributions are outlined at the State, ULB, and Demonstration Zones levels.

7. At the state level, the project would assist GoK in carrying out the state sector
development strategy/action plan, including detailed fiscal allocation of state resources.
At the ULB level, the project would assist the ULBs through studies and capacity
building on: (i) ring fencing the water supply and sanitation operations and recording of
separate accounts; (ii) improvement in billing and collection; and (iii) definition of a
water tariff structure. As reported in Section 3.2. of the present report (“Achievement of
Project Development Objectives?), all relevant studies have been successfully delivered
under the project. These include the following specific studies:

       “Establishment and Operationalization of Karnataka State Urban Water Supply
      Council? carried out by a consortium including Tahal, TERI, and CRISIL
       “Study on Tariff and Investment Framework? carried out by A.F. Ferguson & Co.
       Development of Water and Sanitation Information System, including components
      related to billing and collection.



2
 Patil, Ashik, K.V. Somasundaram and R. C. Goyal (2002). “Current Health Scenario in Rural India?.
Aust. Journal of Rural Health.
                                                    31
8. At the Demonstration Zones level, the Project would support the development and
pilot implementation of a volumetric tariff system, using the following methodology and
principles:

        Careful transition to volumetric pricing by using both flat rate and volumetric
       billing in parallel for a few months, accompanied with social intermediation and
       communication activities.
                                                3
        Volumetric rate of at least Rs. 10/m .
        Examination of a policy for connection subsidies
        Initial target for tariffs to cover no less than 50% of O&M costs and progressively
       increase to no less than 80% of O&M cost by the end of the project.

9. The principles regarding the transition to volumetric pricing and the policy for
connection subsidies were applied successfully during project implementation. The
ULBs used flat tariffs for six months while producing dummy volumetric billing, prior to
the actual application of the volumetric tariffs. A pro-poor policy for connections was
devised, consisting of a waiver of the connection deposits for households residing in a
dwelling with an area under 600 sq.ft., which allowed most of the poor to have individual
house connections, thus paving the way for the removal of public stand posts.

10. An analysis of the Operator‟s progress report on operation of water supply in the
Demo Zones has been carried out to verify whether the following financial sustainability
objectives outlined in the PAD have been achieved:

          Volumetric rate of at least Rs. 10/m3
          Billing and Collection Rate to exceed 70%3
          80% Cost Recovery of O&M cost by the end of the project

Application of Volumetric Tariffs

11. Based on the tariff framework study supported by the Project4, the GoK developed a
general increasing block tariff structure. In accordance with this general framework, a
tariff structure was developed to be applied specifically to each demonstration zone. The
following table presents the volumetric tariffs in use in the three demonstration zones by
project completion.




3
    This objective was included as one of the key output indicators in the PAD results framework.
4
    Study on Tariff and Investment Framework in the Water and Sanitation Sector
                                                      32
                         Hubli-Dharwad                    Belgaum                        Gulbarga
Consumer        Tariff       Tariff   Monthly    Tariff   Tariff    Monthly    Tariff      Tariff   Monthly
Category        Slab                  min        Slab               min        Slab                 min
                (in KL)      (in      charges    (KL)     (Rs.)     charges    (KL)        ( Rs.)   charges
                             Rs.)
                0-8          6        Rs.48      0-8      6         Rs.48      0-8         6        Rs.48
                8 - 25       8                   8 - 25   8                    8 - 15      8
Domestic        25 - 40      12                  25 -     12                   15 - 25     10
                                                 40
                >40          20                  >40      20                   >25         12
                0 - 25       16       Rs. 128    0 - 25   16        Rs. 128    0 - 15      16       Rs. 128
                25 - 40      24                  25 -     24                   15 - 25     20
Non-Domestic
                                                 40
                >40          40                  >40      40                   >25         24
                8 - 25       32       Rs. 256    8 - 25   32        Rs. 256    8 - 15      32       Rs. 256
Commercial /    25 - 40      48                  25 -     48                   15 - 25     40
Industrial                                       40
                >40          80                  >40      80                   >25         48


12.   The analysis of the operator‟s Progress Report shows that the average price of water
billed is around Rs. 11.7/KL. This average price was calculated as the ratio between the
amounts billed (in Rs.) and the volumes billed (in KL). The main data are presented in the
table below.
                                                                                         Colle-
               Supplied     Billed     Current                     Billing                          Revenue
                                                    Collection                Average    ction
Demo Zones     Volume       Volume     Demand                      Effi-                            per KL
                                                    (Rs.)                     Price      Effic-
               (cum)        (cum)      ( Rs.)                      ciency                           supplied
                                                                                         iency
Hubli          207,757      176,923    2,062,705    1,980,537      85%        11.66      96%        9.53
Dharward       130,977      103,652    1,063,278    1,008,062      79%        10.26      95%        7.70
Belgaum S      113,674      109,318    1,221,597    1,187,793      96%        11.17      97%        10.45
Belgaum N      151,256      127,229    1,636,955    1,581,065      84%        12.87      97%        10.45
Gulbarga       73,149       69,338     871,190      787,009        95%        12.56      90%        10.76
Average        676,812      586,460    6,855,724    6,544,466      87%        11.69      95%        9.67

Billing and Collection Rates
13. Data submitted by the operator on billing show an average billing efficiency of 87%,
with a variation of this ratio between 79% (Dharward) and 95% Gulbarga).

14. Data available on collection did not allow calculating exactly the collection
efficiency ratio, as the data provided combines the amounts collected on a given month
both on the account of current bills and on the account of arrears payable (arrears accrued
during flat tariff regime). However, data show that the amounts collected on a given
month are at 95% on average. The global billing and collection efficiency is therefore
87% x 95% = 83%, which is significantly above the objective of 70% defined as one of
the output indicators in the results framework at appraisal stage. As discussed in Section
3.2. of the main report, this high level of collection efficiency represents a significant
achievement that can be attributed to the careful design and implementation of a robust
communication program to ensure that the local communities had a clear understanding

                                                    33
of the project approach, project progress, billing and tariff arrangements, grievance
redress arrangements, and user responsibilities in a 24X7 water supply system.

Cost Recovery

15. The following table presents the average unit cost of operation and maintenance at
the Demo Zone level:

         Component                                          Unit Cost (Rs./m3)
         Cost of Bulk Water                                            5.2
         Operator remuneration                                         1.9
         Technical auditor fee                                         0.7
         Other O&M Charges                                             0.3
         Total                                                         8.1

16. Based on the average price of water billed, as well as the billing and collection
efficiency ratio, the O&M cost recovery ratio is presented below. Thus, the level of cost
recovery achieved (119%) is well above the objective of 80% defined at appraisal.


#   Component                                       Comment                Value   (Unit)
A   Average price of water billed                   Cf. § 8                11.7    Rs./m3
B   Billing efficiency                              Cf. § 9                87      %
C   Average amount billed per m3 produced           =AxB                   10.2    Rs./m3
D   Average Collection efficiency                   Cf. § 10               95      %
E   Average amount collected per m3 produced        =CxD                   9.7     Rs./m3
F   Unit Cost of O&M per m3 produced                Cf. § 11               8.1     Rs./m3
G   O&M Cost Recovery Ratio                         = E/F                  119     %

Benchmarking

17. The Ministry of Urban Development (MoUD) of the Government of India developed
a standardized framework for performance monitoring with respect to water supply,
sewerage, solid waste management services, and storm water drainage 5 . In 2010, the
MoUD released the first Service Level Benchmarking Data Book, including data on the
level of service-related performance indicators in a sample set of 28 cities from 14 states.
Data provided on metering, non revenue water, collection efficiency, and cost recovery
allows benchmarking the demo zones with the 28 sample cities.

18. As far as metering is concerned, no city in the sample has 100% water connections
metered. The non revenue water represented in average 44.1% of the volumes produced,
and only five cities in the sample had NRW lower than 25 per cent amongst which
Dharamshala (6 per cent) was the only one with NRW levels comparable to the one
achieved in the Demo Zones.



5
 MoUD, 2010, Handbook Service Level Benchmarking, Ministry of Urban Development,
Government of India, New Delhi.

                                               34
19. Six ULBs show collection efficiencies higher than 90 per cent, led by Dharamshala
(97.8 per cent); Bengaluru (97.1 per cent); Kolhapur (95.6 per cent); Bhubaneswar and
Surat, both with 93.9 per cent; and Nashik (92.4 per cent). The average collection
efficiency of 19 ULBs is about 60 per cent, with two cities having an efficiency of less
than 40 percent. In terms of collection efficiency, the KUWASIP demo zones also ranks
among the top performers.

20. In terms of cost recovery, the results achieved in the demo zones are also well above
the sample average of 67.2%. Only 5 of the 28 sample ULBs were able to cover their
operation and maintenance (O&M) costs through tariff collection, while 16 ULBs
recovered less than 65% of the O&M.




                                           35
    Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

Lending
                              Sr. Water and Sanitation
Oscar E. Alvarado                                                 LCSUW
                              Specialist
Raghava Neti                  Sr. Infrastructure Specialist       SASDU
Christophe E. Bosch           Sector Leader                       AFTUW
Sushil Kumar Bahl             Sr. Procurement Specialist          SARPS
Paula E. Reed                 Procurement Specialist              SARPS
Santhanam Krishnan            Procurement Consultant              SARPS
R. R. Mohan                   Sr. Social Development Specialist   SASDI
K. Mukudan                    Sr. Urban Specialist                 SASEI
Smita Misra                   Sr. Economist                       SASDU
Sanjay Srivasatava            Regional Safeguards Adviser         SARDE
Renganaden Soopramanien       Lead Counsel                        LEGAF
Vivek Srivastava              Sr. Public Sector Specialist        PRMPS
Sumir Lal                     Manager                             EXTOC
Midori Makino                 Lead Evaluation Officer              IEGPS
Robert Maurer                 Lead Urban Sector Specialist        MNSUR
                              Sr. Financial Management
Priya Goel                                                        SARFM
                              Specialist
David Hanrahan                Lead Environmental Specialist       SASES
Stephen D Myers               Sr. Consultant                       SASEI
Javier Jarquin                Environmental Specialist            WBIEN
Sanjay Rastogi                Financial Management Specialist     SARFM
Lilian Mc Arthur              Program Assistant                   SASDU
Monica Fernandes              Program Assistant                     GEF

Supervision/
Raghava Neti                Sr. Infrastructure Specialist         SASDU
Oscar E. Alvarado           Sr. Water and Sanitation Specialist   LCSUW
Srinivasa Rao Podipireddy   Sr. Water and Sanitation Specialist   SASDU
Elisa Muzzini               Economist                             SASDU
Priti Jain                  Sr. Procurement Specialist            SARPS
Ashish Bhateja              Sr. Procurement Specialist            OPCPR
Yash Gupta                  Procurement Specialist                SARPS
Kumaraswamy
                            Procurement Specialist                SARPS
Sankaravadivelu
Santhanam Krishnan          Procurement Consultant                SARPS
Shivendra Kumar             Procurement Consultant                MNAPR
                            Sr. Financial Management
S. Krishnamurthy                                                  SARFM
                            Specialist
                            Sr. Financial Management
Priya Goel                                                        SARFM
                            Specialist

                                             36
                            Sr. Financial Management
Amandeep Trana                                                    SARFM
                            Specialist
                            Sr. Financial Management
Manoj Jain                                                        SARFM
                            Specialist
Supriti Gupta               Financial Analyst                     SARFM
Midori Makino               Lead Evaluation Officer                IEGPS
Smita Misra                 Sr. Economist                         SASDU
Suryanarayan Satish         Sr. Social Development Specialist     SASDS
A S Harinath                Environmental Specialist              SASDI
A. Sita Ramakrishna         Environmental Specialist              SASDI
Sanjay Srivastava           Regional Safeguards Adviser           SARDE
Chritophe E. Bosch          Sector Leader                         AFTUW
R. R. Mohan                 Sr. Social Development Specialist     SASDS
Stephen D Myers             Sr. Consultant                        SASDU
Mariapa Kullappa            State Coordinator                       WSP
Anup Wadhawan               Country Team Leader                     WSP
Ritu Thomas                 Senior Program Assistant              DECOS
Lilian Mc Arthur            Program Assistant                     SASDU
Sunita Singh                Program Assistant                     SASDU

ICR
Srinivasa Rao Podipireddy   Sr. Water and Sanitation Specialist   SASDU Primary Author
                            Lead Water and Sanitation
William D. Kingdom                                                SASDU Peer Reviewer
                            Specialist
Philippe Marin              Sr. Water and Sanitation Specialist   MNSWA    Peer Reviewer
David Michaud               Sr. Water and Sanitation Specialist   LCSUW    Peer Reviewer
Augustin Pierre Maria       Urban Specialist                      SASDU    Financial Analysis
Janis D. Bernstein          Sr. Environmental Specialist          SASDU    Peer Reviewer
Elisa Muzzini               Economist                             SASDU    Economic Analysis

(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                         USD Thousands (including
                                        No. of staff weeks
                                                               travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY03                                                                      180.14
  FY04                                                                       78.89
  FY05                                                                       21.43
 Total:                                                                     280.46
 Supervision/ICR
  FY06                                                                       37.96
  FY07                                            25.40                     136.49
  FY08                                            19.56                     100.56
  FY09                                            18                         91.77
 FY10                                             21.64                     108.16
 FY11                                             11.95                      40.70
 Total:                                           96.55                     515.64
                                             37
                          Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

1. A full beneficiary assessment was not carried out. However, an independent survey
was carried out in 2010 to determine the extent to which the project was achieving its
objectives. The survey involved both qualitative and quantitative methods: focus group
discussions with the three municipal corporations, user groups, and operator; and
interviews with users. The survey revealed that the main benefits of the project included
reduction in coping costs, increase in water consumption, and time-savings. More
detailed findings are the following:

   The project achieved 100% metered house service connections in the demonstration
    zones with illegal connections reduced to near zero. All customers responded that
    they are happy with the metering although some of these households (56%) had
    opposed metering earlier.
   The main benefit is the increase in income of the consumers in real terms. The
    incremental increase in net income is on the order of Rs. 90 to Rs. 200 per week in
    Hubli-Dharwad, Rs. 300 to Rs. 700 per week in Belgaum, and Rs. 50 to Rs. 300 per
    week in Gulbarga.
   About 20% of the customers in Hubli and Belgaum, 24% in Dharwad, and 21% in
    Gulbarga, are paying less than Rs. 50 per month as water tariff. This is a large
    reduction from the tariff they were paying. Presently, they are paying less while
    receiving continuous water supply in their houses.
   The project resulted in a substantial reduction in water borne diseases. The
    information collected from the medical centers reveal that, when compared to 2006
    disease prevalence levels, ameobiasis was reduced by 73.5%, dysentery by 64.1%,
    and jaundice by 88.6%.
   Attendance in schools in the demonstration zones improved in comparison with 2006
    levels; in Hubli, it went from 82% to 96%, in Dharwad, from 85% to 98%, in
    Belgaum, 75% to 92%, and in Gulbarga, 81% to 97%. In general, there was a
    reduction in the girl child drop-out rate from schools in these areas as they no longer
    spent their time in collection of water..
   Because there is no more storage and pumping to overhead tanks at household level,
    there are considerable energy savings to the consumers: 20 to 50 units (KWH) in
    Hubli-Dharwad, 15 to 145 in Belgaum, and 15 to 40 in Gulbarga. This energy savings
    also has additional environmental benefits.
   Discussions with the municipal corporations reveal that their water tariff collection
    increased to nearly 80 to 98% which enhanced ULB revenues.
   There is an increased sense of pride among the beneficiaries because many teams,
    both national and international, visit them frequently. Enquiries and interactions with
    stakeholders reveal that more than a dozen teams visited the demonstration zones and
    interacted with beneficiaries. All of these teams expressed appreciation for the project
    and its outcomes.
   There is an increased awareness on reforms among the consumers.
   The morale of the water works staff has increased considerably.


                                            38
                 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Stakeholder Meeting in Gulbarga town – Meeting with Primary Stakeholders in
their neighborhood (of a Slum) in Ward 44 on 11 Sept 2011

1. The meeting was organized on a Sunday evening in the temple premises. About 30
men and women gathered for the meeting. The other participants include Mrs. Chandrika
Alandikar (Elected member of Municipal Corporation), Mr. Desphande (KUIFDC
official), Mr. Prakash (Operator representative), Mr. Prakash Honde (KUWS&DB
Engineer), a representative of third party auditor and Mr Vishwanath Swamiji, Head of
Vishwa Seva Mission, the NGO that facilitated IEC campaign for the project. The
discussions were centered on three project phases, that is, the situation prevailing before
the project (24x7) was implemented, during its implementation, and post project.

In the Intermittent Water Supply regime

   The women said that mostly they depended on public stand posts for water which
    were „a few‟ in number for a large population. The taps were under deep pits as
    pressure was low and so drainage water used to seep into the pits making water
    highly polluted. People stand in queue for hours and days for water as there was no
    fixed time of supply. This erratic supply system put lot of mental tension and women
    had to stay at home worrying for water all the time.
   Often, disorder in queue resulted in quarrels with neighbors making life in the
    neighborhood very unpleasant. Yet, the water collected was barely meeting the
    requirements.
   If water was released in the morning time, children used to miss schools as they too
    stand in the queue for another pot of water and had to carry from a far off distance to
    home.
   The water supply engineer confirmed that main water supply lines; more importantly
    the transmission line used to leak a lot requiring repairs and so no fixed times were
    followed for water supply. Water availability was also for a very small period (upto
    one hour) as production of treated water was less.

During Construction Time

   Monthly meetings were organized by the NGO. People used to be provided with lot
    of information about the program in a questions and answers format (FAQs).
   Poor and middle class used to be concerned over tariffs. There was delay in finalizing
    tariffs by the ULBs (a committee of three ULBs representatives took a decision on the
    tariffs based on the GoK policy and actual costs). Middle class whosoever own a tap
    used to pay flat tariff of Rs 40.
   The communities informed that the construction program did not cause any serious
    inconvenience.
   Operator said that although removing public taps is not part of the project, it was
    found necessary as each and every household are now provided with an individual tap.
    The public taps were redundant.


                                            39
Continuous Water Supply regime:

   The men and women of the neighborhood univocally said that it was a big change in
    their lives. The amount of convenience and peace they have now is unexpected. They
    are completely satisfied with the services now (a very low rate of complaints at the
    service centre is an indicator).
   Initially, consumers were asked to pay (old) flat tariff while serving dummy bills
    based on volumetric tariffs to make them understand the real variation. This strategy
    has worked.
   Individually, each poor family is paying less than Rs 100 including capital cost of
    water meter (deducted @ Rs 30 a month). A local leader made a request to reduce
    the tariff further for the poor. However, all the poor are promptly paying the monthly
    bills.
   The drainage board official said that there is overall improvement in the water supply
    all over the town due to bulk water improvements (increased from 50 lpcd to 105
    lpcd).
   The NGO representative suggested that a small body of consumers/ local
    representatives of the demo-zone should have been formed into a committee to
    monitor 24X7 water supply.

2. In the closing remarks, the elected member and other officials concluded that there is
a huge change in the quality of life; and socio-economic conditions in this poor
community after switching over to 24X7 water supply – now the neighborhood is clean;
people take regular bath and wear clean clothes; there is good social bonding; and
apparently reduced poverty although there are no clear direct linkages.

Stakeholder Meeting on 12 September 2011, Gulbarga

3. The meeting was held with Elected Members of the Municipal Corporation: Mr.
Saibgouda Patil (Ward 23), Mr. Hanumanthu Gauda (Ward 43); Mr. Udaya Kumar
(Ward 34), Mr S.N. Sirkar (Ward 9) and Mr. Ramesh Kannakeler (Ward 35). This
meeting was also joined by the officials and NGO representatives.

4. It did not go like a conventional meeting discussing issue after an issue – collectively
the elected members pleaded for the Bank support to scale up of 24X7 in the entire town.
They promised sustainability (further increase in tariff if required) and said this is
important for the town. Some of the ward members whose wards partly receive 24X7
water do face problems convincing the people served by intermittent water supply.




                                            40
      Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                   Comments of KUIDFC (Implementing Agency)

1. The Karnataka Urban Water Sector Improvement Project (KUWASIP) is a project for
reforms in water and sanitation sector and service improvements in water sector. The
project is proposed to be implemented in a phased manner. The Government of
Karnataka implemented the first phase of the project (estimated cost: US $ 51.53 million
or Rs.237.04 crores) with World Bank assistance. Karnataka Urban Infrastructure
Development and Finance Corporation (KUIDFC) was the nodal agency for
implementing the project.
2. The three cities selected for investments in the first phase were Belgaum, Gulbarga,
and Hubli-Dharwad. The project was successfully implemented and the primary
objective of demonstrating feasibility of continuous (24x7) pressured water supply was
achieved. The experience and lessons learnt from the above project are summarized
below:
Sector Development and Technical Assistance:
3. While the studies carried out under the above component were quite useful in tariff
structuring and other aspects relating to reforms in water sector, they did not help in
preparation of guidelines or any model documents for 24x7 water supply system. It
would have been quite useful if the project developed “guidelines/ procedures for
preparing project reports for the conversion of an intermittent water supply into 24x7
water supply covering technical and financial aspects,? “Manual on O&M of 24x7 water
supply,? and “model bidding document for performance based management contract for
O&M of 24x7 water supply system? etc.
Priority Investments - Procurement Issues:
4. Procurement of 610 mm dia Transmission Main Work in Gulbarga (Package No.
GBW-04): The time taken for procurement of the above work was one year (23.3.2009 to
1.4.2010). The process of clearance to the draft bid documents by the World Bank itself
took 5 months (23.3.2009 to 21.8.2009). This was due to the fact that comments were
raised by the World Bank in a piece meal manner.
5. Procurement of Electromagnetic Bulk Flow Meters (package No. HBGG01-A):
The procurement process in respect of the above goods was started on 27.11.2008. But,
the same did not materialize even after 11 months. The contract could not be awarded, as
the World Bank communicated its inability to finance the contract due to internal legal
issues with the principal company (M/s. SIEMENS Ltd.,) on 23.10.2009, after expiry of
validity period of the bid. The details are as under:
     The World Bank gave permission to go for re-tendering on 21.10.2008.
      Accordingly, the tenders were invited and bid evaluations were sent to the Bank
      on 15.06.2009.
     On 22.06.2009 the World Bank sought clarifications, which were furnished on
      03.08.2009, in which the only issue regarding Siemens that was raised was as to
      how the authorized agent could quote less than the manufacturer itself. After this,
      one more clarification was furnished on 24.08.2009, as desired by the Bank.

                                          41
     It was never informed by the Bank that there was any problem in procuring
      Siemens meters.
     The Bank did not provide any document as to how voluntary settlement between
      the World Bank and Siemens would affect the bids called by the borrower.
     When the project is rated on performance and delays are examined, the onus will
      otherwise to be on the borrower. Obviously, these delays are beyond the control
      of the borrower.
     The related issue is commitment charges that the State Government has to bear on
      account of the delays.
6. It would be appreciated if the World Bank takes appropriate steps to avoid delays in
procurements and keeping the borrower informed about changes in policy/legal issues etc.
that may affect procurements.
Demonstration Project – Selection of Operators:
7. While the very high pre-qualification criteria adopted for selection of the Operator for
the Demonstration Project (viz., experience in management of 24x7 water supply
covering 100,000 connections as against the requirement 25,000 connections under the
Demonstration Project), no doubt helped in procuring services of a good Operator and
lead to the success of the Pilot Project, the Operator remuneration (Rs.22.40 crores with a
provision for bonus for higher performance at maximum 25% of the Operator
remuneration, totalling to Rs.28.00 crores) was exorbitant considering the estimated
capital investment of Rs.42.00 crores. The Operator remuneration works out to 53%
(excluding bonus) and 66% (including bonus) of the capital investment. Hiring services
of Operators at such high costs is not viable.
8. Lesson: While the Demonstration Project has established technical feasibility of 24x7
water supply project, it is necessary to adopt appropriate experience criteria for selection
of Operator for future projects based on the size and complex cities involved, so as to
have good competition and to procure services of Operators at reasonable fee.
Operator Contract:
9. As per the Operator contract, the Operator is to be paid a bonus on achieving higher
performance better than the mandatory performance targets in improving the service
provision. Savings in total expenditure (as a percentage of estimated investments of Rs.
420 million) is one of the components to decide the bonus.
10. On detailed examination of the savings claimed by the Operator the following 2
categories of savings are observed:
   (a) Category 1: The following 4 items under the Investment Programme were not
   executed / operated by the Operator:
       (i)     Public Fountains
       (ii)    Public awareness programme
       (iii)   Paper advertising and pretender expenses and
       (iv)    Provision of medical facilities

11. “Public fountains? was not operated because all the consumers in the Demo Zones
opted for individual house service connections. “Public Awareness Programme? was very
                                            42
effectively carried out by KUIDFC, which was one of the main factors for the success of
the Demonstration Project and hence no public awareness programme was needed to be
done by the Operator. Similarly, the other two items were not operated as there was no
need for the same.
12. The bonus is meant for over and above the normal performance. The items not
executed on account of lack of need and not arising out of any superior performance on
the part of the Operator cannot be considered as savings for the purpose of determining
performance bonus.
   (b) Category 2: There were a few items which were not primarily related to managing
   O&M and which were included in the Investment Programme as “Lump Sum?. These
   items had expenditure which was considerably lower than the estimated cost in the
   Investment Programme. The details are as under:
                                                                             (Rs. in lakhs)
    Item                          Estimated cost               Expenditure incurred
    Training and seminars         80.00                        13.98
    Insurance                     40.00                        0.51
    Contingencies                 261.77                       0.00
    Taxes                         443.11                       282.00


13. The Investment Programme was prepared by the Operator himself in which he had
estimated these items as lump sum, which turned out to be far above the actual
expenditure incurred. Since items like tax and insurance are regulatory requirements and
what is legally due has to be paid anyway, such savings cannot be considered for
performance related bonus. It is possible that the original lump sum estimates on these
items which were done by the Operator himself may have been unrealistic when
compared to norms.
14. Similarly, savings in respect of training and seminar cannot be treated as effect of O
 & M performance as it was based on client‟s requirement.
15. Thus, the clauses relating to “Bonus for higher performance? were not very clear in
 the “Operator Contract.?
16. Lesson: The clauses in the contract document for assessing performance of the
operator need to be quite clear and precise without any ambiguity. In addition, rigorous
procedures need to be stipulated for scrutinizing the project cost with reference to the
relative physical components.
Bulk Water Supply:
17. One of the main reasons for extension of the Operator Contract by 17 months was
due to delay in completion of priority investment works which were crucial to provide
bulk water to the Demonstration Zones.
18. Lesson: In providing 24x7 water supply system in a city, availability of adequate
bulk water to all parts of the city has to be ensured.


                                            43
House Service Connections:
19. Another main reason for extension of the Operator Contract by 17 months was due
 to delay in authorization of House Service Connections by ULBs to the Operator.
 However, one of the main factors for success of the Demonstration Project was that
 provision of house service connections was part of the Operator Contract.
20. Lesson: House service connections should be included in the scope of Operator
Contract. Authorization of house service connections by ULB takes considerable time.
Hence, while converting intermittent water supply into 24x7 water supply system in a
city, the ULB has to properly plan and authorize house service connections to the
Operator well in advance.
Adoption of Policies by ULBs:
21. One of the important factors for success of the Demonstration Project was adoption
of pro-poor policy and a policy for house service connections by the city corporations of
Belgaum, Gulbarga and Hubli-Dharwad apart from tariff policy.
22. Lesson: For smooth implementation of 24x7 water supply project in a city, the ULB
has to adopt relevant policies such as pro-poor policy, house service connection policy
etc., apart from tariff policy well before selection of an Operator.
Power Supply:
23. During the O&M of continuous (24x7) pressured water supply in the Demonstration
Zones, it was observed that supply of bulk water to the Demo Zones was affected due to
interruptions in power supply. In order to overcome the problem of frequent interruptions
in power supply at 100 KVA HT installations in Belgaum (North) Demo Zone, which
was crucial for water supply, an additional work (express feeder main) was carried out.
24. Lesson: Availability of continuous power supply is to be ensured for implementing
24x7 water supply system.
Use of HDPE Pipes:
25. HDPE pipes of PE 100, PN 10 of smaller dia meter (63 mm) were used by the
Operator for distribution network in the Demonstration Project, which resulted not only
in significant savings but also in better performance due to flexible nature of the pipes
and seamless joints. The system is functioning satisfactorily.
26. Lesson: HDPE pipes of smaller diameter of appropriate class may be used for
distribution system in water supply projects, as per the design requirement.
Customer Water Meters:
27. Multi-jet customer water meters class “B? (25000 nos.) conforming to IS779/ISO
4064-1 and compliant with IP68 and capable of operating in ambient temperatures up to
500C were procured and installed by the Operator in the Demonstration Zones. But, a
considerable number of customer water meters developed “Dial not Visible? defect,
during the O&M period of two years. The supplier, after detailed inspection of meters
reported that the defect was not to condensation but due to vaporization of silicon oil
applied on the surface of rubber rings. It was also reported that the meters were
functioning well in European countries and did not have any such problem. Action was
taken to get all the customer water meters repaired / replaced by the supplier to ensure
that the meters functioned properly.
                                          44
28. Lesson: Additional conditions such as (i) the meter shall be free from “Dial not
visible? defect due to vaporization of any chemical or oil used for gaskets or any parts of
the meters (ii) in case the meter develops “Dial not visible? or condensation defects, the
supplier shall replace the total lot / batch of such meters within 30 days etc., are to be
incorporated in the bidding documents for future procurements.
Social Intermediation and Communication Activities:
29. “Social Intermediation and Communication Strategy" (SICS) was an important
component of the project and its effective implementation helped in (i) creating
awareness among all category of stake holders and convincing them that the project was
to their benefit (ii) dispelling their notions that improvement in water supply meant
abnormally high tariff (iii) overcoming initial resistance for implementation of the project
with private sector participation (iv) convincing the poor on the pro-poor dimension of
the project and (v) inculcating habit of paying monthly water charges based on quantity
of water consumed. This was achieved through use of clear and consistent messages
through pamphlets/posters, personal communication with stakeholders and dissemination
of the pro-poor policy which contained tariff reforms /reliefs for this segment of
stakeholders.
30. Lesson: Communication strategy and awareness generation is essential for
implementing reform oriented projects and the same needs to be a component of the
project.
Implementation of tariff for 24X7 water supply:
Allowing sufficient time to consumers to switch over to the new system:
31. Continuous (24x7) pressured water supply was operationalized in Hubli Demo Zone
on 1.12.2007. The Hubli-Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC) directed the Operator
to raise bills in Hubli Demo Zone based on the approved volumetric tariff for 24x7 water
supply w.e.f 1.l.2008. Accordingly, the Operator issued bills to the consumers in
February 2008 for the water consumed during January 2008. There was agitation from
678 consumers on the ground that they had not actually consumed such high quantity of
water. A detailed analysis was carried out which indicated that 77% of the water billed
was actually consumed and the remaining 23% was on account of leakage inside
consumer premises, leakage into old network etc. It took several months to resolve the
issue. The agitation was not only a setback for Hubli Demo Zone but it sent wrong
signals to Dharwad and Belgaum Demo Zones, consequent to which implementation of
the tariff for 24x7 water supply was delayed in the said Demo Zones. Also, it lead to
downward revision in the tariff for 24x7 water supply in the Demo Zones of Hubli-
Dharwad and Belgaum cities. This was due to the hasty decision of HDMC in
implementing the volumetric tariff for 24x7 water supply, without allowing sufficient
time to the consumers to switch over to the new system and to rectify any leaks or
wastages within the customer premises.
32. Whereas, the volumetric tariff for 24x7 water supply was implemented smoothly in
the Demonstration Zone of Gulbarga, as the City Corporation took the consumers in to
confidence by allowing sufficient time to switch over to the new system.
33. Lesson: When an intermittent water supply system is converted into 24x7 water
supply system, the tariff for 24x7 water supply has to be implemented after allowing
sufficient time (say about 6-9 months) to the consumers (i) to get confidence about
                                            45
reliability of 24x7 supply (ii) to get an idea about monthly water charges (iii) to control
consumption and to undertake any repairs in internal plumbing of the consumer. During
this period, the consumers are to be charged at the ULB‟s prevailing water tariff and
dummy bills based on the volumetric tariff for 24x7 water supply are to be issued to the
consumers, so as to give an idea about the monthly charges.
De-linking Arrears:
34. Smooth implementation of volumetric tariff for 24x7 water supply in Gulbarga
Demo Zone was also due to the fact that the City Corporation of Gulbarga delinked the
arrears and started fresh billing system. This was whole heartedly accepted by the
community. Whereas, in-case of Belgaum and Hubli-Dharwad Demo Zones, the bills
raised included arrears and the same was disputed by certain consumers. Based on the
experience of smooth implementation of the billing system in Gulbarga, it was suggested
to the City Corporations of Belgaum and Hubli-Dharwad to delink the arrears.
35. Lesson: When an intermittent water supply is converted in to 24x7 water supply,
delinking arrears relating to intermittent water supply and starting a fresh billing system
not only facilitates easy accounting but also in taking stringent action against defaulters,
as there is general satisfaction amongst the consumers about improved services and
reasonableness of the tariff.




                                            46
       Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Comments from the Operator

Execution of KUWASIP Project

1. The Project was divided into Three Phases. During the first phase of Preparatory
Period-A, the Operator carried out the initial assessment of the existing dilapidated
system, underground and above, in order to evaluate the usability of the existing pipelines
and equipments. A customer survey was carried out to know the actual number of people
who will be beneficiaries of the project based on which the quantum of water to be
supplied by the KUWS&DB in order to maintain the 24x7 water supply in the
demonstration area on the basis of 135 lpcd per capita consumption was to be agreed. A
topographic survey was undertaken to understand the levels of the terrain in order to
decide on the pressure control system to be deployed. Soil investigation was carried out
to understand the details of the earth strata where the pipelines were to be laid and the
nature of the pipe laying technology to be deployed. Based on all the above information,
a hydraulic modeling of the network was carried out to cater not only to the present but
also to the future requirements.
2. Consequently the Operator prepared a Draft Investment Program (DIP) which
detailed various options to convert the existing system to a fully pressurized 24X7
continuous water supply system and recommended the optimum option. Based on this
option, a BoQ was prepared which became part of the DIP. This DIP was discussed
extensively with all the stake holders and changes wherever necessary were incorporated
in the Final Investment Program (FIP) which was subsequently approved by KUIDFC.
3. During the second phase of Preparatory Period-B, the Operator implemented the
 technical solutions identified in the agreed FIP by procuring the goods and works as per
 the procurement guidelines of The World Bank and achieved all the Performance
 Targets set in the Contract. During this time, the Operator prepared an O&M Plan which
 was discussed and agreed by the stake holders and subsequently approved by KUIDFC.
4. During the third phase of O&M Period covering two years, the Operator maintained
continuous and pressurized water supply in all Demo Zones and providing round the
clock customer service management through the service centers in each of the Demo
Zones, During this time, the Operator carried out monthly meter readings, bills
generation and distribution, fulfilling service connection requests, providing new pipeline
extensions within the Demo Zones and carrying out routine maintenance works etc.
Challenges
   The Operator was to transform the existing intermittent water supply system to a
      full-fledged 24X7 pressurized water supply system.
   Non-acceptance of this new concept by some stake holders as they considered
      entry of Private Operators into their domain as a threat to the organizations they
      work for. Managing this was a matter of expertise required in dealing with the
      existing system and the personnel who manages the system.
   Reluctance of the beneficiaries and nodal agencies to adhere to the new set of
      conditions with respect to procurement and the payment mechanism stipulated in
      the contract. The issue for them was that the conditions in the contract were not

                                            47
       in line with that of Karnataka Transparency Act (KTP). The Operator was hence
       forced to adhere to KTP act as well as the World Bank‟s procurement guidelines.
       This delayed the procurement process as well as the project. For the same reasons,
       payments were delayed well beyond the period mentioned in the contract. This
       put serious pressure on fund management by the Operator and also eroded the
       margins of the Operator.
      Since this sort of time bound and technology oriented project was not very
       common in water utility management in India. The Technical Auditor, mainly
       consisting of Indian personnel, did not have adequate knowledge and exposure to
       the materials and methodologies used by the Operator. This caused delays for
       project implementation.
      Further, there was an apprehension within the population whether they will ever
       be able to enjoy the benefit of 24X7 in the near future because this project was
       been talked about for a long time without any tangible result. They were also
       apprehensive that the project may lead them to cough up more money towards
       their basic needs of life, that is, water.

Lessons Learnt
    The question whether to refurbish or replace depends on the condition of the asset,
      performance targets to be achieved, and the time set in the contract. In this
      project, the majority of the assets have been replaced considering the above.
    It is proved that non-availability of water is not the main issue, but managing the
      available water effectively is the solution.
    By having an effective billing system, it is possible to have an effective
      management of water demand.
    Consumers are willing to accept reasonable water charges provided services are
      efficient and quality is maintained.
    An effective communication program is essential for success.

Way forward
   Based on the success of this Project, similar projects should be implemented in
      other cities in order to conserve the precious resource “water.?
   Move from demo zones to full cities as a couple of pilot projects are successfully
      implemented in the country; demo zones are a little expensive
   While implementing similar projects in future, care shall be taken on following
      core principles:
       Appropriate prequalification of the bidders to ensure a level playing field; the
          core competence required for this type of projects is “experience in O&M?
          and hence the lead bidders shall always be an Operator only.
       Structured and balance the contract - the contract should distribute the risks
          and rewards in an even manner among the parties to the contract; it should not
          be a one sided contract.
       Set pragmatic targets – the performance targets to be achieved should be
          commensurate to the capital investment available and feasible for the project.
          The time period to achieve the performance targets or completing the capital
          expenditure program shall be practically feasible.


                                          48
 Communications program – the Client should ensure a healthy social/ political
  environment for project implementation through a meticulously designed
  communication program which should commence well before Operator can
  start his on-ground work. It is important to create a real and clear perception
  of the project in the minds of people well in advance before mis-perceptions
  are spread by unscrupulous players.




                                   49
                                Annex 9. Performance Indicators

1. Performance Indicators of Component A

 At the State Level:
        Establishment and operationalization of the Karnataka State Recommended to GoK ;
         Urban Water Supply Council (KSUWSC);                        proposal under active
                                                                     consideration at the
                                                                     finance ministry and is
                                                                     expected to be established
                                                                     with some modifications
        Implementation of capacity strengthening activities to Studies completed;
         support the ULB level reform;                               progress is based on
                                                                     WSPs‟ study
        Development of the State Water and Sanitation Information WASIS established
         System (WASIS);
        Establishment of urban WSS sector investments and tariff Implemented across the
         frameworks;                                                 state
        Establishment of legal and regulatory framework and Likely when reforms
         Preparation of WSS legislation.                             reach next stage (may be
                                                                     during scale up)
 At the ULB Level:
        Completion of city-wide engineering feasibility studies;         Completed - draft report
        Implementation of transition plans, including ring-fencing of    received from Consultants
         WSS accounts and improvements in billing and collection          on October 2011.
         system;
        Definition of the scope and scale of follow-on Private Sector
         Participation (PSP) and
        Scaling-up in other ULBs                                         Done in Mysore; more
                                                                          cities to follow
2. Performance Indicators for Component B:
 At the ULB Level:
        Improved overall water supply availability and quality          Fully achieved in all the three
         resulting from priority investments for bulk water supplies     ULBs
         and distribution network improvements; and
        Implementation of the social awareness and                      Implemented in three ULBs
         communication strategy.                                         and found very effective
 For each demonstration zone:
                                                              % on Bulk + O&M
         Volumetric tariff adopted according to agreed principles in
                                                               Hubli 120%
         order to recover no less than 50 percent of Operation and
                                                               Dharwas 117%
         Maintenance (O&M) costs at initial stage and no less than
         80 percent by the end of the Project and              Belgaum(S) 160%
                                                               Belgaum (N) 195%
                                                               Gulberga 245%
        Weighted average of 75 percent or higher achieved for As reflected in the
         eight indicators (see Table B below)                  performance targets set for
                                                               the Operator with minor
                                                               modifications – See table B
                                                               below


                                                50
         Table B. Performance Targets as per Clause 5 of Operator Contract

Performance                                                     Belgaum            Belgaum
Target                    Hubli              Dharwad            South              North              Gulbarga
(a) Continuous
pressured water
                          Complied6          Complied 1         Complied 1         Complied 1         Complied 1
supply to every
connected property
(b) Emergency                                                                                         Complied:
                          Complied:          Complied:          Complied:          Complied:
stoppages shall not                                                                                   no
                          no stoppages       no stoppages       no stoppages       no stoppages
exceed 12 hours                                                                                       stoppages
                                                                                                      Complied:
                          Complied:          Complied:          Complied:          Complied:          Oct 10:
(c) 100% of all
                          Oct 10: 7765       Oct 10: 5892       Oct 10: 4518       Oct 10: 4248       3316
connections
                          Nov 10:            Nov 10:            Nov 10:            Nov 10:            Nov 10:
metered & records
                          7782               5899               4533               4275               3313
maintained
                          Dec 10: 7800       Dec 10: 5909       Dec 10: 4538       Dec 10: 4280       Dec 10:
                                                                                                      3310
                                                                                                      Complied:
                          Complied:          Complied:          Complied:          Complied:          Oct 10:
(d) 100% of
                          Oct 10: 7765       Oct 10: 5892       Oct 10: 4518       Oct 10: 4248       3316
customer meters
                          Nov 10:            Nov 10:            Nov 10:            Nov 10:            Nov 10:
read every month
                          7782               5899               4533               4275               3313
and a bill issued
                          Dec 10: 7800       Dec 10: 5909       Dec 10: 4538       Dec 10: 4280       Dec 10:
                                                                                                      3310
                                                                                                      Complied:
                                                                                   Complied:
(e) Physical losses       Complied:          Complied:          Complied:                             Oct 10: 0.96
                                                                                   Oct 10: 9.48
in the distribution       Oct 10: 4.63       Oct 10: 3.47       Oct 10: 5.13                          Nov 10:
                                                                                   Nov 10: 11.0
network <                 Nov 10: 4.96       Nov 10: 2.73       Nov 10: 5.64                          1.14
                                                                                   Dec 10:
23l/c/d/m                 Dec 10: 4.43       Dec 10: 3.76       Dec 10: 5.39                          Dec 10:
                                                                                   12.41
                                                                                                      1.09
                          Complied:
                                             Complied:          Complied:          Complied:
(f) System                Oct 10:
                                             Oct 10: 7/7        Oct 10:            Oct 10:            Complied:
connection                17/17
                                             Nov 10:            15/15              28/28              Oct 10: 5/5
requests must be          Nov 10:
                                             10/10              Nov 10: 6/6        Nov 10: 7/7        Nov 10:4/4
fulfilled within 7        18/18
                                             Dec 10:            Dec 10:            Dec 10:            Dec 10: 8/8
days                      Dec 10:
                                             13/13              15/15              19/19
                          24/24
(g) 24 hours
                          Complied:          Complied:          Complied:          Complied:          Complied:
working customer
                          24hrs CSC          24hrs CSC          24hrs CSC          24hrs CSC          24hrs CSC
service centre




6
  Continuous water supply provided and maintained at minimum 6m pressure at critical zonal point at all times except
during the period when there is no minimum required water tank levels in the tank or when there is no electricity
supply at booster pumping station


                                                         51
                     Complied;      Complied;         Complied;                         Complied;
                                                                       Complied;
(h) Customer         Received       Received          Received                          Received
                                                                       Received and
queries and          and            and               and                               and
                                                                       Resolved
complaints to be     Resolved       Resolved          Resolved                          Resolved
                                                                       Oct 10: 49
responded within     Oct 10: 29     Oct 10: 122       Oct 10: 61                        Oct 10: 87
                                                                       Nov 10: 51
stipulated time      Nov 10: 26     Nov 10: 71        Nov 10: 15                        Nov 10: 78
                                                                       Dec 10: 95
                     Dec 10: 28     Dec 10: 78        Dec 10: 44                        Dec 10: 91
(i) Leaks
appearing at the
surface must be
                     Complied:      Complied:         Complied:        Complied:        Complied:
repaired within 24
hours of
notification/
observance.
                                  (Source: Certified Progress Report of the Operator for March 2011)]]
As can be seen above, all the above performance indicators were fully achieved. It is
notable that the Operator earned a bonus on the basis of achieving the sub indicators in
Table B (which were included in the contract with some modification).




                                               52
                      Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents

1.  Project Grant and Financing Agreements
2.  Project Appraisal Document
3.  Supervision Mission Reports (Aide Memoires, Implementation Status Reports)
4.  Management Letter and correspondence with Department of Economic Affairs
    (DEA)
5. Operator‟s contract and progress report (more importantly the report of March 2010)
6. Presentations made by KUIDFC (Implementing agency) at various workshops,
    seminars etc
7. Sector Studies conducted under component 1
8. Rapid Social Assessment and Communication Strategy, Samaj Vikas Development
    Support Organization, Feb 2004
9. Documentation Study of Demonstration Project for providing continuous water
    (24X7) pressurized water services in three ULBs in Karnataka state, Final Report,
    WSP, April 2009
10. Karnataka Urban Water and Sanitation Program, KUIDFC, WSP, Main Volume
11. World Bank. India Country Assistance Strategy




                                          53
MAP SECTION




    54
                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD 32942
74                                                                                                       76                                                                                     78

                                                  INDIA
                                 STATE OF KARNATAKA
            KARNATAKA URBAN WATER                                                                                                                               Bidar                                           18
18        SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT


                                                                                                                                             Gulbarga




                                                                                                                                         Bhima R.
                                                                                            Bijapur

                                                                                                                                                Sagar

                                                                                                                                    R.
                                                                                                                              hna
                                                                                                                        Kris                             Krishna
                                   Sankeshwar                                                                                                          Raichur
                                                                                                                              Lingsugur
                                                                        Kaladgi
                                                                                                     Bagalkot
                                                                                                                             Mudgal
16                                                       Sanndatti                                                                                                                                              16
                                      Belgaum                                                                                  Sindhnur
                                                                 Nargund                                                                       R.
                                      Khanapur
                                                                                                                                 dra
                                                      Hubli-Dharward                                                           ha
                                  Londa                                                                                  gab
                                                                                                            Koppal   Tun                                                     PARTICIPATING ULBs
                                                                             Gadag
                                                                                                                                               Bellary
                                                                                                                     Hospet                                                  SELECTED CITIES
                          Kumbharwad
                                                                                       R.                                                                                    DISTRICT CAPITALS

                                                                                                                                                                             STATE CAPITAL
                                                                    da
                                                                    r
                                                                 Va




                      Karwar                                             Haveri                                                                                              DISTRICT BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                                                             STATE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                               Davangere

                                                                                                                     Chitradurga
                                                                              Bhad
                                                                                  ra




                                                                                                                         Hiriyur
14                                                            Shimoga                                                                                                                                           14
                                                                              R.




                                                                                            Tarikere
                                                                                                         R.                                                               Chik
                                                                                                     a
                                                                                                 dav                                                                      Ballapur
                                                                                              Ve
                                                                           Chikkamangalore                                                               Tumkur
                                 Udupi
                                                                                                                                                                                      Kolar
                                                                                                Belur
                                                                                                                Hassan                                BANGALORE
                                                    Mangalore

           Arabian
                                                                                                                                                    Mandya
                Sea                                                                                                                    Pandavapura
                                                                           Madikeri                                                                          Cauveri R.
                                                                                                                     Mysore



                                                                                                                                                      Chamrajnagar                    KILOMETERS
12
                                                                                                                                                                             0              50            100   12

     This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
     The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                                         0          25           50
     shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                        MILES
     Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
     endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
74                                                                                                     76                                                                        78

                                                                                                                                                                                                           MARCH 2004
