FI0L                               Te  Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2 31 0-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR
THE MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE II
April 28, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizatlon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00              - Pesos (P) 7.40
P 1.00               - US$0.135
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 hectare (ha)             -      2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)           -      0.62 miles
1 kilogram (kg)            -      2.2 pounds
.1 cavan (paddy)            -     50 kg
1 megawatt (MW)            -     1,000 (kW)
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)      -     1 million kilowatt hours (kWh)
1 kilovolt (kV)            -     1,000 volts (V)
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB     -  Asian Development Bank
AMIADP  -  Angat Magat Integrated Agricultural Development Project
MARIS   -  Magat River Irrii&ation System.
MECO    -  Manila ElectriG Company
HRMP    -  Magat River Multipurpose Project
NBC     - NIA Board of Consultants
NEA     - National Electrification Administration
NIA     -  National Irrigation Administration
NPC     -  National Power Corporation
SIFRIS  -  Siffu River Irrigation System
SPO     -  Special Projects Organization
UPRP    - Upper Pampanga River Project
USBR    - United States Bureau of Reclamation
GOVERNMENT OF THE PHILIPPINES FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE II
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                  Republic of the Philippines
Beneficiary;               National Irrigation Administration
Amount:                    US$150 million equivalent
Terms:                     The loan would be for a term of 20 years, including a
grace period of 5 years at an interest rate of 7.5% p.a.
Project
Description:             The project is Package II of the Magat River Multi-
purpose Project Stage II which consists of the
following four packages:
(a)  Package I - consisting of preconstruction works
(access roads, permanent camp, etc.), dam foundation
grouting, drainage gallery tunneling and the river
diversion tunnels, together with consulting
services associated with these activities.
(b)  Package II - consisting of all civil works for the
main dam, and appurtenant structures, reservoir
resettlement, installed mechanical equipment and
consulting services. This Package is the subject of
the present report and the proposed Bank loan.
(c)  Package III - consisting of the civil works for
the power component, together with the supply and
installation of penstocks, turbines, generators,
electrical and mechanical equipment and transmission
lines.
(d)  Package IV - consisting of construction of the
Baligatan diversion dam and the civil works for
irrigation development of 27,000 ha of currently
rainfed land.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
The Project (Package II) consists of:
(a) construction of the main dam across the Magat river consisting
of a concrete spillway, a power intake section and adjoining rockfill
embankment sections;
(b)  construction of the rockfill Baligatan dike running from the right
abutment of the main dam to the left abutment of the Baligatan
creek dam;
(c)  construction of the rockfill Baligatan creek dam, together with an
outlet conduit and control works;
(d) resettlement within the service area of the dam of about 500 families
affected by construction of the dam; and
(e) provision of consulting services to assist NIA and NPC in design and
construction supervision.
Some 8,000 farm families and 4,400 landless laborers' families, most
of whom are below the poverty line, would benefit from the increased
rice production and additional employment. The power capacity of 360 MW
would generate about 1,200 GWh annually and contribute to the Government
policy of reducing dependence on oil-fired thermal electric power and
expanding rural electrification. A delay in completion of the diversion
tunnels or occurrence of abnormally high wet season floods at the early
stages of dam construction would constitute the principal risk factor.
Estimated Cost of Stage II
Development:                   ____ _
Costs
Local   Foreign  Total
Package                     ---- (US$ million) ---
I.    (Diversion works)      44.2    15.8       60.0
II.   (Main dam)            168.0   178.0    346.0
III.  (Power)                20.5    68.5       89.0
IV.   (Irrigation)           37.3    23.7       61.0
Total           270.0   286.0    556.0



- iii -
Estimated Cost of the Project
(Package II):
Foreign
Local      Foreign      Total        exchange
------ (US$ million) ------             (%)
Reservoir clearance and
resettlement                   7.1        0.2          7.3            3
Civil works                    106.4      122.6        229.0           53
Gate supply                       -        13.2         13.2           100
Consulting services              1.7        5.2          6.9            75
Engineering, supervision
and administration            19.6        0.4         20.0            2
Base cost estimate             134.8      141.6        276.4            51
Physical contingencies          10.3       12.0         22.3            54
Expected price increases        22.9       24.4         47.3            52
Total project cost       168.0      178.0        346.0            51
Financing Plan of Stage II Development:
(a) Package I ($60.() million) the Government;
(b) Package II ($346.0 million), Bank $150 million; supplier
credit $16 million and Government $180.0 million;
(c) Package III ($89.0 million), NPC through supplier credit;
(d) Package IV ($61.0 million) Government with part Bank assistance.
Estimated Disbursements
of the Loan for Package IL:                                Annual           Cumulative
Bank's fiscal year    disbursements    disbursements
-------------------- US$ million ------------------
1979                   34.4              34.4
1980                   47.1              81.5
1981                   27.6             109.1
1982                   23.8             132.9
1983                   12.1             145.0
1984                    5.0             150.0
Rate of Return: The economic rate of return of the entire Stage II Development
is 12%.
Appraisal Report:  No. 1911-PH dated April 28, 1978.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR THE MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE II
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of the Philippines for an equivalent of US$150 million
for the second stage of the Magat River Multipurpose Project. The loan would
have a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 7.5%
per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        An economic mission visited the Philippine in July/August 1977 and
its report, "The Philippines: Country Economic Memorandum" (No. 1765-PH of
October 26, 1977), was distributed to the Executive Directors under Secretary's
Memorandum PHL77-2 on October 27, 1977. A basic economic report, entitled The
Philippines: Priorities and Prospects for Development (SecM-76/366), was
previously distributed to the Executive Directors on May 18, 1976.
Macroeconomic Performance
3.        During the 1960s, the Philippine economy grew in real terms at
an annual rate of about 5-1/2%. However, the rate of growth was less than
what might have been achieved if the country's considerable natural and human
resources had been utilized more effectively. The benefits of growth were
also distributed relatively unevenly, both with respect to regions and income
classes. While overall agricultural growth was reasonably satisfactory,
repeated food deficits were experienced. The growth of productive employment
opportunities failed to keep pace with the expansion of the population
and labor force. Low levels of taxation resulted in inadequate public
expenditure for necessary infrastructure and social services. Poor export
performance combined with the heavy import dependence of domestic industry
led to chronic weakness in the balance of payments.
4.        The growth of thre Philippine economy accelerated slightly to an
annual rate of 6% in the 1970s. Fluctuations, however, have been significant.
In the period 1970-72, when the effects of a balance of payments stabilization
program initiated in 1970 were being felt, the economy grew less rapidly,
exports and imports of goods and services were ioughly equal, and the shares
of public and private fixed investment in GNP were stable at still relatively
low levels. Economic growth was unusually good in 1973 as sharply higher
prices for traditional export commodities stimulated demand, agricultural
production rebounded strongly from the natural disasters of the previous
/1 This section of the report is the same as that of the Rural Electri-
fication Project (SecM/78-63), which was approved by the Executive
Directors on April 4, 1978.



-2-
year, and the balance of payments registered a substantial current account
surplus. The export-led income boom of 1973 was followed by an investment
boom. The resulting high investment rate, together with favorable sugar
prices, temporarily sheltered the economy from the impact of the oil price
increase in late 1973 and the following world recession, and real GNP growth
was maintained at 6% in 1974-75. The first half of the 1970s also saw
significant structural changes in the economy, the most important of which
were an increase in the level of public investment, financed in large part
by a greater tax effort, a recovery in export growth, a shift of the domestic
terms of trade in favor of agriculture, and the slowing of the population
growth rate.
5.        The collapse of sugar prices in late 1975, following earlier
declines in the prices of other major export commodities, altered the external
situation dramatically. The terms of trade dropped by 23% in 1975, and as a
result the current account deficit rose to 6% of GNP, and the overall balance
of payments deficit to $500 million. Thus, the necessity of restoring balance
to the external accounts was superimposed on the Government's longer-term
objectives of faster economic growth and a better distribution of its benefits.
To maintain the momentum of growth and investment, the Government adopted a
policy of increasing capital inflows in the near term to finance the resulting
expanded current account deficits while accelerating export growth in the
longer term. In 1976-77, the economy - led by exports, public investment,
agriculture and construction - has continued to grow at 6% per year. Unfor-
tunately, much of the stimulus from an expansion in export volume was offset
by further deterioration in the terms of trade. However, inflation, which
reached a peak of 31% in 1974 as a result of externally generated pressure on
domestic prices, has slowed to a rate of about 7% because of the deceleration
in international inflation and a conservative monetary-fiscal policy.
Development Strategy
6.        The Government's development objectives and policies, which were
recently set out in a Five-Year Development Plan for the period 1978-82, call
for further acceleration of economic growth, first to 7% and then to 8%. The
development strategy focuses on an expansion of more productive employment
opportunities at a rate of 3.6% per annum, reduction of income disparities,
greater selfsufficiency in food and energy, strengthening the balance of
payments, and increased development in rural areas. In addition, the Plan
includes strategies for development in each of the country's thirteen regions.
In general, the Plan is an elaboration of the policy directions pursued by
the Government in recent years. It is also broadly consistent with the
Bank's basic economic report, although investment, manufacturing output, and
exports are projected to grow more rapidly than visualized therein. It
should be feasible to accelerate the overall growth rate to 7% as the terms
of trade stabilize, but more rapid expansion of manufacturing is necessary to
do so, and effort needs to focus on improving the efficiency of investment.
Agriculture
7.        For a country with fairly good soils and a reasonably literate
rural population, agricultural yields in the Philippines are relatively low.
Possible reasons for this situation are the low quantity and quality of



- 3 -
irrigation facilities and high vulnerability to weather risks; land tenure
patterns; and weak agricultural credit, extension, and other supporting
services. Agricultural production has, nevertheless, grown at an average
rate of 4-1/2% per year in the 1970s. The performance of the sector was
exceptionally strong in 1976 and 1977, as production increased by 7%, and the
Philippines has been virtually self-sufficient in rice, its main staple, for
the past three years.
8.        The Government gives high priority to agriculture and rural
development. It has undertaken a number of steps to increase the availability
of irrigation and supporting services, and has also expanded programs to
improve living conditions in rural areas, including rural electrification,
health and family planning, and rural roads. However, while irrigation
investment has been raised substantially, improvements.in the quality of
supporting services - particularly credit and extension - are necessary.
9.        For historical reasons, land ownership in the Philippines is
inequitably distributed. The land transfer program, which has been in
operation for five years and covers rice and corn growing areas, proceeded
quite rapidly when larger landholdings were the focus of concentration, but
progress has been slower recently as the focus has been on a larger number
of medium-sized holdings, which often belong to middle-class landowners. As
of June 1977, an estimated 120,000 tenants, or 30% of the total tenants under
the program, had received Certificates of Land Transfer, which established
their claim to the land. Despite the difficulties in the process of implemen-
tation, the transfer program remains an important part of the Government's
rural development strategy.
Industry
10.       During the 1960s, Philippine industrialization was promoted by high
tariff protection and subsidized finance, and consequently industrial growth
was primarily in the area of import-substitution with a high capital intensity.
Performance was disappointing with respect to employment, exports, and the
overall rate of growth of output. In the early 1970s the Government floated
the exchange rate, which then depreciated significantly, and introduced
policy changes to reduce tariffs and realign industrial incentives. Further
efforts to reduce remaining biases in favor of import substitution and
capital intensity will still be needed, however, to accelerate the rate of
industrial growth as projected in the Five Year Development Plan.
11.       Manufacturing industry has grown at a relatively slow average rate
of about 6% in the 1970s. Moreover, due to the slow increase in national
income and demand because of the decline in the terms of trade in the last
two years, manufacturing growth has also slowed, and investment has stagnated.
On the other hand, industries producing nontraditional exports have expanded
rapidly from a very low base as their exports increased almost fivefold in the
four-year period 1973-76 in response to exchange rate adjustment and special
measures designed to alleviate existing restrictions on imports and thus
reduce the bias towards production for the domestic market. As noted above,
further efforts in this direction will be needed if industrial exports are to
continue to grow at a rapid rate. The construction industry has also grown



- 4 -
rapidly as the expansion of relatively construction-intensive public investment
and large tourism investments in the Manila area raised construction expendi-
ture from 6% of GNP in the early 1970s to 12% in 1976.
Employment, Incomes and Population
12.       Employment increased by about 4.6% annually during 1973-76, a
considerable improvement over the historical growth rate of 2.4%, and was
able to keep pace with the rapid growth of the labor force.  Particularly
noteworthy was the growth of employment in manufacturing, which essentially
stagnated during 1970-74, but grew by 8% annually during 1975/76, resulting
in part from the growth of labor-intensive production for export.  However,
because manufacturing's share of total employment is small, agriculture and
services continue to function as residual sources of employment and account
for most of the growth in total employment.
13.       Preliminary survey data show that the share of income received by
the poorest 40% of families, which remained constant during the 1961-71
period, increased from 12% in 1971 to 15% in 1975. The income share of the
top 20% of families remained about the same as in 1971, while that of middle
income families declined correspondingly. Due to the improvement in agricul-
ture's terms of trade, the growth of agricultural production, the decline in
urban real wages following the devaluation in 1970, and the stagnation of
industrial employment until 1975, the ratio of the average rural income to
the average urban income rose from 48% in 1971 to 57% in 1975. Real per
capita consumption increased by about 2% annually in 1971-75. Hence, after
allowance for price increases, real incomes in rural areas, where most of the
poor live, have probably increased somewhat, while real urban incomes have
remained about the same.
14.       The population is estimated at 43.3 million in 1976 and is currently
growing at 2.8% as compared to a 3.0% growth rate during the 1960s. The
Philippines has an active family planning program registering approximately
650,000 new acceptors per year. Although the number of new acceptors has
reached a plateau as the program faces the increasingly difficult problem of
reaching rural areas, the estimated proportion of married women of reproductive
age practicing family planning increased from 20% in 1974 to 25% in 1977.
Investment and Savings
15.       Due largely to the buoyant export performance in 1973 and the
subsequent increase in incomes, investment boomed in 1974-75. Private
investment rose from 14% of GNP in the early 1970s to 20% in 1975. Public
investment was raised from 2% to 4% of GNP with the growth in revenue from
international trade taxes, improvements in tax administration, and improved
project implementation capacity. Subsequently, public investment has been
raised further to an estimated level of 6-1/2% of GNP in 1977. The private
investment rate, on the other hand, has fallen somewhat to an estimated 18%
of GNP. Although the private investment rate is well over the 14% average of
the early 1970s, the revival of private investment is an important short-term
problem. Furthermore, the high incremental capital-output ratio, the relatively
modest growth of manufacturing output and employment, and the structural
underutilization of capacity in some industries suggest that the efficiency
of investment also needs to be improved.



- 5 -
16.      Aggregate savings performance has improved during the last decade
and is comparable to that of other countries at a similar stage of economic
development. In 1976-77, gross domestic savings maintained the level of 25%
of GNP achieved in 1975 and financed about 80% of total investment, with the
balance coming from foreign savings. In order to increase the efficiency of
financial markets in intermediating between savers and investors, the Govern-
ment has made significant improvements in financial policy. Organized
banking institutions have been strengthened. Interest rates were realigned
in 1976 and again in 1977 to encourage a greater flow of financial savings
into time and savings depcsits relative to short-term deposit substitutes, and
to reduce the spread betweten borrowing and lending rates. Further reforms
are required to increase the availability of long-term domestic currency
resources. Special credit programs have been adopted to expand lending to
the credit-short agricultural sector and rural areas and to serve the needs
of medium- and small-scale industries. However, a deterioration of loan
recovery rates has been experienced by all government financial institutions
and credit programs, creating a difficult policy dilemma. On the one hand,
the programs have become costly means of achieving their objectives, and the
growth of arrears reduces the overall efficiency of resource mobilization and
allocation. On the other hand, the programs do redress imbalances in the
availability of credit so that arrears have to be reduced without closing
necessary credit channels.
Government Expenditures and Revenues
17.       Public expenditures and revenues have historically claimed a much
smaller share of national resources in the Philippines than in many other
developing countries. In the early 1970s, general government expenditure
averaged only 12% of GNP, pufblic investment was strikingly low at about 2%
of GNP, and tax revenues stood at 11% of GNP. Government expenditures were
dominated by general administration and social services, particularly
education. This situation had resulted from a variety of factors including
difficulties in raising tax revenue and weak implementation capacity in the
public sector. Since the early 1970s, the Government has taken steps to
correct the situation and raise both the overall level of expenditures and
the share going to economic services and public investment. By 1977 govern-
ment expenditures had reached an estimated 18% of GNP, and public investment,
which has risen very rapidly in the last two years, equaled about 6-1/2% of GNP.
18.       Recognizing that a large increase in tax revenues would be required
to finance expansion of t]he public investment program, the Government has
undertaken a comprehensive program of tax reform to raise the needed revenues
equitably and efficiently. In the-short term, needed revenues have been raised
through revisions in indirect taxes. In the long term, structural changes are
to be made to raise the built-in elasticity of the tax system, to reduce distor-
tions in economic incentives and dependence on cyclically volatile taxes on
international trade, and to improve equity by increasing the proportion of
revenues coming from direct taxes. The Government has increased the ratio of
domestic taxes to GNP by an impressive 1.5 percentge points between 1975 and
1977 through new tax measures and vigorous efforts to improve taxpayer compli-
ance and collection performance. However, much of the success in mobilizing



revenue from domestic sources has been offset by a sharp decline in the yield
of export taxes and import duties due to cyclical fluctuations. Total tax
revenues, which had been raised from 11% of GNP to 13.6% by 1975, rose to
only an estimated 14.1% in 1977. Greater resource mobilization by government
financial institutions and government corporations, whose investment programs
have grown rapidly, is also needed.
External Trade and Capital Flows
19.       Largely as the result of a 23% decline in the terms of trade in 1975,
the current account recorded a deficit of $900 million, or 6% of GNP. To meet
the immediate payments problem, the Government drew down its international
reserves, obtained loans under various IMF facilities, and expanded its
borrowing program to finance necessary imports. For the longer term, a
strategy was adopted of accelerating export growth both to hold the current
account deficit about constant, while it declined relative to GNP, and
to meet the debt service payments on the higher level of external borrowing.
20.       Some progress in these directions was made in the last two years.
In 1976, in spite of a further 11% deterioration in the terms of trade, a
substantial increase in export volume and slow growth of import payments
narrowed the trade deficit and partly offset the higher net interest payments.
Although somewhat larger than in 1975, the current account deficit was stabil-
ized at 6% of GNP. Net capital inflows were nearly doubled to $1.1 billion.
Most of the inflow was from medium- and long-term loans, two-thirds of which
were public loans reflectingin part increased disbursements from official
sources. Estimates for 1977 show a further substantial expansion in export
volume which, with little expected change in the terms of trade, import
volume, services or transfers, would reduce the current account deficit to 4%
of GNP and eliminate the overall payments deficit. Hence, on the whole, the
balance of payments position has strengthened significantly.
21.       To achieve a 7% growth rate in real GNP, as projected for the
period 1978-82, imports will have to grow faster than they have recently and
a net capital inflow of at least $1 billion per year will be required. Assum-
ing continued sound debt management and the maintenance of a balanced maturity
structure of foreign borrowings, the overall level of external debt of the
Philippines is expected to remain within reasonable limits. The ratio of debt
service payments to exports and nonfactor services would average about 19%,
of which 7% would be public debt service, during the plan period (1978-82).
22.        In order to ensure that the long-term capital transfer is commensu-
rate with the level of development expenditures which will be required during
1978-82 and that debt service obligations remain within reasonable limits,
the Government sought commitments of official assistance of $750-800 million
in 1978 at the meeting of the Consultative Group for the Philippines, held in
Tokyo on December 1 and 2, 1977. This amount is likely to be available.
However, since many of the planned projects which are to be financed from
external sources have a low foreign exchange component, some local cost finan-
cing is necessary, in appropriate cases, to meet the Philippines' external
financing requirements.



PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS
23.       As of March 31, 1978, the Philippines had received 51 Bank loans
(of which two were on Third Window terms) amounting to $1,332.5 million and
three IDA credits amounting to $32.2 million./l At that date, IFC investments
totalled $96.3 million.  The share of the Bank Group in total debt disbursed
and outstanding is about 11% and its share in total debt service is about 5%.
These ratios are expected to increase to about 19% and 8%, respectively, by
the end of the present decade. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits,
Bank loans and IFC investment as of February 28,1978 as well as notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
24.       The Bank Group has financed projects in virtually all sectors of
the economy with particular emphasis on agriculture and basic infrastructure
which have each accounted for about one third of total Bank Group lending.
In agriculture, emphasis has been given to expanding irrigation systems to
increase food production and to credit programs to support food grain produc-
tion and processing, livestock and fisheries production and tree farming.
Support has also been provided for integrated rural development projects in
low income areas. The Bank Group also provided large amounts of assistance
in developing power and transportation because substantial improvement in
basic infrastructure has been needed to compensate for many years of past
neglect and to provide the basis for future growth of the productive sectors.
In the industrial sector, the Bank's main thrust has been on strengthening
the capacity of public and private development finance institutions with
increasing attention given to meeting the needs of small and medium industries.
In the social sectors, the Bank Group has provided support for education
programs, designed to improve the quality of primary and secondary education
and to meet trained manpower requirements in agriculture and industry. In
urban areas, assistance has been provided for water supply projects and for
programs to upgrade living conditions in low income urban areas and to develop
low cost sites and services. Support has also been provided to the Philippines
population program through assistance for the construction of multipurpose
rural health units and for training of family planning staff.
25.       There has been a marked improvement in the execution of Bank
financed projects in the last five years compared with the experience in the
late 1960s, when there were serious problems caused by a shortage of peso
counterpart funds and weak administration.  Almost all ongoing projects are
now being implemented reasonably well and the results of supervision and
project completion reports indicate that the economic benefits for most
projects are likely to be in line with appraisal estimates. However, the
overall rate of disbursement is marginally below what would be expected
given the generally good project implementation and the Government is
currently reviewing disbursement performance on an agency-by-agency basis
to identify possible reasons for disbursement lags and to find appropriate
solutions.
/1 Since then, a loan of $60 million for rural electrification was approved
by the Executive Directors on April 4, an IDA credit of $28 million
for a rural infrastructure project on April 11 and a loan of $15 million
for Philippine Investment Systems Organization (PISO) on April 27.



- 8 -
26.       As noted in Part I of this report, the Government's Five-Year Devel-
opment Plan highlights a strategy which focuses on the expansion of productive
employment in agriculture and industry, reduction in income disparities,
greater self-sufficiency in food and energy and increased development in
rural areas. The Bank Group's future lending program has been designed to
assist the Government in achieving these objectives. Agriculture and rural
development will account for the largest part of future lending, with continued
emphasis on food production and increasing the productivity and incomes of
small farmers. However, the program provides for several new initiatives,
including a first loan to support the strengthening of the national agricul-
tural extension service and a first loan for developing multiple cropping
systems in rainfed areas, where there is substantial rural poverty. Increased
support will also be provided for integated rural development projects which
will support the Government's objectives of redressing regional imbalances in
income. Substantial assistance will also continue to be given to industry
with special attention being given to expanding the development of labor-
intensive, small and medium industries outside the Metropolitan Manila area.
The share of lending for social sector projects is expected to continue to
increase as a result of greater emphasis on construction of urban water
supply and sewerage systems and further assistance to the lower income urban
areas through low cost sites and services projects. The Bank Group will also
continue to provide support for improving the quality of education and for
expanding the Government's population program in rural areas. While the Bank
Group will continue to provide support for transportation and power infrastruc-
ture projects needed to support the Philippine development effort, the share
of Bank lending for these sectors will decline somewhat in the years ahead
primarily because alternative sources of financing are available to finance a
large part of the power generation program.
27.       As noted in Part I, the Philippines has experienced a serious
deterioration in its international terms of trade in the last several years
which has necessitated substantial foreign borrowing. While the overall
level of debt remains manageable, the Philippines will need to obtain substan-
tial amounts of foreign assistance on concessional terms to support its
expanding development program.   In view of this consideration, the per
capita income of the country and the generally good management of the economy,
a limited amount of IDA financing will be proposed for the Philippines; the
first IDA credit since 1974 was recently presented to the Executive Directors
and a second is scheduled for FY79.
28.       This is the eighth loan to be presented to the Executive Directors
this fiscal year and would bring total lending to the Philippines to $358 mil-
lion. Loans for development finance, urban development and water supply
projects are expected to be ready for presentation within the next few months.



- 9 -
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL AND POWER SECTORS
The Agricultural Sector
29.       Agriculture is the predominant sector in the Philippine economy,
accounting for about one third of net domestic product, over one half of total
employment, and nearly three quarters of export earnings. Over 70% of the
9 million ha of land under cultivation is used for the production of cereals,
of which rice and corn are the most important. The remaining land is taken up
by the major export crops: sugar, coconuts, abaca, pineapples, and tobacco.
30.       The performance of the agricultural sector will be crucial in deter-
mining whether the Philippines can increase incomes both rapidly and equitably.
At present, the domestic market for industrial products is limited by relatively
low rural incomes. Although in recent years there has been a substantial change
in the terms of trade in favor of agriculture, the problems of poverty and
income distribution continue to be particularly acute in rural areas; of the
15 million people in the lowest 40% of the income scale, 12 million live in
rural areas. The Government is aware of these problems and has initiated a
number of programs designed to assist the rural poor.
31.       A major Government objective is to increase rice and corn produc-
tion as a means of raising the incomes of small farmers and maintaining
national self-sufficiency in food grains. If rice production is to increase
at a rate sufficient to maintain self-sufficiency on a sustained basis,
further expansion of the irrigated area will be necessary. In the longer run,
the Philippines may also have the potential for exporting rice to other food
deficit countries. At pre!sent, only 0.9 million ha, or 28% of the 3.2 million
ha devoted to rice production, are irrigated. The Government recognizes that
in order to increase production in both irrigated and nonirrigated areas sub-
stantial improvements in the quality of supporting services will be necessary.
In 1973, the Government instituted a national program, Masagana 99, for
supervised credit for rice production, which greatly increased the provision
of production credit, mainly to smaller farmers. However, the levels of
arrears under the program have been very high in the last several years and as
a result the coverage of the program has declined sharply. The Government is
aware of this problem and has taken a number of significant steps to reduce
the level of arrears.
32.       The Government is also considering the steps necessary to bring
about needed improvements in the national extension service. A Bank technical
assistance mission visited the Philippines in April 1977 and a report has been
given to the Government whaich suggests a number of organizational improvements
and better logistical support in the form of training, vehicles and other
facilities. Missions visited the Philippines in March 1978 to appraise a
national extension project for possible Bank financing and to help the Govern-
ment prepare a comprehensive program for strengthening support services
(provision of credit, extiension, fertilizer, seeds, and crop protection).
33.       Since 1969 the Bank Group has financed nine irrigation projects
designed to increase rice production in the country. These projects - three
in Central Luzon, two in the Cagayan Valley of Northern Luzon, one on Mindoro



- 10 -
Island, one in the Visayas and two for smaller systems throughout Northern
Luzon, the Visayas and Mindanao /1 - have set the pattern for the type of
irrigation rehabilitation, new construction, and operations needed for
increasing rice production. The projects are providing improved irrigation
and drainage facilities, better road systems for efficiency of operations and
maintenance and for the marketing of farm products, stronger supporting
services to assist farmers in adopting the new irrigation techniques needed
to increase production, and technical assistance and training to help the
National Irrigation Administration (NIA) expand and improve its irrigation
program. These projects, would bring about substantial increases in rice
production on about 370,000 ha and would benefit nearly 190,000 farmer
families, most of whom are smallholders.
34.       Work on the first Bank-assisted project, the Upper Pampanga River
Project (Loan 637-PH), is completed. Progress in the construction of all
the irrigation projects has been generally satisfactory, the economic rates
of return on these projects are expected to be in line with appraisal esti-
mates, and the NIA has proved itself to be a well managed and technically
competent organization. NIA's evaluation of the production results in the
UPRP service area found that yields were about 3 tons/ha which is in line with
appraisal estimates for the first year of operation. However, the evaluation
also identified deficiencies in agricultural support services, particularly
with respect to the adequacy of credit and extension services (see paras. 30
and 31). For this reason, the Government has agreed under the Second National
Irrigation Systems Improvement Project (Loan 1526-PH) to prepare a plan of
action by June 30, 1979, tct strengthen support services in areas served by
Bank-financed irrigation projects, and after reviewing the plan with the Bank,
to begin to implement it by January 1, 1980.
The Power Sector
35.       The three major regions of the Philippines are in different
stages of power development. Most of past power development has taken place
on the island of Luzon, where about half of the population live and most
industrialization has occurred. Some grid development has also taken place
on the main southern island of Mindanao, particularly in the northern part
where the availability of easily developed low cost hydropower has attracted
substantial industrial investment. In the Visayas, which comprise all other
major islands located in the central part of the Philippine Archipelago,
grids are only now beginning to be constructed.
/1  The Upper Pampanga River Irrigation Project (Loan 637-PH), Aurora-
Penaranda Irrigation Project (Loan 984-PH, Credit 472-PH), Tarlac Irri-
gation Systems Improvement Project (Loan 1080-PH), Mindoro Rural Develop-
ment Project (Loan 1102-PH), Magat River Multipurpose Project Stage I
(Loan 1154-PH), Chico River Irrigation Project Stage I (Loan 1227-PH),
Jalaur Irrigation Project (Loan 1367-PH), National Irrigation Systems
Improvement Project I (Loan 1414-PH) and National Irrigation Systems
Improvement Project II (Loan 1526-PH).



- 11 -
36.       The electrification of the country has been progressing steadily.
The per capita consumption of electricity in 1976 was estimated at 300 kWh,
compared with 490 kWh in Korea, 184 kWh in Thailand and 120 kWh in India.
Over 30% of the population is currently served with electricity compared
with 23% in 1970. Although regional imbalances presently exist, with 46%
of the households electrified in Luzon compared with 15% in Mindanao and
13% in the Visayas, the National Electrification Administration (NEA) rural
electrification program is expected to improve the situation. The total
electricity supply in 1976, was estimated at about 13.9 billion kWh; 50% was
provided by the privately owned Manila Electric Company, 23% by the National
Power Corporation (NPC), 20% by self-generating industries, and 7% by small
utilities. On the consumption side, industrial consumers represented about
55%; residential consumers, 20%; and commercial, agricultural and other
users, 25%.
37.       The Government is committed to a policy of rapid industrialization
which is central to its objectives of fostering growth, employment and exports.
It is also committed to a policy of dispersing industrial growth from the
already congested Manila Metropolitan Area to other regions of the country.
In order to meet these objectives and to realize the planned annual growth
in Gross National Product of 7% during the next 10 years, it is estimated that
electricity consumption in the Visayas and in Mindanao will need to grow at
annual rates of about 16% and 13%, respectively, compared with about 10% in
Luzon. This would result in an overall annual growth in consumption of 11.3%.
38.       The sector investment program required to meet the expected demand
increase is huge. It will almost triple the country's generating capacity by
expanding it from about 3,540 MW in 1976 to about 8,500 MW in 1985. The Govern-
ment has decided to diversify energy resources by developing indigenous hydro
and geothermal power and by introducing nuclear energy. If implemented as
planned, the program would reduce the preparation of oil-fired generating
capacity from 81% of the total in 1974 to 53% in 1985; hydropower would
correspondingly increase from 19 to 31%; and geothermal and nuclear power
would share the remaining 16%. Although the objective of diversifying energy
sources is reasonable, the program is ambitious and involves certain risks.
Financial constraints may hinder the timely development of capital-intensive
hydropower projects and technical problems may arise in developing nuclear
and geothermal sources of energy. The program therefore needs continuous
review and, if difficulties do arise, it is possible that additional oil-fired
thermal plants will be needed.
39.       The Bank has made seven loans and one IDA credit for NPC and one
loan for the National Electrification Administration (NEA), amounting to
$218.3 million, net of cancellations, to assist in the development of the
Philippines' power sector./l Although some of the projects financed either
/1 The First Power Project (Binga) (Loan 183-PH); Second Power Project (Angat)
(Loan 297-PH); Third Power Project (Maria Christina) (Loan 325-PH); Fourth
Power Project (Bataan No. 1) (Loan 491-PH); Fifth Power Project (Bataan
No. 2 - Transmission) (Loan 809-PH, Credit 296-PH); Sixth Power Project
(Pantabangan) (Loan 1034-PH); Seventh Power Project (transmission)
(Loan 1460-PH); and the Rural Electrification Project.



- 12 -
exceeded the original execution schedules or experienced cost overruns, all of
them are being implemented satisfactorily. Under the loan agreements for the
Seventh Power Project, NPC is required to earn an 8% rate of return on
its revalued net fixed assets in operation in 1978. In 1977, NPC is estimated
to have earned a rate of return of 5%. A major tariff increase has now been
introduced in Mindanao, however, and further increases in the Visayas and
Luzon are under consideration.
40.       The project performance audit report on the Fourth Power Project
(Sec. M76-35) suggested that the Bank should agree with NPC on procedures for
annual review and revision of tariffs and specific targets for transmission
expansion. It also suggested that the Bank should assist in the development
of management training programs. These comments have been taken into account
in the design of subsequent projects, including Loan 1460-PH to NPC.
41.       The proposed project forms part of the least cost development
program of NPC and would support the Government's objective of moving from
thermal to other sources of energy. It would also complete the irrigation
program in the Magat River area of the Cagayan Valley, which is one of the
poorest areas of the Philippines.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
42.        In 1973 the National Irrigation Administration (NIA), with US Bureau
of Reclamation assistance, completed a feasibility study of the Magat river
project, and recommended the development of a multipurpose project on the
river. Because of the physical size, large estimated cost and long construc-
tion period NIA divided implementation of the project into two stages. Stage I
consists of the rehabilitation and upgrading of the existing Magat River
Irrigation System (MARIS) and Siffu River Irrigation System and construction
of new facilities for a total of 75,000 ha that can be served by run-of-river
diversion in the wet season. The Asian Development Bank (ADB) is assisting
NIA to rehabilitate 40,000 ha of Stage I under the Angat-Magat Integrated
Agricultural Development Project. The remaining 35,000 ha of Stage I are
being developed with Bank assistance under Loan 1154-PH. Provision was also
made under the loan for engineering studies (Part A) to evaluate the economic
feasibility of Stage II development and, if justified, to prepare (Part B)
final designs, specifications and bid documents for construction of the dam
and appurtenant works.  Part A of thB study, completed in September 1976,
confirmed the technical feasibility and economic viability of Stage II, which
consists of construction of the storage dam and of additional irrigation
facilities, to increase the service area to 102,000 ha, together with construc-
tion of a power station with an installed capacity of 360 MW and the provision
of generating and transmission equipment.
43.        Stage II Development.  In view of the large size of the development,
the high cost, the lumpiness of the investment and the tight, 6-1/2-year con-
struction schedule, the Government agreed in 1976 to a breakdown of Stage II
development into the following sequence of manageable packages:



- 13 -
(a) Package I - consisting of preconstruction works (access roads,
permanent camp, etc.), dam foundation grouting, drainage gallery
tunneling and the river diversion tunnels, together with consulting
services associated with these activities. NIA began work on this
Package in 1976 with Government funding and has awarded a contract
for construction of the tunnels to a Philippines firm. Implementa-
tion is expected to take 3-1/2 years (1976-1979).
(b) Package II - consisting of all civil works for the main dam and
appurtenant structures, reservoir resettlement, installed mechanical
equipment and consulting services. This Package is the subject of
the present report and the proposed Bank loan. Implementation is
expected to take 4-1/2 years (1978-1982).
(c)  Package III - consisting of the civil works for the power component,
together with thLe supply and installation of penstocks, turbines,
generators, electrical and mechanical equipment and transmission
lines. Implementation is expected to take 4 years (1979-1982).
(d)  Package IV - consisting of construction of the Baligatan diversion
dam and the civil works for irrigation development of 27,000 ha of
currently rainfed land. Implementation is expected to take 4 years
(1979-1982).
44.       The proposed project, which would finance Package II, was appraised
in October/November 1977. Negotiations were held in Washington from March 13,
1978 with a Philippine delegation led by the Honorable Alfredo Juinio, Secretary
of Public Works, Transportation and Communications. A Staff Appraisal Report,
entitled "Philippines - Magat River Multipurpose Project: Stage II" (No. 1911-PH
dated April 28, 1978), is being distributed separately. Supplementary project
data are provided in Annex III.
The Project Area
45.        The Magat river rises in the Cordillera Central mountains and
joins the Cagayan near Gainu in Isabela province in Northern Luzon. The
service area, about 350 kin northeast of Manila, is almost entirely in Isabela
province. The Magat dam would be built at a point some 6 km upstream of the
existing MARIS diversion dam across the gorge where the river emerges from
the foothills into the plains. The rainfall in the project area, together
with river flows in the wtst season, is generally adequate for a single rice
crop. Dry-season cropping, however, entails considerably more risk and
irrigation is essential for an assured crop.
46.       As the mountain blocks around the Cagayan valley were formed in
different geological ages and have different rock compositions, the project
area is underlain by a coimplex array of metamorphic, igneous and sedimentary
rocks. The proposed dam site is located at the transition zone of these rock
formations close to faults which form the eastern edge of the Cordillera
range and is consequently affected by major geologic structural action. The
foundation characteristics of the unweathered portion of the sequence of
volcanic rocks at the damsite range from good to excellent. The principal



- 14 -
exceptions occur where the rocks are cut by faults, two of which have been
identified near the proposed project etructures. The significant fault,
designated the Magat fault, was largely covered by weathered rocks and soils
and was only discovered after extensive site exploration exposed bedrock. It
is located about 500 m downstream of the proposed dam, where it crosses the
river parallel to the dam axis and has a total width ranging from 150 to 200 m.
Intensive exploration on the left bank of the Magat river exposed a thrust
fault, named the Korokan fault. It is not considered to be as significant as
the Magat fault and present day earthquake displacement is not probable. As
a result of the additional geological information, the axis of the main dam
was realigned and the spillway and powerhouse were located on the left bank
of the river. The proposed project layout takes full account of the extensive
data now available. The concrete structures, the powerhouse and the outfall
of the chute spillway would be sited clear of all major shear zones and
faults, the spillway plunge pool being located in sound rock just upstream of
the Magat fault. Provision has been made for concrete lining of the plunge
pool. In the past 79 years at least 146 seismic events larger than Richter
Magnitude 5 have occurred within 320 km of Magat dam, although the actual
number is probably greater because of inadequate reporting and loss of data.
Most of the events were in the ocean immediately offshore of the Pacific
coastal areas of Northern Luzon; however, some 30 appear to have had a location
along the eastern side of the Cordillera range north of the dam site. The
Magat fault also gives evidence of ground displacement due to seismic activity.
While these earthquakes have undoubtedly transmitted ground motions to the dam
site, no evidence of very recent seismic movement has been observed along any
of the major geological structures identified at the site. The faults at the
dam site are assessed to be more than 100,000 years old and NIA's international
Board of Consultants considers recurrence of movement to be unlikely. Design
parameters for the dam take full account of potential loads due to seismic
activity and possible small ground movement.
47.        Total population in tie 102,000 ha service area of the proposed
dam is estimated at about 282,000 people. The rural population of the Stage I
project area consists of about 24,000 farm families and some 9,000 other
families occupied principally or entirely in agricultural production, while
in the Stage II area there are 8,000 farm families and about 4,400 other rural
families. The average size of farm in the service area is 3.2 ha. After
completion of the land transfer process initiated under the Government's
program of agrarian reform some 21,500 owner operators, the equivalent of 67%
of the farmers, would cultivate 74,000 ha, or 73% of the project area. The
remaining 10,500 farmers would be leaseholders.
Project Description
48. (a) Main Dam and Spillway. The main dam would be 1,800 m long, made up
of a concrete spillway and power intake section 450 m long, a left abutment
rockfill embankment section 350 m long and a river closure and right abutment
rockfill embankment section 1,000 m long. Maximum height of the spillway
section would be 60 m and of the embankment section 114 m. Design of the main
dam has evolved after two years of intensive site investigations and takes
full account of the usual problems inherent in large dam construction,
as well as the particularly complex problems of geology, seismicity and
hydrology found in north-eastern Luzon.



- 15 -
49.       The spillway ancd power intake structure would be a concrete-gravity
section situated on the left bank of the river. The location was determined
by site geology and economic consideration of alternative dam designs. The
spillway would have seven radial crest gates for flood water discharge and two
low level orifice gates for irrigation or emergency draw-down water releases.
Spillway discharge would be into a 450 m long reinforced concrete open chute
with terminal flip-buckets and plunge pool. Detailed hydraulic model and
simulation studies of the spillway outlet structures are in progress to ensure
optimum energy dissipation. The power intake structure would provide six
gated conduits to connect with steel penstocks to be constructed as part of
the proposed power development.
50.  (b)  Baligatan Dike and Baligatan Creek Dam.  The Baligatan dike would
be 1,450 m long and would have a maximum height of 35 m, but would only be
about 20 m high for most of its length, with a volume of fill of about
1.9 million cu.m. Construction of the dike would utilize material from
required excavations in the external shells and transition zones. The
Baligatan creek dam would be 700 m long with a maximum height of 50 m. and
a volume of fill of about 1.1 million cu m.
51. (c) Reservoir Resettlement. The proposed dam would create a reservoir
with a surface area of 45 sq km at full supply level of 193 m. NIA has
established a Resettlement and Reservoir Division (RRD) with responsibility
for resettling the familiies affected by the reservoir in three resettlement
sites. Some 500 families, 300 from the reservoir and 200 from the resettlemefit
area, would be affected by the program. All resettlement sites would be
provided with year round irrigation. NIA would purchase the land and provide
each family to be resettled with a 3 ha farm plot, the limit for irrigated
holdings under agrarian reform legislation, together with a house plot in a
newly established barrio site. NIA would pay compensation for land, houses,
and all improvements to land submerged by the dam. Each family would be
provided with an NIA-built house and each of the three new barrio sites would
have water, electricity, a school, church and community center built as part
of the project. The resettled families would have to repay for their new
homes and land in 15 equal annual installments at an interest rate of 6% per
annum, in the same way as land reform beneficiaries. Provision would be made
under the project for financial assistance to the resettled families in the
way of crop production inputs and subsistence until they have harvested the
first crop in their new areas. A Resettlement Committee has been established,
consisting of all concerned central and provincial government agencies, the
mayors of the affected municipalities and the barrio captains from the reservoir
area communities. The Committee is responsible for reviewing all plans and
proposals for the reservoir area to ensure that resettlement takes place
smoothly and with the minimum amount of dislocation. It has been agreed that
NIA would keep the Bank informed of the arrangements to be made for resettle-
ment of the affected population and that the Bank would have an opportunity to
comment before they were implemented (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
52. (d) Consulting Services. The project would provide for consultant
services to cover the exnected period of construction from July 1978 to
December 1982. NIA proposes to use the same joint venture of expatriate and
local consulting firms that has been involved in the preconstruction phase



- 16 -
of the project. Negotiations for provision of consulting services have been
completed. It is estimated that about 1,130 man-months of consultant services
would be required, with the expatriate firms providing 540 man-months at an
average cost of about $7,900/man-month (exclusive of transportation, equipment
and price escalation) and the local associates providing 590 man-months at
an average cost of $2,500/man-month. Direct NIA counterpart and support
services to the consultants would total some 1,640 man-months. The consultant
contract would provide for special on-the-job training, together with 90-day
periods of overseas training in Canada and the U.S.A. for 14 of NIA's
engineers. NIA has engaged consultants satisfactory to the Bank under terms
of reference and conditions approved by the Bank to assist in final design
and supervision of construction.
53.        The NIA Board of Consultants (NBC), a specialist technical review
panel established in May 1977 in accordance with Bank requirements, has met
four times during the preconstruction phase of the project, and has made most
valuable contributions. It has been agreed that NIA would maintain the
Board of Consultants for the duration of construction of the dam and that NBC
would be consulted prior to implementation of all significant changes in the
design and construction plans for Magat dam as detailed in the contract
drawings and specifications (Section 3.03 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Construction Schedule
54.        NIA proposes to award the Magat dam contract by June 15, 1978.
Construction of the main dam, Baligatan dike and Baligatan creek dam would
form part of a single contract. The contractor world also be responsible
for installation of the spillway, power intake and Baligatan creek gates
which would be supplied under a separately financed contract. The staging
of construction to safelv pass the large wet season river flows and timely
completion of the diversion tunnels would be critical factors in meeting
the planned timetable. Availability of materials on the site, particularly
cement, will be of paramount importance. There are no cement factories in
the Cagayan valley and all cement would have to be delivered to site from
Central Luzon factories by road haulage over the Philippine - Japan Friendship
Highway. This would impose a considerable risk factor in view of the suscep-
tibility of the highway to damage during heavy rainfall. To minimize the
risk the dam contractor would be required to ensure provision of cement
storage facilities near the site.
Project Cost and Financing
55.        The total project cost is-estimated at $346.0 million, of which
$178.0 million, or 51% is foreign exchange. The direct foreign exchange
requirement is estimated at $146 million and the indirect foreign exchange
at $30.0 million. A physical contingency factor of 7% was used for
the spillway gates and 9% for the civil works and reservoir clearing and
resettlement. Costs due to expected price increases over the implementation
period amount to about 16% of base cost plus physical contingencies, assuming
the following annual inflation rates: civil works and services 3% in 1978,
7.5% in 1979, and 7% in 1980-82; equipment and vehicles 7% in 1978 6.5% in
1979 and 6% in 1980-82.



- 17 -
56.       The total estimated cost of development, including the dam, hydro-
electric works and irrigation facilities is estimated at $556.0 million, with
a foreign exchange cost of $286.0 million. The proposed financing plan is:
Costs
Local Foreign Total
Package                    --- (US$ million) ---   Sources of Foreign Assistance
I.    (Diversion works)   44.2    15.8    60.0   None
II.   (Main dam)           168.0   178.0   346.0   Current Bank loan/supplier
credit for gates
III.  (Power)               20.5    68.5    89.0   Supplier credit
IV.   (Irrigation)          37.3    23.7    61.0   Future Bank loan
Total          270.0   286.0   556.0
57.       The proposed Bank loan for Package II of $150 million would finance
84% of the foreign exchange cost of the project and would cover 43% of total
project costs. NIA intends to procure the supply of the spillway, power
intake and Baligatan creek gates ($16.0 million) by supplier financing. With
the assistance of the consultants, NIA has prequalified potential suppliers
and expects to call for bids for the supply of the gates by the middle of 1978
and to proceed with award of the contract by the end of the year. It has been
agreed that NIA would make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank with a
qualified supplier for their timely provision (Section 3.09 of the draft Loan
Agreement). The balance of project costs would be provided from the Government
budget. To ensure a timely and continuous flow of funds, it has been agreed
that the Government would cause NIA to set up a special fund to service the
project which would be replenished by the Government at monthly intervals to
a level equivalent to the estimated requirement for the next two months.
Establishment of the fund would be a condition of effectiveness of the loan
(Section 5.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
58.       The Government, through the National Power Corporation (NPC), plans
to implement Package III by calling for competitive bids on a turnkey basis -
supply, erection of equiprnent and civil works complemented with financing.
Bid invitations will be sent out by June this year and award will be made
later in the year. A number of suppliers have already submitted initial
proposals for the power component and NPC should have no difficulty in securing
financing on reasonable terms for this package. For the irrigation component,
Package IV, a loan is scheduled in the FY79 lending program for the Philippines
for this package which was appraised in April and we propose to present it to the
Executive Directors in December. The financing arrangements and timetable for
the supply of spillway gal'es and the implementation of the power component set
out above are satisfactory. It has been agreed that the Government would



- 18 -
implement the full investment program in accordance with an agreed timetable,
provide all necessary funds for this purpose, the procurement procedures for
all packages would ensure economy and efficiency, and all contractual documents
for financing the investment would be subject to Bank review (Section 4.01 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement
59.       Materials testing equipment and vehicles costing about $0.4 mil-
lion, would be procured after international bidding in accordance with Bank
Group Guidelines. A preference limited to 15% of the c.i.f. price of imported
goods, or the custom duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local
manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Local shopping is appropriate
for off-the-shelf items costing less than $10,000 each because the advantages
of international competitive bidding would be clearly outweighed by the
administrative costs involved. The total cost of such items would not
exceed US$300,000. Civil works on the Magat dam and appurtenant structures
(S229.0 million) were widely advertised internationally and prequalification
of prospective bidders has been completed according to Bank Group Guidelines.
Following technical and financial evaluation, nine companies were prequalified.
Bidding documents were issued to the nine prospective bidders in January 1978
and bids are due on April 27, 1978. Work associated with clearing of the
reservoir and resettlement of the affected population ($2.4 million) would be
carried out mainly by local contractors. Bank staff have reviewed the local
procedures for competitive bidding and they are acceptable. There is poten-
tially adequate competition and foreign firms can participate.
Disbursements
60.       Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% of the foreign
exchange cost of directly imported equipment, and 100% of the ex-factory
price of locally manufactured equipment and 65% for imported equipment
procured locally. Disbursements for civil works would be 40% of certified
monthly progress payments or expenditures. For civil works contractors'
mobilization and equipment, disbursements would be at the rate of 100% of
foreign exchange cost. For costs of consultants, disbursements would be at
the rate of 100% of total cost.
Organization and Management
61.       The Special Projects Organization (SPO) of NIA is responsible for
implementing Stage I of the Magat Dam Multipurpose Project (MRMP). A Project
Manager was appointed, with an Assistant Project Manager directly in charge
of three construction divisions, dealing respectively with the ADB-assisted
rehabilitation of MARIS and the Bank-assisted MARIS extension and SIFRIS
rehabilitation and expansion (Loan 1154-PH). The MRMP Project Manager
subsequently assumed overall responsibility for the construction of the
nearby Chico River Irrigation Project (Loan 1227-PH) and for the Cagayan
Integrated Area Development Project, with day to day responsibility for MRMP
in the hands of an Assistant Project Manager. The MRMP Project Manager
has thus become Regional Manager for SPO projects in the Cagayan Valley. In
view of the scope and engineering complexity of the Magat dam construction,



- 19 -
NIA, after consultation with the Bank, has transferred to the MRMP senior
engineering staff with expertise acquired on the recently completed Pantabangan
dam (Loan 637-PH). Managetment of construction of the Magat dam would be the
responsibility of the senior staff engineer from this group who would be
designated Project Manager, MRMP Dam. It has been agreed that NIA would
periodically review with t:he Bank the effectiveness of the proposed project
management organization ('ection 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement). As the
dam would be operated primarily for irrigation, NIA would be responsible for
its operation and maintenance.
62.       Responsibility iFor construction of the planned power component
(Package III) lies with Nl'C. As design of the power components is fixed by
the dam, spillway and power intake physical layout, the critical factors will
be scheduling of contract awards, equipment delivery and installation and
commissioning of the generating units and transmission lines. A joint NIA/NPC
Technical Committee has been established to coordinate implementation of the
dam and power facility. I[t was agreed that NPC would establish an effective
organization, in consultation with the Bank, to implement the power component
and that it would periodically review the effectiveness of the organization
with the Bank (Section 4.06 of the draft Loan Agreement). Agreement was also
reached that the Bank wou'Ld have to be satisfied with the economic and techni-
cal justification for any increase in the initial installed capacity of
four power generating units of 90 MW each (Section 4.01 (b) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Safety of Dam
63.       It has been agreed that NIA would make arrangements to have a
suitable maintenance and inspection program for the dam and to advise the
Bank in writing not later than December 31, 1981 as to how it proposes to
meet this obligation. The NIA proposal would include a description and
scheduling of the maintenance program and inspections to be made, the
designation of the experts, if any, to be employed, and, if applicable, a
copy of their terms of reference. The Bank would have an opportunity to
comment on the proposals before they were adopted (Section 4.05 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Environmental Effects
64.       Construction of the dam would have a significant impact on the
downstream hydrology of the river. The short (6 km) stretch down to the
MARIS diversion dam would become a reregulating reservoir with wide surface
fluctuations. Flows below the diversion dam would be noticeably altered,
particularly during the dry season. As the reservoir is lowered every year
the shoreline is expected to shift laterally by as much as 3 km in the vicinity
of Planas. Such widely fluctuating reservoir levels would preclude the
development of vegetation below the full supply level and would lead to the
creation of mud flats. As the river enters the reservoir there would be a
decrease in the flow velocity, followed by deposition of the larger particles
of sediment to form a delta in the upper reaches of the reservoir, with a
consequent raising of the river bed and water surfaces in the river reach
immediately above the reservoir. Studies indicate that flooding of additional
areas upstream of the reservoir might occur at some point in the future as a



- 20 -
result of back water and aggradation caused by the reservoir. Agreement was
reached at negotiations that NIA would include observations on riverbed
aggradation as part of a wider reservoir sedimentation monitoring program, in
order to allow adequate lead time for remedial measures. Construction of the
dam and formation of the reservoir would have no effects on existing health
conditions in the area.
Cost Recovery
65.       The cost recovery index was examined for the combination of MRMP
Stages I and II since part of the irrigation benefits of Stage II accrue to
areas under Stage I. Based on financial projections of NPC, it is expected
that NPC would sell energy in 1983 at $0.0317 kWh. At this tariff level, NPC
could carry on its account the cost of the power house, power equipment, and
about 73% of the cost of the dam and still obtain an 8% rate of return on its
assets. It has been agreed that, within three years of loan signature, a
proposal for allocation of the costs of the dam between the two agencies would
be presented to the Bank for review (Section 4.04 (b)(i) of the draft Loan
Agreement). In view of NPC's need for funds, and in order to maintain its
creditworthiness, it would be desirable that the cost of Magat dam allocated
to power would be assumed by the Government partly in the form of equity
contributions to NPC. However, a final decision on the issue would be taken
by the Government as part of the cost allocation determination. Since the
project would provide a more reliable supply of water than other Bank-assisted
irrigation projects and since the average farm size in the project area is
somewhat larger, an increase in the irrigation water charges in the service
area is justified. Therefore, an increase equivalent to 1 cavan of paddy/ha
above level charged under other Bank-financed projects of 3.5 cavans/ha in the
wet season and 4.4 cavans/ha in the dry season would be appropriate. It has
been agreed that, within a period of five years after full development, water
charges would be gradually increased to these levels (Section 4.04 (b)(ii) of
the draft Loan Agreement). Based on the above water charges and power tariff
levels, the overall cost recovery index at discount rates of 8%, 10%, and
12%, is 62%, 47%, and 37% respectively. Assuming that the powerhouse, power
equipment and 73% of the dam were allocated to NPC, the cost recovery index
of the irrigation component would be 17% at a discount rate of 10%.
Project Benefits and Justification
66.       The investment in the dam cannot be justified without assuming
further investments in irrigation and power and the resulting benefits and the
economic evaluation is therefore based on the total investment to be undertaken.
67.        Completion of Stage II MRMP development would provide an additional
27,000 ha of rice land with year round irrigation. At present, in the wet
season a rainfed rice crop is grown on 21,200 ha of this land, while 5,800 ha
are irrigated by small run-of-river and pump irrigation systems. In the dry
season only 2,100 ha are cropped to irrigated rice. Construction of the
Magat dam would also provide irrigation water to a further 46,000 ha in the
dry season. This area, equipped with irrigation facilities under Stage I of
MRMP, presently remains uncultivated in the dry season due to lack of water.
On completion of Stage II development, approximately 8,000 farm families and
4,400 landless laborers' families would benefit from increased production and



- 21 -
additional employment within the Stage II area, together with about 15,000 farm
families, and 5,500 landless families in the Stage I area. The incremental
annual demand for farm labor would be of about 7.2 million man-days equivalent
to some 36,000 full time jobs. Present cropping intensity is 107% which is
expected to remain unchanged without the project. With the project, cropping
intensity is expected to reach 200%. Paddy production at full Stage II
development would increase by about 356,500 tons annually resulting in a
yearly import saving of about $69.0 million. After deducting the cost of
impDrted fertilizer and chemicals, the net foreign exchange saving would
amount to about $62.0 million.
68.       The present per capita incomes for the average 3.0 ha farm size,
ranging from $80 for a leaseholder to $135 for an owner operator, are below
the estimated per capita absolute poverty level of $193 (at 1978 prices),
and vary from 16% to 27% of the estimated 1978 per capita GNP of US$507 for
the Philippines. With the project, the per capita incomes of these farms
would increase to about $475 for an owner operator and $305 for a leaseholder.
Thus, average incomes in the project area would rise above the 1978 poverty
income level by the time of full development, and would range between 41% and
64% of the 1987 projected per capita GNP of $745. The comparison indicates
that the project would increase incomes in the project area considerably and
would help narrow the income gap between the project area and other parts of
the country, and between urban and rural areas.
69.       With an installed capacity of 360 MW, the project would generate
about 1,200 GWh annually. In quantifying power benefits, ideally both the
capacity and energy contri.bution would have to be given economic values. As
a simplification, these benefits have been expressed in terms of the price
per kWh consumers would be willing to pay for the energy. Since it was not
possible to measure willingness to pay directly, the retail tariff was taken
as a minimum measure of the consumers' willingness to pay ignoring consumers'
surplus and the possibility that the market clearing rate might be higher
than the actual tariff. 'In Luzon, the retail prices charged by cooperatives,
some of whom buy power from NPC, range from P 0.24/kWh to P 0.94/kWh, averaging
around P 0.33 per kWh. Retail tariffs charged by cooperatives which buy
cheap power from the NPC grid are generally lower than the retail tariffs
charged by cooperatives which generate their own power. Based on these data,
electricity consumers are willing to pay at least P 0.33/kWh for energy. At
P 0.33/kWh, the value of MRMP's output, after accounting for a 9% loss due to
transmission and distribution, would be $43.8 million. Since MRMP's energy
output has been valued at the retail level, an incremental investment of
about $60.0 million, for transmissicn and distribution facilities, was
deducted from this value. The annual cost of operation and maintenance of the
transmission and distribution facilities has been estimated at $1.35 million.
70.       Using the foregoing assumptions, shadow pricing for foreign exchange and
farm labor, and discounting investment costs and irrigation and power benefits
over a 50 year evaluation period, the economic rate of return of the project
is 12%. Sensitivity analyses indicate that the rate of return was most
sensitive to a combination of cost overruns and delays in benefits.



- 22 -
71.       To see whether the Stage II investment is the least costly way of
providing the expected irrigation and power benefits, it has been compared to
alternative irrigation and power projects. The only feasible alternative
irrigation project would be the present Stage II investment minus the power
generation facilities. This alternative would have a capital cost of
$372.6 million and an annual operation and maintenance cost of $1.3 million.
Because the long-range development program beyond 1987 is not yet well
defined, the comparison of alternative power developments to meet energy
requirements in the Luzon grid in 1983 has been confined to comparing the
power output of Magat with a thermal alternative. A thermal plant with
installed capacity of 300 MW would be required. Studies indicate that the
best solution would comprise a combination of a 100 MW steam plant and a
200 MW gas turbine plant. The capital cost for the steam plant, with an
economic life of 25 years, has been estimated at $450/kW and for the gas
turbine plant, with a life of 15 years, at $250/kW. Annual operating costs
for these plants have been estimated at $29.2 million which include fuel
costs for generating 1,200 GWh at an average cost of P 0.18/kWh. Comparison
of the Stage II investment to these alternative series of investments shows
that the net present value of the MRMP investment is lower for all discount
rates below 43%, which is the equalizing discount rate. At a discount rate
of 10%, the net present value of the Stage II investment is lower than that of
the alternative by $181 million.
72.       Risks.  NIA has successfully completed the construction of a large
multipurpose dam at Pantabangan in Central Luzon (Loan 637-PH) and the experi-
enced senior personnel fro'm that job are now assigned to the proposed Magat
dam. In addition, despite the fact that a remarkable amount of exploratory
work has already been carried out at the site adequate provision has been made
in the estimates for unexpected contingencies. Thus, while no major problems
are anticipated in construction of the Magat dam and appurtenant works, a
delay in completion of the diversion tunnels or the ocurrence of abnormally
high wet season floods at the early stages of dam construction would constitute
the principal risk factor. Such events could result in the loss of one
construction season and a reduction in the economic rate of return.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.       The draft Loan Agreement between the,Bank and the Republic of the
Philippines and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. Special conditions of the project are
listed in Section III of Annex III of this report.
74.       An additional condition of effectiveness of the Loan Agreement would
be the establishment of the special fund (para. 57).
75.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 23 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
76.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
April 28, 1978






ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                             Page 1 of 4 pages
PHILIPPINES         - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                 ---------------------------____________________
_______________                                  PHILIPPINES                          REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      300.0                                        MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     109.6                        1960      1970   ESTIMATE           THAILAND        IURKEY         KOREA SOUTH **
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     140  0*    230.0*   410.0*/a             210.0 *    500.0*       280.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)           27.4       36.9       43.3/a              36.3        35.6        32.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       91.0      123.0     144.0 a              71.0        46.0       327.0
PER SO. KM. AGRICULTURAL LANE       326.0      375.0     395.0 a             263.0        65.0      1371.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         45.1       44.2       43.8               44.3        40.6        35.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)          17.9       13.2       10.5               13.7        14.4        11.4
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)        84         [ R1       72.n               80.0       153.0/a
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       49.4       55.6       S8.5               55.5        54.4        85.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.5/a      3.3        3.3                3.2         2.6/b C    2.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                 3.0        3.0       2.8                 3.1         2.5         2.3
URBAN                                 4.0        4.0        3.9                4.9         4.9/d       6.4
UROAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)          25.3       27.6      29.8                15.0        38.7        41.2
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       45.7       45.6       43.2               45.1        41.7        42.1
15 TO 64 YEARS                       51.6       51.6      54.0                51.8        54.0        54.5
65 YEARS AND OVER                     2.7        2.8        2.8                3.1         4.3         3.4
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.9        0.9        0.9                0.9         0.9         0.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RArIO               t.3/b      I.S        1.3/b              1.1         1./a       1.4
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           ..     320.0   4065.0/a               470.0          ..      4424.7
USERS (% OF MAARIED WOMEN)              ..       2.0      25.0/a              10.0         8.2        42.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOtAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)        t0100.0   12400.0  15400.0/a            16700.0    14500.0/f  10200.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE             el e.o/c    55.0/a   52.6                79.0        67.0        50.4/a
IINFgCFm crn (% OX   LAGOA * OCE)       S. B.     7.6        4.C                  *          4.S-- 4A
;NCOMt O:STRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS            28.8         ..         *-               22.0        32.fh       17.1
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            5.2                  5                               60.6        44-5
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             4.2                                       .6         2           7,
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS            119      11.7       14.7                14.3         9.4 7      17.7
DISTRIBUTION OF LANO CWNER-i;e
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              ..        ..        43.0/c              ..        53.0        29.0
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS           ..         ..         2.O                 ..        0.9         2.0
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                  ..        ..   11Q.0/d              7970.0      2250.0      2110.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            ..         ..    47:0.t              6650.0      1770.0 /i  2 70D.b
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          1180.0      850.0    880.0                890.0       500.0      1900.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         83.0       93.0    105.7                103.0       110.0       103.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              44.0       45.0      55.6                52.0        78.0        65.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         i9.0/d    22.0          ..               17.0 /a    22.0 i    19.0
CIATH RATI (/THOU) AGIS 1-4              9.Q/e     s.u        7.5                           14.7 /k       ,,
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       95.0      113.0    117.0                 81.0       109.0       104.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     26.0       49.0      49.0                16.0        28.0        41.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             10.0       10to      10.0                12.0        11.0        12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT/
(% OF SECONDARY)                     14.0/f      6.0/b     9.0                14 0/b    14.0         1B.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                   ..        .       87.0                79.0        s5.0/1    87.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                  ..        ..         ..                 ..         1.9         2.7
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                      80.0       76.0         .-                           64.0       80.0/C
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                 17.0       23.0      31.0                           41.0        50.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%X                     ..        7.0      10.0                            t8.0       30.0
CONSUMPTION
RAOIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)         22.0       72.0         .                78.0        89.0       126.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           3.0        8.0        8.0                5.0         4.0         2.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)          100.0      235.0     291.0               124.0       247.0      307.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               1.3        2.0        1.5                1.0         0.7         3.5
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNX I
Fag. 2 of 4 page.
UJ-ls   -teuo    tntn, d.ta ion 1.960 rcfer lo any yeat between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968  -nd 1970 and tor Most R--et Estimate bet-e..
1973 and 1975.
(,.Np p- orl,o.t da-  -r  hosed co the World B-kb Atlaa  -ethdology (1974-76 ba.ie).
00Kor- '. i nooen ucJ-tod .5 an ubj-rittv   country on the beats of its sieilar population, location and 1non-  1evel and, like the philippires, it
j. ..u.,:id nn, gr-t  rapidly In the coning y.ars.
f.fI.LPPLINI(S    19110    (a  1950-5Si       /b  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;               it  As p-renttstg  of meploymnet;
/d  1960-62;    /e  1962;    If  Not including vocational shortttermooo55
l97N    /a  As percen.tage of moployment;         /b  Noat ittcluding private vocational schooln or vocational abort-term  tour.,..
.MT 1ZiT ~ESTOIMAlE    /a  L976;    /b  Ratio of populatio   n cder 15 and 65 and over to tonallaofrc;                      / 19;
/d Registered only, believed to be over-estIMLate of number sntoaLly practicing.
Lin;  h           1C           1964-66;    /b  Publiccooe  which icldod  tchnical educti-on   t the poel--eondary leve.
~~ipxf,i     l90        a   19791'   l b  E-1ludta 17 eaatemn province.;    /c  1965-67;    /d  1965-70;    Ie  Ratio Of population ander 15 and 65
ond over to labor force 15 year. and over;    LfL  15 years and ;ver, excludge  unen.ployed:  ~&  Registered only;
/h  Disposable intome,;    /i  Includting assistant earses and nidwivee;    Li.  1964-66;    /k  1967-68;    /1  Pernos
si. yearn and ower who tell the census takers that they can read end write.
!KOREA RIt.'L /t    9(6         Aa percentage of employment;    lb  Regi.stred, not all practicing in the coontry;    t   Water piped imaids.
RLi(, Novinba 17, 1977
~DfRT1LOIO OF SOCI. INDICATMR
.t1- T-tOl -rface area C opr.isg land area sod LIslad water.-                              P     aIona.  _lt.in g-    rs-t.   Polt-imid'vda  by `-r afb    nr o..  ..ati d
Atrir. - Moat.. rcnt CatI.ane of sgri-tcutrul area ced temporarily or peena-                    ausiliary pereomat With tratning or asperlenca.
nantly to-  -opa, past-or, nork.t k kitchen gardens~ or to lits falloe.                     Pulftift POT h-seitsI bed - Population dIvidd by e.bar of hOaytics  beds
available in public and P'sivta general end SPeetalised hospital sand
CNP oar caPita (ufs5) - GNP' per 0-7t0 estimates at corrent market pricee,                       rehabilitation centers;  aclade. au,jei, honsaa end  ts.l.h.e  for
-stc-a-d by cam  oniesirathod as World Baab Atlas (1973-75 basist;                            e,aatodt.1l and prsventive tare.
1960; 1/70 sad 1971 data.                                                                   Per ..Ptts sunpply     clris(7. ofrsisec               -Computed frn enery
equivaleat of net toad supt aeilable te country per .apita pet- day;
Puoulacion e-  nc1 "ttattaicie,:                                                                available siapplite   manprise dcmsti, productio, Iepsots l..s export., asd
?Popultion /sid-vear  illlton)   As Of July first:  if sot "avalable, awards                    change  tat stock; net suplies seclded  anImal teed, seeds, guarcitias aaed
of two and-year eta.tla.ae; I160, 1970 sod 1975 date.                                         in food proreesig and lasses Is diatribution; reqaIrsounts were oattested
P.-leti   d...Ity -                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~by PAO kesed so phyail.agical needa for srmIl activity and hattb casId-
PO   - .ai: dest  - er esqare ke - Mid-year Popu1atism  per square kilmster                  rimss  znriroomtal taprature, bodp aiigbte,0,  agesd an ft.atribattasa of
(100 ha-tares) of total area.                                                                 pop.aLatton  end allreing 108 for ornate at household level.
Peeuatt.n deSity-Por square he of eartic. land - Conputed am sbove for                   'or taoite Iusvo  erOleto term             -4-de1 - Protein content of per capita
agir.~oitra  ladoly.                                                                         net suppl f'yuo%fo  per da;mt auPPIpO  foodio dsfimed aa above; reqeir.-
mann  for all oontrie  established by ItnA EcMonant  Riasees  Oaroi...
Vi-tal  -cacicca.                                                                                Provide for a ""mma  als Ocof 60 grans Of total prOstsi per day, and
Crads birth -ato  mr thm.aand. gve-it. - deuai tine births per thawusod of                       20 grm  of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 geam  eboald ha animel
mid-year PpoplatIon; tan-yar arIthatic aerergenma dig tan 1960 and 1977,                      protetnl rhess  standard  are loser thant thoee of 75 grine of total protein
and fins-year average ending In 1975 f or  oaet recant  atimate.                              &ad 23 grosm  of seimel p-t-sca   as se overage for th  world, proposed by rh0
Zvad eot  at   a  thouaend. sost-as  - Anmual deatha per thousaand of miLd-year                 is the Third World Flood Survey. 
population; tea-year arithmetic averegem ending dat 1960 and 1970 end five-                 Prcpt   rcg,spi  rnaia  n   tle-Poanspl   fte
year average ending in 1973 for east reccantsatim be.                                         derivedYfra  ssrl cdplm               owsr Per day.
lofat motalty rts  /tb.u) - Annual deaths of infanst  ander on   ero   s                Sst  ae(to,sm   -                     ianua det      perotb eianda a'psy gras f-
per  ihonamd    lebirtha.                                                                    rears, tO childee  to thia age group; sugetetd as en indicator of
Liesoaic   t birth_(Xr#j - Average  uanber of yeare of life reiWnsg at                  ealotrition.
birth; .uaoally five-year averag.0 ending to 1960, 1970 aed 1975 for dmv,lop-
isa countriesa.                                                                             Idmcation
Gross rprtoduction rate - Average nsmber of live daaghtera a woane  will bear                  Adjusted enrollment rai       p rimar',coa   Enrollment of all a.. as pet--
Is her aor-a  re-productive period if she esperiestas present ee-apacifit                     netg   f  umn   .coo-ae populaio; icludes childrmo aged 6-Il years
fertility ratas; uoually fiva-year averages ending In 1960, 1970 and 1957                      but adjcated for different l4natha of primary edacactim; for coantries with
fro  developing coustrise.                                                                    universal education, anrallest -y mcmed 1001  Ince .-  puaptls are below,
Population nt-oath rats (7.1 - total - Canpoond aoaual growrth rat"s of eid-ymer                 or oabov  the official school age.
population foat 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                                Adistatd enrollmet rt-eto   sccndar achoal - Computed as abov; ...ondary
Popultiso  roothrate  Xl -urban, - Capuated like grmath rate of total                    education require. et Is;., fear 70are Of approved pt-tany instr.oction;
population; different definitions of arhan areaa may affect canRarability of                   provide. ganere1, vocational or teacher training imatrutione for pupils
data ingcutis                                                                                   f 12 to 17 yeare 0  age; oraodneosee  v    aesl   nldl
=rta p      :yrailo  :7,of  otal; - Ratio of atrbaa to total populatifn; different          Yeet-  of soboolma srnided(is edscnd                  e ls-tt..  y_e of
dafl.itiona of urbsn aroea  nay  ff-ct conarsbility of data among countries.                   s.chling: at amsdr   ee,  oaio Isruction may be partially on
camplately esclaumd.
AKC_t_tructure (nEer_ent; - Children  (0-14 years), .orking-ago  (15-64 years),                Vocatio1 nal rorllm     I7 facna              Voainl teaitutlona  tooleda
and retrerd (65 Y-aa ond over) aa par-etags  of nod-y.ar population,                           technical, inutilouttdrgi    hchoe-t   neednl   rc
Ace daendecc  rati   R-tian   of Ppoplation under 15 and 65 and ovr to thoac               deparreents of aetondary ina titucion.
of ages ES through 64i                                                                       Adult literacy rate (ll - Literate adulte  (able to read and  a-Ire) as pet--
Econasc depndenc  000  R-fato of population ander 15 and 65 and over to                   ce-tage of total adult popu1laion aged 15 yaara and oven.
the labor force Is ate group of 15-64 yoetrs.
fmi. lnis-o  Ctor, looncative. thes  -,C.  nlAtIve number of accptora                         Hfocaing
of  irt-nocro  dolca  toor  ceice  of ntional P-ily plasoig prngre                 Paroa~  Per ro- (urat-en  - Average .-abrt of p-rona per roan In  -cupied
alone inception.                                                       c~~~~~~~~~~~~onvantianal donilings In urba  ar...a; dwellings asolade  non-permanent
familPy Ilnain  - user  I.of maried ua)-Peroentagee of married  -e   of                          Structures and  nacoupiad part..
chid-bering age (15-44 y-ear) ubo use birth-control dsvica  to all married                  Occupied dwellIng  wthu   ipind:ater.115 - Ocsupied conenational dwellings
wonen fo sans egs group.                                               in~~~~~~~~~~L urban and rurl ae,  withou  iide Or outaida Piped watrsa  fastlitie.
bsp I Yawr t                                                             a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sa p-nrsecag  of .11 ontopieddemlna
Totaloen                                                                                       Aes..   to alectricit  Clo   l   olLanag) - Conventional dwellioga with
TonalIsboTforce(tkouasd) - Oono-icly attire persons,  -Incldig armed                     electricity in living goat-rltoe.  percent of total dwcellinga in urban and
fortes and  nsamployed but noioding hmsvamives, students,  tet.; definitions                   rural areas..
in nat-boa coontrims at-a not c-nparabla.                                                    Rat-al doeL::#a maneotsd toCetrctoo.    aputad e  above for  retal
Labat- f.r.s in aeri-1t.-r fT.  - Agri-ultara1 labor f-c  (in fanning, f-retry,                  demln    ny.
hunting and ftahisg) as percantags of total labor forte.
linmoployed fl of lebor force)   Unemployed are usually defined as person  she                 Consupption
are able sod willing to t.ak  aJob, ont of a Job on a given day,   aimed out                 Radio receivers (par thou popl - All types of receiver. for radIn broadcasta
of a Job, and asebkng work for a epacified mi.iosa  period nout ....eeding one                too genearl public per thousand of Population; sclude. uo11cenaed receiwrer
cock; nay not he canperable bet.een countries due to different definitions                     in countries and in yssrn when resistration  of radio eats was in affect;
of uniployed and cour-e of date, e.g., Mploymaot offire gtgttatic, sample                      data for recant years may notch be   apaerall, since east countries aboliahad
urveya, nospuisory uoanploYnet inaornc...ces.g
incom  diorihutoo  -Percen.tage of private Ioon. (both In cash sod kind)                   leata   ih  ptsn;ecu as l,ulce., hearses sod military
rece.ived by riuhe.t 57., ri,he.t 2074, poorest 207., and poorest 407. of house-               vehicle..
hold..                                                                                       glectricity (kwh/yr set- cap)   A-1Ana  consumption of Ludastrial,            _jneota
Di.t~~~~tb.ti.n of land ~~~~~~~~public end private eleotricity In kIlowatt hours per .&pt&a, generally
Olatobotin oflandown-rhin - Percentages of land owned by wealthieat 171                     based on production data, without ellowsewe for loseem   in grid. bt allow-
aud ponret-a   171 of land mownet-s.                                                            tng for Imports and apmort  of electricity.
itemepn,t (ba,/Yr Par- cap) - Par capita sesanl constnption Iat kilogram
Welhand Rturricio                                                                             psias   rndmsi   rdsinpa   a   mot   tnypic
Poptacin oa  phalcin -PopulatIon divided by  -ober of practicing                                             owsi          odt.      -     tlp .ofr.Pn.
physicinsa qualified fran a medical school at univ-rsity lovo1.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NAtlONAL PRODUCT IN 1976                              ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTU (X, constant prices)
US$ million      %           1966-71            1971-76              1976
GNP at Market Prices             17,631       100.0           5.1                6.6                6.4
Gross Domestic Investment         5,519        31.3           5.9               12.5                6.3
Gross National Saving             4,413        25.0           2.4               10.8                6.6
Current Account Balance         -1,106         -6.3
Exports of Goods, NFS             3,115        17.7          -0.5                5.6               18.0
Imports of Goods, NFS            4,270         24.2           4.1               6.5                 1.5
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added                  Labor Force                   V. A. per worker
US$ million           Z        Million          X             -u s
Agriculture          5,156              29.0         8.1         50.0               637           58.0
Industry             6,029              33.9         2.3         14.2             2,621          238.7
Services             6,607              37.1         5.0         30.9             1,321          120.3
Unemployed              .                .           0.8          4.9
Total/Average    17,792              100.0        16.2        100.0             1,098          100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                       Central Government
(P billiox)          x of GDP             (P billion)            X of GDP
1976          1976          1971          1976          1976          1971
Current Receipts          20.9          15.8          11.3          18.3           13.8           9.2
Current Expenditure       18.2          13.7          10.1          16.1          12.2            7.6
Current Surplus            2.7           2.0           1.2           2.2            1.7           1.6
Capital Expenditures       4.9           3.8           1.6           4.5           3.4            1.3
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1972      1973       1974       1975       1976     August 1977
(P million outstanding end period)
Money Supply                         6,500      7,300     9,000    10,300    12,100         12,800
Bank Credit to Public Sector         3,900      2,400     2,000      ,5,800     8,900        9,200
Bank Credit to Private Sector    12,600    16,200    24,200    28,500    23,600             34,900
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Money as % of GDP                     11.5       10.1       9.0        8.9        9.2
General Price Index (1972 - 100)  100.0         117.6     154.4      166.8      180.1
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                    6.7       17.6      31.3        8.0        8.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector          -2.1     -38.5      -16.7      190.0       53.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector         21.7      28.6       49.4       17.8       17.9
/a All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
not applicable.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OPF PAYMENTS                                              MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-76)
1974    1975    1976                                    US$ million    %
(US$ million)
Coconut Products                    539      21.4
Exports of Goods, NFS          3,431   3,076   3,330   Sugar Products                       613       24.3
Imports of Goods, NFS         3,784   4,116   4,383   Forest Products                       298       11.8
Resource Gap (deficit - -)    -353  -1,040  -1,053   Mineral Products                       437       17.3
Fruits & Other Agric. Products    178         7.1
Interest Payments (net)           26     -53    -185   Other Manufactures                   456       18.1
Other Factor Payments (net)   -154    -149    -138        Total                           2,521      100.0
Net Transfers                    276     318      269
Balance on Current Account    -205    -924  -1,107   EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31, 1976 /c
US$ million
Direct Foreign Investment         28     125      144
Net MLT Borrowing                                       Public Debt, including Guaranteed         2,216
Disbursements                  456     677   1,407   Nonguaranteed Private Debt                 1,812
Amortization                  312      318      368   Total Outstanding and Disbursed           4,028
Subtotal                    144      359   1,039
Other Capital (net)./a           143     -80    -236   DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1976 /d
Increase in Reserves (+)        110    -521    -160
Public Debt, including Guaranteed          7.2
Gross Reserves                                          Nonguaranteed Private Debt                10.5
(end year) /b               1,978   2,079   2,205   Total Outstanding and Disbursed             17.7
Petroleum Imports               573      710     801
IBRD/IDA LENDING,  March 31, 1978 (US$ million)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                               IBRD    IDA
Annual Averages        End Period  Outstanding and Disbursed            423.9  29.1
1975   1976  Jan-Aug 1977   Aug 1977   Undisbursed                            789.0    3.1
Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed  1, 212. 9  32.2
US$1.00 -  P   7.275  7.447       7.418         7.403
P 1.00  -  US$ 0.138  0.134       0.135        0.135
la  Includes SDRs, short-term private loans, Central Bank liabilities, use of IMF credit, and errors
and omissions.
/b  Gross reserves of the Central Bank.
/c  Excludes short-term debt and IMF standby credit and is on a disbursement basis.
/d  Ratio of Debt-Service to Exports of Goods and Nonfactor Services.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of March 31, 1978
Loan or
Credit                                                           Amounts ($ million)
Number      Year       Borrower          Purpose             Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Fifteen loans and two credits fully disbursed              218.5    19.5
637-PH    1969    Republic of the
Philippines      Irrigation          34.0                0.3
720-PH     1971                        Rice Processing
and Storage       14.3               4.4
809-PH     1972    National Power
Corporation      Power               22.0                4.3
349-PH    1973    Republic of the
Philippines      Education II                 12.7       3.1
891-PH    1973                         Fisheries            11.6               1.1
939-PH    1973                         Ports                 6.1               2.8
950-PH     19;73                       Second Highways   68.0                 13.9
984-PH     1974                        Aurora-Penaranda
Irrigation        9.5                5.9
998-PH    1974                         DFC-DBP I           50.0                7.3
1034-PH    1974    National Power
Corporation      Power               61.0               22.1
1035-PH    1974    Republic of the
Philippines      Population          25.0               18.7
1048-PH     1974           "             Shipping           20.0               15.0
1052-PH     1974    Philippine
National Bank   DFC                  30.0               18.1
1080-PH    1975    Republic of the   Tarlac
Philippines         Irrigation       17.0               10.9
1102-PH    1975                         Rural
Development      25.0               21.2
1120-PH    1975                         Small and Medium
Industries       30.0                8.0
1154-PH     1976                        Magat
Irrigation       42.0               32.7
1190-PH    1976            "            DFC-DBP II           75.0              55.5
1224-T-PH  1976                         Education III       25.0               20.1
1225-PH    1976                         Livestock II        20.5               12.3
1227-PH'   1976                         Chico Irrigation  50.0                 47.6
1272-T-PH  1976                        MNanila Urban         10.0               8.9
1282-PH    1976                         Manila Urban        22.0               19.7
1269-PH     1976                        Second Grain
Processing       11.5               11.5
1270-PH     1976                        Second Fisheries  12.0                  9.9
1353-PH    1977                         Third Highways    95.0                 92.9
1367-PH    1977                         Jalaur Irrigation 15.0                 15.0
1374-PH    1977                         Fourth Education  25.0                 24.3
1399-PH     1077    Central Bank of   Fourth Rural
the Philippines   Credit             36.5               34.9
1414-PH     1977    Republic of the   NatiDnal Irriga-
Philippines         tion Systems
Improvement      50.0               48.3
1415-PH     1977                        Provincial Cities
Water Supply    23.0                22.3
1421-PH    1977                          Second Rural
Development-
Land Settlement 15.0                15.0
1460-PH    1977    National Power
Corporation      Seventh Power       58.0               58.0
1506-PH *  1978    Republic of the   Smallholder Tree
Philippines         Farming           8.0                8.0
1514-PH *  1'978    Philippine
National Bank   DFC (PDCP)           30.0               30.0
1526-PH *  1978    Republic of the   Second National
Philippines         Irrigation
Systems
Improvement      65.0               65.0
Total /a                                         1.332.5    32.2    789.0
of which has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                        110.7        -
Total now outstanding                           1.221.8    32.2
A.ount sold                        22.0
of which has been repaid
(third parties)                  13.1             8.9        -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate
adjustments)                                 1,212.9    32.2
Total undisbursed                                  785.9      3.1    789.0
/a  A development credit of $28 million was approved on April 11 and signed on
April 21. A loan of $2 million for an Educational Radio Technical Assistance
Project was approved by the Executive Directors on March 21, 1978 and signed
on April 21, 1978, a loan of $60 million for rural electrification on.
April 4, 1978 and a credit of $28 million for a rural infrastructure
project on April 11, 1978 and signed on April 21, 1978. In addition two
loans, tne for $60 million for rural electrification and the other for
$15 million for Philippine Investment Systems Organization (PISO) were
approvec on April 4 and April 27 respectively.
a   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of March 31, 1978
Fiscal                                                       Amounts ($ million)
Year                      Company                           Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Development Corporation of the
Philippines                                15.0      4.4      19.4
1967         Manila Electric Company                         8.0        -      8.0
1967         Meralco Securities Corporation                    -     4.0       4.0
1970          Philippine Long Distance
Telephone Company                           4.5        -       4.5
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                    0.8     0.4       1.2
1970          Paper Industries Corporation of the
Philippines                                    -     2.2       2.2
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation                6.2     2.1       8.3
1972         Marinduque Mining and Industrial
Corporation                                15.0        -      15.0
1973         Victorias Chemical Corporation                  1.9     0.3       2.2
1974          Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation          1.5        -      1.5
1974          Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.  1.5         0.5       2.0
1974          Republic Flour Mills Corporation               1.2       -       1.2
1975          Philippine Polyamide Industrial
Corporation                                 7.0        -       7.0
1976          Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                     2.6     0.2       2.8
1977          Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                     2.3      1.2      3.5
1977          Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                     3.5      -        3.5
Total gross commitments                       71.0    15.3      86.3
Less sold, acquired by others,
repaid or cancelled                        25.2    12.0       37.2
Total commitments now held by IFC            45.8      3.3      49.1
Undisbursed                                    5.0        -      5.0



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 720    Rice Processing and Storage; $14.3 Million Loan of
February 4, 1971; Date of Effectiveness: Hay 10, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This project provides long-term credit through the Development
Bank of the Philippines to finance a program for the development and modern-
ization of the rice and corn processing industry. Originally the project
was restricted to rice and to the private sector, and the emphasis was on
the construction of new integrated large capacity rice mills. Due in part
to poor harvests and in part to large cost increases for rice mills, the
demand for subloans for new integrated rice mills turned out to be small
and, as explained in the President's Memorandum, dated June 8, 1972 (R72-40),
the Loan Agreement was amended to shift the project emphasis to rehabilita-
tion of existing rice milling facilities. The Loan Agreement was further
amended in April 1974 to: (a) expand the scope of the project to include corn
in addition to rice, (b) enable local governments and the National Grains
Authority to borrow funds under the project, and (c) streamline procurement
procedures (President's Memorandum SecM74-244 of April 15, 1974). As a
result of these amendments, the project is now geaerally progressing satis-
factorily, although mounting arrears are a source of concern and DBP is now
stepping up its supervision and collection efforts to deal with this. Bank
loans for subloans have been fully committed; however, because of the long
construction period of the large subprojects, full disbursement will be
delayed until mid-1978 and the Closing Date has been postponed to
June 30, 1979.
Credit No. 472 Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan No. 984    $9.5 Million Loan of May 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project diverts water from the Aurora basin into the Pantabangan
reservoir to provide year-round irrigation for 30,000 ha of rice land in
Central Luzon. Although the need for foundation and abutment area grouting on
the two diversion dams was more extensive than originally expected, progress
on the transbasin diversion was excellent. Diversion of 75% of Aurora water,
Ll These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page -4 of 12 pages
on closure of the first dam in July 1975, was an early benefit for the Central
Luzon rice growing area. The second dam was closed on April 1, 1976, about one
year ahead of schedule. In the service area, lack of competition and high bids
delayed awarding of contracts, but five small local construction firms are now
at work. Urgent work is being done by government forces. Project costs have
increased about 54% over appraisal estimates, largely as a result of rapid
inflation. Although there are added benefits from early diversion resulting in
additional water for irrigation sooner than planned, and nearly 5,000 ha have
been added to the project, the rate of return is expected to fall from 17% at
appraisal to around 14%. The Credit has been fully disbursed and disbursement
on the Loan has begun.
Loan No. 891    Fisheries; $11.6 Million Loan of May 21, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 5. 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
This project is designed to provide long-term credit to the private
sector through the Development Bank of the Philippines Yor marine and inland
fisheries development. The demand for subloans has been adequate, and the
organization to implement them has been properly established. The project is
progressing satisfactorily, and all funds were fully committed by July 1976
and are likely to be disbursed by the Closing Date. A moderate arrears
-problem has developed, which DBP is tackling by increasing its supervision
and collection efforts.
Loan No. 1080   Tariac Irrigation: $17.0 Million Loan of January 27,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 27, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
The project is assisting the Government to improve 21,000 ha of
land under three existing national irrigation systems and expand irrigation
on 13,000 ha of additional land in Central Luzon. Progress on the groundwater,
water management training and NISIS components of the project has been good.
All major civil works contracts are now awarded and remaining work is all
under way. Also, most equipment contracts are awarded. Progress under the
project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1102   Rural Development; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project is assisting the Government to carry out a rural devel-
opment project on the island of Mindoro. This includes constructing and
improving 150 km of national highways and 280 km of provincial roads, rehabil-
itating and upgrading Calapan Port, improving and extending two national
irrigation systems to serve 12,000 ha of rice land, and 3,000 ha under
communal irrigation systems, providing an agricultural program involving seed



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12 pages
testing laboratories and rat control, providing protection programs in four
watersheds, schistosomiasis control, and assistance to Mangyan tribes. Pro-
gress is satisfactory on irrigation and after substantial initial delays, is
improving steadily for the road component. These two components are being
implemented by agencies having experience with Bank-funded projects, and
construction has begun on Calapan Port. With the exception of the Mangyan
Assistance Program, however, there was little early progress under the other
programs because of inadequate budgeting by the various agencies for the new
programs. More adequate budgets have now been approved and all work is
expected to proceed rapidly.
Loan No. 1154   Magat Multipurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is aLssisting the Government to improve and expand
irrigation on 35,000 ha of: land in the Cagayan Valley of Northern Luzon.
Consultant's work on the engineering and economic evaluation studies is
completed. The water manaigement training is under way and satisfactory
progress is being made on civil works.
Loan No. 1225   Second Livestock; $20.5 Million Loan of April 8, 1976; Date
of Effectiveness: September 13, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project is clesigned to increase domestic production of livestock
products. As of June 30, 1977, disbursements were $5.0 million, which is
about 70% above appraisal estimates. However, arrears under the First
Livestock Project are quite high'and DBP is now taking steps to improve
subloan appraisal and supervision as well as project monitoring.
Loan No. 1227   Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is assisting the Government to improve and expand
irrigation on 19,700 ha in the Cagayan Valley. Consultants for the Erosion
Control Study and for input-output monitoring have been engaged. A start
has been made on civil works for rehabilitation of the Chico West and Tuga-
Gobgob areas. Bids have 'been received for the three road links included in
the project and contracts have been awarded for two of them. Government
evaluation of the third is still under way. After substantial initial delay,
the road component of the project is now progressing more satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1269   Second Grain Processing Project; $11.5 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project provides long-term credit through the Development Bank
of the Philippines to assist in modernizing and expanding the Philippine
grain processing industry. Initial progress under the project is satisfactory.
Subloan commitments are expected to begin shortly, now that Loan No. 720 is
fully committed.
Loan No. 1270   Second Fisheries Project; $12.0 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project provides long-term credit through the Development Bank
of the Philippines to assist in increasing fish production for domestic con-
sumption. Initial progress under the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1367   Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This Loan is assisting the Government in rehabilitating about
22,000 ha of existing irrigation schemes and constructing new irrigation and
drainage facilities for about 2,900 ha of rice land on the island of Panay.
Construction work on the existing main and secondary canals improvement has
now begun.
Loan No. 1399   Fourth Rural Credit Project; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project provides medium- and long-term credit through partici-
pating banks to finance farmers and local entrepreneurs for farm mechanization,
livestock, fisheries, and cottage and agro-industries. The project became
effective on June 2, 1977. Initial implementation was delayed because of the
time required for preparation, but commitments are expected to increase in
the coming months. The major problem is to minimize disqualification from
participation due to high arrearages and to encourage eligible rural banks to
participate.
Loan No. 1414   National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project; $50 Million
Loan of May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project consists of rehabilitation of irrigation facilities
serving 28,000 ha and extension of irrigation facilities to 22,000 ha
of farmland in Northern Luzon and Leyte, and a schistosomiasis control
program in Leyte. The Loan became effective on August 9, 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1421   Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 10, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
October 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan became effective on October 27, 1977. A good start has
been made in setting up the administrative structure of the project implemen-
ting unit and in improving its planning capacity. Physical progress is
somewhat behind schedule as a result of procedural difficulties in obtaining
local counterpart funds. This problem, however, is being resolved and
project implementation can be expected to be completed on time.
Loan No. 1506  Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry Project; $8.0 Million Loan
of January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet Effective;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This Loan was approved by the Executive Directors on December 22, 1977
and signed on January 23, 1978. It is not yet effective.
Loan No. 1526 Second NatiLonal Irrigation Systems Improvement Project: $65 Million
Loan of March 15, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:  Not Yet Effective;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project wilL assist the Government to improve and develop irriga-
tion systems for a total of 80,900 ha, control schistosomiasis and strengthen
the National Irrigation Administration regional offices. The Loan Agreement
was signed on March 15, 1978. It is not yet effective.
Credit No. 790-PH Rural Infrastructure; $28 million Credit of April 21, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet Effective;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project is assisting the Government to construct and improve
irrigation facilities on 9,400 ha, construct and improve about 1,390 km of
rural roads; improve three ports and construct 300 village wells. The credit
was signed on April 21, 1978. The project is at an early stage of organization
and mobilization.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 939    Second Ports Project; $6.1 Million Loan of October 24, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 19, 1973; Closing
Date:  July 15, 1979
Progress on civil works construction for both General Santos
and Cagayan de Oro has been slow, due mainly to frequent breakdowns of the
contractor's dredger in General Santos, and the slow mobilization of con-
tractor's plant in Cagayan de Oro. These problems have been resolved and
progress on civil works construction at both plants is improving. By June
1977, work was 36% completed in General Santos, and 6% in Cagayan de Oro.
The present estimated total project cost is 75% higher than the appraisal



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12 pages
estimate due to worldwide price increases. However, foreign exchange costs
are lower than appraisal estimates as the contractors are locally based.
Total traffic at the project ports is in line with appraisal forecasts and a
reasonable financial rate of return is being earned. By June 1977 the
Philippine Port Authority had taken over 7 of the 18 national ports.
Loan No. 950    Second Highway; $68.0 Million Loan of December 12,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Overall progress on construction has been generally satisfactory,
with about 90% of the project works completed. However, progress on one of
the national roads is not satisfactory and this is expected to delay project
completion by about 12 months compared to the appraisal estimate. UNDP-
financed road feasibility studies were completed in June 1975, and detailed
engineering for the Third Highway Project (Loan 1353-PH) was completed in
August 1976. Detailed engineering for the proposed Fourth Highway Project was
substantially completed in October 1977. The total cost of the project has
risen substantially (about 40% above appraisal estimate) because of inflation
following the oil price increase in late 1973. About $12 million still remains
undisbursed and hence the Closing Date has been postponed to June 30, 1979.
Loan No. 1048   Inter-isl'and Shipping; $20 Million Loan of October 29,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
The Government is relending the proceeds of the Loan to the
Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) for onlending to beneficiaries
for the acquisition of new and used ships and for major repairs and con-
versions. Commitments were initially slow because of lack of demand from the
private sector due to the lengthy period required for the processing of
loans, restrictive collateral requirements by DBP, and unfavorable lending
terms offered by DBP in comparison with those extended by other lending
institutions in the Philippines. However, these problems are now being
resolved and subloan commitments have begun to move again.
Loan No. 1353   Third Highway Project; $95.0 Million Loan of
January 12, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is assisting the Government in improving the national
and rural road systems and their maintenance. Most construction contracts
have been awarded. The major problem is delayed implementation of the road
restoration/maintenance component of the project. However, priority attention
has been given to this problem and, as a result, implementation of these
components are expected to accelerate during the coming year.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12 pages
Education Sector
Credit No. 349 Second Education; $12.7 Million Credit of January 5,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: April 11, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
The Credit provides $12.7 million to finance improvements to
existing middle and higher level agricultural education institutions, curric-
ulum development, and new technical and vocational institutions in rural
areas. Physical progress is now good under the project and disbursements have
reached 75% of planned levels. All of the 32 project institutions have been
completed and three fourths of the technical assistance program has been
completed. Cost overruns of 13% are expected in dollar terms because of
inflation and earlier lack of cost control over civil works; the amount of
equipment purchased has been reduced to compensate for cost overruns.
Loan No. 1224   Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project covers the first phase (1976-80) of the Government's
eight-year textbook program and provides for the development, production
and distribution of 27 million textbooks. It also provides for curriculum
development, teacher training and technical assistance. Progress under
the project is satisfactory. Disbursements are more than twice the planned
level.
Loan No. 1374   Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of
March 25, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1977;
Closing Daite: December 31, 1981
This project is assisting the Government in developing agricultural
education and training. It includes assistance for: specialized facilities
for forestry, animal science, and veterinary medicine; a regional agricultural
college in the Visayas; and training for extension workers and farmer leaders.
Implementation of all aspects of the project is on schedule.
Loan No. S-8-PH Educational Radio Technical Assistance; $2 million loan of
April 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet effective;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The proposed project is assisting the Government to develop and
evaluate the cost effectiveness of educational radio in inservice teacher
training and primary classroom teaching. The loan was signed on April 21,
1978. The project is at an early stage of organization.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1272T Manila Urban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282   $22.0 Million Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
The loan is financing: (a) improvements in basic sanitary services for
families living in the Tondo Foreshore and Dagat Dagatan areas, and (b) improve-
ments in transportation and traffic in the Greater Manila Area. Construction
on 1,500 of 2,000 servicedi lots at Dagat Dagatan is nearing completion. The



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12 pages
high school and health clinic in Tondo have been constructed and the subdivision
of lots in the Tondo priority area is also nearing completion. A paper on the
status of this project was submitted to the Executive Directors in December.
Loan No. 1415   Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $23 Million Loan of
May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 9, 1977;
Closing Date:  March 31. 1982
This loan is financing: (a) water supply improvement and expansion
in six provincial cities; (b) feasibility studies for water supply improve-
ment in ten additional cities; and (c) feasibility studies for Manila sewerage.
The Loan was made effective on September 9, 1977. Progress is generally
satisfactory according to the review of the preliminary engineering studies
and detailed design of the water supply construction. The water supply
feasibility studies for ten cities and the Manila sewerage design study are
expected to begin in January 1978.
Power Sector
Loan No. 809    Fifth Power; $22.0 Million Loan and $10.0 Million Credit
Credit No. 296  of April 3, 1972: Date of Effectiveness:  July 1, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project is helping the National Power Corporation (NPC) to
finance the construction of a second thermal unit of 150 MW at Bataan and
transmission facilities in Luzon. Although there has been some minor delay
due to the late delivery of transformers, the project is proceeding satis-
factorily. The erection of transmission lines has also been completed.
The loan is expected to be fully disbursed before the Closing Date, which has
been postponed from June 30, 1976 to June 30, 1978. A tariff increase was
approved in Octobe'r 1976, but this was insufficient to enable NPC to achieve
the expected rate of return of 8% on its net fixed assets in operation.
Further tariff increases are currently under consideration.
Loan No. 1034    Sixth Power;  $61.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31. 1978
The project is helping the National Power Corporation (NPC) to
finance a 100 MW hydro plant at Pantabangan and transmission lines for the
further expansion of the Luzon grid and feasibility studies by consultants
for a future power project. The generating plant has been commissioned.
However, the transmission component of the project is behind schedule because
necessary design work has been delayed due to NPC's heavy construction
program. For this reason the Closing Date may have to be extended. Costs
have increased by 21%, largely due to inflation.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1460   Seventh Power Project; $58.0 Million Loan of August 9, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: January 6, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project will assist the Government in expanding the transmission
system in Luzon, establishing the first stage of a communications system and
control center, and training NPC staff. The loan became effective on January 6,
1978.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 998    Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-Farming;
$50.0 Million Loan of June 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: September 9, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The proceeds of the Loan were relent to the Development Bank of
the Philippines (DBP). The industrial portion of the Loan ($48 million)
has been used by DBP to finance direct imports for medium and relatively
large industrial projects. DBP is using the balance ($2 million) to finance
about 1,300 smallholders in a pilot tree-farming project in Mindanao. Subloans
are expected to be fully committed by mid-1978.
Loan No. 1052   Private Development Corporation of the Philippines;
$30 Million Loan of November 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: February 7, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The project assists in the financing of economically desirable and
financially viable industrial subprojects. As of November 2, 1977, commitments
for subloans totaling $19.1 million had been made.  While subloan commitments
have been somewhat slower than originally expected due to the generally slow
pace of business activity, the implementation of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1120   Small ancd Medium Industries Development; $30.0 Million
Loan of June 5, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 20,
1975; Closing Date: August 31, 1979
The DBP portion of the funds has been fully disbursed.  After a
slow start, commitment and disbursement of funds under the Industrial Guarantee
Loan Fund are now proceeding well. However, the Rural Industrial Cooperative
Program ($2.3 million) which is being implemented by the National Electrifica-
tion Administration is, lbecause of its experimental nature, facing management
and staffing problems. Disbursements on this component have therefore been
slow. Overall progress of the project is, however, satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1190   Industrial Investment; $75.0 Million Loan of
January 28, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 6, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The proceeds of the Loan are relent by the Development Bank of the
Philippines for subloans to finance direct imports for medium and relatively
large industrial projects. Commitments of funds, which were initially much
slower than expected due to a slowdown of investment in the industrial sector
as a whole, have recently improved. The Executive Directors approved a
proposal to reallocate $25 million of the funds for small and medium industries
on February 25,'1977, and an amendment to the Loan Agreement to this effect
was signed on March 16, 1977. As of November 2, 1977, commitments for subloans
amounting to $17.5 million had been made. In addition, $5.4 million had been
disbursed against the allocation for small and medium-scale industries.
Loan No. 1514   Private Development Corporation of the Philippines; $30 Million
Loan of February 9, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet
Effective; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
This Loan was signed on February 9, 1978 and is not yet effective.
Population
Loan No. 1035   Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project is assisting the Government in expanding rural health
infrastructure, and in providing staff training facilities and technical
assistance for the development of a management information system and for
training. Under the direction of the Project Management Staff in the Depart-
ment of Health, overall project implementation is progressing well.  Training
activities are ahead of schedule in all 12 regions. The civil works component
is behind schedule but is expected to be completed ahead of the appraisal
report timetable due to simplification of construction design. Progress under
the project is satisfactory.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE II
Supplemental Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:  24 months.
(b) The project was prepared by NIA with the assistance of consultants.
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:  July 1974.
First mission to consider the project:  July 1976.
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: October 1977.
(e) Completion of negotiations: March 1978.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: September 1978.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
(a) The Bank and the Philippine Government have agreed on an implementa-
tion timetable to assure effective implementation of the project.
(b) A Bank mission would visit the Philippines during the coming months
to review progress in project implementation.
Section III: Special Conditions
The Borrower agreed during negotiations that:
(a) it would arrange for the construction of the power and irrigation
phases of Stage II development in a twimely manner so as to be ready
for operation by January 1, 1983 (para. 43);
(b) it would cause NIA to keep the Bank informed of arrangements to be
made for resett.lement of the population affected by the project and
that the Bank would have an opportunity to comment on these arrange-
ments before they are implemented (para. 51);
(c) it would cause NIA to maintain the Board of Consultants (NBC) for
the duration of the construction of the dam and to consult the NBC
prior to implementing all significant changes in the design and
construction plans for the dam (para. 53);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(d) it would cause NIA to make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank
with a qualified supplier for the timely provision of the spillway
and power intake and the Baligalan Creek gates (para. 57);
(e) any contractual and financial arrangements proposed for the implemen-
tation of the investment program of Stage II development would be
subject to review by the Bank (para. 58);
(f) it would cause NIA to periodically review with the Bank the effective-
ness of project management organization (para. 61);
(g) it would cause NPC to establish an effective staff organization in
consultation with the Bank to implement the power component and NPC
and the Bank would periodically review the effectiveness of the
organization (para. 62).
(h) the Bank would have to be satisfied with the economic and technical
justification for any increase in the initial installed capacity
of four power generating units of 90 MW each (para. 62).
(i) it would cause NIA to make arrangements for a suitable maintenance
and inspection program for the dam and to advise the Bank of such
arrangements no later than December 31, 1981 (para. 63);
(j) it would submit for review by the Bank within three years of loan
signature a plan for allocation of costs of the dam between NIA and
NPC (para. 65).



120'     Eadvoyeo         Cd/,aoef  52?         :             :                                                                                                                                   M
Ste Asa            IllR                                                   A
/                                                \        jt 31 eSanJre  2?   LUZON  SLAND   ;~' + \D VEhRS/ION DA    g                                                             1
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
> , 9~~/             & T r ac<3 -                                      SIV  VSO N  S ARM-/       SI         N C RPH, 4  Na    |     <   Hg  2
U                                                            $               < 2             3             >J                                    _  EGTENPOIC  P--X- l/
ff\2?Al S AE eA   2e ea   41  '   1  6  o n 7     M  Oi V                                                 R o a                 <N                             i-f  
r-   SanL AAIs''d tenarat Luzon Irrigat5cn   15  NUEVA   CIJA   tG A           -<  X  +**w,MA6e /IRRIGAT,                                                            -
SJ ?pper PampansLUZON  ISLAND                                                                 00   ha
/-PROVINCE NAMESNES
4e  19  -                         ~~~~~~~~3 ILOCOSNiDOT
(70600  214               ~~~4 LA UNION*c
To  Angeles                            5   LOu   NC                                                                                      -                                         itn   Ltrfcn
4     MOUNTAIN PROJNV~EATK-
e 2bs              6  RENCUETI                                                         N'
; Dffn     Xv  !   A Nvjg ,SaeIEA   exen'o  23 er
, KAL NGA APA0                  \                  /                           ,,
21~~~~~ 9                  > (00561                                                                                                              agno P}    S , ,- , 6:  lvr    n   xsig
10  ISACEGAYA                                                   nM
w                                       N~~~~~~~I   UIRINO                :
N12  NUEVA VIZCAYA                                              8,400 h                     /ca,C
13  BATAN6de
14  RULACAN                                             t. SiL ANr r  
f l  P e k   ere a   ro o n   L oznp e n  re g ree   50 O t E V Oa E C h                            , I F u c jn64 <                                                                          b u n e r e
16  PAM'PANGA                         C 
Upr,Peeavys P-`pR-cPOveryP r         7  PANGrASINAN
(L-a  3 PHI                     15  TARLAC
A.e -.nend f-   rrad e o f  r        19  ZAAEAALES
Leo CH 9841472-PHI
TWiSal' tnee  Sse`   epoelv           20  RATANGAS
?roelL-,, SOAPHI              21  CAVIT                               A
1 CR -0 Oe-,eO- Pr1e,-              22  [LAGUNA-                                  ) 
lL-s 1227 PHI                    39 A
Nt1-Mefgt hrhyiet en Projectd        24 OQEZON
River bi,,   b   d-or- *st                        00                    .p
^"Ewntrprh 19J ser L f                                         ma    -N,_2                                                                                                            4                                   'r
oreepEcefuc. vv&>s K^<; hs IE5 _234                                                                                                                                                                                                  w
1,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
MARI'~+f(  A>                                                                                         AA  RVRMLTPROE  RJC
To oO5orbeeo ~    ~         ~        R-IEGLAIN
RESERVOIF~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~Stg  A mrvmetee
1.11M AND    'Al.'  MAR 5 ~   ~          ~          ~         ~                                                            Sag   I   etesin   re
'       Offa        VERSION-                                                                                                                taeIB  mroeet  ra
RVO R'PL04WNET'   D ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~Stg IBcoesonaea     La 14P
g$s-da-notan         hgwy
she evlvaree r5naraaeroT   rv                                                         5
rvdvvreeivvroeirvai ereros yr                          'it\f3                                                                                                                      c0~~~~~~~~~~~~~Prpoed   ai caal
evntevrveoe( avevedenocreevi                              -44-'                                                        0           2            0           0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Exiflg atealCOal
onaveevevoee erevvneovvdovre  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      ~     ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~ ~ ie          e IA  nrwer<n arE
Cl                                                                                               iS~~~~~~~~~~~Sag   -   Xen,mae



