MAA (615-rd
1~~OA~AJ 6,s-Ci~~I  ~Jf~                      RESTRICTED
4-5a   5              Report No. P U- I 5a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its occuOacy or completeness. The report may 
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TNDTTT A
APPRAISAL OF THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS EXPANSION PROGRAM
(1969/70-1973/74)
POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS DEPARTMENT
June Z, 1969
ruU 1: TTUrIs :                T.)
c U UA11 U L111 L. e Tro'uects viepartr-ent



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1         - Rs     7.5o
Re 1         - US$    0.133
Rs 1 million - US$1,333.00
MEASURES EQUIVALENTS
1 Kilometer - 0.622 miles
FISCAL YEAR
ends March 31
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS USED IN THE REPORT
C&AG - Comptroller and Auditor General
CIDA -   Canadian International Development Agency
GOI   - Government of India
HCL   -  Hindustan Cables Limited
HTL   - Hindustan Teleprinters Limited
ITI   -  Indian Telephone Industries
OYT   - Own Your Telephone
P&T   - The Indian Posts and Telegraphs Department
STD   -  Subscriber toll dialing
VHF   -  Very high frequency



INDIA
2A1?PRAIOlAL OF THTE T=0E1OOPIUICATICOTS EXPAJSION PROGRAM
(1969/70-197/74)
POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS DEPARTMENT
.LUUVJe o f Contentis
Page No.
SUMMARY                                        i-i 
I.     INTRODUCTION                                     1
II.     TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR                       1
III.    THE FIVE-YEAR PROGRAM                           2
Local service                                   2
Long-distance service                           3
Trunk switching                                 3
Telex                                           3
Telegraph                                       3
IV.     THE PROJECT FOR BANK/IDA FINANCING              4
V.      PROCUREMENT                                     5
VI.     DISBURSEMENT                                    6
VII.    ECONOMIC EVALUATION                             7
VIII.   THE OPERATING ENTITY                           10
Financial Reorganization - Telecom-
munications Branch                   13
Audit                                          14
Tariffs                                        15
Present Financial Position                     1.5
Past earnings                                  17
IX.     FUTURE FINANCES                                18
Financing plan                                 is
Future Oper-ating Results                      19
Future Financial Position                      20
Rate Covenant                                  20
X .     P i.COi-rTTD)ATIONS                            2
This report was prepared by Hessrs. A. Mi 'riinton, J. ML. vance a-nd.
C. R. Willoughby of the Bank.



List of Annexes
1. Recorded and Forecast Demand, Exchange Capacity and Connected Lines
(Chart No. 4355)
2. Estimated Capital Expenditure by Years (Page 1)
Estimated Ganital Exncnditure by Classification (Pace 2)
3.  Addtitnal Bxc-.hange rnrntitv to be Co mqainnsio dciiing th  Fourth
Plan Period
4.  Notes on the telecommunications manufacturing industries
5.  Organization chart
6. Financial Reorganization - Telecommunications Branch
7. i;o:;Isultantsl Recommendations Pe:'tainini to Financial
fleorganizat i-o-
ry      l' 011
8 .  SulirmiaZry Of TarifIfs
9.  Pro Forma Balance Sheet l904615-l973/7h   (Page 1)
Notes and Assumptions on the Pro Forma Balance Sheet (Pages 2, 3, 4)
10. Pro Forma Statement of Income 1964/65-1973/74 (Page 1)
Notes and Assumptions on the Statement of Income (Pages 2 and 3)
11.  Pro Forma Sources and Applications of Funds 1964/65-1973/74
MAP
Proposed Expansion of Coaxial Cable and Microwave systems during the
Fourth Five-Year Plan 1969-1974 (IBRD 2547)
An annex on Economic aspects is available on request to the
Office of the Director, Projects.



INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS EXPANSION PROGRAM
(1969/70-1973/74)
POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS DEPARTMENT
SUTMMARY AND CONCLLSIONS
i.        Tnis report appraises the Indian Posts and Telegraphs five-year
(1969/70-1973/7L4) expansion plan forming part of India's Fourth Five-Year
Plani.
ii.        A three-year project (1969/70-1971/72) has been identified. Its
total cost will be US$361 million of which US$103 million will be needed
for imported equipment, materials, and components.
iii.       The Canadian Development Agency will participate with a Credit
of US$32.6 million equivalent towards this project; a Bank loan and an IDA
credit totalling US$55 million are proposed. These will finance the full
three year requirement of imported equipment and more than two years require-
ments of materials and components.
iv.        The expansion program is a continuation of schemes satisfactorily
carried out in a previous project as part of India's Third Five-Year Plan
with financing from IDA (Credits 28-IN and 58-IN). It includes the addition
of local telephone connections but particular emphasis is placed on exoand-
ing long-distance telephone and telex facilities.
v.         The plans are well balanced and the work is economically justi-
fied. The economic rate of returfn on the total program is assessed to be
about 40%.
vi.        Procurement of Bank/IDA financed imported equipment and materials
for manufacture in India will be by competitive international bidding or
equivalent procedure acceptable to the Bank.
vii.       P&T has undertaken a financial reorganization of the Telecommu-
nications Branch folloin-g closely " -'t'e recommen(ations of consultasns
engaged by P&T on the request of IDA at the time of IDA Credit 58-IN. The
main changes will be to take over its accounting funct on from the Comptrol-
ler and Auditor General and to establish a system of accounts along com-
m.erci al- 1-ines .
v.&     AiBased on the pro forma financial statements, P&T:s overall finan-
cial results are satisfactory. For the three-year period 1969/70-1971/72
intern.ally generated fundls including `Own Your Telephone"' payments would
finance about 46% of requirements; Central Government contributions, 28%;
bUorro-wings, lo2; and the proposed loan/credit, 14%. The rate of return
on average net plant in service ranges from 13.3% in 1969/70 to 11.7% in
197/L72, the last year of the project.



.is reasonably well managed ani hs tLie capability- o carry
out the program.
x.        The project is suitable for a Bank loan with a term of 30 years,
incl-uding a grace period of 10 years, and an IDA credit totalling US$55
million. The Borrower would be the Governmet of India which would make
the funds available to the Posts and Telegraphs Department.



IND LA
APPRAISAL OF THE TEiE COAMNUNIUATIaNFS E)PANS iON PROGRAM
(1969/70-1973/74)
POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS D-EPARTflNf
I. INTRODUCTION
1.0       The Government of India (GOI) has applied for assistance in fi-
nancing the foreign exchange costs of the telecommunications expansion
program of the Posts and Telegraphs Department (P&T) during the Indian
Fourth Five-Year Plan period (l969/70-1973/74).  The Canadian International
Development Agency (CIA) will also participate.
1.02      The project, which covers the first three years (1969/70-1971/72)
of the Plan, has a total capital requirement of US$361 million equivalent,
of which US$103.2 million is foreign exchange. It is proposed to cover this
by US$32.6 million from CIDA and initially by a 30 year Bank loan and an IDA
credit totalling US$55 million. This leaves US$15.6 million which might be
considered for Bank/IDA financing in 1971.
1.03      Two previous IDA credits have been made to GOI for P&T's tele-
communications expansion dui-rinw the Third Five-Year Plan period (1961-1966).
The first, Credit 28-IN, for US$42 million in 1962 covered the foreign ex-
change cost of imported equipment; the second; Credit 58-IN, for US$33
million in 1964, financed imported materials and components required by
P&T's workshops and by three Government-owned factories which manufacture
equipment and cable for P&T. These projects were carried out satisfactorily
and P&T has initiated fundamental accounting reform aecording to recommenda-
tions of consultants engaged at IDA's request.
1.04      This report, which is confined to the telecommunications aspect
ofL 'uM''s operattions excepE at were indicated 'ky th-e conAtex.t, i-q bansed on
information provided by P&T and on the findings of an appraisal mission
consisting of' Messrs. A. M. Minton, J. M. Vance, and C. R. Willoughby which
visited India in January/February 1969.
II. TELEC4MMUNICATIONS SECTOR
2.01      India has a population of about 520 million, second largest in
the world, and an area of over 3 million km which makes it the world's
seventh largest country. In 1951, GOI initiated a series of Five-Year
Plans designed to foster the balanced de-velopment of agriculture, industry,
power supply and communications and to raise standard of living which today
is indicated by a GNP per capita of about US$75 equivalent.
2.02      Telecommunications services, while still beyond the reach of
all but a few well-to-do private individuals, are able to meet only two
thirds of the present demands of administration, commerce and industry.
The telephone density of 0.2 telephones per 100 population is one tenth



that of the lowest density to be found among the other 32 countries which
nave half a miliion or more telephones, and less tnan 1/l0u oI that enjoyed
by one third of these countries.  Only a few countries have a comparablv
low density.
2.03       P&T operates all public telecommunications facilities in India
and to adjoining countries but not to overseas countries. There are 810,000
telephone connections to about 3,000 telephone exchanges at the centers
of population with a network of interconnecting long-distance circuits.
There is an extensive public telegraph network and a telex system with 3,000
subscribers at 25 automatic exchanges. The system has been expanded consi-
derably during previous plaas, its rate of growth over the ten years 1958-
1967 of 12% annually being surpassed only by those of Japan and Greece among
the 33 largest systems.
2.04       During the Third Five-Year Plan period and two succeeding years
(1961-1968), the principal accomplishments were the expansion of the con-
nected subscriber lines from 332,000 to 810,000, the construction of a high
capacity coaxial cable trunk network Calcutta-Delhi-Bombay-Madras, the
introduction of subscriber dialling of long-distance calls over 16 inter-
city routes and the establishment of the telex network. This program was
not as great as P&T forecast in 1961 as necessary to overtake the arrears
of the demand for service which stood at 150,000 applicants, but GOI was
unable to allocate sufficient capital in the Third Plan to make this an
obJective.
2.05       At nre-ent- the two mA-in shortcomings of the system are: (a) it
cannot accommodate 500,000 applicants for service who are having to wait
an average of five years for a -ornnetirnn and (b) it cannot handle without
unreasonable delay all the long-distance calls which those already con-
nected w1sh to- make.
II. TIM FIVE-YEAR PROGRAM
3.01       PA  has been au+horized by GOT to commit Rs 4,678 million, or
about US$624 million equivalent for the Fourth Five-Year Plan period, April
1960o   M-ch 197)4   This again is less than  PRT forecasts to be nerrssArv
even to keep up with the demand for new connections; consequently, in formu-
1a X_ 4-A 4n r                                                   4aAAh _ >   7 b rzats n-; n-i
| lJ&Lg  4-ic  leI-  _s  o U U -1-   construction s Pl ,  4   Js  wi-ly| -11d"r   -v   riMy
LIO. .IJi  U LI   U~ UO -.L   LhZ  .1 U,  '..JL   .I  --'  -  .' '-   - _'-_.  t,  * - t-   L  ---~ -  ,
to long-distance facilities and telex in order that the system will operate
effficient'Ily -for tIL-se who1 Ucan becrnced  h  xaninpas        oe    h
following aspects.
Local Service
3.02       This work consists of establishing new automatic exchanges, ex-
tending existing manual ex-hanges, replacing fully exploited manual ex-
changes with automatic ones, and adding equipment to larger automatic ex-
changes along with the cables for interconnection between exl-RangteS ean



with the subscribers' telephones. By March 31, 1974, it is planned to add
600,00o connections to the present fit re of 810,000. Annex l shows
graphically the recorded and proposed number of connections in relation
o tnhe deand fSor Ser-iCe.
6-~     r' 4- a , WaU. .rSstnede
3.03   ¢ theprincpal routes wherc Iarge capacity sse.         r   edd
F,j ~ j.L 4_LI,,LPCjVOL .L   UUla~~4  V, ~ ~     -  -  C   - - -
the work started under the earlier plan will be continued. The map shows
thLec exiCst.4in.g l'arge capacity systems and thL JJose proposed fLor thLLe Fou.-th
Plan period. The coaxial cable system will be extended by completing the
ras- CLcutta s!u e of. the q-a d1-lateral Lt iLnk ULe fouru largest certers
of the country. High capacity microwave links forming diagonals on this
configuration will be added, together with spur systems to connect with
further exchanges. Circuits will be provided between all large exchanges
Ln sufficient quantity to meet demands as they arise and thus allow ex-
tension of the subscriber dialling facility. About 7,000 km of coaxial
cable route and about 12L000 km of microwave route comprise the scope of
this new work. Redeployment and augmentation of many VHF radio, carrier,
and open wire systems are also included, the relative scope of these facets
being indicated in the breakdown of costs at Annex 2.
Trunk Switching
3.04      The extension of automatic trunk switching of subscriber dialled
calls so as eventually to link in this way all subscribers in India requires
the installation of special long-distance automatic switching centers at
about 57 localities. During the program, it is planned to complete about
half of these, bringing the facility to 66% of subscribers who are connected
to the 55 largest exchanges.
Telex
3.05      During the program, it is planned to increase the telex network
from 3,000 teleprinters connected to 25 centers to about 11,500 teleprinters
connected to over 40 switching centers. There are 3,000 applicants waiting
for service at present.
Telegraph
3.06      The public telegraph service is not a rapidly expanding part of
P&T's operations, but new techniques of transmission and switching such
as the use of teleprinters and reperforators instead of morse code si gnal-
ling and manual repeating are incorporated where this can effect a worth-
while improvement in efficiency.
3.07      The cost of the program is broken down by year and by application
in Annex 2 and can be summarized under the following headings:



Rs Million               US$ IHillion
Local    Foreign  Totall     Local Foreign Total t
T.nnl telephone systers  1,8f3.6     680.4  2,53L.o    2L7 .1  90.7  337.8  54
Long-distance systems    1,001.3     421.8  1,423.1    133.5   56.2  189.7  31
1).0   -1  On7  1'7n   A  -I()  0  ')  A~  OO' '7 
Telex and telegraphs..                'JI      I .1    -17 7    - .   2 2.7 I
Miscellaneous              507.1      43.3    550.4     67.6    5.8   73.4  11
Total Cost of Program    3,511.3   1,166.2  4,677.5    467.1  155.5  623.6 100
TV * THE PROJECT FOR BAe _mIDA FINANCING
L4.01L    Tne project is tne three-year time segment 1969/i(0-1971/-(2 of
P&Tls program for the Fburth Five-Year Plan.
4.02      On the local service side, it consists of commissioning 345,000
lines of exchange equipment, as shown in Annex 3, and connecting some 300,000
new subscribers.
4.03      On the long-distance side, major systems are to be cammissioned
to the time schedule shown on the map, 16,000 voice channels installed on
these and on the existing systems and the associated trunk transit switching
equipment provided. The telex network is to be extended by about 5,000
teleprinters. Testing equipment for operations, training, and research,
work carried out for other departments, the replacement of lines necessitated
by railwray electrification, and other miscellaneous items make U) the balance
of the project.
4.04      The cost of the project can be summarized under the following
headings:
Rs IMillion               US$ Million
Local    Foreign  Total     Local Foreign Total T
Local telephone systems  1,015.1    444.2   1,459.3    135.3   59.0  194.6  54
Long-distance systems      584.3    284.0     868.3     77.9   37.8  115.7  33
Telex and telegraphs        90.8      14.0    104.8     12.1    1.9   14.0   4
Miscellaneous              241.9     31.4     273.3     32.3    4.2   36.5   9
Total Cost of Project    1,932.1    773.6   2.705.7    257.6  103.2  360.8 100
4.05      The foreign exchange cost of US$103.2 million is made un of UST52.2
million for imported equipment and US$51.0 million for materials and compo-
nents for manufacture in India.
4.06      GOT has an allocation of non-commodity credit frnm   Th nnrand is
negotiating to devote US$32.6 million towards the purchase of cable and



microwave equipment from Canadian manufacturers for this project. The Credit
would be for a term of 50 years including a grace period of 10 years and
no interest or commitment charge. There are four cable manufacturers in
Canada, one of -ia Ich in 196w was the second lowest and within 1%0 of the lowest
tenderer for some sizes of cable for which P&T invited international bids.
Microwave equipment also is produced by several Canadian firms with+1 a record
of success in international competition. GOI is confident of making an ar-
rangement favorable to India after inviting offers only from Canadiani sup-
pliers for the items concerned.
4.07       The proposed US$55 million Loan/Credit would finance the balance
of the imported equipment consisting of underground cable, US$10 million;
coaxial cable equipment, US$5.7 million; radio equipment US$1.6 million;
copper-clad wire, US$1.3 million; and test equipment US$1 million; totalling
US$19.6 million, together with about two years' requirements of materials,
consisting of non-ferrous metals and electronic components, to a value of
US$35.4 million.
4.o8       The remaining US$15.6 million required for materials for the
third year of the project might be considered for Bank/IDA financing in 1971.
4.09       The project has been satisfactorily engineered and it can be car-
ried out entirely with P&T's own staff plus temporary labor.
V. PROCUREMENT
5.01       Procurement for the project will be as follows:-
i)  Equipment imported directly by P&T will be procured by inter-
national competitive bidding except for that financed by CIDA.
ii)  Equipment manufactured locally P&T will obtain from its own
workshops or from the Government owned factories. Except for
proprietary components available from only one supplier and
amounting to about 5* of the total value of imports, materials
and components imported for this manufacture will be obtained
by international competitive bidding or equivalent procedure
acceptable to the Bank.
5.02       In order to procure its requirements at least cost and with the
minimum of foreign exehange. P&T has for many years been manufacturing in
its own workshops the more straightforward and labor-intensive items, such
as tubuhlar steel noles and manual switchhoards.  For the same reasons, GOI
has established within the last 20 years three factories:   (a)  Indian
Telephone Indutis--- Ltd- (IT), to manufacture switching and transmission
equipment; (b) Hindustan Teleprinters Ltd. (HTL), to manufacture teleprinters;
and (c) Hindustan Cables Ltd. (HCL), to mnufactre telephone cable.     The
production from these factories, which were visited during the mission, is of
the same degree of sophistication andA         as t. p+.r  - rodA-uced in develop.epd
countries, all three factories having started operations under collaboration
agreemel-nts with foreign producers selected competitively. AQll started in a



- 6 -
limited wa# by assembling piece parts supplied by their collaborators. Pro-
gressively, the range and scale of operations were increased, and the pro-
portion of imported piece parts reduced with beneficial effect on price and
foreign content.
5.03       At the time of the appraisal for Credit 58-IN in 1964, it was
concluded (reference TO-416a, Annex 3) that, in general, prices averaged
those offered in the international market, but were somewhat above the
lowest price that might be expected (before duties) in international com-
petitive bidding. Since then prices have fallen relative to international
prices to the point where, excluding duties, they can be said to be general-
ly equal to or lower than the lowest that might be expected in international
comDetitive bidding. The prices to P&T set by the factories for individual
items of production are based on production cost and taken as a whole they
are at least as low as could be obtained internationally on a C.I.F. basis.
5.04       Incidental advantages that come out of this arrangement are those
of standardization of equipment, .reducedpr apliverv times and a reduction in
the cost of engineering effort within P&T.
5.05       P&T has been largely responsible for establishing these factories
nd their top and middle management is still by P&T engineers on secondment
for periods of a few years. This makes for a very close understanding which
cements the common objectives oJ these GIoned entities.     Detail abolut each
factory appears in Annex 4.
5.o6       The materials and components used for manufacture by the Government
factories, whether obtained locally or imported, are bought competitively
following the practices appropriate to industry. Metals, which form a large
part of the imports, are procured at London or other free iLnterntational
market quotations. Some proprietary items which make up about 5% of the
total are integral with the design of the finished equipment and require
continuity of source of supply, but were originally chosen with cost a con-
sideration. The balance of requirements are obtained by Tull international
tendering unless it is known that only a few sources are available when
tenders are invited from all of those qualified.
5.07       Equipment not produced in India or not yet produced in sufficient
quantity for immediate requirements, such as large capacity microwave
systems, coaxial cable equipment, underground cables, copper-clad line
wire, and a wide range of test equipment would be imported after full inter-
national competition.
VI. DISBURSEMENT
6.o0       Disbursement of Bank/IDA funds would be made for the CIF cost
incurred directly by P&T in importing, for the purpose of the project,
equipment, cables, and materials for manufacture in their workshops.



-7-
6.02       With respect to materials and components imported by the Govern-
ment factories, it is proposed to disburse, as with Credit 58-IN, against
invoices to P&T', a predetermined percentage representing the average foreign
exchange content of the product mix required from each factory during the
program. These were ascertained during the appraisal mission to be:
for ITI:   20% of selling price
for HTL:   13% "
for HCL:   55%
These percentages will be subject to review if substantial changes
ocCUr in material prices or exchange rates during the period covered.
6.03       P&T has not yet committed any- expenditure for imported equipment
for the project.  Factory purchases from April 1, the start of the project,
to mid June will have a foreign exchange content of less than US$2 mpillion
agairnst which disbursement is proposed.
6.04       As the loan/credit will finance an initial arbitrary time span
of an ongoing program it will not be necessary to stipulate cancellation
of excess funds.
VII. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
7.01       The two most seriousshortcomings of Indian telecommunications
service at the present time are: (i) delay in providing connections even
to subscribers for whom telecommunications service is most important for
production and commerce, and (ii) inadeauacv of long-distance facilities.
These deficiencies stem largely from shortage of investment resources,
especially foreign exchange.   Over the last nine years, India has ir.esed
each year in telecommunications expansion an average of about 0.17% of GDP
or about 1.2% of Gross TnvPestment.  Plan allocations for the comi.in five
I.ears have been stepped up to about 0.23% of GDP (assuming attainment of
the Government target of 5-6%( G7DP growt.h rate, compared with 3.5% over the
past iiine years), and about 1.9% of likely Gross Investment. In relation
to GDP, the new allocatinn remains low, even by comparison with other Asian.
countries, but in relation to anticipated national investment, it is quite
high.  Shortage of investment resources, rather than ny lack of executive
capacity, is the effective constraint on the size of the telecommunications
detvel onpmnt. prog-ram.
7.n2       For the limited funds available, the expansion p-lanned by P&T is
large. Relating the total costs of the program to the number of direct
lines to be provided, the average C08t --r line is so-ue 10-15/0 below wial
could be expected on the basis of CCITTV studies comparing recent telecom-
L/ Comite Consultatif International Telegraphique et Telephonique



-8-
munications development in ten countries.  This suggests that in India
teleconmmunications equipment, most of which comes from the domestic fac-
tories, has relatively lor installed cost.
7.03      Nevertheless, within the budget available, it will be hard for
P&T to deal effectively with the problem of delay in providing connections.
Demand for telephone lines is likely to continue to grow at least at the
trend rate of 13% experienced over the last nine years, but the number of
lines available will grow at only about 11%. Hence, even though telephone
density will rise from 0.20 per 100 population to about 0.30 in 1974, the
waiting list may also be expected to grow from 500,000 to about a million
in 1974. P&T has long faced the prospect of a growJing gap between demand
and supply.  To help ration telephones equitably - and to help raise funds
for expansion - a scheme was introduced in 1949 known as Own Your Telephone
(OYT) umder which a orospective subscriber who is prepared to make a rela-
tively large capital deposit (now US$400 equivalent in the big cities) re-
ceives priority in the allocation of connections that become available with
exchange expansion. Early in 1968, the OYT option was made available to
new applicants on all exchanges over 1,000 lines so that it now applies in
areas accounting for 70% of existing exchange capacity. Serious considera-
t-ion. is being giuen to extending the scheme to all exchanges. Certain very
limited categories of applicant are exempted from the capital deposit. Even
under the OYT scheme; a waiting list o' nearly 100,000 has been allowed to
accumulate, and some OYT applicants have been waiting more than five years.
Arn apropriate tnrget ifor PMT rinld be to get to the position in 1974 where
all OYT demands could be met within six months of application;   to reach such
a target it !ould be necessary to give OYT demands much greater priority
than ,hey have had in the past in the planning of exchange expansion.
7.04      About 54Z of total plan investment is allocated for expansion of
e l-ocal tellerphone ne+orkS, i.e. rrai.n]y pro-ision,-nf ne1w connections and
of facilities for local calls. The exchange areas in which expansions Will
be compr,leted o-ver- the ne{xt three years (i.e. b4y the eno of fiscal 1971/72).
if the proposed loan/credit is made available, are already fairly firmly
fixed.  For purposes of analysis, town.s and cities have been divided into
11 different groups. The analysis 1/ suggests that revenues relating to
provision of new connections and of_ local cflling facilities (assuming im-
plementation of the proposed new tariffs) will yield a rate of return to
P&T on the total investment involved of about 66%, although these financial
returns will vary widely among areas. The estimated economic rate of return,
including conservative allowances for the val-ue of connection  nd local
service benefits for which subscribers do not reimburse PiT, shows less vari-
ation among areas and generally a-verages about 25%.  The comparable economic
rate of return on the marginal telephone added at the end of the three
l/ Presented with other material supporting this chapter in an annex on
Economic Aspects available on request to the Office of the Director,
Projects.



-9-
year period will generally range between 20 and 25% in the various areas,
but it will be around 30% 1n RnmhAv- this rpflepts in npi- the need to
give attention to reducing the waiting period under the OYT scheme which
is nqrtiruilatrly seimriousr there.
7-05       The proposed loan/credit w411 plar a moi^o  -ole in   1     -aigwt
the second problem cited - long-distance communication.   India's sheer size
means th+ long=di_tace telecomulcation is of special p----4-c t--o ef-
t.   J.UIFWL'J  I.Q.I.   tel  l
ficient operation of the economy; it also means that large quantities of
capi+al aerequired to provide adeguate service. The fo-mtooia
LI   -     4..L U LW  J.jLUV.LVUC  Q.UC'-UQALe   OC L V.L.e . LL  ULU-  L WC;.L_J.LU~.LUCL
areas of Calcutta, Bombay, Delhi and Madras, which are the controlling
cen.ters of the Indian econromy, each to a degree specialized in particular
economic roles, are separated from one another by over 1,000 km, or a two-
>-1    P, -   - - - _  Y S - -   --   _  A4 .  __- __  m ;_   _ -1  _ _   _n_ _n_ X _ __   -   _ - -   _, --   _ I  _ 1  I   _  _ __
WLA.64C JUU_Llt:y *Y .LLUe ULIy vruLm Lze.LepL±:1UL1tl  rvace j.v a ± ae ueL, ween
them is manually operated, with delays seldom falling below half an hour,
and, at busy times, o ten exceeding that.   Trunk service To and among minor
cities is generally subject to more serious delays.   Most trunk calls are
cut off after six minutes due to the pressure oI demand.
(.u v      About 2776 oI program investment is designated for provision of
trunk switching facilities and large blocks of trunk circuits, primarily
to enabie STD among 55 of the principal towns in the country accounting for
66% of subscribers. Sound forecasting of trunk telephone traffic is no-
toriously difficult, but a reasonable expectation would be 500 million calls
in 1973/74 (compared with 95 million in 1967/68), implying that traffic on
routes converted to STD will increase immediately some 13 times in terms
of numbers of calls.   Immediate traffic increases on the 16 routes converted
to point-to-point STD over the last nine years have ranged between 4 and
50 times. To carry 500 million calls in 1973/74, about 23,000 trunk cir-
cuits would be required. P&T's plan actually provides some 10,000 circuits
more than this, which is wise since the marginal cost of additinnal circuits
on a route is not large, traffic increases on conversion to STD are so
variable, shortage of circuits causes serious congestion, and, with STD,
no allocation of priorities among calls is possible. Actual growth of traf-
fic will need to be kept under careful surveillance to ensure correct pro-
portioning of circuits to traffic.
7.07       Three separate benefits from the provision of STD and broadband
transmission can be identified: savings in P&T's operating and maintenance
costs, increased revenues to P&T due to the large traffic increase, and
benefits to subscribers in the form of lower charges per minute of conver-
sation time and reduced delays in obtaining trunk calls. Sample calcula-
tions, based on conservative assumptions about traffic growth, but assuming
correct proportioning of circuits to actual traffic, indicate that each of
these benefits yields a sigificant return to the initial capital investment
required. The total return of about 75% per annum is a reasonable approx-
imation to the conomic rate of return on the principal long-distance in-
vestment under the program.



- 10 -
7.08       Domestic telegram traffic is not an area of rapid growth (only
2.4% per annum over the last five years) and in total it may even fall with
large-scale expansion of STD and telex. It will continue to be important
on some minor routes, for which some investment will be required, but the
majority of the Rs 170 million expenditure planned under telegraph (nearly
4% of the total) will go to telex. First introduced in 1963, telex has
sustained an annual increase of more than 50% in subscribers in recent years.
The program provides for increasing the number of telex connections from
some 3,000 now (two-thirds of them in the four metropolitan areas) to over
12,000 in 1974. A conservative calculation indicates that the rate of return
to P&T on telex is presently about 50%. The 20% increase in tariffs now
planned would seem to be justified only as a temporary rationing measure
while demand for telex runs far ahead of suDplv: oresently it is double.
7.09       P&T has a judicious and inventive anproach to the nroblem of
rural telecommunications. The planned allocatinn of about Rs 200 million,
somewhat under 5% of the total nrogram, will eover nrincipally extension
of rural trunk open wire lines and provision of public telegraph and tele-
phone offices in villages=   Rural telecommminina ini,n sericeP is fr from
adequate to support the agricultural upsurge that is taking place in some
areas and that Government wants to see extended over the country. *    ever-
theless, in view of the pervasive shortages, P&T has naturally to be fairly
restri.ctivpe RTirrl teloph+n/+c1lar,ph of'ices are    r4d i        esponse
to local requests provided they yield a net return to P&T of about 10% of
capital inve-sted; in a-ddition cert-a4n 1imited catgoie    ofplce,uc
as those of administrative importance or sizeable population, are eligible
for provision provided the shortfall fromr this return is within certain
limits. Valuable research and development are underway on two systems which
s JJ.,~±.1 ±.LULEsUD lJ DULV     .     'I .U I tLjCiC(UIILC5tlUU>
problem - (i) small scale point-to-point STD between exchanges in agri-
cultural projLect areas, and (ii) various tvypes of vnx equlpmentv, particu-
larly single-channel systems as a cheaper means than open wire line for
linking village offices to the Main networks.
7 In Mvisl         v                                                   2 _&nv  a  c&UI ;UZ8vEUUiUC U-~
7.10    The. quntfcaio       f  h   CULUJ; ret=urn alttemipted here indi-
cates a wide range of rates of return. The exceptionally high returns attri-
butable 'to investvment 'in the interurban trunk network and in telex show the
validity of putting such great stress on expansion in these fields as P&T's
program does. Rates of return on planned local network expansion are also
substantial; 'marginal returns to further expansion in different areas fall
within a fairly narrow range, although they are above average in Bombay, as
pointed out. These factors suggest that the overall expansion program is
quite well balanced., A reasonable average figure for the economic rate of
return on the total program investment would be about 40%.
VIII. THE OPERATING ENTITY
8.01       A chart showing broadly the organizational structure and func-
tional responsibilities in P&T appeurs at Annex 5. A Government department,
P&T comes under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Information, Broadcast-
ing and Communications. It is controlled by a seven member Board of Di-



rectors made up of the six top executives under the Chairmanship of the
Director- General, who also holds the ra-, kf Secretny'r in the M-inistrv. in
which he .as other responsibilities in the Telecommunications Sector. Only
tvhe Mirister of Commu-lnications, the 1iUnister of State for PrT, and the Fi-
nance Minister to whom the Finance M4ember of the Board has some direct
responsibility, come above the P&T Boa-rd in 'Line ofP responsib-i1ty  an ar-
rangement which would seem to give P&T a large measure of autonomy.
8.02      Within the Directorate, responsibilities are divided functionally
under tne six heads shown on the chart, but below this level a comp'lcated
arrangement has evolved in which there are 29 separate units, some with a
territorial responsibility, some with a functional responsibility, and each
reporting independently to Delhi. Originally, there were 15 territorial
divisions known as Circles under the control of Postmasters Genera'l wh'o
were responsible for both Postal and Telecommunications operations. As
privately-operated telephone systems in the major cities were taken over by
P&T, or as growth of metropolitan telephone systems was considered to justify
it, nine separate posts of Telephone Manager were created to assume the
telephone responsibility only. A similar process established four Regional
Controllers responsible for the large capacity long-distance systems running
through several Circles, and there is a further unit responsible for major
installation work outside the eight largest cities. Thus, there are two,
three, and in one case, four separate administrative units in the large
cities, separately responsible to Delhi for different aspects of telecommuni-
cations, while in the smaller centers all telecommunications aspects,together
with those of Postal and Savings, are the responsibility of one administra-
tive unit.
8.03      In respect of technical innovation, including a large contribution
to setting up and continuing to fill the key posts in manufacturing indus-
tries, P&Tts engineers have over 20 years achieved a record of progressive
thinking and constructive action. Some of the decisions taken in the 1950's
and earlv 1960ts were bold in the light of the information available at that
time, but events have proved their soundness.
8.04      By contrast, reform of the organization and management and of fi-
nancial controls within the entity to cone with current and foreseeable
needs of what is now a major commercial undertaking has lacked in decisive
action. At nresent. the Board can take no reformative action because GOIts
Administrative Reforms Commission is studying the organization of the P&T
Board and the whole administrative structure of the department.   In August
1967, the Commission set up a Working Group to examine the position and make
recommendation9s_. Tn M.qv 19681 the Group submitted a preliminarv report cov-
ering the more fundamental issues. The report is understood to have covered
the constit-ution of the Board, the question of senaration of Posts from Tele-
communications, whether P&T or the Communications Branch should be set up as
a y   -tic c.o and +the questinn nf delegation of authority and res-
ponsibility within the organization. The report is still confidential.



- 12 -
8.05      One shortcoming of the organization, which stems from the rather
large number of independent units responsible directly to the Directorate,
is that there is too great a concentration of detail and coordination in
Delhi, and insufficient autonomy in the outlying units. In consequence, a
disproportionate effort is consumed in internal correspondence and procedure
compared with that which goes into physical execution. On the past pattern,
the situation will deteriorate as growing telephone systems are splintered
off to form further new units, unless a basic change is made. It would be
preferable if there were decentralization of most telecommunications func-
tions to four regional organizations of considerable autonomy located at the
largest centers, and each responsible for all telecommunications functions
in the surrounding three or four of the present territorial divisions.
8.o6      Another shortcoming is the combination under the one entity of
the two operations of Posts and Telecommunications. They are large enough
operations to stand alone, they are expanding at different tempos and have
widely different requirements for staff, accommodation and finance. In fact,
the operations are in the main carried out independently except at the level
of the Postmasters General in the Circles and in the Directorate where com-
mon services such as finance, accounts, public relations and stores have to
cover an unnecessarily wide span of interest.  At the Board level, both opera-
tions are represented and the danger is that policies of compromise will be
followed becauise the two services must have uniform treatment. This leads
to the conclusion that Telecommunications would better be separated from
Posts from ministerial level down to the point where some mutual provision
of services on a commercial agency basis would occur in suburban or rural
areas.
8.y7      These views were discussed with the Director General and the Minis-
ter. At present, all initiative rests with the Administrative Reforms Com-
misson and subsequently with Government, and, az the issues are not without
controversy, there is no judging when or to what extent active reforms might
result.  Although some reform iS considered to be verv desirable for the
future efficient operation of P&T, it is not considered to be an issue that
will Ieopard ze the physical prosecution of the project. During negotia-
tions agreement was obtained that GOI will consult in advance with the
Bank about any plan for the reorganization of the Telecomm-nicattions Branch.
8o0       Pal has astaPf of   bout, 10,000 ( ork.ing on telecommunicat1ions
excluding 7,000 engaged in their own workshops and casual laborers employed
for unskilled work such as cable trench4ng.  The work includes the adminis-
tration, operation, and maintenance of the system and the construction of
ail capital works. The number engaged in traditio0nal sph-res such as the
telegraph service is rather high, but, for political reasons, it is diffi-
cuit to reduce it.  Instead, the policy is to introduce less labor-inte__ive
technical advances, such as automatic subscriber trunk dialling, at staff
establishment standards comparable to those usedu in more advanced countries
so that, with expansion, the relative number of total employees will fall.
This necessitates recruiting basically better educated employees, giving
them specialist training and paying them higher rates commensurate with
their skill and responsibilities.



- 13 -
8.09      Currently about 7,000 employees per annum are put through training
courses of different levels at a number of training centers. The courses,
which sandwich theory between periods of practical work, are revised from
time to time to meet current needs and are being expanded to cater for about
10,000 per year in the next two years. This is satisfactory.
Financial Reorganization - Telecommunications Branch
8.10      The accounting system of the Telecommunications Branch, similar
to the accounting systems of other government departments, is designed pri-
marily to control cash and does not provide management with adequate timely
information. For this reason GOl, at the request of IDA, engaged accounting
consultants in July 1964 to review the accounting procedures of the Telecom-
munications Branch of the P&T Department. The main recommendations of the
consultants were the establishment of an accounting staff within and under
control of P&T with internal controls and audit, and the reorganization of
the accounting system along commercial lines. Both recommendations have
been accepted in principle by GOI and a Presidential Order dated Narch 1,
1968, was issued providing for the separation of the telecommunications ac-
counts from the Comptroller and Auditor General (C&AG).
8.11      Since then, GOI has taken important steps towards establishing com-
mercial accounting for the Telecommunications Branch (Detailed information
is given in Annex 6). The transfer of the accounting function from the C&AG
to P&T is a major change in the government structure and affects some 1,800
government emDlovees. apnroximatelv 900 of whom will be involved in a change
of domicile.  Thle transfer is taking place by regional units according to a
time schedule established by F&T. Thus far, about . LW% of the units have been
transferred, ith completion scheduled for -Septerber 1970.   This is a
reasonable schedule.
8,12      initial steps have al- been ten        make the necessary changes
in P&T's internal financial organization as recommended by the consultants.
All the key appointments have been made, although onl a skeleton staff i
so far available for the financial section.
8.13      Furthermore, P&T has started to prepare pro forma commercial ac-
C-olnts in nadAition tor th  .srt   ah   ze    accounts.  T.i practice willf
continue for several years until parliamentary action is taken to substitute
-h om1-ca acou.t     fo -.ll   forL VLAe prse.t10U1 accotU.L
*~'S  'SJ. 6--W..  LSU VJJ.1r  L C ) a LA. %A6 JSVJ-%LLO.J  VJ9Z.1Jx±,CL J11  J.JAWUV-I  L,d,.LL(V~U  Uq-
expected until the Telecommunications Branch has full administrative control
over its oWn accountz, which is sc1--.ed 'd   fr         170.   The s4eHs now
being taken will establish a firm basis for the change.
8.15      P&T   was    requested by the Bank to define a plan of action and
goal;:s and  lU L;>I1 e l a tLimIetalU1ue f ior the imlermentabion o0  a numDer of the
consultants' recommendations. At the time of negotiations, the Bank
d.iscussed i-r.n:id veached agreement on the.,e issues.  It was 0onfir.od  that
those recommendations P&T has scheduled for implementation will be carried



-   Is4 
out, and agreement was reached on implementation of those recommendations
for which goals and timetables had not yet been established. Annex 7 con-
tains major recommendations, with time schedules where applicable, wnich
were agreed to during negotiations.
8.16      Two areas requiring attention are billing and collection and stores
stock control. There has been an excess of subscriber accounts owed, mainly
due to the outmoded billing and collection procedures. This area is under
study by a comnittee chaired by a Minister of State; until the study is com-
pleted and the findings and decisions known, we will be unable to discuss
P&T's plan of action for making needed improvement in this area. The comit-
tee is expected to complete its study in the third quarter of 1969 and will
advise the Bank of the results.
8.17      The value of stores is in excess of what it should normally be,
due mainly to a lack of proper stock control methods as well as uncoordinated
ordering by the various units of P&T. It'is advisable for P&T to engage out-
side assistance to helD set up an effective system for stock control. Con-
currently with taking steps to engage outside assistance, P&T will seriously
consider establishine a distinct career service for stores which would provide
a continuity of personnel interested in this type of work. Under the present
arrangement. the key nArsonnel of stores are eneineers on short-term assign-
ments whose experience and interests lie in the technical field and wiho
have little kno'ledrge of stoek control m-ethods. During negotiations, agreement
was obtained that qualified outside assistance, satisfactory to the Bank, will
be retained no later than Decemher 3'l  1969 to help estahlish an effective
system for stock control and, further, in conjunction with the work of the
consultants, P&T will undertake a study to determine the advisabhility of
establishing within P&T a career service for the stores organization, and
the results of the study will be fu-rnished to the Baknot ro lat- r t-hain December
31, 1970.
Audit
8.18      Under the Constitution, the C&AG is responsible for auditing govern-
~ .,..~,,..4s.  Ue-4~ ~, 4-h appo4vI- -+lr             ,ff-  ~I''5j
.t.t accow.n.  JLe -A   LAApoi.e by W" e Pres-ident mand holds offlce for si-
years. The C&AG discharges his audit responsibilities in P&T through one
of his subordinate officer, the Accountt General, P&T, who has under his
control seven branch audit offices.  In addition to auditing, the Accountant
Uerer'aL i9s respons.ible for [aint1 in.drJ.LL g L.s aC.ML4ts. As P&T t  es over the
accounting function of the Telecommunications Branch, the Accountant General
W.il, ifl respect of this particular Branch, be responsible onSly for auditing
8.19      in the past, there has been a lengty- delay of about ten months
before the final audited accounts wJere available, due mainly to an abnormal
amount of detail and checking as a result of the separation of the account-
ing function from the operating entity. With P&T assuming the accounting
function, it is expected that the delay will be reduced, and with the separa-



- 15 -
tion of auditv from accounts its independence shouid be assured.  In addition
to the Accountant General's audit of the cash accounts, there will be an
additioral audit of the commercial accounts by the C&AGis Commercial Audit
Department which has the assigned duty of auditing firms in the public sector.
8.20      This audit arrangement is satisfactory.  During negotiations it
was agreed that the final audited commercial accounts, together with the
audit reports relating to both the commercial accounts and the cash accounts,
would be transmitted promptly to the Bank after they are available, and the
unaudited statements would be made available, beginning with the accounts
ending Miarch 31, 1971, no later than four months after the close of each
fiscal year.
Tariffs
8.21      Proposals for tariff changes are formulated within P&T and re-
viewed and approved by the P&T Board. They are required to be placed before
both Houses of Parliament for a period of 30 day's. Normally, there is little
delay in effecting changes. Present tariffs are comparable to those in
more developed countries. A summary of tariffs is given in Annex 8.
8.22      There are no regulations establishing a specific tariff policy,
but tariffs have been increased broadly in line with increases in the price
level. The latest principal tariff increases occurred as follows:
January 1966:  telephone exchange connections and
trunk call charges
July 1967:     telex charges and installation fees
January 1968:  OYT deposits
May 1968:      telegranh charges
May 1969:      telephone, telegraph and telex charges.
8.23      The latest tariff adjustment effective May 1969 will result in a
5.6% increase in revenues.  The forecast rflnects this.
Present Financial Position
8.24      The acconnts of the Tel ecog-^mmicationrs adA Postal  r-anches are
kept separate and all financial data in this report apply only to the Tele-
communieationnrs Thsrich.
8.25~     As a governm.ent departC.ent, u2.T'sf4^.re fo. par ....  theNa
tional Budget. The internally generated funds and "Own Your Telephone" pay-
ments are paid ir.to var±ous fun.ds held by G-overnmen.t an,d partia'Ly- m,ade avail-
able to P&T through appropriation by parliamentary action. Funds made avail-
aqe to the Tele^o-nI -catioons Branch by GOI, in excess of those internally
generated, are called "capital-at-charge"t and consist of Central Government
contribution,s and foreigL exchange loans borrowed by GOI on behnalf oI the
Branch, such as the past two IDA credits. GOI has the responsibility for
ser-vicig Uhe debt of these loans.   `Capital-aTv-charge" is treated as
a non-repayable loan to PL.T on which  annual interest at 6 3/4% is p id.



8.26      P&T's cash accounts do not provide a basis for a meaningful fi-
nnnnixkl ara;-s    No profit -ar. loss stat-ement or balance shet --4 eard
The method for depreciation has been to make arbitrary contributions to a
RPnew.als Reserve Ln-d which is restricted as to its use by   the      --a
administered outside the Department by the Ministry of Finance. Substantial
anr1-tS of capital works are chaJrgeed ardLraally as ex-pense.  'In ordUer to pre-
sent a realistic financial picture, a pro forma commercial presentation of
+.%Q _fs ^_A > * > > 5 2 -          -  -A _ __ __!  L.! __   _tC   | _  m_ M_.._
the past an- f-orecast financial operalUtion  ad  positionl of the Telecomuni
cations Branch is presented in this report, including balance sheets, profit
and loss stat,em,Xents and eash flow stvatements (Annexes 9, 10 and II, res-
pectively).
8.27      In constructing a pro forma balance sheet for the purpose of this
report, "capital-at-charge- is divided between: (i) Central Government con-
tribution, which, with reserves, would in a commercial sense be considered
eq-uity, and (ii) long-term debt in foreign exchange, which, together with
a repayable Government loan, would be considered long-term debt.
8.28      In establishing the Telecommunications Branch's pro forma equity
(reserves and 'icapital-at-charge"f representing Central Government contribu-
tions) as of March 31, 1965, the reserves are taken as those amounts which
were identifiable as coming from the entity's operations.  The amount of
Central Government contributions served as a balancing figure between the
amount of total assets (net of current liabilities) and the sum of long-
term debt (see item ii previous paragraph), reserves and deferred credit.
From 1965 on, reserves and "capital-at-charge" representing Central Govern-
ment contributions reflect the amount of net profit transferred to reserves,
and Central Government contributions are the balancing item as shown in the
sources and applications of funds. On the foregoing assumptions, a summary
of the estimated pro forma balance sheet as of March 31, 1969 is as folloTws:
Assets                                                        Rs Million
Net fixed assets                                              3.301
Net current assets                                             248
Deferred charges                                               162
Total Assets                                             3,711
Liabilities
quity - Capital-at-charae representing Central
Government contributions                            1,879
Reserves                                                        910
Total B4uity                                        7;78-
Long-term debt - Government loan                               126
Canital-at-charge renresenting foreien
exchange loans                                 599
Total lone-t.erm ridht l  e rP,itrrAnt mtutm rities
DeTfeTrred credi+t                                              117
Totanl TLiabilities                                       ,71-1



8.29      The Indian rupee was devalued in June 1966 from Rs 4.76/US$l to
PRw 7 .5O/ UQl. The L&T did not revalue its telecommunications plant. The
asset register recently prepared by the Department records plant at his-
torical cost, as do the pro forma commercial accounts presented in this
report. A revaluation does not appear necessary now: the growth in amount
of new plant since the rupee devaluation has been substantial - an estima-
ted 65% by the close of fiscal year 1969/70; a considerable portion of
the value oT' elecommunications plant is local cost and tnat part which
was imported wias subject to overall customs of about 60%.
8.30      With the introduction of commercial accounting concepts and
the st-ipulations of a rate of return covenant, the value of the plant
will, attain a basic significance and should therefore be reviewed from
time to time in order to determine whether adjustments should be made on
account of variations in the applicable price levels. During negotiations,
agreement was obtained that, whenever appropriate, and in any case at
least every five years, P&T would review the value of net fixed assets in
operation of the Telecommunications Branch to determine whether adjust-
ments are required, and appropriate adjustments to the value of net fixed
assets in the commercial accounts would be made to the extent agreed
between GOI and the Bank. The effects of a change in the stated value
of P&T's fixed assets on the rate of return calculations will be careful-
ly assessed at the time such a change is made.
Past Earnings
8.31      Pro forma profit and loss statements for the past five fiscal
years ending March 31 are shown in Annex 10. Upward tariff adjustments and
substantial additions to plant permitted the Telecommunications Branch
to increase its revenues from Rs 646 million in 1964/65 to an estimated
Rs 1,146 million in 1968/69. The rate of return for the same five-year
period ranged between 10.9% and 13.9% and the operating ratio varied between
65% and 72%, which is satisfactory. Earnings for the past five years have,
on a notional basis, financed a substantial portion of the entity's re-
quirements as shot.n in the following table:



1964/65-1968/69
Rs Million   S
Tntmrnllvr agnnrat.ed fi,ms                                    2 ooL      73
Less:  debt service                                              574      21
N+et in+trnal cash generation                               .TWo0      __F
nVT %nnon1-mn+.Q                                                 1
Borrowings                                                       576      21
,entral f1  r 'r~n ontcontributions                              AQ       23
2,751     100
Cost of construction including working capital increase        2,439      88
fosla-l 'Wrancln, paymn'.s                                       312- 
2,751     100
The loss on postal operations has been subsidized by the Telecommunications
Dranci In uth  avournx oU.. nRs _)i mir±13uon over- Ulie pasd-ts f-Lve years;  VI IAD
amounts to about 25% of the Branch's net operating income for the period.
IX. FUTURE FINANCES
Financing Plan
9.01      Financial requirements for the three-year period of the proposed
Bank project, and the total five-year r )gram, are summarized as follows:
.-od f, U >'; 2ro-  rr.osa,l T:)-.o -
Ci  US  -A   liJcUJJ4  .. I' ~ .  UC.  - -   2>l
ject 196 9/7---7 /72   1>69/70-1973/74
IL-.             B.~~~~~~~~~0-  I T'!
Million i.11ion  %   ;t.llion Ufllion %
iAv  cL L .f:mQ15 .[ !;-':'                                       -
USt.atj U<>1. +(oiT1tLruck Gfon      2,72T     361   89   4,678      6 l2  90
-   f,K-Ius Q -   fl,-,J               I1%       f    pfl
lWJorking capital increase              183      24    6     345      46    6
T otal rug  eriei±Lus              ),t7      L4UL4 ±UU  2,C._J    U,71  J U&J
Sources
Internal cash generation             2,028      270  67    4,057     541   78
Less: debt service                      716      Y)   24   1,283     171 2I
Net internal cash                   1,312     175 7hY    2,77T     370 -33
OYT payments                            93       12    3     143      19    3
Central Government contributions       850      113   28  1i,12      158   22
Borrowings:
Proposed Bank/IDA loan               412       55   14     412      55    8
Proposel Canadian credit             245       33    8     245      33    5
Future borrowings related to
the project                       117       16   4      117      16    2
Future borrowings                      -        -    -     350      46    7
Total sources                   3,029   -TO    100    5,223     697  100



9.02      The above table is shown as if the Telecommunications Branch
actually nad full use of its funds.  On this basis, net internal cash genera-
tion for the three-year period of the project would be 43% of total require-
ments; borrowings, the detail of which is given below, would amount to 26%;
and OYT payments, 3%; Government would contribute 28%. In actual fact, the
total requirements of the Telecommunications Branch would be met by specific
Government appropriations under the Parliamentary grant system, as in pre-
vious year.
9.03      Requirements assume annual payments to the Postal Branch amounting
to Rs 80 million in 1969/70, which has already been budgeted, and Rs 30
million annually thereafter. These are included because in the past sub-
stantial amounts have been diverted from the Telecommunications Branch to
subsidize the Postal Branchis losses (see para. 8.31). This was discussed
with the Director General, who stated that the postal operation was not sub-
sidized as a matter of policy, rather it occurred as a result of delays in
obtaining increases in postal rates. During negotiations, agreement was
obtained that funds of the Telecommunications Branch will not be diverted
to the Postal Branch or any other use unless all funds required for carrying
out the project are available to the Branch. It was also agreed that, for
,urroses of calculatinp the interest Oi canital-at-charge, the amount of
interest payable vill be corputed after reducirg the capital-at-charge by
the anount of airv funds diverted to the Postal Branch.
9.0h      The following are the borrowings assumed for the P&T program and
GOI as the borrower (see para. 8.25). The financial statements in this
renort show the Telecommunications Branch naving annual interest at 6 3/14
on the total amount of these borrowings, which form part of the P&T's capital-
nt-charge-  ThA amount of interest on capital-at-charge paid hv the Brnnch
would cover the actual debt service payable by the Government with consi-
derable m a rgin n
(a)  Proposed Bank loar a   IDA credit totallirc 3S$55 million
equivalent with terms for the Bank portion assumed at 6 1/2%
per annum and a ter-m of 30 years,  iur     a grace period
of 10. years. The IDA portion is assumed at the usual
DMA credit te+ms.
(b) PDroposed Ca.dian   .ternat-ional Develpot-   r.   credit
of US$32.6 million equivalent at no interest or commitment
charge and a terr, of  years, inc-uding a grace pe -oa
of 10 years.
(c) Future borrowings totalling US$67.9 million equivalent at
term,-s simillar- to an DA credi..
Future Operating Results
9.05      Forecast statements of earnings for the five-year period 1969/70-
1973/74 are shown in Annex 10, together with notes and assumptions.



-20-
9.06      Additional revenue is expected to accrue as a result of the con-
struction program, which is designed to improve and expand the long-distance
and local service facilities as well as the telex network.     Net operating
income would increase from an estimated Rs 325 million in 1968/69 to Rs 726
million in 1973/7?.   Total operating revenues over the five-year period show
an average annual rate of growth of 15% with telephone revenue estimated
to grow at an average annual rate of 17%, telegraph by 4%, and telex, which
is newly established, by about 25%. Operating expenses not including de-
preciation nrovide for an average annual increase of 1h%.
9.07      The rate of return on average net plant in service is shown to
decline from 13.3% in 1969/70 to 11.7% in 1971/72, the last year of the
Bank/IDA project. and thereafter to rise to 12.31 and 12.8% in 1972/73 and
1973/74, respectively. The operating ratio remains fairly constant at
between 69% and 71% du1ring the forecast period.
Fu+ture 7:1-rancital  Q 1oSt-Ann
9.08      Forecast balance sheets (.vnnex Q) as of Iv7srch 31; 1969/70 through
1973/74 show that the value of net plant in service is expected to increase
from Rs 2,7).1 i,411-J. at the b  rn=n4   of fiscala1   196SQ/70 to RR ';973
at the end of 1973/74. The debt/equity ratio is shown to be 20/80 in
'1%4 90 sn0/75 in . L4S   'I   -1071 79 .^ er i   r emai nn for t he la  t  hree
years of the forecast. These ratios reflect the financing pattern where, in
a.AA4 4-4 on- 4-C..4 1ne nal '            ln.CL,w.my      nc g     ¶hI+r,3
dA.L U.oL toU  nLa.a              furLds, +he Go. ernmen.t has made substantiml
contributions which are treated as capital-at-charge (see para. 8.27).
9.09       Internal cash generation is estimated to increase from Rs 506 mil-
iLnl 1 £70 0/ a  LA. ft .Onl~Y I[L±Z -L    I ± 1) I4  -4 g A~ UVL'      v L.   VV.S
lion i   986      o R s 1,093 rrILLi-on iLn 1 97 3 "71 cov%e.Lng deb  service  een
2.6 and 3.7 times during the forecast period.    This is satisfactory.   In-
ternal cash generation less debt service would amou-n- to about 3% of the
total requirements during the five-year period of the expansion program.
This is a substantial contribution considering Lhat the entiityts total net
fixed assets would double.
Rate Covenant
9.10      At the time of the last two IDA credits (28-IN and 58-IN), the
Telecommunications Branch was unable to provide data for a meaningful calcula-
tion of an average rate of return on net fixed assets in operation. The
tariff covenants under these two credits were based on the entity financing
a reasonable portion (35%) of the cost of expansion and replacement of fa-
cilities. This requirement was met. During negotiations, it was agreed
that a tariff covenant based on the pro forma commercial accounts would be
applied in the form of a rate of return on average net plant in service.
This tariff covenant will .rovide thle Tank and the entity with a measurement
o- operational performance less susceptible to fluctuations than the con-
tribution concept.



-21-
9.11      During negotiations, it was agreed that the Telecommunications
Branch would maintain its tariffs at a level to assure a minimum rate of
return of 11% on average net fixed assets in service.   The valuation of
fixed assets is covered by the agreement described in para. 8.30.
X. RECOIUNDATIONS
10.01     The project is suitable for a Bank loan, with a term of 30 years
including a grace period of ten years, and an IDA credit,totalling Us$55
million.
Jnme 2. 1969



INDIA: POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS
RECORIDED ANDI FOIRECAST DEMANI), EXCHANGE CAPACIITY
ANID CONNECTED LINES * _    ,_2
25                          _ __  _  -i- r_      -            2_.
J/~~~~
2.0-                           - DE-M       F'LANNE                   r 2.0
15-        !-           - _  _X               __    __      .
_--_           E ~~~~INES CONNELCTED
-THIRD PLAN                           _FCOURTFD PLMAN  _ 
C60 61 6 2. 63 64 6 5 6 667 6 86E 6c70 71 172 7 'I's 74°
0  -ACTUAL                          -                 -ESTIN1ATED            >
z~~~
YEAR ENDIING MARCH 31                                   Z
IE.RD- 435 5 X



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
POSTS AND TFLEGRAPHS DE?PRJAIENT
TELECOMMU1ICATIONS RLANCHI
Estinted Capital Expenditure By Years
3969/70 to 1973/74
Fourth 5-Year Plan Period (in Re millions)
Total                              Total
1269/70    1970/71    1971/72     1969/72     1972/73    1973/74    1969/7b
Tn cAI Telenhone Svstems
Land and buildings                      36.0       37.0       38.0      111.0        53.0        57.0      221.0
Equipnsnt                              1A06.8      22.7      138.2      367.7       175,2       22994      7723
Outside plant and telephones           147.3      427.6      405.7      980.6       279.9       280.2     1i50,
Sub-total                      290.1      587.3      581.9     1459.3       508.1       566.6      253.4
Trunk Systems
Switching                               21.0       2167. .                           290.7       2.8
Coaxial and other cable systems         73.5      106.0      134.5      314.0       110.5      100.5       525.0
Microwave and other radio systems       38.4      131.0      139.6      309.0        99.7        43.5      452.2
Open wire systems                       47.3       63.3       67.3      177.9        70.8        71.3      320.0
Sudb=total                    180.2       32-55 5    362.6      568.3       310.7       24L.1     Th23.1
Telegraph Systems
Teleix                                  33.0       34.7       33.1      100.8        31.5        27.7      i6o.o
Public Telegraph                         _          1.0        3.0        4.0         3.0         3.0       10.0
S33.0      357        36.1       104.8       3I4.5       30.7      170.0
Other AdministrationS Systems             32.5       31.9       39.5      103.9         30.6       30.5      165.C
Trainnina- Rssenrch nnd Manufacturing     29.1       63.9       76.4      169.4         94.8      121.2      385.14
ToCL: n      ' ,r.3I I  6 5fr    ''?Ofl 97    07f 7      (00 1477.fc
Total             ~.97                   .144)      ±JU)       C''*
Equivalent in U.S. $ millions            75.3       139.2      1146.3     360.8       130.5       132.4      623.7
May 16, 1969



INDIA
POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS DEPARTMENT
TELE']E.OMUNICATIONS IEANCH
Estimated Capita.l Enditure Ey Clasification
1969/70 to 1971,/2 and 1969M7 to 1973/4
'Fourth 5-Year Pl.in Period (in Rs rillion)
Three Years; 1969/70 to 1971/72                        Five TeaLrs 19159/70 to 1973/74
=ipor-Md     Lo;15 inOe        ion        -7y1ir-     13j,o-rtEd       y   mZ>                     5Ya
L l l n ta ent  Equipnant        Costs       Total      Equipment     Epent             Costo       Total
Local Telephce tems
Iand and Buildings                 -              -            1L.0       111.0          -              -            221.0        221.0
Equipment                          -           325.9            41.8        367.7         -             663.5          818.8        772.3
Outside Plant and Telephones     225.0         567.1           188.5        980.6        225.0          880.3         43'.i       1540.7
Sub-total              225.0         893.0           341.3       14L59.3       225.0         1563.8         745.2       2534.o
Ti-unk Sys t-L
Switching                          -            53.1            14.3         67.4         -             598.6          27.3        125.9
Coaxial and other cable systems   44.5         195.9            73.6        314.0         49.5         3,16.9         138.6        525.0
Micrawave and other radio systems  104.3        75.5           129.2        309.0        1145.5        128.1          180.6        452.2
Open lwire systeans               10.0         131.3            36.6        177.9         10.0         245.7           64t3       _320.0
Sub-total              158.8         455.8           253.7       868.3         203.0         809.3          410.8       1423.1
Telegraph Systems
Telex                              -            88.1            12.7        100.8         -            138.9           21.1        160.0
Public Telegraph                   -             3.3             .7          44.0                        8.3            1.7         10.0
Sub-Total                -            91.4            13.4        104.8         _            147.2           22.8        170.0
Other AdninistrationsSystems         -            68.6            35.3        103.9         -            112.9           52.1        165.0
Training Research and Maniufacturing  8.o         20.0          1.41.4        169.4        12.5           31.5           34L.4        385.4
Total                  391.8        1528.8           785.1       2705.7        440.5         26.           ,67775
Equivalent in U.S. $ millions       52,2         203.9           104.7        360.8         58.8          355.3         209.6        623.7   0
MaEy 16, 1969



ANNEX 3
INDIA
POSTS AhD TEIGRAPHS DEPARTIENT
TL.Lo.LJCL40U1 JL,AT'L  I..  J.AJI1NS B.  . 4Lir2. 1Y.Lu
Additional-- Exchar.ge Canacit-
to be commissioned during the 4th Plan Period
MANUAL
Crossbar      STEP BY STEP                       Mg     TCV'r
MAX I MAX II     SAX     CBM    CBNM   neto
1969-70 Additions    20,000  34,000  24,000  17,000  13,000  10,000   200   118,200
Recovery        -     4,000    -      2,000   7,000   8,000   800    21,800
Net increase 20,000  30,000  24,000  15,000   6,000   2,000 (-)600   96,400
1970-71 Additions    41,000  34,000  24,000  17,500  14,000  12,000   200   142,700
Recovery        -       -       -     2,500  15,000   8,000   80u    26, 300
Net increase 41,000  34,000  24,000  15,000 (-)1,000  4,000 (-)600  116,400
1971-72 Additions    55,000  30,000  24,000  17,500  14,000  12,000   200   142,700
Recovery        -       -       -     2,500   9,000   8,ooo   8O0   20,300
Net increase 55,000  30,000  24,000  15,000   5,000   4,000 (-)600  132,400
1972-73 Additions    65,000  36,ooo  24,000  17,500  14,000  12,000   200   168,700
Recovery        -     5,000     _     2,500   3,000   8,000   800    19,300
Net increase 65,000  31,000  24,000  15,000  11,000   4,000 (-)600  149,400
1973-74 Additions    70,000  35,000  24,000  17,500  14,000  12,000   200   172,700
Recovery        -     2,000   2,000   2,500   5,000   8,000   800    20,300
Net increase 70,000  33,000  22,000  15,000   9,000   4,000 (-)600  152,400
Total Net
Tncrease
1969-74     251,000 158,000 113,000  75,000  30,000  18,000 (-)3000 647,000
MAX - Main automatic exchange      CBM - Central battery multiple
_A_ - Satell-fte automati- exchange CBNM- Central battery non multiple
April 17, 1969



ANNEX .4
INDIA                         pg   I of e3
POETS AND TELEGRAPHS DEPARTIiNT
TMNr.nNTfMATTATT0 1. RANTMT
NOTES ON THE TELEM-J ig.CAIOI\'S '/JyM'lCRII G INDUSTRIES
Below is su1mmn-ri7pze  informAtion ahofit. the three Government
factories, ITI, HTL and HCL, and the P&T Workshops which were visited
du-iing" the _aPppraisdal misassion.
1. Tndia              TnAus+-4no Limited:   (TrT)
711ht _sF -Pf4or _whic  co ---- 4  m edR ors_a 4nc in:;n 1 0 it) ic nwTAsa that rOT
.L *.s J_ O  c&L.v t L  | Ws   v - s u -_ X J-   vt__   -  _-   -   -  --
(77%), the Mysore State Government (7%) and by the two collaborating com-
patLes -A AutoBat  -eehn     & Electric- Co,   =ga    (A-) -anI+eatol
'm "V l ut ±  LC: JLCPL.JII   QC  J..L~S  L,L .L _ '.."   .\L5   ' f-~/  -1
Standard Electric Corporation, U.S.A. (for Bell Telephone Manufacturing
Co., Delg,±u1U (12.LC7) oLU WLhUboe dtsvL1sWitciLg euiptLUV"UO is based.   M
employing a staff of 13,000 ITI's production value in 1967/68 was Rs. 203
mrilon kequiVaient to '.0    millionU\J.  iThe product-oUn coUniut  Us 
step and crossbar switching equipment, line and cable carrier systems,
small microwave radio systems, telephones and numerous lesser items of
telecommunication and signalling equipment. P&T buys 85% of the factory's
output, the balance going to other pubXic sector and private users in
India and some to export. The factory production has been established
on the basis of P&TIs expansion plans, and rII plans to increase produc-
tion facilities and establish satellite factories for some lines as the
requirements of P&T and other users increase and as more export markets
become open to it on the expiry of collaboration agreements.
During the three year project P&T's plans call for the purchase
from ITI of equipment to the value of Rs. 619.3 million (US$82.6 million
equivalent). Of this US$16.1 million (about 20%) will represent the fo-
reign exchange content of this equipment. This compares with a foreign
exchange content of 25% in 1964, which rose to about 40% in 1966 on account
of the Rupee devaluation. The principal items out of many still imported
are tempered sheets and strips of nickel-silver, phosphor-bronze, brass
and bi-metals, moulding powder, tissue paper, fine gauge copper wire, re-
sistance wire, phenolic laminates, magnets, ferrites, capacitors, tran-
sistors, diodes, klystrons, measuring instruments, and some piece parts for
crossbar manufacture. Procurement of the above items is through interna-
tional tendering where appropriate; some proprietary items incorporated in
the design of equipment are available from only one source and piece parts
are bought from the collaborating firms which were originally selected on
the basis of international competition.
Prior to 1967, the price of equipment supplied to P&T was on a
cost plus 10% basis, but now there is a fixed price agreement between ITI
and P&T which is subJect to periodic review. In 1967/68 ITI made a return
of 8.8% on capital employed.
Step by step equipment which in value accounts for about 40% of
P&T's nu-rchaRes from ITT has heen manufactured since 1950 and has a foreign
exchange content of only 15%. The selling price to P&T is about 80% of



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 5
the lowest C.I.F. price tendered in recent international competition in
which ITI participated. In US$ equivalent, the price is now 77% of what
it was at the time of the 1964 appraisal.
Crossbar equipment will make up about 30* of the value of
purchases by P&T. Manufacture commenced only in 1966 with a foreign con-
tent of 67%, which has since been reduced to about 25%, and prices to
P&T are due to be adjusted to reflect this. This is expected to bring
about a reduction in price of up to 20%. Even at the present level ITI
prices net of customs duties on raw materials of the most used items of
crossbar equipment are marginally lower than the adjusted CIF value of
the 1963 international competitive bids which led to the choice of this
particular system for initial purchase under the earlier IDA credit and
subsequent manufacture-   A few lesser used items range up to 20% higher
in cost until prices are adjusted.
The balance of P&T's purchases from ITI are made up of trans-
mission equipment such as open wire carrier systems, medium capacity
coaxial cable systems, small capacity microwave systems and voice frequency
telegraph systems.   Detailed equipment design has been by P&T and TrrI
following international standards. Prices for all but small production
i*t.ems have proved to be less than P&T could obtain previously under inter-
national competitive bidding; in the case of channeling equipment, which
mnkes un about 1A o-f      S PD.m'S purchases Irom *LL, about- 70 ' ofte lowest
price tendered.
Apart from new lines of production such as crossbar equipment,
fc e maximum, indigen-sation has yet to be reached, it can be
said that prices to P&T are generally lower than would be expected, in
the Bank'5s experience, to be tendered C.I.F. in international bidding.
This is a substantial improvement over the relative situation at the time
of the 1964 appraisal.
Custom tariffs on imported equipment of this class are in the
60%o to 70% range.
2. Hindustan Teleprinters Ltd. (HTL)
This factory, which is wholly Government owned, commenced opera-
tions in 1960 under a collaboration agreement with Olivetti of Italy.
From initial assembly only of piece parts, it has now developed manufac-
ture to a stage of relative independence from the collaborator on whom it
relies only for special tools and a few piece parts amounting to 8% of
sales value. Staff currently numbers 1,100 and output for 1965/69 will
be 5,000 teleprinters with spares, having a value of about Rs. 35 million.
Production is made up of page type teleprinters for Telex use,
tape type teleprinters for use in P&T's public telegraph system, printing
reperforators tape transmitters and other usual ancillary items.    P&T buys
80%O of the factory's output, the balance going to other public sector users



ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 5
in India or to export, although these export markets are limited to adja-
cent countries until 1970 under the collaboration agreement. Production
is kept in line with the demands for teleprinters. During the 3 year
project, P&T plans to order machines to the value of Rs. 58.5 million
(US$7.8 million equivalent). This is expected to have a foreign exchange
content of Rs. 7.6 million or about US$1 million, which is 13% of the
sales value. This compares with a foreign content of 50% in 1964. In
addition to the special tools and such piece parts as type which are still
obtained from Olivetti, some lines of non-standard steel stock which are
needed in relatively small quantities and other such material continue to
be purchased at least cost from this source, which was originally settled
upon after competitive international tendering, at rates fixed in 1960.
For all other items, whether imported or locally obtained, global or local
tenders as appropriate are called.
Prices charge to P&T and other local users a-re based on obtaining
an 8% return on capital employed. From recent international bidding, HTL's
price to P&T, (net of customs tariffs on imnnrted items) is equal to the
lowest CIF price at which any teleprinter could be landed in India. P&T
would pay a 50% customs tariff were it to import teleprinters.
3. Hindustan Cables Ltd. (HTL)
This factory which is   wholly Government o"wned started operations
in 1954 under a collaboration agreement with Standard Telephones and Cables
Ltd. of England.   It has been expaanded continually, currently employing a
staff of 2,500 and having an annual sales value of about Rs. 120 million
(US.$16 million equivalent)   P&-T buys almost all of LUIs product-ion, whi-
._~   v L  t, L.L  ~   Ll.,J~UUctio ,  uiL
is made up of paper insulated subscribers type cable (65% by value),
coaxial trunk cable (30nO In  pa 1-4   lnsu`ated cable -or iLnternal wiring
(5%). Its output of the first mentioned category only amounts to 65% of
P&T's requirements, although three full shifts are worked on the machines
which produce this type of cable.   HCL is currently expanding its faci-
lities by the addition on the same s-e of a complete modern plant wnich
will approximately double present capacity for producing this cable as
from 1970.
During the last 2 years P&T has been unable, because of a shortage
of foreign exchange, to import the necessary additional cable to keep in
step with equipment installation and is accordingly planning to import a
substantial amount of cable to overtake these arrears and meet its require-
ments until HCL is operating at enhanced capacity.
Another line of production thich HCL is preparing to take up is
copper-clad steel wire for aerial lines. A collaboration agreement has
been entered into with Sumitomo of Japan which will result in production
of this item as from 1970. In the meantime P&T plans to import the ne-
cessary wire for the project.



ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 5
HCL also has under installation in its new building a modern
aluminum extrusion press which will enable t to sheath some of its cable
in this locally produced material rather than in the convential lead which
has to be imported.
P&T expects to obtain cable to the value of Rs.     20 million
from HCL during the 3-year project.   The foreign exchange content of the
cables, which is made up of copper, lead, manila Daper and fine gauge steel
tapes, is 55% of the sales value, and would amount to Rs. 230 6 million
(US$30 7 million equivalent) over the same neriod- This is the same per-
centage as applied in 1964, but considering the Rupee devaluation it re-
presents an improvement in manufacturing efficieney and indigenisation.
Materials are obtained by international competition.
Previously when P&T was impor+ting up to half of its requirements
of cable, it would place its orders to best effect, and in addition would
have the ontion of buying from HCL at the lowest price tendered interna-
tionally for any particular size of cable. Now P&T buys on a fixed price
aareernent based on 1965/66 prices, adjusted for actual material and labor
costs. In 1967/8 HCL showed a return of 3.87% on capital employed.
During 1968 P&T invited international bids for a range of sizes
of cable. Although no orders were placed because of foreign exchange
shortage, this did provide a current comparison of prices. After adjusting
lead and copper prices to a comon Ubase, and ueuucLting nlCL'6b tariffs on
raw material, HCL's price for the different sizes and types ranges from
3% below the lowest foreign tender (C.I.F. value) to aboutv 6p above, de-
pending on the number of pairs and conductor weight which determine the
labor intensiveness of the different lines of production. Whnere the HCL
price was not the lowest, it was at the low end of the range of prices
tendered and overall nCL !6s prices are about the same as the lowest tendered
in international competition. Tariffs on imported cable are 33%. HCL pays
approximately haulf this amount in tariffs on the imported component.
4. The F&IT Departmental Workshops
The three P&T Workshops manufacture entirely for P&T. Producti.on
is debited at actual cost including depreciation of production facilities.
For 1968/69, the scope of activity can be summarized as follows:-
Value of Output       Staff Employed
Calcutta shop            Rs. 21 million          2,750
Jabalpur shop            Rs. 29.5 million        2,300
Bombay shop              Rs. 12 million          2,000
Total      Rs. 62.5 million        1,050



ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 5
The production consists of galvanized tubular steel poles, arms
and line hardware; switchboards, relay racks and power supplies for manual
telephone exchanges, private branch exchanges, and long distance exchanges;
coin in slot telephones and many miscellaneous items.
In the three year project period, manufactures to the value of
Rs. 124 million from the workshops are included in P&T's expansion of
capital plant. A foreign exchange expenditure of Rs. 18 million (US$2.4
million equivalent) for the purchase of zinc, lead, tin, magnet iron and
fine copper and resistance wire will be required for this production.
Procurement is carried out by the Supplies and Disposals Ministry on
behalf of the Workshops and will be by full competitive international
tendering.
Direct comparison between the cost of production by the Workshops
and international prices is not possible because most of the items produced
are ones developed especially for local conditions. Some items recently
put into production, such as cable distribution cabinets and terminals,
are produced at about half the CIF price of equivalent items previously
imported.
April 17, 196



ANNEX 5
INDIAN POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS DEPARTMENT
ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTRY OF INDUSTRIAL
DEVELOPMENT.
MINISTRY OF INFORMATION, BROADCASTING            INTERNAL TRADE
MINISTRY OF FINANCE                                            AND COMMUNICATIONS                    AND COMPANY AFFAIRS
I~~~~~ 
CABINET MINISTER
MINISTER OF STATE
MINISTER OF STATE           FOR INFORMATION
FOR OCS AND PST            M    _   O                                       MINISTRIES
AND dRUADCASTING                               -MNSRE
|LJ   g/ SECRETARY'"  |          _   __   __/__          [ 
.  OVERSEAS             HINDUSTAN                                  INDIAN            HINDUSTAN  /
-   COMMUNICATIONS      TELEPRINTERS                               TELEPHONE             CABLES    /
SERVICES             LIMITED                                  LIMITED              LIMITED  I
DIRECTOR            MANAGIW i                                MANAGING             MANAGING     |__     OTHER ENTI
DIRECTOR                                 DIRE-TOR             ------REOTERENITE
SENIOR          DIRECTOR
5LNIUH            MEMBER                                                                SENIOJR
"EMBER  DEVELOIMENT        MEIMBER          GENERAL           MEMERMEMBER                       MEMBER
MEMBER  DEVELOPMENT                                           MEMBER~~~~~~~~~~~~DVELPMNT
MINISTRFINANCE   (   EOPERATIONS                                   ADMINISTRATION        POSTM SAVINGS
(TELECOM)
I                                                      I         I                                                i
FINANCE           PLANNING           SOAFF                         STAFF RELT A IONS     STAFF           BANKING              IS
ACCOUNTS            DESI GN        OPERATIONS                        INFORMA TION         MAIL            SAVINGS          UNI UA 
AUIDIT         CONSTRUCTION      MAINTENANCE                      PUBLIC RELATIONS     STAMPS
EFFICIENCY         RESEARCH        MANUFAC URE
PRocuREMENT
I                   ,.--             /1                 \1                                              /
(JABALPUR)         (BLCTOS(4LCTOS                             15 LOCATIONS)
CONSTRUCTION          TELEPHONE             REGIONAL              CIRCLE             /
WORKSHES            /CENTER              DISTRICTS            CENTERS           HEADQUARTERS            STORES
GENERAL            ADDITIONAL            MANAGER            CONTROLLER     E     POS  MASTER             CIIE
BENSOR ~ ~~~~~~ ~  ~~~~~~~~~~                                    POSTE MAIR I DIET ISTENIRCHE
MANAGER               CHIEF                 OF                   OF                GENERAL            CONTROLLER
ENGINEER           TELEPHONES           LONG LINES
OPERA-TI-ONAL
MANUFACTURE        CDFS1N       ONSTCTION   DEIN              CONSTRUCTION            POSTS             PRocUREMENT             UNIT
CONSTRU SCTIONV       OPERATINSA VINGSUSTUI
OPERA TION                            TELOMMUNICATIONS        A
*Three positions held by one individual,
I        SALIC5 S          CNFunctional responsibilities.
-"-ThrSecondary line of responsibility
April 1969                                                                                                                            IBRD-4356



ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
POSTS AND TELEGPAPHS DEPARTI'ENT
TELECOIMlItNICATIONS BRANCH
Financial Reorganization
Background
P&T's finances form part of the national budget and are subject to
the con+.-"r%1 ro4r l -l nl; of. the  ntl .  coyo+,nm ( ksee bo.7  T-:- accounts are
primarily a record of cash receipts and payments.   No balance sheet or profit
M"A 1nc.-0!Q Cn+9n-m  - +; Q a _-  M.-+S ofP R*°T.  ao CC),,-+ |4-  ^--- U-,  1 0
_    ,,- J. _ _ _J  -L_  J.l LJ-  4-  * .  .. I .-_ L  -.ai. ,  .. U.AJ' IwL.4.L , A>O   LJvUual
carried out by an outside body, the Comptroller and Auditor Generalts Depart-
rer,t. (rflflezlfl¶nflly ,r  a,tanhatever an,--.4-4  4i4,.vo4,,.,4- 4-a. 4is. rl4
--t.  ~ ~   ~    ~   ~   ,~~WwaO. vILILJJ.   JLA"L J ha.uI34Lu   LL.D  I.  ,U.±  UU UY y l  I1~ JJ±
rectorate of P&T is either insufficient or too late for any prompt appro-
priate actio  to be 4 t-1  aken.
M UA A+r_AAi -.     A :   _                                4.-
"    L±±  UVVJ±.LL.W=11d.  U4. LLLU± dC ±r U W± L.LL .W.l  f erUl±1±  Ut:vUZr ILYOQ UU VL11-
ploy consultants to assist in reviewing the accounting procedures of the
el evL-c i,u,,urni-ca-iL--ons   Branchi.  "he  L..f1   -[- "-dU   X%U'V_L, 2LT_ r L.U -tNick UCCll &o.  was
retained in July 1964 and they submitted their report in Ilay 1965. The main
recoui,iien1u'a>sL-1- C01itain.ed thiterein were tue esuablinr±u OI an accounting
staff with internal controls and audit within and under control of the P&T,
aLnd the reorganization of the existing accounting system aiong commerciai
lines.  Both recommendations have been accepted in principle by the Govern-
ment of india.  A Presidential Order dated iarch 1, 1968, provides for the
separation of the accounts of the Telecommunications Branch from the Comptrol-
ler and Auditor General.
Parliamentary Grant System of Accounting as it ReLates to AcT
Traditionally a parliamentary grant system of accounting is designed
for Government departments financed out of a general pool of Government
revenue. The primary purpose is to ensure that no money is spent contrary to
the intention of the legislature. This places the emphasis on the control of
cash with little regard for operating results.
A1-5 f.ds- for- ,J          -P- 4wiha.  o, h  consol"-^ted naiona1lVr_ Au.%A.d re-
I .J-   LULLLI  ..i .LLJ   J.%Y..L  hU.L IJLLI..rLVWLE  .L.LV~JI1  the ~  IdJ .LkJA Ur   I.JA4d.L 4  L.LL .
quire prior approval by Parliament. Expenditures further require to be sanc-
+fi  -A{ 'k   h 1\S    _$_- 4 v  _   _-1 P  -A  w -_vs_1tw > nA_
V.L%J1 U4 L.LdI *- i;""Q V.*. J LIJ.L c. LL aC .L%.VJ$ G.L%U linalyx.J WA.UniLeLiL u,r tiAb JISULutJ Ur oll dr and
Auditor General. Parliamentary control is global without a basis for inter-
fere..c  into . -0T UC-kto-UCV opraios   ards "lLmieU to L,111ee" basick votues:
(i) P&T working expenses including petty works; (ii) dividend to, and repayment
of 'LoardLs fLLOr,, gelnera.l -  UiU ad appV opraVf.Ld.I   bo EUe'VrVU ±UnUds; k-L1 J LUcayp-
ital outlay (not met from revenue). ITithin each of the three categories, the
no   mn,_        _--       _~A1   1   3   _--   -    _-- I- r......  -Vt   .n  I _   - -
P&Tr Doar'U in conJunUctionL with the Mianistry oI Finance (through the Memver
Finance), has considerable powers to reallocate funds between headings and
sub-headings without specific parliamentary approval.



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 3
Present Status of Financial Reorganization
The start and subsequent pace of implementation of the consultants'
recommendations have been slow owing to the lengthy delibenation by Govern-
ment and the conceptual and administrative problems involved.
In rnoving ahead with the accounting reorganization, the Government
of india has taken important steps during the last year which will _ead to
the establishment of commercial accounting for the Telecommunications Branch.
These steps f1ollow very closely the recouwmendations made by the accounting
consultants, Peat, Marwick, Mitchell, & Co., in their 1965 report, and sub-
sequently confirmed by the Indian Working Group report of 1966.  The latter
was a group appointed in July 1966 by the Chairman of the P&T Board essen-
tially to examine tlhe effects on PO of implementing the consuitants' recom-
mendations. Among the major steps thus far initiated are:
(a) transfer of accounting function to P&T;
(b) establishment of pro forma commercial accounts
based on accrual concept;
(c) commercial accounts to be presented to Parliament
along with the Government cash accounts;
(d) commercial accounts to receive full audit by the
Comptroller and Auditor General;
(e) internal changes in financial organization, such
as organization and staffing of the financial
division;
(f) organizational changes in stores and workshops;
(g) introduction of a systcn of interna-1 audit;
(h) delegation of financial responsibility to lower
levels of management;
(i) compilation of an asset register.
The transfer of the accounting function from the C&AG to P&T
is a major change in the Government structure which required Cabinet appro-
val before it could begin. It af'fects some 1;800 government employees, appro-
ximately 900 of whom will be involved in a change of domicile. P&T has es-
tablished a time schedule for effecting the transfer which is taking place by
regionalunits. Thus far, about 40/ of the units have been transferred with
completion scheduled for Sentember 197n=



ANITE( D
Page 3 of 3
Initial steps have been taken to make the necessary changes re-
quired in P&T's internal financial organization. All the key appointments
have been made although, for the financial section, there is s0 far only
a skeleton staff available. The major change affects the position of the
Member Finance in the P&T Board who previously, as representative of the
Ministry of Finance in the P&T Board, advised the Board in financial matters,
both those requiring Finance Ministry approval and those within the compe-
tence of the Board. In this dual role, he was considered by P&T to be an
outsider whose interests were not fully with the Department. Under the new
arrangement. he has been given the rank of Additional Secretary in the
Ministry of Communications, and has become the chief financial officer of
P&T reRnonsible for internal accounting and financial matters.   He is now
administratively under the control of P&T, with the latter paying his salary
and the TiDJretnr General having a voice in writing his annual performance
report. The Member Finance continues to be an Additional Secretary in the
Ministry of Finance, advrsing the BEard in financial matters requiring
Finance Ministry approval. Thus, his role remains a dual one. There are
certain adVantages to this arrangem-ent iindter the parliamentary grant system
because the Member Finance carries the necessary delegated authority of the
Ministry of FinaWnce in financial matters affecting the P&T Department.
Prel-1i,,1.inarr Ste  towr  CoCecslAcoSn
During the next ew years, PT is expectedto nnintain two sets
of accounts:  pro forma commercial accounts and cash budget accounts as
presen-Ly maintailned.
The       L T cots- report o-f 1Q4C  -u+1in=A in deta4-+i1 the methnd byv
I Lie  conul   'antLU   ±jJJ  U  '-L  .J -'   -- - -  -   -  ---
which the existing cash budget accounts should be converted into commercial
accounts based on an accrual concepCu      r      aceounts are scheduled too be
constructed for the first time at the end of fiscal year 1968/69. The
practical usefulness of such an exercise Uo immediately provide mnagement
with a better insight in financial and costing problems is rather doubtful
considering that the Telecommunications Branch will not have ful adminis-
trative control over its own accounts until September 1970. It is therefore
obvious thlat commercial accounting as a day-to-day operation cannot se-
riously be contemplated before the accounting function rests fully with the
entity.  However, these preliminary moves should help to establish a firm
basis for the change. For example, the fact that the commercial accounts
are to be presented to Parliament and audited by the Comptroller and Au-
ditor General will be important steps to giving these accounts the standing
which is a prerequisite for puttinag F&-T's future financial operation on a
commercial basis.
April 17, 1969



ANNEX 7
Pa4ge 1 of 2
POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS DEPARTMENT
TELECOIMUNICATIONS BRANCH
Consultants' Recommendations
Pertaining to the Financial Reorganization
The following are major recommendations of Peat, Marwick, Mitchell
& Co., which were agreed to, with time schedules where applicable, during
negotiations.
1.        Transfer of the accounting function for the Telecommunications
Branch from the CGAG to the P&T.
(Scheduled for September 1, 1969.)
Kerala Circle              Orissa Circle
Mvsore Circle              Bangalore Telephone District
Madhya Pradesh Circle      Ahmadabad Telephone District
Gujerat Circle            Bombay Telephone District
Technical and Develop-
ment Circle
(Scheduled for Sentemher 1. 1970.)
West Bengal Circle         Uttar Pradesh Circle
Maharashtra Circle         Calcutta Telephone District
BJhar Cirj^e               Delhi Teleph.one  ist -t-
Assam Circle               Poona Telephone District
2.        Annual accounts are to take the form of comnercial accounts on an
accrual basis in the form of a statement of earninos and expenses and a
balance sheet, beginning with fiscal year 1968/69.
3.        The commercial accounts are to be audited and certified by the
k-Ws! (Cor-mercial audit !nepart__ -4n 4beg iinn,.  fjltsc1 ea  1068,/49
49     ~LS^e co-,ea ac- ts are to be pru-sen' -d t1oPal.,+           or
- ~  J~JIUI co. r  tui.eJ.aJ.  acco~.L  anIAu  u  41LL.  W L eU~..I U*. .4  a   -LLzi,
with the budgetary presentation as required under the parliamentary grant
system with a statement reconciling th2e' two, beginning with fiscal year
1968/69.
5.        Budget forecasts on an accrual basis are to be prEpared and sub-
mitted to Parliament in addition to the present cash budget forecast,
beginning with the forecast for fiscal year 1971/72.



jumx&'iL4 I
Page 2 of 2
6.        Not later than April 1, 1971, the clearing of accounts between the
Bra.ch an.d other Gonnu.,.to depart-,"ns w.ill ¶^ b. .. rect ruder ing of bills
and settlement.
7.        P&T will promptly establish an internal audit system for the Branch.
T...  e ch  of --"~ -- -*--   ~~--  -  - ~  an   . - I   .
T, eachA of t-he accounting w  s ttransferr-ed ouu r&  an internal audit group
shall be functioning within one year after the transfer of unit.
8.        An asset register is now being maintained in the Directorate
which show s capital expenditure b- year of instailation for each group of
assets. The register has been completed as of March 31, 1968, and will be
1 . 
9.        Louble entry bookkeeping methods established in consultation with
the C&AG will be used by the Telecommunications Branch from the first of
the fiscal year commencing after the completion of the transfer of all ac-
counting units of the Branch from the C&AG.
10.       The Circle will become an intermediate accounting unit.   A Circle
Accountant will be attached to each Circle from the date the telecommunica-
tions' accounts are taken over from the C&AG. The Circle accountant will
be directly responsible to the head of the Circle and functionally responsi-
ble to the Director of Accounts.
11.       The Member Finance is being assisted by three ancillary units:
(a) costing, (b) statistics, and (c) efficiency.
12.       Periodical reviews of the lives of telecommunications plant will be
made by a standing committee of engineers and accountants to ensure that
book lives are kept in line with achieved lives. The committee will begin
its work no later than July 1, 1969.
13.       Divisions are maintaining works registers (cost sheets) for each
work costing over Rs 2,500.
14.       A greater measure of financial responsibility is being delegated
to the lower levels of management.
(a)  Preparation of budget and detailed scrutiny of proposals
will be further delegated to the Circle level as the
Financial Branch of the Circle is strengthened adequatelv.
(b) The accounting function will be more detailed at the
lower levels. The breakdown of accounting information
will be in more detail at the Division than that received
by the Circle and the Directorate.
(c) The Circle/District head is being given greater financial
authority to incuar both rPvPn1_e nnd capital expenditu+re
within certain limits.
June 2, 1969



ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 2
fNDIA
POSTS 1'TD TELEGRAPHS DEPARTMIVJT
TIM TEL_UUIC]UN-ICATI0NS BRANJCH
SUiiIARY OF TARIFFS
(in Indian Runce.b)
1. Telephone
(A)    Initial deposits
(i)   "own Your TcleOhorL (CYT) scheme
Bombay, Calcutta, Delhi & Madras                 3,000.00
All other OYT connections                        2,500.00
(ii)  Non OYT in measured rate areas                        300.00
(B)    Installation fee
Per line                                                      5° 00
(c)    Rental for direct exchange line
( i)  Mpeasv,-re rate. system-quartery'  chrg
Bombay, Calcutta, Delhi, Madras                      90.00
All other measured rate exchanges                    75.00
i-onthly charge                                       30.00
,A-n,-,-l chasrge                                     nrn
(D)    Call Charges:
(*  Toa     no -v - J me 1 4 m {1 
D'- 4 ar- no en,
(ii)~ LonLitacL3mists
(kilometers)                                          STD
Pul_             ru.Lse MIetLereu
Up to     20                         .50
21   -    4i                       1.00                 .90
41   -    51                       1.00                 .90
51   -   81                        2.00               1.65



ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 2
Ri    -   i 0,              2 .00                1. 65
101   -    201               3.00                 22. 0
201    -   501               5
CI'1      (V1V I                                    ^
Cn l  -     n 7v               nn v.4 Q.
).L~  -   ;VL%.                VU                  ;
{,;01  -  L30 J   12 . 00~~~~~~~~~~~~J J
-:ceeuinw  L300            6LU.UU
2. Telegraph
Ordinary              Express
(A)  Non-press:
First 8 words                   1.20                 2.4o
Each additional word             .10                   .20
(B)  Greetings
First 8 words                   1.20                 2.40
Each additional word             .10                   .20
(C)  Press
First 50 words                  1.00                 2.00
Each additional word             .10                   .20
3. Telex
(A) Rental for telex se-rv.e with telepri.nter
(wIthin the Local area of a telex e;;can.;,irge
system)                           p.a.             1,800.00
(B)  Local call charges (3 minutes)                            .60
(C) Long distance:
.60 charge for a unit period of:
up to 200 kilometers        60 seconds
201 to 601      "            30 seconds
601 to 1000                  20 seconds
Apri. 17, 1969          Exceeding 1000               1;) secsn.ds



INDIA
POSTS kND TELGRAPHS IDEPARTENT
TELECO9NNINCATIDNS BRANCH
Pro Form Iasonce Sheet l564/65-1973/74
ctual     just d                                                 Forecats
As of March 31;        1964/65     L965/66      1966/67     1967/6!     (Zatiaste)   19692L      f970/71       =   L72    1972/73     izLT
Flied Assets
Plant MLaervice                                   2,382       2,785        3,166       3,536        3,875       4,550        5,446        6,463       7,457        8,451
lass   depreciation                                 624         724                       9          1334       132L         1 543        1 807       2 120        2 478
Net plant in sericou                            1,7558                   TV           74          3                        3i9 03
Plant under construction                            184         196          !88         42           560          45           S           678         663          662
Total net fred aset                         172i        727        7;   E        2,996       T,01         337i         1430         U3          6,oo        33
tTa nt     tasets
Acco-nts rcE,iable                                  100         1-17         110          112         131          1415        162          190         226          258
Inventorisest  stores                               175         203          208          190         194          227         272          324         373          422
WOrcehops                                                      6BC -B
L     current asets                          436                       51*                                   75           86                                  128
1,1anr  tfibilitilss
PVyablc                                              38          48           54           57          62           7!1;        865         100         14128
=un      aturities                                    -            -                       4           6            61            - -_
Eat curent asauts                           m=9 11                   js            252                                 --= bly1
Deferred charges                                      _80                                   171        _r162       ;L            14           1# 126
TaLaSrSE                                     20           75        36323       3149         a,7L          12!        5.060      6g703o                     LU4
ILTk TLrfl311
C Vta.L-at-charge raprseenting
Central Oov't contributions                     1,329       1,435        1,583       1,684        1,879       2,037r       2,354        2,729       2,931        3.06].
Reseros a92                                                      691         7            7S          90         3 06ti      1.2T1 ..                  1 820       222
_    _t, T72V T                                         2,126    2   ,7d2'; Ar                                                      k5       3rvb 5L
n-tni dabtl/
3eirl    rTe oan                                      -            -           -          170         126           61--
CapitalL-t-cbarge repesenting
foreign eachne lanas
IDJL Creditst 28-D33                             99         169          313          313         313          3Ll         313          313         313          313
58-f3I                             31           96         2146         246          246         2416         246         2,46         21*6         246
Otler foreign exchange loans                    416           4S9         e            94         103          1031        103          103          103         103
Propsed Bank/DA lcn                               -            -           -            -           -          1031        335         14L2         412          412
Prczosed Canadin credit                                      2-            -                        -           25;        177          21b6        215          245
Ftture borroidngs   -  Project                                               _                                                -         117     3   17           117
Fhtnre borrotwin g                                                         - _                      -            -                        -         200        _
l'otaL long-tarm debt latss
ctrrent mtaritias                           176         31L4         641-/        779         725          790       1,174        1,h36       1,636        1,786
Deferred Credit                                       112          1           150          162         197          23C!         261         29           316       _34
VTAL LiBITTI       2T209                                2,575        3,L23        3 4,19      3,711        4,122       5 060        5,953       6,703        !408
Long-tern. debt/eLuity ratio                          8/92       13/87        22/78       24/76        21/79       20/80        24/76       25/75        25/75        25/75
1/  For snaiytic-l purposea the capitsl-at-cha,ge wa cilvided in this presentation between fonis rainsd by thi Governent as long-term debt and contributions
from Central Government. FPom P & r's psirit of velw the asounts eshown as long-term, debt have mn repaymnt tersm and interest La charged at the rate of
6 3/4% (see paragraph 8.25).
2/  Reflects debt revaluation aon    result of npee devaluation.
l4ny 27, 1969



ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 4
POSTS AND TELEGrAPHS DP-,-rCTDrEIT
TELECOI,1UUICATIOi'S BRYI(TCH
NOTES AND ASSUMPTIONS ON THE PRO FORMA BALANCE SHEET
Plant in Service and Depreciation
As recommended by the consultants, P&T has compiled a fixed
asset register showing the main categories of plant and their value be-
ginning with fiscal year 1925/26. Depreciation has been recorded based
on the estimated life of the assets, and write-offs have been made on the
basis of the assumed life of the assets regardless whether the actual life
differs from the book life. The composite rate of depreciation on average
gross wasting assets in service is about 4.5%, which is reasonable. The
value of the assets includes "petty works" which are charged against
revenue under P&T's present system of accounts. Gross plant in service
may be somewhat understated due to (1) small assets - less than Rs. 500 -
Rs 2,500 - not being included; (2) plant not adjusted for the 1966 de-
valuation (see para. 8.29 of report); and (3) no interest capitalized.
The foregoing notwithstanding, the figures used in the pro forma finan-
cial statements are sufficiently accurate so as not to affect the fi-
nancial analysis.  A recommendation of the consultants, for which con-
firmation aP obt ainee' d-iinc negot-tinor; is Th;t periodic rev:ie-us of
the telecommunications plant will be made by engineers and accountants to
ensure that book lives are kept in line with achieved lives.
Plant. Tnder Construrition
Tn the foreeast it is assunemd that the amount of plant under
construction each year will be 40% of the sum of the constructive program
of the currentt year plus plant under construction of the previous year.
No cash balance i8 Sho.w since PQT does not have any cash of
its own. As a Government department all revenues of P&T are required
to be paid in.to thbe G-vernmert's corsolidated  u nd.
Alccount,ts Receivable
Over the years DIje aiovunt of siuscriers! accou..nts r.- vrbe
has been on the high side, amounting to about 2-2/3 months of annual
teiephone revenue.  Attention has been given to this ratter and the
amount of receivables is being reduced to a more reasonable level. The
forecasts assume tnat for tne next five years the receivables will amount
to about 1-1/3 months of annual telephone revenue.



ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 4
Tnventories
TnvPnt.nrie.-s in stock Pt the st.orts and workshons. work in progress
at the workshops and certain goods in transit comprise the total amount of
inventories.  The forecasts assu   store  to increase pronortionatelv to
the increase in gross plant in service.
Deferred Charges
As a result of the rupee devaluation in 1966, a foreign exchange
'Ls   rL Rs 1_0 MUIin. Qla  r _: urre A_. _U : -_ h  4 0 hATX _UO{tOQ_^_ -_/4 - - 
| V~~~~~~~~L                   O   i:)  V v V L| X a, zW Ls..~ C  * *O  -   i_ - _s>ovA,W 
and amortized over the life of the foreign exchange debt.
Accounts Payable
P&T has no central record of what the total for accounts payable
_~~~~1         _    _  _  _ -  1- -.   _  _  E T  _  _ _ __ - _1_  _  L  _  _t  _  _1  _ __  -   _ I  A  _  _  u  .3   4  _v 
would be. nowever, the aount Ui   not tlUught to belaUrgU eUsince under t
parliamentary grant system any payments not made may not be charged against
the current grant and will lapse. For purpoSeS oi the forecasts, t has
been assumed that one month of salaries, wages, and allowances, and 1/12 of
the amount of annual stores are owing.
Reserves and Capital-at-charge Representing Central Government Contributions
(Equity)
All funds utilized by P&T for its capital expansion are made avail-
able through the Central Government, including P&T!s own internally generated
cash and any foreign exchange loans. In establishing the Telecommunications
Branchts pro forma equity (reserves and capital-at-charge representing Central
Government contributions) as of Nlarch 31, 1965, the reserves are taken as
those amounts which were identifiable as coming from the entity's operations.
The amount of Central Government contribution served as a balancing figure
between the amount of total assets (net of current liabilities) and the sum
of capital-at-charge representing long-term debt in foreign exchange, gov-
ernment loan, reserves, and deferred credit. From 1965 on, reserves and
capital-at-charge representing Central Government contributions reflect the
amount of net profit transferred to reserves, and Central Government con-
tributions are the balancing item as shown in the sources and applications
of funds.
Capital-at-charge Representing Long-term Debt in Foreign Exchange
The amount of capital-at-charge representing long-term debt in
foreign exchange includes the past two IDA credits, foreign exchange made
available by Government, a small amount of suppliers credits and future
borrowings including the proposed Bank/IDA loan and Canadian credit.  P&T's
accounts treat foreign exchange loans made available by Government as part
of the Central Government contribution which are in turn treated as non-
repayable loans. P&T is not required to service these long-term loans, but
does pay the Government interest at 6 3/4%.



ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 4
Government Loan
This loan was made to P&T in order to allow interest payments to
be met on Central Government contributions. The shortage was due to large
payments to the Postal Branch.
Deferred Credit
In order to augment funds for capital expansion, a scheme known as
"Own Your Telenhone"  (0YT) was put into effect in 19L9 whereby a sub-
scriber by paying a lump sum as advance rental would receive preference in
obtaining telephone service=  The sifhscriber in effect recoimns his advance
payment in 20 years by paying a lesser rate for telephone service. Under
the plan, the suiibsrber is entitled to a refulnd if he disconnects his ser-
vice. However, in actual fact, there have been scarcely any disconnections
of Api se21ce.
April 21, 1969



INDIA
POSTS AND  f.WM.AAPNS DEPARTMEhT
TRELCCO1OI9tTCAl 1ONS BRUNCH
Pro Forma StatsBnt of Inco1 e 1964/65-1973/714
Actua.l AdJFsd                                                  For caot           _r____t
Aa of March 31:        1i96L65      1965/66     19156/67    1967/513   (Estimte      1969/70     1970/71     1971/72      1972/73     1973/74
REVYDNUE
Telephone
bocl rental Lol call chargea                       270         343         405          469         566         694          788         935       1,137        1,338
Trunk and   nthbrnrAtonfl charges                  193         228          :264        299         330          363         399         L,59         541         611
InstallatIon frees                                   4                                                4'  _  3  5  4
Total t-leom       revesma      g        ZS7                           2   f       73         900       12           1,92 zi     flOl        r1;&iSm
oat0c D7   a89           99         113         112         117          122         126         132          137
Internaaionsl                                       1.          17           20          16          22           21          24       _25            26        -  27
Total t4i2lgrEZh reved                       Ll          106       _19            129         1314 142                  46         151         158         164
Telex                                                  3           3            8          11          12           32          44          57           69          80
Railway couliations                                  :l6         21           29          46          So           40          50          50           50          50
Masallma-on                                           29          24        _24            46       .50           J2            52       _53             54       ___5
Total 0     1pr  iReerses,                   646         T29         1352       1,005       i,1146      1,324        1,484       1,714       2,018        2,306
ElPIENSES
Staft elpensae                                       25;7         338         j62         433         502          577         650        7T47          860         962
Other coata of operation                              63          66          L02         113         138          153         172         195          222         251
DepreciAtion                                          9;8        116          L37         160         172          187         222         264          313         358
IForeign exchange las                                -_             -                       9 9                            9              -     9                     ,o
Total qer!tirKg ExPense4s 418                            520                      715         821          926       1   3       1,215       1,404        1658
NET OPERATINO INCOKE - before Interest               228          209         251         290         325          398         431         1499         614         726
Less Interest! forei1gn echange lo2am                9          i6           38          44          114          54          80          98          112         122
Central Gov't contrmutnonm         6'3          65          72           82          89         102          113         134         160          173
Governmet lcan                       -               -       -            -           8           6            3           _           _      
44ct pro.fit                               -W5i          TSH         Ti           T-i       -fl1E         rs         --             ST         Xti        -13_
Payment to Posts3L Braneh                             13          29           82         120          68           802       .2         .   0           30       _     30
Set profit - tralnsferred
to5 reserves                  Il3          99          59           44         116         156          205         237         312          401
ALverage net plant in service                      1,634        1,910       2,L94       2,450       2,658        2,985       3,566        4,280       4,9f        5,655
Plate of return /                                    13.9        10.9    1     .k4       nL.8         12.2        13.3        12.1          1. 7       12.3         12.8
COratincg ratoi3/                                     615          71          71          71           72          70          71           71          70           69
1/  Ratic of Oct operatlIng Inco.    to average net plant in service.
2/ Ratio, of total opemiting axpenrses  o total ,je-ating revemes.
Poy 27, 1;69



ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 3
POSTS AND TELEGMAPHS DEPARTMENT
NOTES ANJD ASSrMPTIONS ON THTE PRO FORMA PROFIT AND L.q'S STATEMENT
Revenues and expenses are shown on an accrual basis as distinct
from a cash receipts and payments bsis.   Al^lowance is mmde for services
rendered for which payment has not been received and, conversely, for
reven-ue realized in advance without corresponding service having been --
rendered. Similarly, with expenses, allowance is made for expenses in_..
curred for wlch payment ha   not been. rde.
Telephone Revenue
mistallation fees have been forecast onr the basis of the esti-
mated number ofetelephones to be installed during the year.
Local rental, call charges and trunk charges have been forecast
on the basis of planned average increase in direct exchange lines but
with some allowance for the planned expansion of STD.
International revenues have been ranging between Rs one-half
million and Rs one million. A uniform revenue of Rs one million is
assumed for the   forecast.
Telegraph Revenue
Domestic revenues have been assumed to increase at an annual
rate of 4% based on past growth and allowing for the likely diversion
of telegraph traffic due to increased telephone and telex service.
International revenues are forecast to increase by Rs one
million annually.
Telex Revenue
Rental and call charges are forecast on the basis of planned
average increase in number of telex connections. Rental is assumed at
the present rate of Rs 1,800 per connection and call charges at Rs 6,000
per connection.
Railwav Telecommunications
Charges under this category have been estimated to be Rs 40
million in 1970 and Rs 50 million each year thereafter.



ANNEX 10
Page 3onf 3
Niscellaneous
Revenues from miscellaneous sources such as rental of auxiliary
equipment and directory advertising are es>tiated to increase marg-ina.T:
Rs 2 million in 1970, and Rs 1 million in each succeeding year.
Expenses
Staff expenses and other costs of operation have been forecast
to increase on the basis of planned increase in direct exchange lines.
Those staff expenses relating to telegraph and telex are forecast in
light of changes planned for these two services.
Depreciation has been assumed at a composite rate of 4.5% on
average wasting assets in service.
Foreign exchange loss is in connection with the devaluation.
See note under "Deferred Charges," on page 3 of Annex 9.
Postal Payment
This is discussed in paragraph 9.05 of the report.
April 17, 1969



INDIA
POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS DEPARTMENT
TELECOH1iIUtICATllS BAfCHN.
Pro Fons Sources and Applications of Funds 1964/6 5-1973/74
(Rs million)
_      Actual Adjusted                                            Forecast
As of Marc:h 31                            1964/65   1965/66 i 1966/671  1967/68  (Estimalte) 1969/70   1970/71.  1971/72   1972/73   1973/74
SOURCES OF FPUNDS
Internal cash generatiorn
7Tet operating incsce before interest                            228        209       251       290       325       )98       431        659       614       726
Amortization of excharige losel                                  -         -         -          9          9         9         9         9         9          9
Depreciation                                                     98       116       137       160        172       187       222       26,4      313        358
Total internal cash generation                             39        3,9                                                 5 U '77            936     1,093
Central Government contribution                                    59       106       1413      101        195       158       317       375       202        130
OYT payments (leeis disccount granted tc subscribers)             21        23       1li        12         35        33        31        29        26         24.
Bo:rr cl    :
.     ;ilrdIits: 28i-IN                                          53        70        07        -          -         -         -          .        -          _
5EI-IN                                              31        65        9;        -          -         -         -         ..        -          -
Other foreign elxchangel loans                                    6         3         h         13         9        -         _                    _         _
Government loan                                                  -         -          -       170         -         -         -
IroposeC Bank/IDA loarn                                          -                   -          -         -        103       232        77         -
Proposed Canadian creclit                                        -         -         -          -         -         25       152        6,8        -
Puture borrowings relaLted to project                            -         -          -         -         -         -         -        117         -
Future borrowings                                                                               -         -         -         -         -        200        150,
Total borrowings                                           T0 135              53        18         _5                  35 2      562 20       0       53
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                                     536       592       697       755        745       913     1.396     1.638     1.36      1.397,
APPLICATIONS OF FUNIDS
Constructi.n program                                              416       431       51L        558       506       565     1,064     1,097        979       993
PaYment tco Postal Branch                                          13        29        82       120         68        B0        30        30        30         30
Debt Service:
Amortization-
Goverrnent loan                                                                                                   63        63         _.
Intereat,l/
Government lean                                                          -          -         -          8         6         3         -         -         -
Capital-at-charge representing foreign exchange Loans:
Foreign exchange loans (including Credits 28-IN Ak 58-][M)    9        16         38        44        44        45        45        45         45        45
Central Government contribution                              63        65         7i2       82        89       102       113        136       160       173
Proposed Bank/lDA loan                                                 -          -         -         -          7        23        28         28        28
Proposed Canadian -redit                                               -          -         -         -          2        12        17         17        17
Future borrowing related to project                          -         -          -         -         -         -         -          8          8         8
Future borrowings                                                      -1                                                                                24
Total Debt Service                                        72        81       11(        126       185       225       259       232        272       295
Increase (decrease) - Working capital                              35        51         (6)      (69)      (16,       43        61         79        83        79
TOTAL APPLICAT(.215 OF iFUNDS                            536       592        69,       755       745       913     1,394     1,63 S        6      1,397
Tines debt seroi.:e covered by internal ca.h gE-neratio-                    1, I .G   3.5        3.6       2.7       2.6       2.5        3.3       3.4       3.7
I/ See footnote innex 9, Page 1
May 2t, 195Zj



Srinogor       )
tt ludhompur   '    INDIAN   POSTS AND      TELEGRAPHS DEPARTMENT
Jom ,k_dhmpu
PothOnkot>O)- Dolhousie  (           PROPOSED    EXPANSION    OF
, ~londr,(     uCO-AXIAL CABLE                   AND MICROWAVE
/ Ludhbono  rChondigarh          SYSTEMlS   DURING   THE   FOURTH
/    / Amboo     0OEORAOON )FIVE-YEAR                   PLAN             - 
-M,AZzooroTr /                                                   I _
.%MD2?.,/ Meerat  ./                    1969-1974         j, D       pbrugorh
,x,  J   t31KANER   \X\r n AREILLY                                           . *
Agro          N.       ~~~~~~~~~Siligurgrl ,6
Jodhpur                        Lucknow                   I '\, O,s  ochbeor 
AJolipur      ~        -..OAHPR                        - DS'h iIlong (
:  *             XB~~~~~~eoeor  KAN Pt Jl. !          PATNA     1 'j   K .. ."'-I
KA~~~~~~
\   /    i               Al!ohohcjF=_  Scscru.tl,heh  - .4~'  1 
,Lrj   / Udoipur  j       ~    ~   ~~~~~~~~/ Vcroncsi  ~ < sn s l  t  ,  V'
/IJdopur 2                                       se0            ~l
HimmotnGgor             I                o RANCHIt
AHMEDABAD       ORATJAM JASHEDPUR                               CALCUTTA
Indore       / 
Baroda  /                                     KOAOOIPU
Roi¢at                            I      RAIPUR       .      3
d'PDRUANDAR                                          OBchi/ ,i
S hrat  /
2  kSurof  / -~~~~ -  _N4G PUR    3      ( JA-MBASLPR}|
CUTTACOi
Bulor\ a/Manmad     '   /
t  PTh  nasi 
I                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
BOMBAY  9?ARoA A                       ARSAT                    t- rtf  1\,9
\ _VISAXHA:;7w/    Existing gpOSci
0 >  )Kalhopur   ~   a   E:D   ,,. 2            Co-axl  Cable
_ _ \  / ,  - Paired  Cable
Beleou at        /           IJAYAWAOA          ----   i zraaave ad io--2--
ngA N J I  \ 
9 Habli     /t
C\   \   ^GUNTAKAL  \A
\     \    \                                        2  1970-71
Chitgere   \o                              7  1971-72
W GAL0RE              MADRAS                      4  1972-73
\   °Mysore     MDRAS5                        1973-74
0\O HIKODE    XVitupr. r
COIMB6NTORI;p00                         50  0 D  00   200   300   400   500
MILES
T IRUICHIRAPALLY
MNAR4AULAM  / \ 
\OTA. l Mdutoi
TRIVANORM  \TIRUNELEVI
TRIVAiIAUCI  1.
MIARCII 1969                                                                                  INZI'   2S517



