RESTRICTED
Report No. P-714
RE ua                   FILE Co
This report was p     sewit the Bank an its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RflCONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO
INDIA
FOR THE THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
June 5, 1969



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO
THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT TO INDIA FOR
THE THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a
proposed operation consisting of a Bank loan in an amount in
various currencies equivalent to US$27.5 million and an IDA credit
in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$27.5 million
to India.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.         The Association helped finance the telecommunications
expansion program of India during the Third Five Year Plan
(1961-1966) with two credits totalling US$75 million. The first
credit in the amount of US$42 million, made in 1962 (Credit
No. 28 IN), covered part of the foreign exchange expenditure of
the Posts and Telegraphs Department (P&T) for the import of
finished equipment; the second credit in the amount of
US$33 million in 1964 (Credit No. 58 IN) covered the foreign
exchange component of telecommunications equipment manufactured
in India by three Government-owned factories and by the P&T in
its onz workshops.  The Government of India has asked for addi-
tional Bank Group assistance to help provide the foreign exchange
required for the telecommunications expansion program during the
first three years of the Fourth Five Year Plan period (1969-74).
3.         The project was appraised in January/February 1969, and
negotiations for the proposed loan and credit were completed in
Washington on June 2, 1969. The Borrower was represented by
Messrs. K.N.R. Pillai (Member - Planning - of the P&T Board),
P.C. Kapur (Deputy Director General - Accounts - of P&T) and
D.K. Sangal (Deputy Chief Engineer of P&T).



- 2 -
4.        The Bank has made 36 loans in India, including 30 which are
fully disbursed. The Association has made 22 credits to India, including
17 which are fully disbursed. The status of Bank loans and IDA credits
in India as of April 30, 1969 is summarized as follows:
Amount (US Amillion)
less cancellations
Bank      IDA      Undisbursed
Total loans/credits                      1,007.2  1,010.1        137.4
of which has been repaid to
Bank and others                          382.7
Total now outstanding                      62h. 5
Amount sold                   109,7
of which has been repaid    103.8          5.9
Total now held by Bank and IDA             618.6   1,010.1
Total undisbursed                          116.4      21.0       137.4
5.        For details of individual undisbursed loans and credits, and for
summary statements on (i) delays in Bank/IDA project execution, (ii) IFC
investments in India and (iii) forthcoming Bank/IDA operations in India,
please refer to paragraphs 8 to 10 of my Report and Recommendation on the
Tarai Seeds Project, dated May 29, 1969 (R69-105).
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF TIHE PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
6.    BORROWER:                     India, acting by its President.
PURPOSE-                      To help finance the P&T's investmrent
program for expansion and modernizatiort
of its telecommunications facilities
during the Fourth Five Year Plan
(1969-1974).
AMOUTNTS:                     Bank Loan: US$ 27.5 million.
IDA Credit: US$ 27.5 million.
AM-IORTIZATION:               Bank Loan: In 30 years including a
10-year period of grace, through
semi-annual installments beginning
June 15, 1979 and ending December 15,
1998.



-3 -
IDA Credit: In 50 years including a
10-year period of grace, through semi-
annual installments of 1/2 of 1% from
June 15, 1979 through December 15, 1988
and of 1-1/2% from June 15, 1989 throug;n
December 15, 2018.
INTEREST RATE:                      On Bank Loan: 6-1/2% per annum.
SERVICE CHARGE:                     On IDA Credit:  3/4 of 1% per annum
on the principal amount disbursed and
outstanding.
CO1I'IT14ENT CHARGE:                On Bank Loan:  3/4 of 1% per annum on
the undisbursed amount.
ESTIMATED ECON01MIC RETURN:         40h.
PART III - THE PROJECT
7.        An appraisal report on the proposed project, entitled "India -
Appraisal of the Telecommunications Expansion Program (1969/70-1973/74) Post-
and Telegraphs Department" (PU-15a), dated June 2, 1969, is attached.
8.        India's telecommunications facilities were greatly expanded
during the last decade, partly with assistance from two previous IDA
credits. Since 1961 the number of connected subscriber lines has been
increased from 330,000 to more than 800,000, a high capacity coaxial cable
trunk network linking Delhi with Calcutta and Bombay-Madras-Coimbatore has
been constructed, long distance subscriber dialling has been introduced
on 16 inter-city routes, and a telex network installed. Despite the sub-
stantial increases in capacity carried out, telephone, telex and telegraph
services are quite inadequate to meet present commercial, industrial and
administrative demand. For example, some '00,000 applicants are noaw
waiting for a connection with an average waiting time of about 5 years;
and long-distance calls often are subject to long delays. The major con-
straint to a more rapid expansion has been the shortage of investment
resources, in particular foreign exchange. Even though investment allo-
cations proposed for the Fourth Plan period (US %621h million equivalent,
including a foreign exchange component of US i4156 million) are more than
twice as high as the actual investment during the Third Plan period, the
gap between actual and requested new telephone connections is expected to
widen further. Demand for connections is likely to continue to grow at
least at the rate of 13 percent experienced over the last nine years,
while the number of new connections is programmed to grow at only 11 per-
cent. However, long distance facilities will be greatly improved by
extending the coaxial cable network to more routes with heavy traffic, by
adding high capacity microwave links and by expanding subscriber long-
distance dialling facilities so as to link 55 principal towns accounting



-4 -
for two-thirds of P&T's subscribers. Telex facilities will also be
greatly extended.
9.         The Telecommunications Branch of the P&T has a competent
technical staff and should have no problem carrying out the program satis--
factorily. Some operational difficulties result from the fact that the
P&T, a Government department, lacks administrative and financial autonomy.
However, the Administrative Reforms Commission of India is presently
studying the organization and administrative structure of the P&T. In the
meantime the P&T is carrying out a financial reorganization of the Tele-
communications Branch which it proposed in 1962 and actually initiated in
1965. The financial reorganization, which the Bank Group supported strongly,
got off to a rather slow start, but it is now well underway in accordance
with the consultants' recommendations. Its main features are the transfer
of the accounting function of the Telecommunications Branch from the
Comptroller and Auditor General of India to the F&T's owvn staff, and the
reorganization of the accounting system along commercial lines.
10.        The project which the proposed loan and credit would help
finance is a three year (1969/70-1971/72) portion of the telecommunications
investment program. The total capital expenditure target for the three-
year period is US$361 million, of which about US$103 million (less than
30 percent) would be required in foreign exchange. About half of this
would be used to import microwave equipment, coaxial cable equipment and
telephone cable, and the balance to import materials and components for
local manufacture of switching and transmission equipment, telephones,
teleprinters and cable.
11.        The Government of India and the Canadian International Develop-
ment Agency (CIDA) have agreed, in close consultation with the Bank Group,
to allocate a 50-year no-interest credit of about US$33 million equivalent
to the purchase in Canada of the microwave equipment and some of the cable
required for the project.!/ Several Canadian manufacturers will be in com-
petition for these orders, and it is likely that P&T will obtain these goods
at prices comparable to those that would be offered in international com-
petition.
12.        Of the balance of US$70 million foreign exchange required during
the three year project period, the Bank/IDA financing of US$55 million wou?d
cover the remainder of the imported equipment and cable, and a little over
two years' requirements of imported materials and components for the local
factories. Imports of finished goods are financed for the full three-year
period in order to allow a smooth tendering, ordering and delivery process.
The lead time for ordering imports needed by the factories is shorter.
1/ An additional amount of about US$4 million equivalent, on the same
terms, would be available for purchases in the fourth year of the
five year program.



- 5 -
13.        The local costs of the project in the amount of US$258 million
equivalent (about 72 percent of total project cost) will be met out of
funds generated internally by the Telecommunications Branch and by
additional contributions of capital-at-charge by the Government of India.
14.        Procurement procedures will be the same as used for the first
two IDA credits.  Purchases of imported equipment and cable will be made
after full international competition (as in Credit No. 28 IN).
Mlaterials and components needed by the factories and the P&T workshops
will also be acquired after international competition with minor exceptions
such as necessary proprietary items (as in Credit No. 58 IN). The Govern-
ment-owned factories started operations under collaboration agreements with
foreign manufacturers who had been selected after international competition.
Although they are legally and financially separate entities, for all
practical purposes they are an extension of the P&T: the bulk of their
production is sold to P&T, their management consists of P&T engineers on
secondment, and their prices to P&T are fixed at levels which cover cost
and allow a moderate return on the capital invested. On the whole prices
to P&T are at least as low as could be obtained internationally on a CIF
basis, and the quality of the locally manufactured products is on the same
level as goods manufactured in developed countries. Because of the
practical difficulties of identifying a wide range of materials throughout
the manufacturing process, it is proposed to follow the same procedure as
under Credit No. 58 IN, and to finance the import content of products
delivered to P&T by disbursing a percentage of their sales price.
15.        Purchases from the three local factories are made by P&T on a
continuing basis. It is proposed to make disbursements against e.xpenditures
after April 1, 1969, the starting date of the investment program which was
the basis of our appraisal. This would mean retroactive payments of
approximately US$1.7 million (or 3 percent of the aggregate loan and credit
amount). With regard to imported equipment and cable, no tenders will be
issued or contracts placed before the signing of the respective loan and
credit agreements.
16.        The overall financial position of P&T's Telecommunications
Branch is satisfactory. With a recent tariff increase, the rate of return
on average net plant in service is expected to be better than 11 percent.
The economic return on the total five year program investment is estimated
to be about 40 percent, with the return on the long distance investment
about 75 percent, and on the local service investment, about 25 percent.



- 6 -
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
17.        The draft Loan Agreement and draft Development Credit Agreement
between India and the Bank and the Association respectively, the Reports
of the Committees provided for in Article III, Section h(iii) of the
Bank's Articles of Agreement and Article V, Section l(d) of the
Association's Articles of Agreement and the texts of Resolutions approving
the proposed Loan and Credit are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
18.        The draft Loan Agreement and draft Development Credit Agreement
conform generally to the pattern of the two earlier telecommunications
credits to India. The following provisions are of special interest:
(a) In recent years the Postal Branch of the P&T suffered
losses which were covered out of the operating revenues of the Telecommunica-
tions Branch. To avoid that such transfers jeopardize the carrying out of
the Project, the Borrower undertakes that funds generated by the Telecomm-
unications Branch will be applied to the operations of the Postal Branch
only if all funds required for the carrying out of the Project are available
to the Telecommunications Branch (Section 5.10 of the Loan Agreement,
Section 4.10 of the Development Credit Agreement).
(b)  Schedule 4 of both Agreements sets out a timetable for the
accomplishment of certain significant stages in the financial reorgani-
zation of the Telecommunications Branch.
(c) Schedule 5 in both Agreements contains the method of
computing the annual rate of return for the Telecommunications Branch
required by Section 5.11 of the Loan Agreement and Section 4.11 of the
Development Credit Agreement.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
19.        A report on the economic situation and prospects of India was
distributed to the Executive Directors on April 28, 1969 (R69-75).
20.        India's debt servicing position remains difficult, and it is
expected that a net inflow of new funds on concessionary terms will be
necessary for some years. However, given the current rate of repayment
of existing Bank loans and the expected phasing of disbursements, the
proposed loan would not increase beyond prudent limits the level of the
Bank's net investment in India. The amount of loans to India held by the
Bank on April 30, 1969, net of repayments, was US $619 million, of which
about US $116 million was still to be disbursed. In addition the Bank held
on that date a special deposit of US $15 millicn, which is expected to be
liquidated by Nlarch 1970.



- 7 -
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
21.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan and credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Association, respec-
tively.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
22,        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan and credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 5, 1969



