CREDIT NUMBER / , 3 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Telecommunications Projcct)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE W , 1969


﻿AGREEMENT, dated J uinie    , I969, butween I N )i.\, act-
ing by its President (hereinafter called the Boorrower) and
INTERNATIONAL   DEVELOPMENT    ASSOCIATION  (lereinter
called the Association).
WaEuEAS (A) the Borrower has reluested Hhe Associa-
tion to make a credit to it il ln aggregu  princial amoniit
equivalellf 1to $27,500,000 to :issislI e Iorrowr in linicing
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreenient;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Iliernatioial
Bank for Reconstruction   aid i)evelopmeit (tereinater
called the Bank) to provide additional assistance tovards
financing the Project;
(C) by an agrecenmit of even   late herewi h beween
the Borrower and the Bank (hereinafter rVferIed to as the
Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such
assistance (hereinafter called tle Loan) ill  a 1 tggregate
principal amount equivaleit to $27,500,000; and
(D) the Association has agreed, on the basis of the
foregoing, to make a credit to the Borrower ul,o the terms
and conditions hereinafter set forth;
Now THEREFUORE the parties hereto hereby agrue as
follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
HArI   0N 1. THl )1liVS 10 t11his )OVelopm1i0ientI (C'ritlit
ditiois Applicable to) lelomiet      i redi A-reeilents of
the Association, dated Januaiy :1, 1969, with the samle


﻿4
forcc and efTeet as if tey were filv t forth leeini,
subject, however, to the followinlg iodification thereof (said
General Coiditiois A pplicable to I)eveiopnent (redit
Agreenilts of te \ssoeintion, o vs so tidi(lied, Ieig hevre-
inafter called tie General (knditions)
Paragrapi 5 of Section 2.01 is innetded to raed as
follows:
"5. The tr   '   rw    '     n  India, actig by its
President."
Su-rloN 1.02. Whterever llsed in tls i)evelopitet !Cr.dit
Agreenlient, unless Ihe cotfext oterwnise retires, the sev-
eral terns defined in lte  e     Cera n oWdiiotns have Ilbe re-
spetiveY mteanings I herein sel for lh liantd lite fuollIog ntbli -
tionauil 1vrii1s ltave te io.lowing menings:
(IL) "P&T" mewanls the( Po   tild Teerp      Dvpart-
men of the Borrower;
(b) "Bratteh" inwan- [lhe Tvle-ronoujlllnIcaIioln.' Bratteh of
P1&T 1; and
()"Rts" inevans rpe  ill the(       øir'n oftll rmur
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SEW"rTWN 2.01. TheV \-,oeinfliot lgrees l() led In  ie
I lorroiwer, oin lhte lermsi andte sndIIiin  ini this lle4velop
m11etl Credit Agreemitent sel ori lr rd,rrvd fø, att iminin
live hiudred thoutsand ulla;rs (j32,*s00,(X0).
S't-rios 2.02. (a) Tiv \s.ocifltiøn siall >piett a Credil
Acontt1t1 on its b>oks il ltt tae f1   it w rrwer and
shall eredit to sllehl \eouti the ainnuo tilhe Credit.
(b) The amiotint of tihe Credit Inly be witdrawt frøni
tit Cretdit Acconuis iprvidedi ilt, atnd si ()ee  o Ihe righ1s


﻿of  nne lltio aal  sinspullsion  scl  orh in,  Hiis  Doevelop1
mnent, Credi( Agaen   nd ifkeorac withi 1the allot-a
tion of the procceds of the (redit set forthi in Sehedule 1
to this Agreelinent, as sielh alloentio  slial le inified
hfr i  f illiv  (o  (iim, |nir1snl lt   1( e ffic o id n  (d  slich svjiled
tll or by agreellien1 betwetn the bvor11\ ei anld li(e Asso-
ciation.
SisurloiN 2.0,3. The  sorrower shall ble etitled to witlh-
draw from the ( Credit Aeoint in respeel o' Ihe reasolble
cost of goods or services required for the l>roject and to
be finaiced under tIiis )evelopment ('redit ;\greemet:
(i) sich amouits as shall have been paid (or, if the
Association siall so agree, balie required to
eet[ paymills lo be Jile) for goolds or ser iCes
inillded in ('ategory l of 1le allovamii of fi~
proceeds of tll ('redit referred 1o iii setioi 2.02
of> this Agreeiet ; 1ind1
(1i) hegillivalenci efllowin perecilial-Ie. (or1 smnIh
tlhr per(etages nas1h           1  ssio'ia  in mv friiti miie
ben..1  paid  (or,  if  1lit' ,\s.u'ialio n h l  ro  agret,
sliall be refired  to inel payllwii s lo be bo iuu ) for
goods or services        1 inte  in  le f(lllowing Cafe-
gories of the allovati of (t proceeds of tie Credit
referred to in Seetion 2.02 of' this Agreement
0Catego(ry l(a)- 2O,
category 11( b)-;iy
Catc~g01ry1()-5
SECTioN 2.04. (a) No wiffhdrawals fiom lit Creklil At
counit, shall be iade IIIIder C(vat'gorv l of the li allocation of
tie proceeds of ihe (!re( itrefrred to in e ion 2.02 of iis
Agirtiei  on aceoiiii (od pymets in Iie eitrniy of (t
Borrower, or for goods prtnied in, oi services SIpplied
fro ,  1h  territorics (d  t he 1.row r


﻿61
(b) It is hereby ag8eed, prmuii to Seltionl 5.01 of ffie
Oeneiral Conditions, tiat witdrawals from 1lie Credit Ae-
conit under Category 11 of tfie allovatioi of the proceeds
of the Credit referredi to iii Sectioll 2.02 of tiis Agreemei
may be milde on nevonlilt ol IyIIiillIs made Irior to lie
date of this Agreeniit bid o or after ApIril 1, 1969.
SIGTIoN 2.05. Tlie vmiireiy of the f liiitdi<l Kimngoil ol,
(Dreat Ifr-itain ind Noiritierii 11relnild is lierby speci l  i
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the Geieral Conditions.
SECTION 2.06. The Boirrower sinil pay to tlie Associa-
tion a service charge at the rate of three-fourtlis of oe
per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal aniount
of the Credit withdrawni and outstaing f roim time to time.
SECTION 2.07. Service charges shall be paykble semi-
annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
SECTION 2.08. The Dorrower siall reiay the priil
amount of the Credit withdrawii from the Credit Accouint
in semi-annual installienits payable on eaelh June 15 aid
December 15, coiinueinlg .Junie 15, 1979 and ending De-
cember 15, 2018, each installmeit to and iiicludiiig the in-
stallment payable on December 15, 1988 to be onle-ialf of
one per cent (½ of 1%) of such principal amount, and
cach installment thereafter to be one and one-Italf per cent
(1½%) of such principal amiount.
ARTIOLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SEXTioN 3.01. Tlie  orrower siall aply tile vioeds
of the Credit in accordance with tlie provisions of this
Development Credit Agreeimeit to exoieditures on the
Project, described in Selidule 2 to Iiis Agreemei.
SECTIoN 3.02. Exeejd as tie Assoeatioi shal otierwise
agree, the goods andi< serivices to be Iiiatived out of 1lhe
su,mi


﻿7
proceeds of the Credit sliall be procitred in accordance with
the procedures set forith in Scled,le :3 to tiis Agreetent.
SECTION 3.03. Utnttl Heompletioln (k l,e iProjeet. the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financ1ed out of
the proceeds of the ('iredit to be ised exclu8isively in carry-
ing out the Projeet, except as the Associationl may otheir.
wise agree.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. The Borrower shall carry out the IProject
with duc diligence and elliciency and in conformity with
sound administrative, financial, enlgiineering- and public
utility practices, and sliall provid', proijtly aS teeded, the
ftuuids, facilities, services and utfher resonrces required for
the piurpose.
Hi:roN 4.02. (a) pl     rei   foi tiot   Iimc  lin tie by
the Association, thie lorrower shll proffipfly 111r1is1h or
caise to be fnished to 1he Association hlie plans, specifi-
estions an(I work se,edles fot ie Projet   a11(1   iate-
r.1ti ltiodiliea.tionis  sufsquietl  in de  lhereint, in  stii  de-
tail as the Association shall regnest.
(b) The  morower shall: (i)   minlain or enisP lo be
iaiintaiied e('li rocords  e go ( ,,1inv flie goods 1nd1(
services financed onf of Ihe  tooeeds of he i Credit, to dis-
close the use thereof iii th1e Projeci, to record the progress
of th1e Projecf (inl'uding ihe s  ihereof) anSd to releet in
accordance with cosi,ssletly ttinitinued sotund accotllting
practices the operations and. financial condition witi respect
to the Project of the agency ori ageciici.s of the Borrower
responsible for the carrying out of the Project or for the
operation of the 1eleconnnonicatis facilifies of tlje Bor-
rower, or any part Ilereol; (ii) etable th1 Associati's
represn1tatives  o inspec1 thte Projvel, stehu goods, the
Brancli, the  india Tllephon   1 .lidustrics Liited, the


﻿8
Iliitdistani Cables ljiinihed, the ffi iiidis  Telepriii-r
Linúted, aty ageney or mgeiieis ol (Iie 1orrower respoi-
sible for te carrying out, of tihe Project. or lie operatiol of,
the teleconuulieations facilities of the Borrower to whieh
the Program referred to in Schedule 2 to his Agreemeit
relates, or any part thecreof, anid iny re-tvlt  reonis aid
doeuments; and (iii) furntish or cause to be fritiiished to
the Association all sucli infornation -is Ithe Association
shall reasonably request conceriting [t e peiditure of the
proceeds of the Credit, the Project, suich goods and services,
and the operations and financial condition with respect to
the Project of the agency or ugencies of the Býorrower re-
sponsible for the carrying   (kf tile Projet i flite openra-
tion of the telecommiunicatiois facilitics of tho Borrower
to which the Program referred to in Schedule 2 to this
Agreemeiint relates, or any part thereof.
SECTION 4.03. (a) The Borrower and Iie Association
shall cooperate fully to nssire thiat te iurpose  of tile
Credit will be accomplished. To t It end, eacit ol t Ihtem shall
furnish to the other all such infornuttion as it sitall reason-
ably request vith regard to the general stat uis of' the Credit.
On the part of the Borrower, sutch infornmation shalil inelude
information with respect to finacial nd eiconomie condi-
tions in tit teritories of tiv Borrower and Ole inteIni-
tional balance of paymeits positioll (f Ihe Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Associatioi shall from tite
to time exchange vinws th11rough theilr represet1aties wi
regard to matters relatin g-> the pri p    of' 11h (ie  (,fredit,
and the maintteinnice of the service thiereof. The Borrower
shall promptly inform the Association of amy comdifion
whieb interferos witll, or. ftrealens to i1terfre with, ilie
accomiui,shmeni t of' tho i pur1iposes of tit e edi or 1le ntait-
tenance of the service thereof.
(e) Tle  orrower shl1l affor al! reisob  oppornit11y
for ;ceredited representatives  f iie Association to visit


﻿9
anly part of tle territorieus of the Boriower for purposes
related to the Credit.
SEOTmIN 4.04. Exeept as Uite AssoiaLio sliall otlierwise
agree, the Borrower uindertake to iisire or cause to be
insured the imported goods fiiianced out of tihe ioeeeds
of the Ciodit againlst marile, trasi and oe Im 11za1rIs in-
cideit to the acquisitionl, tianlsportatiol amnd d[elivery tIere-
of to tle place of ise or installation, amd for such insur-
ance ny inudemnuit~y shall be payable in a eiurrencey freely
usable by the Borrower to replae or repal such goods.
SECTION 4.05. The Borrower shall operate and mtintain
its teleconimunicatioins facilities, and from i iie to time
make all necessary renewals ad repairs thiereof, all in
accordance with sound publie utility and engineearig pc-
tices.
SECTIoN 4.06. Except as the Association shll otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall (atise P&T to coiitiinue tlie flinanl-
cial reorganization of the BraIChl inl aCCordanCe with the
provisions of and the time schedule set forth in Schedule
4 to this Agreement.
SECTIO< 4.07. Except as fte Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause P&T to retain, prior to
Deeerlb  31, 199, co)(s(ulu)t, 1e4et>le o a o(  termls
aund condiitions satisfato)ry to lte Association, to assist
P&T in establishing ai cffeel ive stock couit rol system. l
81-.'.tO)N 4.08. Tie  orroer shanll hve Ibe e-lluerinl
accounlts of tle  raunc, beginiig with tihose for the liseal
year ending March 31, 1969, audited annutally by the Comp-
troller and Auditor Genieral of tlie Borrowver. Tlhie Bor-
rower shall trausmit to the Assoiatio1:
(i) certified copiCs of the audited statements (balauce
sheet anid related statement or arnings and ex-


﻿10
penses) and cigned copies of tlie auditors report-s
relating to botli the communercial accounts and the
appropriation accounts of the I tranci prompt,ly
after sueli stateniits are avaiLable; and
(ii) beginning witli the accounts for the fiseal year end-
ing March 31, 1971, provisional comtmercial atcouits
(balance sheet ad related statement of eanings
and expeises) of tite Branh no liter than fiur
mlonlths, af U h l s ol, tHw 1ieu  ea   o wich1
thuy relate.
SECTION 4.09. Tie  orrower shall cotsult te Asso,ia-
tion about any plan fot a major reorganization of tihe
Branch sufliciently in advanev of tite moption of such plan
for the Association to have adequate oppOrtunity to comi-
ment thtereoni.
S'CTioN 4.10. The lorower shll etnsre tht funtds
genlcratod by the Brh11.1c1 mr  pied lo tHw opeations of
the Iostal Branth of P&T -or to  vy se other Uiui lte
operations of the Branh and tite carrying out of the Proj-
ect onily if all funlds euied for. the c.rrying ot. of the
Project are available to te Branch.
SECTION 4.11. (a) Except as tlie Association, sliall other-
wise agree, the Borrower slill est ablisit aud mintai
tariffis for teleconlieltilsi i   srvies, and shall tate all
othier action which may be necessary or appropriate, ,o as
to provide tevenes silicientl to prodiev att nnial r de o
returt  f ntol less tun iti  on 1he v ølie o' the net lixed
assets in operationl of ite lratiel, comtip[uted il tecordate
with the provisions of Sehedule 5 to tis Agreemet.
(b) Whenlever .ipproprnine, aml inl nty case not, 1ess re-
(uenitly tinn every five years, ithe Borrowetr sitall review, 0r
cause to be reviewed, tlie value of lite net flixed assets in


﻿11
operation of th  Brauneli to determiine wbether bause of
substantial ehanges, in curieiit prieus djustments to suli
values are required, and sliall notify the Association of
the result of ay stich r'view. A propriate adjustnients to
the value of Lit' he t fixed aseSL in oitatioil of ithe  LIIramich
for purposes of paragraph (a) of this ection shall theii be
iade to the extent tgreed between the Borrower and the
Association. At the same time, the mtitimiut anitual rate of
return specified in paragraph (a) of tiis Seetion niid tlhe
1m1i1inilui average rafe of depreiation for purposes of
comllputing eosts speeied in pairgraph 2(a)(ii) of 8eted-
ule 5 to this Agreeme     will also be reviewed by thle
Borrower and the Assochation    in order to deternine
whether any adjustments are ealled for.
SECTIoN 4.12. Tlle principal of, and services charges
oi, the Credit shall be paid withoiit deduction for, and
free froml, Lily 1a1xes, and fre  from  ll restritins, in-
posed under the laws of tlie Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.
SECTION 4.13. The Develonnent (Jredit Ågreenmt sliall
be free from aiy taxes tiat siall be imiposed under the laws
of the Borrower or laws in effeet inl its territorles on or
in connection with Lite exeutioni, delivery or re jgistrationi
thereof.
ARTIOLE V
Remedies of the Association
S.1ri.3 5.01.I f iN eveitt speellied in Sevtioli 7.01 of
the General (3onditionus shall occur and sliall contine for
the period, if any, thereini set forth, tien at any subsequent
time during the continuance thereof, tlie Associatioi, at its
option, imay y notie to hlie Borrower del re the principal
of the Credif ten otlsta ding  o be dtue aud payable km-
imiedia ely together \wit  te se rvice ehrges tereon an
111poll ally HIil <ieriiii ol sneil i>i'ineiiui, togetihl u'iLil


﻿12
such charges, shall becoie due and payable ininiediately,
anything in this Development Credit Agreement to the Con-
trary notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The date of August 1, 1969 is hereby spec-
fied for the purposes of 8uctioni 10.04 of tHie Oenerd Con-
ditions.
SECTION 6.02. The obligations of the Borrower under
Sections 4.02, 4,05, 4.08, 4.09 and 4.11 of this Agreement
shall terminate on the date on which this Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 30 years
after the date of this Development Credit Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
IVIisce, cous
UCotN 7.01. The (losHi.   de shall be I)ot-ombl
1972 or such other date a      it be agred betwUeL.
Borrower and the Associatic
SECTION 7.02. A Secretarx     A(1vern1meIt of India in
the Ministry of Finance is da ;,nated as representative of
the Borrower for the )UripoSes of ection 9.03 of the
0oneral Conditions.
SECTION 7.03. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the (kt-eral (Joiditiols:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Departmnit of Econonmic Affairs
Now Delhi, India


﻿13
Alturiative address for cables:
Ecofairs
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Developinent Associatioll
1818 11, Street, N.W.
W ashington, D. 0. 20433
United States of America
Alte,rngäivo address for cabl,s:
Indevas
Washington, D. C.
IN WINEss WIIEo, the parties hereto, acting throtugh
their representatives thereunt6 duly authorized, have
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed in
their respective names and to be delivered in the District of
Columbia, United States of Ankerica, gs of the day and
year first above written.
INDIA
By
Authohized Representative
INTERNAT'IONAL JVELoPMEN'' AMSOCIATION
By
Veec Prese<at


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of Proceeds of Credit and Loan
Ainounts Expressed
Category                         in Dollar Equivalent
I. Goods to be imported by P&T
(a) Cable and wire                    11,300000
(b) Equipment for long distance
systems and training and re-
search equipment                   8,300,000
(c) Materials and components for
manufacture in the P&T Work-
shops                              3,100,000
II. Goods to be pirclased froin the
Government teleconununicatious
factories
(a) Telephones, switching and
transmission equipient, manu-
factured by Indian Telephone
Industries Limited                11,500,000
(b) Teleprinters, manufactured by
Hindustan Telepirinters Limited     800,000
(c) Cable and wire, miiaifactured
by Hindustan Cables Limited29000,000
Total                         55,000,000
Allocation of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. The amount of the Credit shall be withdrawn from the
Credit Account as provided under A rticle I1 of this De-
velopment Credit Agreement and shall be applied to ex-
penditures under Category II and, to the extent that with-
drawals and commitments in respect of expenditures under
Category I exceed the amount of the Loan, to expenditures
under Category I.


﻿Allocation of the Proceeds of the Loan
2. The, amount of tie Lom iiu a , be \iili(liL\wi frin thle
fjoanl Account1  as  provieldi l er .ril  1o  h  ,
Agre'V1mVnt  alld  sh1a11l.(.a pid  o e p n itrs uoe
('ategory  I aud, to  tHe  e..\enIt  that wi l rwa'l  tnd . o -
mlitinlenuts in respet of expenditures udter ('ategory 11
eXCee(  tle  allioltitt  ol  fite  ('rdit,  lo  explelditltre's  tindvier
('ategoryv li.
Reallocation Upon Change in Cost Estimates
of te Hubcategories in ('altegories i ai  i shali dereIase,
thev  1111o1111  of  lhev  C(' d lI  lill-o  l l n e  1,11d  n1o  løllngerl
r<irdfor, suhkbneoywilb             lonel a    Hw
reipest of tie(, Borrowtr, to  (dy [f te otlier 8ubcategorils
int Categories I and ii, subjec, howevet, to tihe require-
iettts for cottitgeties, ts lrt iitel by fhi .\s8[lcatt,
iin respect of' the ('ost of te i tetits in tih[e oter Huibcate-
gories.


﻿1G
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Thev  Project. is  t  Ii  1hree  year  iseie ,  ,\pril  1,  W!.G!)
throluglI Mlarch 31, 1972, of I&'l"s Prograi for the cx-
pansion of the Branch's telecomniiiieations facilities in-
cluded in the Borrower's Fourth Five-Year Plan (ending
March 31, 1974). The Proje-t has a capifal expendi ue
target of approximnately Rs 2,700 iillion anI coiprises Ile
following main items:
1. Expalnsionl of local telephonie exhngs to inlecrease tile
net cajacity by approximavi)tely :25,000 Iines of automllat.ie
equipment and 20,000 lines of maniual equipimnt, together
with the necessary cables and siuscriber equipmeniit to add
approximately 300,000 installations.
2. Expansion of the long distance net work by approxi-
iately 12,000 interurban speech chaniels oge,her vith the
necessary switching and terininating equipmient.
3. Expalsionl of the telex 11Iwork bv pproxim ly 5,000
subscriber installations together with I he associated switth-
ing and longr-distance channlels; n(d exansion and imoderni-
ZLLion of t.ile publ le gra  servicv.
4. Expansion and modernization ol training and r(~
scarch facilities appropriate to the increasing scop(
complexity of P&T's operations.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement Procedures
1. Thev goods and services included in ('ory I n
the allocationl of tle prøoceds of tHe ('rediI set forlh il
chiedIe i of this Agreement (exfe   ølfor Ihose itenis in
i8 ii approprialv) sall be pieured ou bhe basis (d inlter
niationlal comlpctitiv,e bidding ill accordance,( wýith  the( (ilddeic-
linevs forl-rcrmn 111de(r Worb,,mk Imnus and lID\
Creldits, published by In i ank ili        1!%ii s.
2. With respect to cont raets for pr  tt ront>t of goods
alnd svrvivvs r,fvrrvd t) ill plrlgraph)1 l tol bw prølld
thel asi  of inlternat 1ion lem p t 1v,bd in ndeti ae
to cost in excess of $100,000 (-quiivaleit:
(a) iivitatioins to bid, spvcifictdion,s, conditiois ol eon-
traet, all other                 11t1e  dlocuents  ild  e Imetlod
and places of advetisig   ill be siibiiiitted to tihe
Association for s review and approval prior to thie
isslIal(e of invitationls lo bid.
(b) After bids have been received an    analzedI, the
anialysis ol tihe bids, ;I thte propos.ls for awards,
together with te reasons for sulh proposals, vill be
sibmitted to tlie  \ss(iation for it. s review and ap-
proval prior to ite H rrow(,r's nmkin- an  awt
øl, .ont rac1(t ør issulillg.  h,fy l .  øl, ib-1ni.
(c) If the 1ialcontract is to dier substantially fromu
thle termiis anld  colnditions co i i ll i  the  es eciv
documiets approvel by h Association under pari--
graphls (a) and (b) above, tie l  of thie proposedl
changes vill be subiuitted to tihe Å\ssociation for its
review and approval prior fo Ilith vxveition (f steh
coitracl.
(d) As soon as a lhfir of inIvn! has been-;suvd or a
contael as ben eente,ffiopy herof w\ill b)(
"(11lø  1,1h14 \ ora on


﻿18.
3. With respect to contraets for procuremeit of goods
and services referred to in  ragra 1I estimated 1 vosI
$100,00 equivalent or less, c>pies of 1he invitation to bid,
the bid analysis and evaluation, the coutraet or order and
any other documents the Association may request will be
sent to the Association promptly afer te ex1cvtion o h1 le
respective contract and p rio r to lie stibmlission to the Asso-
ciation of the first application for withdrawal of funds fromil
the Credit Account in respect of such contract.
4. The goods and services included in the following
Categories of the allocation of the iroceeds of the Credit
set forth in Schedule 1 of' this Agreeen shall be prociured
from the Indian companies indicated in accordance with
the usual procedures of the Braich:
!ategory Il (a) -i ndia Tmlephon  i ds ries lIiimiled
CateL(gorly ll(b)-llindustun(,11 TeernesLaimited
(Jat.egory l ()--1 Iii inistlna ( 41dbles i iiliteld
Skiehl 1iniani companies will con tne to pron1re iiportedt
goods for the production of the goods inieluded in such
Categories on the basis of iiteriatioial competitive bid-
ding wherever appropriate.


﻿'9
SCHEDULE 4
Financial Reorganization of the Branch
Theo finlancianl reoranizaltionl of tHw lr'Vh,refrrvd to
in 8eeltion 4.0(i ofI bii A \green 1ellt, hIall be entried oiill ii
lccorthiieu witi tie fo lg i iv- me.lwdill,e
1. Tlh transfer of tli 1eeonlilting  ifiinetionl For the Brnch
frollit e   iiler inal ,\inliior HwIerl of Il hv Ilorrower
to lT' will be  onipled by l ransflring  l hfllowing
accouintiiig units to P&T by not later tliati the dates indi-
cated:
Se ptc ebe r 1, 1!)Uu
Kerala Circle          Orissa Circle
Mysore Circle           Bangalore Telephone District
Madhya Pradesh Circle  ATllhedaibad Telep e District
Gujerat Circle         nýomtibay Telephone Distriet
Technical & Developinent Circle
Se ptember 1, 1970
West Belngal Circle    1itt,a L1'rdesh Cilei
Maharashtra Circle     CaleultaTephnDirit
Bihar Circle           D>elhi TDlephn ie Distriel
Assam  Circle           l'ooiia Teiph eDisl.iv
2.           \VegitiiIig witil4ie ieniils for Ii-eat eai I9(;8, 19(9,
annual accouints for the Branich shall1 be prep a red and siub-
ailiii ed  [o I> tifiieilel I (ogei  l  \\  Iil a  reconiilinig ¡l e-
ellt) lnot oilly ill tile 'orin of l(e  ppropriatioi necoglits
but also in the fort of eoniereIal accoiits on an accrual
basis with ia stateieni of eatrtiig ad ex'penes and n
baLineV sor. le1r the purpoSl. of Ihese staIenenIs, I ixvd
asss in opeation  hll Ie val ll in etrrdane witl the
provis~iios of Heein 4.11(b) of Is .\4reuennuIl.
budgeto foecasts on ali eernal basis will be prepared and
subiintted (lo Parliinel logetIer witl lte present appro-
priation loreast s.


﻿20
4. Beginning iot lat er lhaii A pril I, 1971, the clearing of
accoullts betweenl thie I1iii li ili ølher (ioverinien1t (le-
partilueilts will be by di ret rnde i1l ng of bills and settle-
mIlent.
5. P&T, will proInpfly vstablishl n1 inllvrnl aludif sys1ve1n
for tlie Branell. In e olh uf the accolutin-g uii1s tranisferred
to P&T an internal audit group sliall be flctioning within
one year after the transfer of tle unit.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 5
Coiputation of Annual Rate of keturn
1. Thev  anisal ra,tte  of  ret  n  ihe  value  of o te  not
fixøtl  assets' itio  of il i-   i ui·, ni'i ø w lrriH  (5o  ill
e ti n -1.1 l of  t isý  .\ nmn·, hn |b  o p l ).b\ n-a
in lg  i ihe   ne ' p i ng  iHita 11r,i  h'nli11  lilsi   i.till
111111ietllions s  Is >1r teit'  ' air il i  siin lo   tHew r ge
ot   ilt  ( ofi   n t  liw d  i ll-e   o i ;li tii  lit'  bi ni
ling liam(il  illl ll i  il t h i   l i  u ii mul.
2. Vis' pusrposes ofi' his s'mnpii ti on:s
(    -)  it  op ra'in g  in is ' '  ,w mi.m  le  diff*rei' '
m1u1nien.tiolns  s v ,e xvluding- tha1  pørtioln  of
bshemewihrbtesosr v t         erne
ini futu.re y'e, i's, an d u
(i i )  ;slil  opss'r liig      if  lis'  lsldngi ntion
iseri es, sis~i  ss  s.  'si inebisn's nn trair is  i s p on r s e?s,
''i's
to 'qualiei  n 11i1i        i
( 1 prii  gs'i n I ll i l  Hw p
depc'ik b h11v1 .1(  i i  ;l-   in;lli p r d,  a1iii'  i.  ei  in
accordn']ie', \\ il i  I  ( i  . li'b)  t'* f ti  \  rei
me bt, but  .h  nteresv  andovhr  ha
onl  dIvbl  '11nt l n tHw  iro e  o liu in
to P'&T; '11d
(b)  "valu  of (-  1*1\4wd  a1s  il  tinl p i to '' h l  n
lHit g-.   \'tilite  gd,  .n1(11  1  el,  l  e n n ili   |
(b) of this Areet
accounits are iconisistent w\ithi thle above provisions.


