K. A F A 4t .7X
Report No. 351 -MOR                                                     FILE  COPY
Morocco: Appraisal of the
Maroc-Phosphore Phosphoric Acid and
Mono-Ammonium Phosphate Project
April 19, 1974
Industrial Projects Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepaed for offical use only by the Barik Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS                          WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
All figures in DH and US$                   All weights and measures are in
of Jan./Feb. 1974 except                             metric units
as otherwise indicated
1 US$   h 4.42 DH (Dirhams)                 1 Ton (T)           - 1,000 kilograms (Kg)
1 DH  = 0.23 US$                            1 Ton (T)           - 2,204 Pounds
1 clearing $ = 4.195 DH                     1 Kilometer (Km)   = 0.62 miles
1 BE  = 0.63 DM (Deutsch Mark)              1 Cubic Meter (m.3) = 264 US Gallons
1 iD    = 1.58 DH
1 US$ = 2.80 DM
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
N     Nitrogen - Nutrient Element in Nitrogenous Fertilizer
P205  Phosphorus Pentoxide - Nutrient Element in Phosphatic Fertilizer
PA    Phosphoric Acid Solution containing 54% P205
MAP   Mono-Ammonium Phosphate (11-55-0) containing 11% of N and 55% of P205
DAP   Diammonium Phosphate (18-46-0)
C&F   Cost and Freight
CIF   Cost, Insurance and Freight
FOB   Free on Board
FAS   Free Alongside Ship
TPD   Metric Tons per Day
TPY   Metric Tons per Year
Comanav      Compagnie Marocaine de Navigation
FFM          Fertilizantes Fosfatados Mexicanos
Gazocean     French Partner in the Shipping Company
ICM          Industries Chimiques Maghrebines
KfW          Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau
Marphocean   The Shipping Company
MC           Maroc-Chimie Company
MP           Maroc-Phosphore (Project Company)
OCP          Office Ch6rifien des Phosphates (Sponsor)
FISCAL YEARS
January 1 - December 31



HOROCCO
APPRAISAL OF TIIE
MAROC-PIIOSPTHORE PHOSPHORIC ACID
AND MONO-AMMONIUM PHOSPIHATE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ................... ..........      i-iv
I.   INTRODUCTION  ............................. .  so ....,       1
II.  ITHE SPONSOR, THE COMPANY AND THE SECTOR ............,         1
A.   Office Cherifien des Phosphates (OCP) .........          1
EN.   Maroc-Phosphore Company (MP) ...... ............       2
C.   Sector Development.... . .... ........ .                3
III.  T'HE PROJECT AND THE INFRASTRUCTURE .................          4
A.   Facilities, Products and Raw Materials ........         4
B.   General Infrastructure ........................         5
C.Ecology .................................... 5
IV.   WORLD MARKETS AND PRICES ......................... .          5
A.   Main Trends  ndd Rationale ...                          5
B.   Finished Phosphate Fertilizers         .      .         6
C.   Phosphate Rock  . ....................... ..s.          6
D .   Sulfur ..................................... 7
E.   Phosphoric Acid ...............................         8
F.   Mono-Ammonium Phosphate .......................         9
V.   MARKETING, TRANSPORT AND TERMINAL' .............. ......     10
A.   Marketing and Sales Arrangements       .     .         10
B.   Acid Transport  .............. .........               12
C.   Receiving Terminal Facilities .........                13
VI.   PROJECT FXECUTION ........      ...             ......       13
A.   Background ............. . ...                         13
B. Selection of Contractors ...14
This report has been prepared by Messrs. R. Carmignani, S. Cottrell, M. Ferber
and A. Gros of the Industrial Projects Department, on the basiLs of missions to
Morocco in February and October 1973 and March 1974.



TABLE 01' CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
C.   The Consortium and the Project Contract.......             14
D.  Procurementocut..              ..      ..      ...          16
F.   Project Organization and Company Management...             16
F.   Staffing and Training  ...... ..............               17
VII.   CAPITAL COST AND FINANCING PLAN ....................             17
A.   Capital Costs ....       .......... ... ....  ..........  17
B. Working Capital                    ..                        19
C.   Financing Plann...........                                 19
D.   Allocation of Loans and Disbursement Schedule.             20
VIII.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .......    22
A.   Revenues and Operating Costs . .                           22
B.  Financial Forecasts              ....23
C.   Financial Return and Sensitivity Analysis                  24
D.   Risks and Financial Covenants . . ...............          25
IX.   ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION ........................       .. .   26
A.   World Trade Pattern and Sales Strategy                     26
B.   Additional Rock Sales from Youssoufia                      26
C.   Other Social Benefits.                                     26
D. Economic Rate of Retur .26
X.   RECOIMNDATIONS AND AGREEMENTS REACHED......                     27
A.   Sector Recommendations .        .......................    27
B.   Agreements Reached... . ..... .,......                     27
ANNEXES
1    The Phosphate Industry and Technical Terms
2-1  Thie Sponsor:  Office Cherifien des Phosphates (OCP)
2-2  The Technical Advisor
3-1  Process Diagram and Flow Chart
3-2  Project Description:  Plant Facilities, Auxiliaries and Offsites
3-3  General Infrastructure Outside the Project
3-4  Ecology
4-1  Phosphate Fertilizers:  World Trade and Prices
4-2  Phosphate Rock:  World Trade, Prices and Prospects
4-3  Sulfur:  World Supply, Demand and Prices
4-4  Intermediate Phosphate Fertilizers:  World Trade and Prospects



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
5-1 Acid Transport and Terminals
6-1 B:idding Procedure and Selection of the Consortium
6-2  The Consortium Organization and the Plant Construction Contract
6-3  Industrial Tests
6-4 T,entative Project Schedule
6-5  Project Execution Charts
6-6  Project Team and Company Management Charts
6-7 Staffing and Training Charts
7-1 Capital Costs Estimates
7-2 Retroactive Financing and Expenditures during Construction
7-3 Working Capital Estimates
7-4  Financing Plan:  Equity Subscription and Loan Withdrawal Schedule
8-1 Operating Costs Estimates
8-2 Projected Income Statements
A-3  Projected Cash Flow Statements
3-4 Projected Balance Sheets
3-5  Schedule of Repayments and Interest on Long-Term Debt
8-6 Financial Break-Even Chart
8-7  Financial Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
9-1  Fconomic Rate of Return:  Investment Costs
9-2  Economic Rate of Return:  Operating Costs
9-3 Economic Rate of Return: Calculation and Sensitivity, Analysis
MAPS
1.   Ports, Railroads and Phosphate Rock Deposits (IBRD 10726R)
2.   Location of Facilities and General Plant Layout (IBR) 10727R)
3.   Port of Safi:  Storage and Handling Facilities (IBRD 10371R)






APPRAISAL OF THE
I4AROC-PHiOSPHOPE PHOSPHORIC ACID
AND 140NO-AMMONIUM PHOSPHATE PROJECT
MOROCCO
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project for the construction in Morocco
of a plant to produce for export intermediate phosphate fertilizers. The
project--for which financing by Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) of
Germany, the local development bank Banque Nationale pour le Developpement
Economique (BNtDE), and the Bank is envisaged--is sponsored by Olfice Cherifien
des Phosphates (OCP), the State-owned phosphate rock mining agenicy. OCP will
own all the shares of the Maroc-Phosphore Company (NP) recently formed to
build and operate the project.  The plant to be located near the Port of
Safi and adjacent to the existing phosphate fertilizer plant of Maroc-Chilnie
(MC), will produce on average about 371,200 tons per year (TPY) of P205 as
iiquid phosphoric acid and 225,800 TPY of powdered miono-ammoniumn phosphate
(MAP) 1/. It will use local phosphate rock--the major input--from the
Youssoufia mine about 80 km from Safi, imported sulfur from Poliand and
imported ammonia. The project is expected to cost US$155.5 million equiv-
alent and to start commercial operations by January 1976. The proposed
Bank loan--US$50 million--will be made directly to MP.
ii.       OCP is the largest single producer and exporter (32% of world
trade) of Fhosphate rock in the w'orld. Mining is concentrated in two areas:
Khouribga linked to the port of Casablanca; and Youssoufia, iinked to Safi,
where underground labor-intensive mining techniques are used. The projected
financial situation of OCP is good, particularly following the sharp increase
(by late 1973) in world phosphate rock prices. Though OCP has some manage-
rial responsibility in the State-owned MC plant, the project will actually
be the first involvement of OCP in chemical manufacturing. ConLsequently,
OCT and MP are assisted by an experienced technical advisor Haldor Topsoe
AS of Denmark.
iii.      The project, with a capacity of 1,500 TPD of P205 of which up to
45% can be converted into MAP, will benefit fully from econoroJes of scale.
Because of its vicinity to and cooperation with MC, the project: will also
benefit--with corresponding cost savings--from existing infrastructure and
auxiliary facilities at the plant site and at the Safi port. Additional
infrastructure needed in connection with the project will be executed by
the appropriate Government agencies.
1/   Phosphoric acid is a key intermediate product in manufacturing high
grade phosphate fertilizers. It is a highly corrosive liquid transported
in special vessels. MAP is a high grade powder semi-finished compound
fertilizer.  P205 is the nutrient element in phosphate fertilizers.



- ii -
iv.       Structural changes --providing the rationale for the project --in
production and trade of phosphate fertilizers have occurred in the past 10
years because of: (i) rapid increase in production and trade of high grade
fertilizers; (ii) rapid increase in phosphoric acid capacity, prompted by
the trend to high grades; (iii) rapidly niounting trade in intermediates
(liquid phosphoric acid or solids like MAP); (iv) increase in size of in-
termediates production units; and (v) increased participation of developing
countries in the world trade. Consequently, the future trade pattern for
P905 products is likely to shift from present domination by rock and sulfur
to a more balanced trade combining these materials and increasing quantities
of intermediates and high grade finished products. To meet the increasing
demand for such products, the Government and OCP have made ambitious plans
for the period 1973-77. They include, in addition to the MP project doubling
of the MC capacity and creation, also at Safi, of a new acid plant similar
to, but independent from, the project.
v.        Though the overall demand and supply for intermediates might well
tightly balance towards the end of the 1970s, it is expected that MP will
have an adequate market for its products and be able--given its location and
other comparative advantages--to compete effectively with other producers.
To reduce market risks and given that the trade for intermediates is only
emerging, specific contractual narketing arrangements have been made.  Under
reasonable assumptions for successful completion of sales negotiations by
mid 1974, OCP will have, by then, concluded medium-term sales arrangements
representing a substantial portion of the project outptut during the first
five years of operation. Sales will concentrate in four major zones: East
Europe, Northwest Europe--essentially Germany and the Rotterdam area--,India,
and Brazil.
vi.       A new company, Marphocean, has been formed to purchase and operate,
under Moroccan flag, three specialized ships to transport the acid. Marph-
ocean--owned by the Moroccan national shipping company COMANAV, OCP, and the
French ship engineering firm Gazocean--will enter into a long-term charter
arrangement with VP. The Bank is not financing the shipping facilities,
but their timelv availability is essential to the success of the project.
vii.      Following a request by the Government for Bank technicai assis-
tance, OCIP and the Bank closely cooperated in the preparation and supervi-
sion of a call for turn-key bids. The desirable sequence for execution of
this particular project as well as the early conclusion of a turn-key con-
tract was imposed by the need to: (i) increase buyers confidence in the
project; and (ii) obtain a firm project cost essential for determining a
sound sales strategy and for allowing the start of sales negotiations. OCP
has already contracted -- in two stages -- the plant construction and project
execution has commenced. OCP has signed a first contract (June 1973) to
build facilities corresponding to about two-thirds of the project capacity
and completed negotiations (April 1974) for a supplementary construction
contract based on identical terms to cover, together with the first contract,
thle overail construction of the project's main facilities and offsites. Since



- iii -
international competitive bidding was used to select the consortium which
is to execute the project--at a lump sum price subject to an agreed escala-
tion formula -- no major Bank supervision of bidding and procurement will be
involved. The iowest bid was submitted by a consortium headed by Uhde of
Germany. The consortium includes Polimex of Poland, Siemens of Germany,
Nissan of Japan and Fisons of the UK.
viii.     A satisfactory organization for project execution has been developed
by OCP and includes: the MP project team, the nucleus of the company; the
various OCP Departments involved; the technical advisor Topsoe; the Uhde team;
and an nCP group of engineers for future intertmediates manufacturing projects.
These organizational arrangements are expected to ensure efficient project
execution. Furthermore, given the expected difficulties in recruiting
Moroccan chemical engineers, Topsoe and Uhde, as part of their contracts
with OCP, will assist in the recruitment and training--in Morocco and abroad--
of key personnel, including expatriates if needed.
ix.       The total financing required--US$155.5 million equivalent of which
US$100.1 million in foreign exchange--will be provided in the ratio of 55%
debt to 45% equity. The Bank loan of US$50 million (59% of total loan funds),
the KfW loan of DM 75 million (about US$26.8 mlllion) and the BNDE loan of
US$8 million, would together cover 97% of the expected convertible foreign
exchange costs. The equity funds would finance the local costs, the costs
of Polish supplies payable in clearing dollars (US$12.6 million) and US$2.7
million equivalent of the remaining convertible foreign exchange costs. The
proposed Bank loan would be made directly to MP at an effective interest rate
of 9% per annum, including a guarantee fee of 1-3/4% payable to the Government,
and for 14 years including 4 years of grace. The KfW loan, granted to the
Government at 2% for 30 years including 10 years of grace, would be on-lent
to I.. The terms and conditions of the KfW relending and the BNDE loan to
MP would be the same as for the Bank loan.
x.        By the time the Bank loan is expected to be approved (June 1974)
OCP would have disbursed about 25% of its equity and made US$12.8 million
advance payments in convertible foreign exchange, which are proposed to be
financed retroactively by the lenders (US$8 million by BNDE and the remaining
US$4.8 million jointly by the Bank and KfW). Total retroactive financing
required from the Bank would amount to TUS$3.1 million and represents a rela-
tively small percentage of the Bank loan (6%). The proposed retroactive
financing is a consequence of the strategy adopted: (i) by OCP in first
firming up project costs and then negotiating sales contracts, and (ii) by
the Bank in evaluating the project on the basis of firmer evidence and seeking
to reduce commercial risks.



- iv -
xi.       The Company's projected financial position is good with satisfac-
tory debt/equity and debt service coverage ratios throughout the forecast
period. The project's financial rate of return after taxes is satisfactory
(16.9%) particularly in view of the prudent capital, revenues, and operating
costs estimates used which are only marginally affected by the recent in-
crease in energy costs. Technical risks regarding plant design and opera-
tions and risks of substantial delays or major cost overruns are considered
rather low. Commercial risks (market, transport and prices) of the project,
on the other hand, are judged to be relatively high given the not yet fully
established trade in intermediates and the need for complex and coordinated
acid transport. However, commercial risks have been reduced substantially
through contractual sales arrangements. In addition OCP has committed it-
self to establish and maintain a sound liquidity and financial position of
the MP Company.
xii.      The economic rate of return of the project, estimated at 21.2%,
is satisfactory. In addition to its directly quantifiable economic bene-
fits the project will also generate substantial external benefits. It will:
increase employment in the Youssoufia mines using labor-intensive techniques
in a region where employment alternatives are low; develop manufacturing
activities in Safi, in line with the Moroccan policy for industrial decentrali-
zation; help OCP participate in the world intermediates trade; provide educa-
tion externalities through training of personnel; and constitute a base for
future similar projects in Morocco.
xiii.     Based on the agreements reached with the Government, MP and OCP, the
project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$50 million to MP, for a term of 14
years including a 4-year grace period and, to be guaranteed by the Kingdom
of Morocco.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Morocco has asked the Bank for technical and
financial assistance in the preparation and execution of a project to pro-
duce for export 371,250 tons per year (TPY) of P O as phosphoric acid solu-
tion and 225,780 TPY of mono-ammonium phosphate RMAP) 1/. The project is
sponsored by the Government-owned phosphate rock mining agency Office
Cherifien desi Phosphates (OCP) and is being executed by the recently formed
-Uroc-Phosphore Company (MP). NP is assisted by OCP and its technical
advisor, Haldor Topsoe AS of Denmark (Topsoe). The project--to cost US$155.5
million equivalent--is located near the Safi Port on the Atlantic coast (Map
10726R) and is expected to start commercial operations in January 1976. OCP
will supply phosphate rock, the major input, from the Youssoufia mine about
80 km distaLnt from Safi. Sulfur and ammonia, the two other raw materials,
will be imp-orted. Annex 1 gives a brief description of the phosphate industry
and of the technical terms used in the report.
1.02      Ihe project, the first involvement of OCP in chemical manufacturing
was presented to the Bank in June, 1971. The Government of Morocco (the Gov-
ernment) and OCP asked for Bank assistance in the formulation, preparation
and supervision of a call for turn-key bids and this was followed in December
1972, by a formal request to help finance the project. The project was
appraised in Morocco in February and October 1973 by Mlessrs. R. Carmignani
(Chief), S. Cottrell and M. Ferber of the Industrial Projects Department.
An updating mission visited Morocco in March 1974. Discussions; were also
hleld in Europe with the OCP Sales Department; the acid transport partner
Gazocean; and the major co-lender, Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW).
HI. TIE SPONSOR, THE COMPANY AND THE SECTOR
A.   Office Cherifien des Phosphates (OCP)
2.01      OCP was established by decree in 1920 to exploit and process
Morocco's phosphate rock resources.  It was initially organized and operated
as a department of the then existing administration. Its legal status modi-
fiedl by decree in 1960, allows OCP to operate as a commercial industrial
company. OCP now operates as a fully State-owned and financially autonomous
public establishment.  Mr. Karim Lamrani 2/ has been the Gencral Manager of
1/   Phosplhoric acid is a key intermediate product in manufacturing high
grade phosphate fertilizers. It is a highly corrosive liqjuid 'Ind needs
to be transported in special rubber-lined or stainless stee' tanks. MAP
is a high grade semi-finished compound fertilizer shipped in bulk powdered
form.  P 05 is the nutrient element in phosphate fertilizers.  The MAP
(11-55-0  produced will contain 11% nitrogen, 55% of P205 and no potash.
2/   Formerly Finance Minister and Prime Minister of Morocco.



-2-
OCP since 1967. He has extensive experience in management and has successfully
developed OCP's activities in recent years. Annex 2-1 gives details on OCP
and its operations. OCP's share capital is DR 554 million and its total net
assets exceed DH 1 billion. Sales in 1973 are estimated at about US$230
million and its operations are profitable. Its future financial situation
is expected to be particularly good in view of sharp increases (by late 1973)
in world phosphate rock prices. OCP is the largest single phosphate rock
producer and exporter in the world. In 1972, its share was 16% of the world's
total production and 32% of world trade. Phosphate rock mining is now
concentrated in two mining centers: Khouribga, linked to the port of
Casablanca; and Youssoufia, linked to the port of Safi. OCP has improved its
share in world production and trade in the past years following a large
expansion program, started in 1967 and now completed, which has increased
rock production capacity to 19 million TPY 1/ by the end of 1973. By far
the most important market for OCP is Europe (82% of sales in 1972).
2.02      The Youssoufia mine produces a medium grade rock (70/72 BPL after
pr,ocessing 2/) mostly exploited through underground labor-intensive mining
techniques. Facilities at Khouribga are mostly open cast and about two-
thirds of Khouribga's 1972 production consisted of high grades (75 BPL and
above) with a high export value. During the period 1973-77, OCP plans to
further expand its rock mining and processing capacity by about 6 million
TPY to meet the rising world demand for rock. To increase production of
high grades and reduce costs, most of the expansion will take place at
Khouribga (Annex 2-1). Khouribga will also, however, produce in the fu-
ture increasing quantities of 72 BPL grades mined simultaneously with the
higher grades. Khouribga's medium grades are, therefore, likely to compete
increasingly with traditional sales from Youssoufia.
2.03      OCP contributes significantly to Morocco's economy.  In 1973, it
accounted for nearly 30% of the country's foreign exchange earnings 3/ and
employed about 14,000 persons--mostly unskilled and semi-skilled--providing
income to a population of about 100,000. In addition to dividend payments
to the Government, OCP pays a considerable amount of direct and indirect
taxes (Annex 2-1). It is the major purchaser of locally manufactured
equipment and the most important (client of the railways company.
B.   Maroc-Phosphore Company (MP)
2.04      A new company, "Maroc-Phosphore", has been formed to build and
operate the project. The Company is a "Societe Anonyme" under Moroccan
industrial and commercial laws. Its initial authorized share capital is
DH 1 niillion and will be increased to provide for additional equity sub-
scriptions as execution of the project proceeds. OCP will own all MP's
1/   About 14.5 million TPY at Khouribga and 4.5 million TPY at Youssoufia.
2/   BPL = Bone Phosphate of Lime (Annex 1).  The 70/72 BPL grade is equiva-
lent to a 32-33% P20  content.
3/   This share might well reach 50% in 1974.



-3-
shares. "La Societe Fiduciaire du Mlaroc" has been nominated to audit MP's
accounts. It is an independent auditing company satisfactory to the Bank.
In view of OCP's well-established and well-run organization, MP sales,
finance and accounting functions will be managed by OCP personnel. Plant
and production management will be autonomous. The project manager, Mr. Sellam
M'Hamedi, is expected to become MP's General Manager at start of production.
He has, therefore, full responsibility for supervising the plant construction
and will manage its operations aad coordinate the other functions carried out
by OCP. Ile reports to the OCP Gineral Manager, also Chairman of the MP Board.
Total NP staff, after start of olierations, is planned to reach a minimum of
about 400 people. Provision has, however, been made in the operating costs
for larger staff (500 people).
2.05      After international consultation, OCP selected Topsoe as their
Technical Advisor. Topsoe is incorporated in Denmark and has a worldwide
reputation in consulting, engineering and research in the chemical field
(Annex 2-2). Although Topsoe was selected before the Bank became involved,
the Bank has no objection to this choice. There appears to be good coopera-
tion between Topsoe and the MP project team.
C.   Sector Development
2.06      The project is located about 13 km south of Safi and is adjacent
to the existing Maroc-Chimie (MC) phosphate fertilizer plant. To meet the
increasing demand for finished and intermediate P 20  products (Chapter IV),
the Government and OCP have made plans for the period 1973-77. They include,
in addition to the IP project and to the expansion of rock production capa-
city to 25 million TPY: (i) a doubling (MC1 project) of the MC production
capacity 11; and (ii) creation at Safi of a new Maroc-Phosphore unit (MP2
project) similar to but independent from the project. The MC1 project is
under execution and tenders are expected to be called shortly for the MP2
project. The Bank initially expressed some reservations as to such a rapid
sectoral development because all investments involved would draw on the same
scarce resources in Safi (mostly skilled staff, water, transport, storing
and handling facilities) and serve the same growing but limited global P205
market. The representatives of the Government and OCP agreed to furnish
information to the Bank on this investment program and on future phosphate
manufacturing and other industrial facilities in the area of Safi and gave
informal atssurances that no future investments in the Safi area would be
made that could adversely affect the project.
1/   MC produces about 400,000 TPY of phosphate fertilizers, equivalent to
abou2t 150,000 TPY P O, more than half of it for export and consumes
0.6 million TPY Youssoufia rock and 0.5 million TPY of local pyrrhotine--
a naitural iron sulfide whose sulfur content is used in making sulfuric
acid. MC will, after expansion (by 1977), produce nearly 1 million
tons of phosphate fertilizers and consume 1.5 million tons of rock.



- 4 -
III.  THE PROJECT AND THE INFRASTRUCTURE
A.   Facilities, Products and Raw Materials
3.01      The plant will produce commercial-grade phosphoric acid containing
54%_P,O,, suitable for ocean transportation in special ships; and fine-grained
(11-5 - ) MAP with a low 1% moisture content suitable for bulk transport using
traditional handling and shipping facilities. The project will have a capac-
ity of 1,500 tons per day (TPD) of P205, of which up to 45% can be converted
into MAP, after combination with ammonia. On average about 25% of the total
P205 manufactured will be converted into MAP and the plant will therefore-
at full capacity--produce 371,250 TPY of P205 as acid, and 225,780 TPY of
MAP. Annex 3-1 shows process diagrams and flow sheets for the project.
Since the plant will be adjacent to the existing MC plant, the Company
will benefit from available transport infrastructure and existing storage,
handling and shipping facilities at Safi with resulting cost savings.
3.02      The main production facilities will include:  a three train 1,500
TPD P205 phosphoric acid unit; a 4,500 TPD sulfuric acid plant, also with
three trains; and a two train 1,220 TPD MAP unit. The principal units will
be large enough to benefit fully from proven modern technology and economies
of scale. In addition, there will be: the usual utilities; inputs and
outputs storage and handling facilities at the plant and the Safi port;
electric and steam generating units; a connection to the national power
grid; a connection to a new rock unloading system (gare haute project) for
both MC and IMP; in-plant intake systems for process fresh water and cooling
sea water; administration buildings; maintenance shop and store houses; and
plant connections to existing railroads. The port of Safi can receive ships
cf up to 20,000 dwt and the materials and equipment for the plant construc-
tion will be Imported through Safi. Annex 3-2 gives a more detailed des-
cription of the facilities, off-sites and auxiliaries.
3.03      Of the principal raw materials:  (i) phosphate rock will be sup-
plied by train from OCP's Youssoufia mine, under a long-term supply contract;
(ii) sulfur will be imported in dry lump form also on long-term contracts;
ancl (iii) small quantities of ammonia will be bought from various sources
on a spot basis. At capacity operation, raw materials consumption will be
about 1.62 million TPY of rock, 481,000 TPY of sulfur, and between 31 and
56,000 TPY of ammonia depending on the rate of MAP production. Catalysts
and chemicals will all be imported. The Youssoufia rock averages 70-72 BPL
and known reserves are adequate to supply the project with the same grade
over a much longer period than its expected life.



-5-
B.   GeneraLl Infrastructure
3.04      Certain infrastructure facilities needed for, but not part of the
project, and estimated to cost about DH 36 million (US$8 million), will be
built by the appropriate Government agencies but be closely suplervised by
OCP and ID; the necessary budget allocations have been made. Ihese facili--
ti.es, described in Annex 3-3 include:  the supply of fresh water 3through
mcdification of a canal, installation of a new canal, a 56,000 m reservoir
and a conduit; installations for unloading sulfur at the port; and railroad
equipment and railroad sidings at the Safi port and from the Youssoufia-Safi
rail line to "gare haute". The tariffs, to be paid by ID for these services
have been agreed upon with the agencies involved. Availability of housing
is being reviewed by the regional authorities. A schedule for construction
of these facilities has been agreed upon with the Government which has under-
taken to provide the facilities on time as required by the project.
C.   7colo
3.05      The main potential pollutants will be:  boiler blow-down; sulfur
filter cake; gypsum; sulfur and rock dust; tail gas containing sulfur-oxides
and fluorine compounds.  The Government has,not yet established specific
pollution standards but appropriate measureit to handle these effluents are
provided for as part of the project (Annex :-4).  In particular, the filter
cake will be fed into MC's sulfuric acid unit and the gypsum will be re-
pulped in sea water and disposed of directly into the ocean. This gypsum
disposal method, used by IfC since start-up in 1965, has never created any
pollution problem on account of the inert nature of gypsum and the swift
ocean current bringing about quick dispersion. All storage and handling
installations for solids will receive de-dusting equipment. A new disposal
area for MC's pyrrhotine cinders has been created at some distance from MP
and thus will eliminate the dust contamination from IMC. OCP and MP agreed
to carry out the project with due regard to environmental requirements.
IV.  WORLD MARKETS AND PRICES
A.   Main Trends and Rationale
4.01      The main trends that have brought about structural changes in pro-
duction and trade of phosphate fertilizers in the past 10 years are: (i)
rapid increase in production and trade of high grade fertilizers; (ii) rapid
increase in phosphoric acid capacity, prompted by the trend to high grades;
(iii) emerging trade in intermediates (liquid phosphoric acid or solids like
MAP); (iv) increase in size of intermediates production units and economies
of scale; and (v) increasing participation of developing countries in the
world trade. Rock and sulfur are available in large quantities only from



- 6 -
a limited number of sources 1/ and there is a mounting trade in intermediates.
Therefore, the world trade environment in which the project will operate and
likely trade-offs anong the different, but highly substitutable, P205 prod-
ucts are reviewed in this chapter. The future trade pattern for P205 prod-
ucts is likely to shift from present domination by rock and sulfur to a more
balanced trade combining these materials and increasing quantities of inter-
mediates and high grade finished products. Production and exports of inter-
mediates--formerly captive products in integrated plants--by large export
oriented units located close to raw material sources is likely to develop.
The project will participate in such a development.
B.   Finished Phosphate Fertilizers
4.02      World supply reached about 23.2 million tons P205 in 1972.  In the
same year world capacity was estimated at 25.1 million TPY P205 equivalent
to a capacity utilization of about 92%. In recent years world consumption
increased at an annual rate of about 5%. During the 1970s world demand for
P105 is expected to grow at about 6.0% per year to reach some 38 million tons
of P2O5 by 1980. Demand for high-grade fertilizers (essentially phosphoric
acid based) will increase faster than average and their share in world con-
sumption is likely to increase from about 50% in the late 1960s to 70% in
the mid 1970s. Annex 4-1 gives details on production, consumption and trade.
4.03      The 1972 world export trade, most of which is in high-grade fer-
tilizers, was about 3.6 million TPY P205 of which about 1.3 million tons
represented the intra-trade in North America and Western Europe; 1.2 million
tons were exported from the US and Western Europe to developing countries--
principally Latin America and Asia--mostly through tied bilateral aid; and
0.4 million tons were exported from Morocco and Tunisia to Europe. MP will
represent about 10% of the present world trade of finished phosphate fer-
tilizers.  The world P205 supply/demand situation moved from an oversupply
in the late 1960s and early 1970s to a tight balance in 1972 and to a short-
age in 1973 as a result of increased domestic demand mainly in the US and
in EasteYn Europe. The severe shortage of high-grade phosphate fertilizers
resulted in considerable increases in prices. Representative FOB export
prices for typical finished phosphate fertilizers--an indicator of price
levels for MP's intermediate products--reached US$220 to US$280 per ton of
P20 at the end of 1973 as compared to about US$100 in 1970 (Annex 4-1).
C.   Phosphate Rock
4.04      Production, trade patterns and price developments for phosphate
rock are showni in Annex 4-2. World production of rock, concentrated in the
six areas mentioned above rose from 40 to 90 million tons between 1960 and
1/   There are only 6 major rock exporting areas (US, USSR, Morocco and North
Africa; West Africa, Middle East, and Pacific Islands) and 5 exporters
of sulfur (US, Canada, Mexico, France and Poland). The pattern and
location of the phosphate industry results from an optimum combination
of: size of local and/or accessible export markets; local availability
or low cost procurement of raw materials; and general infrastructural
and policy factors.



1972. The :Leading producers were the US (42%); the USSR (22%); and Morocco
(16%).  During the same period world capacity more than doabled and was es-
timated at about 99 million tons in 1972. Capacity utilization which in the
1960s was about 85-90%, increased to an estimated 92% in late 1972 and to
95% in 1S73, reflecting large increases in demand. World export trade of
phosphate rock increased from 29.2 to 43.5 million tons between 1965 and
1972 with about two-thirds of the trade going to Western and Eastern Europe.
The main exporters were Morocco (31% of world exports), the US (29%) and
the USSR (14%). Whereas Morocco exports nearly 95% of its outpult and there-
fore has little possibility for marginal export pricing, the US and the USSR
export only 25% and 30% respectively. The pattern of trade has been changing
during the same period with an increase in the share of the US (from 24 to
30%'t), and a switch of North African exports from Western Europe (paid in
hard currency) to Eastern Europe and Asia (with a sizeable part under barter
trade).
4.05      The world rock supply/demand situation also moved from a worldwide
over-supply in the late 1960s and early 1970s to a tight balance in early 1973
and a serious shortage by late 1973. Prices reflected this development;
export prices for 1974 are 2.5 times (Florida) to more than 3 times (Morocco)
higher than those prevailing in early 1973. The 1974 export prices for
typical 72 BPL grades are US$40 (FOB Morocco) and US$24 per ton (FOB Florida);
the early 1973 prices were only US$12.0 and US$9.9 per ton respectively.
The sharp increase in prices is also explained by a necessary price recovery--
low profits led to reduced investments, particularly in Florida, therefore
aggravating the worldwide supply 3hortage--following a depressed price sit-
uation over most of the last decade. Moroccan FOB prices in current US$
only regained by mid 1973 their 1953 level--reflecting, therefore, a severe
drop in constant prices--after going through a three years up aLnd down cycle
typical of the fertilizer industry. OCP will supply rock to ME' on a long-term
contract basis at a price ex-Youssoufia mine equivalent to the average export
price for the Youssoufia 70/72 BPL grade. It is OCP's determined policy not
to subsidize rock prices for sales to local manufacturers. A draft of the
rock contract was reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory; signature of
the rock supply contract is a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan.
World rock prices are expected to remain at their present (early 1974) high
levels through late 1975 because of an expected continuing tight supply.
The world rock capacity/demand coverage is, however, likely to improve from
1976 onwards; long term FOB equilibrium prices are therefore forecast to
stabilize---by 1976/77--at about 20% below the 1974 price levels. The projec-
ted 1976/77 export price for the 70/72 BPL grade is US$28-30 per ton FAS Safi.
The corresponding 1976/77 price for delivery to MP is therefore expected to
be about US$25 per ton (DH 110 per ton) ex-Youssoufia mine.
D.   Sulfur
4.06      A detailed account of trade pattern and price develolpments is given
in Annex 4-3. Following a very tight supply/demand situation in the 1960s,
supply has exceeded demand since 1969 causing a substantial drop in prices



- 8 -
and a continued build-up of unsold stocks. This over-supply situation is
due to massive production of recovered sulfur from natural gas mainly in
Canada and to increased deliveries of elemental sulfur from Poland. Though
supply and demand balanced in 1973 and prices firmed up, becauso- a large
portion of sulfur stocks in Canada cannot be economically moved, over-supply
is expected to last throughout the 1970s and beyond particularly because of
additional quantities of recovered sulfur and sulfuric acid resulting from
pollution controls. World prices (FOB Europe and US) have dropped from
US$40-50 in 1969 to US$24-30/ton in 1972. FOB Canadian, US and European
prices increased to about US$30 to 33 per ton by mid 1973 and to a per ton
US$35-45 range in early 1974. Long term equilibrium prices throughout the
1970s are expected to stabilize at their 1973 level and those C&F Morocco
at about US$32 to 36 per ton for Polish or French supplies. As mentioned,
sulfur consumed by MP will be supplied under long term contracts. A first
contract covering about two-thirds of the project's needs has been concluded
with Poland. This contract is initially for 5 years but renewable. The
price is firm during the first three years 1975-77 at US$32 per ton C&F
Safi. Prevailing market prices, with a ceiling of US$34 per ton, will apply
for later years (1978-80). OCP has started negotiations -- with Poland and
Canada -- for the supply, also on a long term contract, of the needed additional
sulfur requirements. This second contract is expected to be concluded
shortly and on approximately similar terms.
L.   Phosphoric Acid
.4.07      Annex 4-4 describes briefly the present and likely future produc-
tion, trade patterns and price developments for phosphoric acid. Between
1960 and 1972 world phosphoric acid capacity-virtually all for internal
captive use--increased from about 3.6 to 15.1 million tons P205 and is ex-
pected to attain about 20 million tons by 1975. As a result of the recent
development of acid manufacturing facilities for non-captive use, an inter-
national phosphoric acid trade has emerged. It reached about 380,000 tons
P205 in 1972 1/ representing some 3.3% of the world's production cf finished
P?05 products and over 10% of the world P205 trade. The main existing sup-
piiers of free phosphoric acid are Mexico, the US, Tunisia, Israel, Spain
and Iran; the main importers are Western Europe, Brazil, Colombia and India.
It is estimated that the international acid trade amounted to about 500,000
tons P205 in 1973.
4.08      OCP and the Bank have made a projection of the overall supply and
demand for phosphoric acid 2/ in 1975 and 1977. Considering only the projects
now committed and likely to come on stream before 1977, the supply/demand
situation on a wforldwide basis is expected to move from a marginal surplus
in 1974/75 to a marginal gap in supply of about 0.9 million tons P205 in
1977, or about three times the MP production.  On a regional basis, some
excess capacity is likely to appear in the US and the deficit in acid sup-
ply in the rest of the wgorld might well reach about 2 million tons P205
1/   In addition to the trade for finished P205 products (para. 4.03).
2/   Trade balances and supply/demapd gaps are evaluated/expressed in terms
of acid--the primary product--though the actual products can be acid or
derivatives like MAP.



-9-
by 1977. However, given statistical uncertainties the best estim.te would
be that supply and demand should about balance through 1977 with nore fa-
cilities needed by 1980. As a second approach to estimating the future
acid gap and one that is probably nore reliable for evaluating MP's market
prospects, demand from individual customers and offers from individual
sellers have been compared. The calculation shows that the potential
uncommitted acid supply for export (1 to 1.2 million tons P205 including
IT's production) and the expected demand yet unsatisfied through medium
to long-term contracts (0.9 to 1.1 million tons P205) might nearly balance
from 1976/77 onwards. This demand estimate is likely to be conservative
since it does not take account of: (i) a number of countries which might
p'rogressively become acid importers and (ii) additional imports to replace
local production from marginal obsolete capacities now being increasingly
dismantled in Europe. It is therefore considered that, though overall
demand and supply for intermediates might well tightly balance towards
the end of the 1970s, IP will have a market for its products and be able--
given its locational advantages--to compete efficiently with other pro-
ducers. Specific marketing arrangements are discussed in Chapter V.
4.09      Mid-1973 acid prices in North West Europe ranged between US$150
and 170 per ton of P205 FOB supplier's tank for medium term contracts. For
US local deliveries, they were about US$200/ton P205 FOB. Due to an extreme
shiortage in supply of free acid in both Europe and the US and reflecting the
late 1973 increases in rock prices, spot prices reached US$250-300 FOB plants
in early 1974. For the majority of acid sales covered by contracts, prices
have been adjusted upwards to take account of late 1973 rises in raw mate-
rials costs and freight rates. It is anticipated that delivered prices on
existing contracts (for West European marke'-s where prices are likely to
determine the pattern of international prices for oceangoing acid) will--
by 1976--range between US$210-230 per ton P2025 New contracts are expected
to be negotiated at 1976 prices about US$20 per ton higher. An indicative
long term equilibrium price for acid might, therefore, be about US$230-250
per ton C&F Europe (1976 base) for medium-term contracts and US$205-220 FOB
Safi or Gulf Coast. The expected average 1976 price for MP's acid sales is
US$210 per ton P205 FOB Safi.
F.   Mono-Aimhonium Phosphate (MAP)
4.10      MAP is not yet an internationally traded commodity since only
limited quantities have been available for export. It has, however, been
successfully used as an intermediate for distribution within some countries
(Finland, Spain, US). MAP, using phosphoric acid as major input, is a solid
intermediate fertilizer which combines a number of advantages: high P205
content; cheap transport cost on a per ton of nutrient basis; highly suitable
for blending. It is expected that large quantities of MAP will be increas-
ingly traded in the future and that MAP might well become one of the most
attractive ways of moving P205 from mines to producers. Compared to acid,
MAP will probably emerge as the most favorable product for long shipping
distances while acid will have advantages for use in specific processes



- 10 -
or for specific fertilizer formulae. It is expected that the international
trade for intermediates will concentrate on acid in the near future but then
include a substantial share of MAP. MAP medium to long term equilibrium
prices will be closely linked to acid prices but with a likely markup be-
cause of MAP's lower transport and handling costs. Late 1973 prices were
about US$120-150 per ton FOB Gulf Coast or Europe. Due to the sharp in-
crease in rock, ammonia and acid prices, early 1974 prices reached US$160-
200 per ton FOB plants. It is expected that these prices will stabilize
at about US$150-180 in the mid to late 1970s. The assumed average 1976
price for MAP sales is US$150 per ton FOB Safi.
V. MARKETING, TRANSPORT AND TERMINALS
A.   Marketing and Sales Arrangements
5.01      During the period 1971-73, OCP has analyzed in depth acid and MAP
sales potentials for specific markets, and has had discussions and negotiations
with numerous potential buyers. However, a marketing strategy, covering deter-
mination of quantities and selection of buyers and delivery points, has been
firmed up only recently. It is directed towards a geographically more diver-
sified sales pattern than had been contemplated earlier. OCP is completing
negotiation of medium-term sales contracts to ensure a satisfactory sales
build-up and reduce market risks. The firming up of sales contracts at this
stage is also imposed by the necessity to plan transport, terminal and han-
dling facilities for the acid. Clients who initially were hesitant to enter
into contractual sales arrangements have recently (probably following the
tight and insecure rock supply situation in the world) been more anxious to
do so.
5.02      OCP's sales strategy-to cover the first 5 years of operations--aims
at diversifying sales to key and expanding consumption zones rather than max-
imizing  PT's earnings.  Tthis illustrates OCP's desire to be present in these
key markets so as to: (i) participate in the pricing policy for intermediates
and (ii) prepare a seeding program for increased production of intermediates
in Morocco. The sales pattern therefore concentrates on four major zones:
Eastern Europe, Northwestern Europe--essentially Germany and the Rotterdam
area--, India and Brazil. Marginal sales are foreseen to other areas prob-
ably better served by OCP's competitors (Northwest of France, Italy and Asia).
About 15% of the plant's projected output at full capacity has not been al-
located. This will allow for increasing sales to current clients or sales
on a spot basis to benefit from favorable market conditions. In its strategy
OCP rightly has put emphasis on acid but will likely shift increasingly to-
wards MAP in the longer run.
5.03      The-status of sales contracts, either completed or being negotiated,
is summarized in the table below:



- 11 -
Status of Phosphoric Acid and MAP Contractual Sales
(in '000 tons of P205)
Acid                             1976   1977   1978   1979La  Purchasing Countries
Contract signed                  70     70      70      70    Poland
Contracts under final
negotiation                   100    120    120    120    (France (10); Germany (50);
(Brazil (50); India (10).
Contract urnder advanced
negotiation                    80     80      80      80    Romania
Negotiatiorns initiated           -      95    105    105    (Brazil (40); Italy (15);
(Germany (50).
M4AP
Contracts tinder final
negotiation                   40      40      40      40    India
290    405    415    415
of Projected MP's Sales         lb      97      88      84
/a   First vear of operations assumed at full capacity.
7/1  Likely contractual sales exceed projected MP's sales during 1976; OCP is
planning to subcontract acid manufacturing in Europe to meet these additional
sales.
The contract with Poland has been signed and the terms of the contracts with
Germany, France and India have been agreed upon. Negotiations with Italian
small buyers are advanced. Contract proposals have been made to two Brazilian
firms and final negotiations are scheduled for late spring 1974. All contracts
are for five years with renewal clauses; acid will be sold on CIF and MAP on
an FOB basis. Therefore, under reasonable assumptions for successful comple-
tion of sales negotiations by mid-1974, virtually the entire plant output
durinp the first two years of operation--and about 85%o thereafter--will have
been contracted. l.vidence of the contracts signed and the terms--satisfactory
to the Bank--of those still to be finalized have been provided during negotia-
tiolls. Pinally sales arrangements covering at least 50% (in 1976) and 60%
(for eacth of the four subsequent years 1977 through 1980) of the estimated
total plant capacity will be provided to the Bank as a condition, of loan
effectiveness.  The 60% share corresponds to the profit break-even production
level.
5i.04     The acid contracts provide for a base 1973 price and an escalation
formula Linking the acid price to rock and sulfur prices and to freight costs.
An exceptiork is Germany for which the market price prevailing at: timne of de-
livery will apply. The estimated weighted average price for negotiated con-
tracts is about USS150 per ton of P 205  FOB Safi (1973 base) and US$218 (1976



- 12 -
base) 1/. The Bank's present best estimate--used in the financial projections--
of the average price for total acid sales is US$210 per ton P205 (1976 base)
F)B Safi. This estimate takes account. of uncertainties related to the terms
of contracts not yet fully negotiated and to preliminary estimates of transport
costs. The Bank's best estimate for the average MAP prices is US$150 per ton
(1976 base) FOB Safi, or US$270 per ton P205. MAP prices are difficult to
predict since it is not yet an internationally traded commodity, but they
miglit well reach US$160-170 per ton FOB Safi by the mid 1970s--or some 6-13%
above those used in the financial projections.
B.   Acid Transport
.5.05     It is planned to transport phosphoric acid from Safi to delivery
points in three specialized, self-unloading, ocean-going ships: two 10,500
and one 20,000 dwt capacity ships equipped with rubber-lined tanks. A joint
company, Marphocean, has been formed--with an initial share capital of DH 4
million--to purchase and operate, under Moroccan flag, the three ships.
Marphocean is owned by the Moroccan National Shipping Company COMANAV (45%)
which already owns 11 ships and has a leading role in sea transport of
Moroccan goods, and by OCP (25%). The balance (30%) will be covered by the
French ship engineering firm, Gazocean, one of the world's leading firms in
the shipping of liquefied or pressurized gases and specialty chemicals.
Marphocean will enter into a long-term time charter arrangement with Maroc-
Phosphore. Contracts have been awarded for the first two ships to be de-
livered in January and March 1976 respectively. Tender documents for the
third ship have been issued and offers are expected in May 1974; this ship
is expected to be delivered by December 1976.
5.06      Before OCP decided to purchase ships rather than charter them, it
consulted several specialized shipping agencies from the UK, Japan and Norway.
The world fleet of phosphoric acid carriers available for chartering, though
developing rapidly, is still limited and includes mostly small multipurpose
stainless steel ships or ships owned by competitors. In line with arrange-
ments made by other acid export companies, notably FFM 2/ of Mexico, the
pioneer firm in acid shipping, OCP decided to build its own transport facil-
ities. While Marphocean will be responsible for the operation and maintenance
of the ships, MP will, in accordance with the time charter agreement, pay a
fixed annual fee to Marphocean and cover the ships' direct operating expenses.
Annex 5-1 gives details on arrangements for acid transport and on freight
rates for selected routes. The rates are summarized in the table below:
1/   Using assumptions made in the financial projections for future rock,
sulfur and ammonia prices and freight costs.
2/   Fertilizantes Fosfatados Mexicanos (FFM).



- 13 -
Estimated Ship Investment Cost and Freight Rates
Size     Investment Cost       Freight Rates in US$/ton of P205) 1973 Base
in dwt     (US$ million)        Szczecin      Rotterdam    Rouen       Santos
10,500 /1       12.3               23             19          17          -
20,000          21.6               -              -           -         37
/1   The two 10,500 dwt ships will be identical and will cost the same amount.
5.07      The Bank does not finance the shipping facilities, but their proper
and timely implementation is es8ential to the success of the overall scheme.
The delivery of the first two ships must not suffer any delays.  Their con-
struction time might: mark the critical path for the overall project; and
lead--if extended beyond January/March 1976 and no charter substitute were
to become available in time--to initial under-capacity utilization of the
project or to the postponement of plant acceptance tests. The Bank is satis-
fied that l4arphocean: (i) will quickly conclude a contract for the third
ship; (ii) is firming up a satisfactory financing plan for the three ships;
and (iii) will enter into a satisfactory time charter agreement with NP prior
to the loan becoming effective.
C.   Receiving Terminal Facilities
5.08      Clients will be responsible for terminal facilities--storage tanks
and piping--to handle and store the acid delivered. Existing terminals will
be used to the extent possible. More specifically, Poland is constructing
a terminatl with a capacity of 20,000 tons of solution at Szczecin. Brazilian
purchasers will use existing terminals in Santos and Rio Grande do Sul, al-
though some expansion may be needed. The German buyer plans to enter into
negotiations with FFM to use the under-utilized FFM terminal at Rotterdam
or, failing that, will set up its own terminal in Antwerp. Other specific
swap arrangements are being worked out to supply the small French purchasers.
A terminal is available in Kandla in India. Romania is considering setting
up a new terminal. NP and Marphocean agreed to supervise closely the execu-
tion and adequacy of the terminals since they constitute an essential element
in the delivery chain of acid. MAP will be handled and stored in bulk using
traditional fertilizer handling facilities.
VI. PROJECT EXECUTION
A.   Background
6.01      The Government and OCP requested, in June 1971, Bank technical
assistance in the preparation and supervision of a call for iturnkey bids.
OCP and the Bank closely cooperated and international bidding procedures
were followed throughout the bidding phase. OCP signed a first plant con-
struction contract-including two sulfuric acid, two phosphoric acid and



- 14 -
one MAP trains and related offsites, corresponding to about two-thirds of
the project capacity--on June 29, 1973 and project execution has commenced.
It will take 27 months to build this portion of the project, and commercial
operations are expected to start in January 1976. This first contract inclu-
ded provisions for project expansion to full capacity. Following favorable
market developments and to take advantage of an unchanged price offer, OCP
entered into (early 1974) and completed (April 1974) negotiations for a
supplementary construction contract based on identical terms and covering
the additional works to complete the project; corresponding facilities are
expected to start operations in August 1976. The desirable sequence--with
which the Bank agrees--for project preparation and execution as well as the
choice and early conclusion of a turnkey contract was imposed by the need to:
(i) increase buyers confidence in the project; and (ii) obtain a firm project
cost essential to determine a sound sales strategy and allow the start of
serious sales and price negotiations, to reduce commercial risks.
B.   Selection of Contractors
6.02      Both the Government and OCP decided to execute the main facilities
of the project as turnkey contracts at lump sum prices subject to an agreed
escalation formula because of: (i) single responsibility in project execu-
tion; (ii) lack of sufficient technical expertise within OCP; and (iii) firm
knowledge of fixed project costs at an early stage. The Bank accetpted, after
setting up certain safeguards, that this particular project be cairied out on
such turnkey basis (Annex 6-1). OCP invited bids from consortia of special-
ized firms with the leadership entrusted to one firm (the contractor) who was
to have responsibility for the entire project. The Bank agreed to a three-
phase procedure for selecting the consortium: (i) pre-qualification of con-
sortia after international advertising; (ii) invitation to pre-qualified con-
sortia to submit unpriced technical offers conforming to detailed tender docu-
ments, and, after clarification and technical adjustments of offers; (iii) call
for a lump sum price for most of the project scope of work (Chapter VII) which,
together with the technical offer, was to serve as the basis for bid evalua-
tion. Thirteen responsive pre-qualification bids were received from a broad
international base and, by scoring methods acceptable to the Bank and with
Topsoe's assistance, five consortia were selected by OCP on the basis of their
technical offers to present price proposals (Annex 6-1). The five contractors
were from the US, Belgium, France, Germany, and Japan and they had proposed
processes and technology from the same countries plus Poland and UK. Thus,
a good international spread was obtained.
C.   The Consortium and the Project Contract
6.03      One consortium withdrew voluntarily and evaluation of the four re-
maining bids was completed by the end of 1972. The lowest evaluated bid was
submitted by the consortium headed by Friedrich Uhde GmbH (Uhde) of Germany.
Uhde and all the other members of the consortium are well known and capable
firms (Annex 6-2). Uhde will coordinate the overall engineering and civil
works, engineer and build the phosphoric acid unit, build the MAP unit and



- 15 -
design and construct the off-sites and auxiliaries; Polimex-Cekop (Polimex)
of Poland will provide the sulfuric acid process and engineer and build the
sulfuric acid unit; Lurgi Gesellschaft fur Chemie and Huttenwesen GmbH (Lurgi)
wili engineer and procure the MAP unit; Siemens A.G. (Siemens), will perform
the electrical work. Nissan of Japan will provide the hemihydrate phosphoric
acid process and Fisons of the UK the MAP process. Some initial reservations
about the Polimex and Nissan processes and about Polimex qualifications were
removed after a Bank mission visited plants operating with these processes
and units constructed by Polimex in Europe.
6.04      The contracts include a lump sum price with payments in DH (local
costs), in clearing dollars for the Polimex part as per a sub-contract between
Uhde and Polimex, and in DM for the remaining balance of foreign exchange.
An agreed payment schedule in the three currencies is also included in the
contracts and payments are specified at intervals and in amounts proportional
to expected cash outlays and work done. Thje Polimex lump sum prices are firm
for the forecast duration of the project execution. The DH and DM portions
will be adjusted up or down over time according to agreed formulae included
in the contracts and to be applied between October 1972 and August 1976. The
ccontracts guarantee, subject to penalty/bonus clauses, that mechanical com-
pletion will occur by October 1, 1975 (first contract) and by August 1976
(second contract). Provisional acceptance is subject to a 7-day continuous
te.st--scheduled to take place within a period of 6 months after mechanical
completions--with all sections of the plant operating at full capacity.
Final acceptance is to occur 12 months later if it is shown that there are
no hidden defects or unsuitable equipment. The contracts also provide for
unlimited liability of the consortium to meet capacity and products quality
guarantees. Various penalties are provided for late completion, excessive
use of raw materials, utilities and supplies, which could amount to 10% of
the lump sum prices (Annex 6-2). Since the lump sum prices total about
US$92 million equivalent, the possible total penalties are severe.
6.05      In agreement with the contract, Uhde carried out a full-scale in-
dustrial test with some 20,000 tons of Youssoufia rock in the Rupel 1/ Nissan
process based phosphoric acid plant of a size and sophistication similar to
the one proposed. Results were above expectations and Uhde was able to guar-
antee a higher efficiency than originally foreseen in the use of raw mate-
rials. Some of the acid made was tested in a unit using the Fisons MAP proc-
ess (Annex 6-3).
6.06      With these provisions, it is expected that the turnkey part of the
project will he completed on time and that the plant will be able to operate
at full capacity on a continuous basis (330 days per year). A bar chart
showing the estimated construction schedule for the project and the general
infrastructure is shown in Annex 6-4. As of April 1974 the project and
related infrastructure were on schedule. The site preparation work is com-
pleted and the engineering work has started at Uhde's headquarters. The Bank
is satisfied with the general terms of the plant contracts, including the
schedule, given the guarantees and previous experience of Uhde.
1/   Societe Chimique du Rupel at Sauvegarde, Belgium.



- 16 -
T). Procurement
6.07      Since international competitive bidding was used to select the con-
sortium which is to execute the major part of the project at a lump sum price,
there will be no further supervision by the Bank of procurement of equipment
under the turnkey contract. Self interest will, however, dictate that the
consortium procure these at the lowest possible prices, including multinational
bidding, and the technical specifications and the terms of the turnkey contract
will ensure satisfactory quality of the goods purchased. Spare parts are not
included in the turnkey contracts and will be procured: partly from the
original equipment vendors (simultaneously with purchases of main equipment
and in accordance with a list to be prepared by Uhde); and partly--at the
time of start-up--through international bidding in agreement with a comple-
mentary list also to be prepared by Uhde. Both lists are subject to OCP and
Bank approvals. An important portion of the equipment and materials is likely
to come from Germany and most of the remainder from other European countries.
Polimex will procure equipment and services from Poland as per the sub-contracts
with Uhde in clearing dollars but also from Germany and other European sources
with payments to be made in DM and as part of the plant contract. Process
licenses will be procured in Japan (Nissan) and in UK (Fisons). Uhde will
prepare at the end of project execution an indicative breakdown of foreign
exchange expenditures by country.
E.   Project Organization and Company Management
6.08      A satisfactory organization for project execution has been developed
(Annex 6-5) and is progressively being built-up. It includes: (i) the MP
project taam; (ii) the various OCP Departments involved; (iii) the technical
advisor Topsoe; (iv) the Uhde team; and (v) an OCP group working on future
acid and other intermediates manufacturing projects. The main functions for
project execution are described in Annex 6-6. The project team will supervise
the project execution, including infrastructure, and review progress reports
and schedules prepared by Uhde and Topsoe. It will also provide the nucleus
for the operating Company itself. As indicated above various OCP departments-
commercial, administrative and finance, and planning-will provide support to
the project team and later to the Company. Topsoe will assist the project
team in all the activities involved including the review of work progress
and start-up. Uhde will have full responsibility for the construction,
start-up and performance of the project, which will decrease the immediate
burden on the project team. The various governmental agencies will execute
the infrastructure work under the combined supervision of MP and OCP planning
department. Finally, the OCP group for future intermediates projects includes
experienced engineers and will provide direct and continuous technical support
as needed. These organizational arrangements are expected to ensure an adequate
control of project execution. The shipping part of the overall scheme will be
directly supervised by COMANAV, Gazocean and the OCP commercial department.
The project team will merely provide the necessary coordination in this area.



- 17 -
6.09      Tentative organization charts for the project team and for the iMP
operating Company are shown in Annex 6-6. The structures are substantially
similar and therefore will allow for an adequate continuity from the execu-
tion of the project to the management of the Company. The Chief of the proj-
ect ream, 'Mr. M'Hamedi, was formerly head of the processing facilities at
Khouribga and is considered to have the required broad managerial capabilities
to guide and coordinate all the project activities.  As was mentioned previously,
he is expected to become MP's General Manager and will contribute to the
continuity during the transition from project execution to actual operation.
F. -Stafi-ing and Training
6.10      MP has prepared plans for staffing the project team and the Company
(Annex 6-7). Staffing of the project team is in progress. In addition to the
project manager already in place, an experienced deputy project manager, for-
merly MC plant manager, has been nominated and 1 of 7 department heads and 4
of 9 division chiefs have been recruited. However, since more senior staff
will have to be added by mid-1974, some recruitment difficulties might be en-
countered given the lack of experienced Moroccan engineers in this field.
Thus more young engineers with limited experience, and requiring intensive
training, will have to be relied upon. It has therefore been arranged that:
(i) Topsoe will assist in the recruitment and training-in Ilorocco and abroad--
of key persornel; and (ii) under the plant contract, Uhde will assist in re-
cruiting expatriate personnel, if needed and in arranging in-plant training
abroad. PIC, as well as OCP and the local utility companies will be used as
additional, training grounds. A detailed program for staffing and training
taking account of a desirable cooperation with MC, has been prepared by the
Company in close cooperation with Uhde and Topsoe; these arrangements are
satisfactory.
VII.  CAPITAL COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
A.   Capital Costs
7.01      Total investment costs for the project, summarized below and de-
tailed in Annex 7-1, are estimated to be DH 657 million (US$148.6 million).
Total financing, including interest during construction, is DH 687 million
(US$155.5 million).



- 18 -
Summary of Capital Costs
(in millions)
% of
Dirhams                US Dollars      Total
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Cost
Engineering                          -       26     26      -     6.0    6.0    4.0
Buildings and Civil Works            45       5     50    10.1   1.1   11.2    7.5
Equipment and Materials               5    234    239       1.3  52.8   54.1   36.4
Erection and Supervision             37      33     70      8.4   7.3   15.7   10.6
Miscellaneous                         4      16     20      0.8   3.8    4.6    3.1
Total Turnkey Contract          91    314    405    20.6  71.0   91.6   61.6
Spare Parts                          -       21     21      -     4.8    4.8    3.2
Taxes and Registration Fee           18      -       18     4.0   -       4.0    2.7
Project Infrastructure               16      -       16     3.7   -       3.7    2.5
Pre-operational Expenses             16       6     22      3.7   1.3    5.0    3.4
Price Escalation                     14      61      75     3.1  13.8   16.9   11.4
Additional Contingency                 6     21      27     1.3   4.8    6.1    4.1
Working Capital                      73      -      73    16.5   -       16.5   11.1
Total Capital Cost             234    423    657    52.9  95.7  148.6  100.0
Interest during Construction         11      19     30      2.5   4.4    6.9
Total Financing Required       245    442    687    55.4 100.1  155.5
7.02      These estimates are based on a total lump sum price of DH 405
million (US$91.6 million) included in the contracts with UlJde.  Though
reducing largely the chances of cost overruns, firm contract prices do not
automatically eliminate them because of force majeure conditions or contractor's
claims on account of minor changes in the contract scope. All major items
outside the turnkey contracts have been identified and their cost estimates
prepared by OCP and MP were reviewed by the Bank and appear to be adequate.
The orovision for price escalation, based on the contracts' escalation
formulae and on the estimated annual rates of growth of component prices, is
considered adequate; on average these annual rates amount to 15% and 13% for
foreign and local components respectively. Furthermore, an overall contingency
(5% on the local and 7% on the foreign portion of the installed plant cost
excluding price escalation) is included to cover miscellaneous unforeseeable
expenditures. While the recent increases in petroleum prices have brought
about added uncertainties about future price developments it is judged that
the overall contingency reserve of US$23 million equivalent, or 18% of project
cost before working capital and interest during construction is adequate,
particularly in view of the relatively short construction time. The foreign
exchange costs include DH 55 million (US$12.6 million) for goods and services
subcontracted by TJhde to Polimex and are to be paid for in clearing dollars.
Local costs include DH 18 million for taxes and registration fee. The phasing
of expenditures during construction corresponds to the agreed contractual
payment schedule (Annex 7-2).



- 19 -
T).   Working Capital
7.03      Permanent wvorking capital requirements are conservatively estimated
at DII 73 million, or US$16.5 million (Annex 7-3). They include DH 47 million
to build up inventories, DH 52 million for receivables (40 days>, DH 5 million
for cash requirements less DH 31 million financing for accounts payable (1
month). Inventories for phosphate rock (2 days) are considered sufficient
siven the direct link between the plant and the Youssoufia mine. Accounts
receivables are based on OCP's experience with phosphate rock sales.
C.   Financing Plan
7.04      T'he sources of funds to finance the project (Annex 7-4) are sum-
marized below:
Financinig Plan
(in millions)
Dirhams                    US Dollars
Local  Foreign  Total    Local   Foreign    Total
Debt
IBRD                          -       221      221        -        50.0       50.0
K fW                          -       119      119        -        26.8       26.8
BNDE                          -        35       35        -         8.0        8.0
Sub-Total:                 -       375      375       -        84.8       84.8
Equity (OC]?)
Local Funds                  245       -       245      55.4         -        55.4
Clearing Currency             -        55       55        -        12.6       12.6
Converti'ble Currency         -        12       12        -         2.7        2.7
Sub-Total:                245       67      312     55.4       15.3       70.7
Total Financing:          245      442      687      55.4      100.1     155.5
7.05      The total project financing will be provided in the ratio of 55:45
debt to equity.  This ratio represents a sound capitalization for the project
and the Company and provides for an adequate risk sharing between the sponsor
and the lenders. Loan financing will be provided by Kreditanstalt fur
W4iederaufbau (KfW) of Germany, the local bank Banque Nationale pour le
Developpement Economique (BNDE) and the Bank. Financing will be joint for KfW
and the Bank. The Bank loan of US$50 million will amount to 59% of the total
loan funds, and covers about 57% of the total expected convertible foreign
exchange costs. The remaining loan financing--in convertible foreign
exchange--will be provided by KfW (DM 75 mil lion or US$26.8 million) and
BNI)E (USNW million). The German Government has allocated DM 75 million for
the project as part of its capital aid to Morocco; KfW, acting as Executive
Agency, iE; considering making a corresponding loan to MP.  11W expects to



- 20 -
reach a final decision on its loan by June/July 1974 and the effectiveness of
the Bank loan will depend on the final approval of the KfW loan by the German
Government. BNDE's financial contribution slould be seen as a step to mobilize
additional external resources from Arab oil exporting countries and to
strengthen BNDE participation in the preparation and execution of major
development projects in Morocco.  Should BNDE's financial participation not
materialize, OCP has agreed to provide the corresponding amount (US$8 million)
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The equity funds will
finance the local costs, the costs of Polisl supplies (US$12.6 million) and
US$2.7 million equivalent convertible foreign exchange costs.
7.06      Based on the expected life of the project, the proposed Bank loan
would be for 14 years, including 4 years of grace. The Bank loan would be
made directly to MP at the Bank interest rate (currently 7-1/4%) and would be
guaranteed by the Government. MP would pay to the Government a guarantee fee
of 1-3/4%, bringing the total cost of Bank funds for MP to 9%. The KfW loan
would be granted to the Government at 2% for 30 years including 10 years of
grace and would be on-lent to MP. The terms and conditions of the KfW and
3NDE loan to MP would be the same as for the Bank loan.  The terms of the
proposed loans are satisfactory for the project.
7.07      Equity financing for the project would amount to DH 313 million
(US$70.7 million) and would be provided by OCP. After review of OCP's finan-
cial forecasts and given expected high rock prices for the next two years
(para. 4.05), the Bank is satisfied with OCP's capability to generate suffi-
cient funds in the forthcoming years and to provide equity financing for MP
when and in the amounts needed. OCP's present financial structure is sound
with a debt to equity ratio of 36:64 and net income after taxes is expected
to increase sharply from the 1973 level of nearly DII 150 million.  The
Government has agreed to allow OCP to retain earnings in sufficient amounts
to meet NP's equity subscriptions.  In the event of a capital cost overrun
in the project, OCP would provide--with an adequate back-up by the Government
--additional funds necessary to complete the project, on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank. These provisions are deemed satisfactory.
D.   Allocation of Loans and Disbursement Schedule
7.08      A tentative allocation of foreign exchange financing to the differ-
ent categories of expenditures would be as follows:



- 21 -
Allocation of Foreign Exchange Financing
(in million US$)
Debt             OCP's Equity
Bank   KfW   BNDE  Clearing    Convertible
Turnkey Conttract                   33.6  19.0   8.0      10.4
Spare Parts                          2.6   1.5    -        0.7            -
Training, Start-up and Project
Supervision                         -     -     -         -            1.3
Interest during Construction         3.0    -     -         -            1.4
Unallocatecd (Contingency and
Escalation)                       10.8   6.3    -        1.5            -
Sub-Total:                    50.0  26.8   8.0       12.6          2.7
Total:                        50.0  26.8   8.0             15.3
The Bank loan would cover 56% of the convertible foreign exchange costs of
the turnkey contract and spare parts, the full amount of interest on the
Bank loan during construction and the estimated share of escalation and con-
tingencies.
7.09      A detailed quarterly schedule of equity subscriptions and loan with-
drawals is shown in Annex 7-4. By the time the Bank loan is expected to be
approved (June 1974) OCP would have: brought into the Company as equity
DH 51 milLion to finance local and clearing currency costs; and made DH 57
million (US$12.8 million) convertible foreign exchange advance payments
(US$8 million to be financed retroactively through the BNDE loan; the remaining
US$4.8 million proposed to be financed retroactively by KfW and the Bank).
Disbursements of the Bank and KfW portions of the loans financing the turnkey
contract will be made pro rata against invoices submitted by MP and in agree-
ment with the contracts payments schedule. The Company is aware that the
Bank will not finance goods and services procured in Poland. Control in
this respect will stem from the fact that Topsoe and VT will certify to the
Bank--through progress reports and transmittal of detailed purchase orders--
eligibility of the goods and services to be reimbursed by the Bank.
7.10      As indicated above, total retroactive financing required of the
Bank and KfW up to the expected date of approval of the Bank loan (June 1974)
is estimated at US$4.8 million equivalent. The proportionate Bank share will
be US$3.1 million and represents a relatively small percentage of the Bank
loan (6%). The proposed retroactive financing is a consequence of the strategy
adopted: (i) by OCP in first firming up prqject costs and then negotiating
sales contracts, and (ii) by the Bank in evaluating the project on the basis
of much firmer evidence on critical project parameters. The advance contracting
corresponds conceptually, in the present case, to the total irLstalled plant
costs since, as agreed with the Bank, the contract was awardecl on a turnkey
basis. The Bank considered it advisable for the project sponsor to conclude,
at an early stage, a plant construction contract and to supervise closely
eachi step of the bidding procedure.



- 22 -
VIII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.   Revenues and Operating Costs
8.01      A detailed description of revenues and operating costs is given in
Annex 8-1. They are summarized below for plant operations at full capacity:
Revenues and Operating Costs at Full Capacity
(75% of P 205 as Acid and 25%' as MAP)
Unit Prices (1976)      Annual Revenues and Costs
in US$     per ton           (in US$ millions)
Total      of which Taxes
Revenues
Phosphoric Acid (FOB Safi)   210.0       of P 0        78.1
-AP (FOB Safi)                 150.0     of rJP        33.9
Other Revenues                                          0.7
Total                                            112.7
Operating Costs
Raw ltaterials:
- Phosphate Rock (delivered
Plant)                       26.2     of product   42.5                 -
- Sulfur (unloaded Safi)        32.1     of product   14.7               0.8
- Ammonia (unloaded Safi)    110.0       of product    3.4               0.3
Utilities and Chemicals                                 2.6              0.1
Transport and Handling                                  1.7               -
Personnel                                               2.3               -
Maintenance Materials                                   5.7              1.3
Other                                                   3.7              2.5
Subtotal                                          76.6              5.0
Depreciation                                           11.1
Interest                                                4.8
Total                                             92.5              5.0
Net Income before Taxes on Income                      20.2



- 23 -
Operating costs at start of produclion hlave been estimated by Topsoe and 0CP
and, like the financial projections, are made at 1976 prices. The revenues
and najor material inputs prices retained (1976 base) are discussed in Chap-
ter IV. Though short-term distortions between revenues and costs may occur--
the impact on account of energy costs is exbected to be minimal--ptices of
acid and MAP will remain closely linked to 1)rices of raw materials and,
therefore, costs and revenues are likely to move in parallel. Projections
in constarLt prices are thus justified. In addition all major input prices
will be contractual except for the ammonia which is today in short supply and
therefore almost impossible to contract for on a medium- or long-term basis.
Annual maintenance materials cost have been assumed at about 5, of the total
plant costs. Labor costs, escalated to 1976 at 6% per year, include contingencies
over and above costs corresponding to the personnel size proposed by the
contractor. Transport and handling costs are low because of existing infra-
structure facilities at the port and at MC. They have been escalated to 1976
at 5, per year. These operating cost estimates are considered reliable
particularly since consumption of raw materials is guaranteed in the plant
construction contract.
B.   Financial Forecasts
8.02      Detailed projections of MP's income statements, cash flows and
balance sheets are contained in Annexes 8-2, 3 and 4 and are summarized be-
low:
Summary of Financial Projections
(in million DH)
1976    1977    1978    1979    1980
Income Statements and Cash Flow
Capacity Utilization                       65%      85%      95%    100%    100%
Sales Percentage of Capacity               61%      85%      95%    100%    100%
Revenues                                  249      423      472     498      498
Operating Costs                           1'30     291      320      337     337
Interest                                   34       34       33      31       28
Depreciation                               45       49       49      49       49
Net Income (Loss) before Taxes            (10)      49       70       81      84
Net Income (Loss) after Taxes             (10)      49       70      81       84
Cash Flow (before interest and taxes)   69         132      152     161      161
Debt Service                               34       34       48      62       60
Balance Sheets (December 31)
Current Assets                            130      154      154      154     154
Accumulated Cash Surplus                   -        81      183     280      379
Current Liabilities                        22       46       62      63       65
Net Fixecd Assets                         570      523      476     429      382
Long-Term Debt                            375      360      329     297      263
Capital                                   303      352      422     503      587
Current Ratio                             6.0      3.3      2.5     2.4      2.4
Debt/Equity Ratio                       55:45   51:49   44:56   37:63   31:69
Debt Service Coverage                    2.0       3.9      3.2     2.6      2.7



- 2'. -
The projections of revenues are based on reasonable assumptions as to the
build-up of output to full capacity in 1979, the fourth year of operations.
Given the contractual guarantees, the plant could, from a technical point
of view, reach full capacity over a shorter period of time and operate at
100% capacity on a continuous basis. Operating costs include about DH 22
million (US$5.0 million) non-reimbursable 1/ domestic taxes. MP as an export-
oriented project located in the Safi Region is exempted from taxes on income
during the first ten years of operations. 'At the assumed capacity build-up,
the financial projections show a small prolit during the first year of opera-
tion. The debt service coverage ratio remtins at a satisfactory level (above
2) during the life of the project. The lo&ns' interest and repayment schedules
are shown in Annex 8-5.
8.03      The cash break-even point (Annex 8-6) of the project is expected
to be at about 50% of capacity utilization. The profit break-even point will
be at about 60% of capacity utilization until 1980 and thereafter decline
steadily to 52% in 1988. A cash build-up occurs in the projections because
they do not include provision for dividend payments and do not assume rein-
vestment of depreciation in the form of future investment expenditures.
The cash build-up provides a financial buffer during the early years and a
provision for equity funds for expansion in later years. The current ratio
will remain satisfactory throughout the project life and the working capital
funds would provide financing for unexpected operating losses and for reim-
bursable taxes, and give a safety margin for unexpected cash requirements
and debt service coverage. The financial position of the Company is expected
to be good after the initial one to two years of operations.
C.   Financial Return and Sensitivity Analysis
8.04      Based on the above projections, the base financial rate of return
of the project would be 17.4% before and 16.9% after taxes on income (Annex
8-7). The satisfactory financial return is based on realistic capital, ope-
rating costs and revenue assumptions. A revenues' increase of 5%, about
US$10.5 per ton of P205, would increase the base return of the project to
20.0%; the same applies to a 9% decrease in raw material costs. Since the
spread of rock export prices might be as much as US$2 per ton, OCP agreed
to consider selling rock to NP during the first three to four years at the
price offered to the most favored client of equivalent importance; in such
a case, the base financial rate of return will increase to 18.6%. Lower
than estimated revenues and higher raw material costs are possible though unlike-
ly. In such a situation, a 5% reduction in revenues would reduce the return
to 13.8%'. The risks of increases in investment costs or delays in project
implementation to an extent which would substantially affect the project's
return are considered low because of the advanced stage of the project. The
rate of return sensitivities for different revenues and costs assumptions are
shown in detail in Annex 8-7.
1/   The project will pay duties and taxes on operating costs items, which,
under the investment code regulations, will be partly non-reimbursable
and partly reimbursable after a period of six to twelve months.



- 25 -
D.   Risks and Financial Covenants
8.05      The project faces technical, commercial and managerial risks, typi-
cal of undertakings of this nature. Technical risks regarding plant design
and operations and risks of substantial delays or major cost overruns can
be considered relatively low since the project is carried out: (i) by a
reputable and experienced consortium; and (ii) on the basis of turn-key
contracts already concluded. The commercial risks (market, transport and
prices) of the project are considered relatively high given: the presently
rather narrow and not yet fully established world trade; and the need for
complex and coordinated acid transport. However, commercial risks have
been reduced. substantially through contractual sales arrangements for a
substantial part of NP's production. This will guarantee MP a reasonable
level of capacity utilization and limit commercial risks primarily to price
fluctuations. The risks of delays in the availability of ships and possibly,
in the completion of general infrastructure outside the project are poten-
tially high but all efforts are being made to avoid such delays..
8.06      However, the commercial risks have to be viewed differently when
considering VP as part of OCP's overall activities. Provisions against some
of the risks outlined above entirely depend on the phosphate sa:Les strategy
of OCP, who is MP's sponsor, shareholder, supplier of the major raw material
and commercial agent.  In view of the close relationship between OCP's and
TP's activities and the commercial risks involved in the project, it has been
agreed that OCP would help maintain MP's sound financial condition; there is
no doubt that OCP has the financial strength to be able to fulfill such an
undertaking. In particular, OCP would: (i) provide the amount of initial
working capital included in the financing plan and, if necessary, provide
additional funds to establish a current ratio of at least 1.5 at the completion
of the project; (ii) guarantee that a minimum debt service coverage ratio
(before taxes on income) of l.4 will be maintained; and (iii) MP shall not
incur any cdebt if this would result in a debt to equity ratio greater than
55:45. In addition, to assure the preservation of the Company's cash, MP
has agreed: not to pay any dividend or make any other distribution to OCP
during the first two years after project completion; and not tc, make such
distributions thereafter unless after such payments the Company's current
ratio is at least 1.2. The Bank will obtain an independent audit of MP's
accounts in accordance with generally accepted accounting rules.



- 26 -
IX. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A.   World Trade Pattern and Sales Strategy
9.01      The change in the pattern of world trade, the trade-offs among the
different P205 products and the increasing share of intermediates, and the
investments made or contemplated by OCP's competitors has induced OCP--as part
of its overall P205 sales strategy--to enter into the rapidly emerging inter-
mediates trade: (i) to maintain and possibly increase its overall share in the
world P205 market; (ii) to avoid substantial substitution of OCP's rock sales
by intermediates produced and sold by competitors; (iii) to offer to its clients
an optimum mix of products; and (iv) to participate in the international acid
pricing policy which might well influence, if not guide, rock prices in the
long term. In addition to the economic benefits described below, the project,
therefore, partly finds its justification in terms of sales strategy.
B.   Additional Rock Sales from Youssoufia
9.02      From 1976 onwards, the project will permit OCP to sell through MP
about 1.6 million tons of medium grade 70/72 BPL Youssoufia rock converted to
intermediates. This quantity of rock representing about 30% of Youssoufia's
mining capacity might well -- in part -- be considered as constituting addi-
tional sales of Moroccan rock on international markets by the second half of
the 1970s because of: (i) increased competition from Khouribga sales of
medium grades; (ii) a likely balanced world supply/demand situation by late
1970s and thus lower sales prospects for low to medium grades; (iii) lower
costs at the Khouribga mine which therefore should be used to the fullest
possible capacity; and (iv) boomerang effect on prices of high grades if
large amounts of low to medium grades are marketed. MP is therefore likely
to contribute toward using to a fuller extent capacity at Youssoufia where
labor intensive mining techniques are used.
C.   Other Social Benefits
9.03      The project will also generate substantial external benefits:  (i)
help increase employment levels in the Youssoufia mines in a region where
employment alternatives are reduced; (ii) develop, in line with the Moroccan
decentralization policy, manufacturing activities at Safi and, therefore, help
use more extensively the port facilities; (iii) help OCP participate in the
world trade of intermediates; (iv) provide education externalities through
training of personnel; and, quite importantly, (v) constitute a model and a
training center for future similar projects in Morocco.
D.   Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
9.04      The calculation of the ERR is based on investment and operating
costs valued at world prices (Annexes 9-1, 2 and_3). The opportunity cost
of the Youssoufia rock used in the calculation is equivalent (US$24.90 per
ton ex-mine) to the expected average export price for Youssoufia 70/72 BPL.



- 27 -
An opportunity cost about US$1.5 per ton below this price has been used in
the sensitivity calculation and is based on a conservative mix between market
prices for export and economic costs of production for the quantities un-
likely to be exported in a without-the-project situation. The main factors
affecting the mix are: (i) likely high negative rock price elasticity to
excess export deliveries; (ii) relatively large spread of Youssoufia prices--
wvhen supply and demand balance--with additional sales at prices closer to
the bottom of the range; and (iii) reduction of captive sales at above world
prices. In case of surpluses in the rock market, the opportunity cost of
rock might move closer to the economic cost of production, likely to be in
the region of US$13/16 per ton.
9.05      Based on the above estimates, the ERR for the project would be 21.2%.
The difference between the economic and financial returns stems from: ex-
clusion of taxes and transfer payments; valuation at world prices of non-
tradables- use of a 75% shadow wage rate for unskilled labor. The above ERR
is satisfactory. It was subjected to sensitivity tests, using different
assumptions for the most significant and uncertain factors (Annex 9-3). The
ERR is highly sensitive to output prices (a 5% increase in revenues adds
nearly 3 percentage points) and to rock prices (a 10% drop in rock prices
adds 2 percentage points). It, however, remains satisfactory (19.2%) if both
the market price for rock is used and the sulfur price is increased by as
much as US$8 per ton. The ERR is also quite sensitive to the sales build-up,
an additional reason for securing contractual sales and guaranteed plant
performance.
X. RECOMMENDATIONS AND AGREEMENTS REACHED
A.   Sector Recommendations
10.01     The representatives of the Government and OCP indicated their
agreement with the Bank that the projected forward integration into inter-
mediates manufacturing calls for careful planning--particularly in the use
of materials, utilities and personnel resources in Safi--to ensure an optimum
sectoral development and to adjust production of intermediates to the world
demand pattern (para 2.06).
B.   Agreements Reached
10.02     Agreement has been reached between the Government, OCP, MP and the
Bank on the following principal points:
Sector Development
(a) The Government and OCP will furnish prior information to
the Bank on future phosphate manufacturing and other in-
dustrial facilities in the area of Safi (para 2.06);



- 28 -
Infrastructure
(b)  The Government will provide on time the necessary
infrastructure facilities (para 3.04);
Ecology
(c) The project will be carried out with due regard to environ-
mental requirements (para 3.05);
Sales Contract
(d) 'P will, as a condition of loan effectiveness, make sales
arrangements covering at least 50% (in 1976) and 60% (for each
of the four years thereafter) of the estimated total plant
capacity (para 5.03);
Transport and Terminals
(e)  MP will enter, as a condition of loan effectiveness, into a
time charter agreement with Marphocean (para. 5.07);
Organization and Staffing
(f) The project execution and the Company organization will be
satisfactory to the Bank (para 6.08);
(g) The project staff will be recruited and trained according
to a schedule satisfactory to the Bank (para 6.10);
Financial
(h) OCP will provide-and the Government will agree to al.low OCP
to retain earnings to that effect-in accordance with the
project payment schedule a minimum of DH 313 million in
equity (para 7.07) of which at least DH 12 million will be
convertible into foreign exchange (para 7.05);
(i)  BNDE or OCP will provide a loan to 22 of an amount equivalent to
US$8 million and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank (para 7.05 and 7.06);
(j) KfW is expected to provide a loan of DM 75 million on terms and con-
ditions agreed upon with OCP and the Government, and on terms
to MP similar to the Bank loan (para 7.06);
(k)  The Government and OCP will provide an unlimited guarantee
for project completion and cost overruns (para 7.07);



- 29 -
(1)  rCP and MP will observe certain financial covenants to
maintain a sound liquidity and financial position of the
MP Company (para 8.06);
(m)  OCP and MP will enter, before the Bank loan becomes effective,
into a long-term rock supply contract on conditions satis-
factory to the Bank (para 4.05);
(n)  'he Bank will obtain independent audits of MP accounts
(para 8.06);
10.03     B3ased on the assurances obtained, the proposed project constitutes
a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$50 million to MP, for a term of 14
years including a 4-year grace period and, to be guaranteed by the Kingdom of
Morocco.
Industrial Projects Department
April 19, 1974






ANNEX 1
Page 1
MOROCCO
MAROC-PHOSPHORE PROJECT
THE PHOSPHATE INDUSTRY AND TECHNICAL TERMS
Introduction
1.        The main source of phosphorus is phosphate rock (aboat 94% of
the world supply).  The other source is organic materials (essentially
bone flour). The main applications of phosphorus materials and deriva-
tives are fertilizers (about 85% of total applications), detergents
(about 8% ) and cattle feed (about 5%). Chart 1 shows the structure of
the phosphorus industry from phosphate rocktTointermediates and finished
products. Phosphorus is usually found in the form of various salts of the
P20 phosphoric anhydride, called phosphates. In order to measure the
active nutrient content of a phosphorus combipation, two indices are commonly
used, the equivalent in Bone Phosphate Lime1/(or BPL) and the equivalent in
phosphoric anhydride (P205). The former is mostly used for phLosphate rock
and the latter for phosphate fertilizers.
Primary Products
2.        The main primary raw materials of the phosphate induLstry are:
phosphate rock and sulfur. The phosphate industry consumes about 50% of
the sulfur produced in the world.
Main Process Flow Sheets
3.        The main process flow sheets of the phosphate industry can be
divic.ed as follows (see also Chart 1):
Process              Intermediary           Finished or Semi-Finished
Product                      Products
hitric Acid                                    Nitrophosphates
Sulfuric Acid         (                        Low Grade SuperphLosphates
Wet Process           (High Grade Superphosphates and
'Phosphoric Acid       (complexes
Thermal Process         Thermal Phosphoric    Mostly produced for technical use.
Acid
Process Intermediary Product:  Phosphoric Acid
4.        Phosphoric Acid is the main intermediary product for the production
of high grade phosphate fertilizers or of sodium tripolyphosphate (STPP, the
1/  (PO4 )2 Ca3



ANNEX 1
Page 2
basic input into the detergent industry). The two main processes to manu-
facture phosphoric acid are the wet process and the thermal process. In
the wet process, phosphate rock is attacket by sulphuric acid (H2SO4). In
the thernal process, elemental phosphorus is first obtained by thermal
treatment of phosphate rock and then transformed into acid. T4e vet process
produces phosphoric acid (54 percent P205) which is less pure!/ than the
acid produced by the thermal process (54 to 80 percent P205). Although some
plants in Europe and the U.S. traded phosphoric -acid-temporarily    to meet
short-term requirements, phosphoric acid was, until the late sixties,a
"captive" product in integrated plants.  It is only in the late 1960's that
large sales oriented phosphoric acid plants with substantial economies of
scale were set up to serve domestic and overseas customers. A number of
technical difficulties have been overcome for ocean shipping, storage and
handling.  Since phosphoric acid is a corrosive product, specially construct-
ed ships (with stainless or rubberlined tanks) must be used. Eventually,
sludge formation requires clarification at the producing plant and agitation
with air streams or circulation pumps during transport and storage.
The main uses of phosphoric acid are for high grade fertilizers
and STPP. The bulk of the wet acid manufactured goes to the production of
fertilizers and the bulk of the thermal acid to the production of STPP.
However, some thermal acid is used for fertilizer production and some wet
acid for STPP production. The most important events of recent years bring-
ing about structural changes in this industry have been as follows: (i) the
rapid increase in installed wet phosphoric acid capacity for production of
high grade fertilizers; (ii) the "decaptivation" of phosphoric acid previous-
ly used internally in integrated plants; (iii) competition between wet and
thermal process; (iv) increase in size of phosphoric acid units; (v) develop-
ment of the international phosphoric acid trade.
Finished anid SemiFli.shed Products
0.        Phos3phoru5 materials have three main applications: fertilizers,
detergents a,rd cattt;le feed.  Marginal quantities of phosphorus are used for
other purposes such as organic derivatives.
Western/ 'World Cons   tion of Phosphorus
(million tons P205)
Actual      Forecast
1970         1980
ertilizers          14.9         26.1
Drntergerts 1e.4                   1.5
Cattle Feed           0.9          1.5
Other                 0.1          0.3
Total:            17.3         29.4
1/ The degree of purity depends on the nature of the phosphate used.
Moroccan phosphate, for example, produces a purer acid--that hardly
requires clarifying--than Florida phosphate.
2/ Total World minus Eastern Europe, USSR and Communist countries



A1INEX 1
Pa-ge 3
7.        STPP is widely used in detergents.  However, phosphates are
largely held responsible for the phenomenon of eutrophication which causes:
(i) an acce:Lerated growth of algae in lakes which reduces the amount of
oxygen in the water, thus affecting the fauna; (ii) a reduced transparency;
(iii) filtration difficulties in water treatment plants. At present, in
various countries, legislation is being implemented to limit the production
of STPP and manufacturers have started to include phosphate substitutes in
detergents. Consequently, little or no growth can be anticipated for this
phosphate outlet, and in 1980, STPP will represent at most 6% of the utili-
zation of phosphorus versus 8% in 1970.
8.        P]nosphorus is an essential component of animal nutrition (cattle
feed).  Aboat 20% of the phosphorus requirements for cattle feed comes from
the treatment of bones, the rest is mineral.
9,        Fertilizer  is by far the major outlet of phosphorus (85% of the
total applications). The main phosphate fertilizers are:
(i) Single superphosphate (18-21% P205) obtained by sulphuric acid
attack on phosphate rock;
(ii) Triple superphosphate (44-46% P205) obtained by phosphoric acid
attack on phosphate rock;
(iii) Amonium phosphates: MAP (mono-ammonium phosphate 11-55-O) and
DAP (diammonium phosphate 18-46-0) obtained by reacting phosphoric
acid with ammonia;
(iv) Nitrophosphate (16-16-o or 20-20-0) obtained by nitric acid
attack on phosphate rock;
(v) Urea phosphate (18-45-o) produced from urea and concentrated
phosphoric acid.
10.       These "basic" phosphate fertilizers can be used as such or blended
mechanically with nitrogen and potassic materials to reach a given formilation
(complex fertilizers). In particular, phosphoric acid and MAP are increasingly
utilized  as  intermediate   products to prepare complex fertilizers.
Secondary manufacturing units call for lower investment costs and are mach
less affected by economies of scale than the basic phosphoric acid manufactur-
ing units.
Trade and T'rends
11.       At present, (1972) the bulk of the international trade of phosphorus is
in the form of phosphate rock (about 14 million tons P205). Trade of phos-
phate fertilizer amounts to 3.6 million tons P205 and trade of phosphoric
acid to an additional 0.4 million tons P205. The main future choices that will
influence the industry structure will be made between following possibilities:
(i) various types of phosphate fertilizers or intermediates to be produced;
(ii) the processes used (nitric, thermal or wet process); (iii) production
units geared to exports or local consumption; (iv) various locations for
production units; (v) import of rock phosphate, finished fertiLizers or
phosphoric acid/MAP    by countries not producing rock phosphate.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
12.       The decisions will be governed by policy (the desire for indus-
trialization in certain developing countries) as well as economic considera-
tions. Opinions in the industry at the moment differ as regards ;he future
pattern of world P205 trade; this structure could well: (i) remain substan-
tially unchanged (trade dominated by raw materials - rock phosphate and
sulphur); (ii) change as a result of increased substitution of phosphoric
acid and other solid intermediates with future production units located in
countries producing rock phosphate; (iii) change as a result of a rapid
development in trade of intermediates and finished products with a high
P205 content. There is, however, a consensus of opinion on the overall
economic interest resulting from an adequate replacement of flows of raw
materials by trade in intermediates (phosphoric acid, MAP or other poly-
ammonium phosphates) in conjunction with more intensive location of produc-
tion units in countries (particularly developing countries) producing rock
phosphate.
Industrial Projects Department
November 15, 1973



Ajmx l
MOROCCO                                        Chart 1
MAROC-PHOSPHORE PROJECT
STRUCTURE OF THE PHOSPHATE INDTJSTRY
PRINCIPAL PROCESSES
Phosphate Rock
Nitric              Hydrochloric               Sulfrric
Acid                   Acid                    Acid                 Thermal
Process               Process                  Process               Process
I r    -
Phosphoric Acid       Phosphoric Acid          Phosphoric Acid          Elemental          Phosphorus
Pertili zer Grade     Fertilizer Grade          Fertilizer Grade        Phosphorus         Derivatives
Phosphoric Acid
Industrial
Grade
lfuric |   |Potash      Amonia                           Super 
osphoric Acid
Ordinary                    Triple       Ammonium            Poly            Industrial
Calcium         Super                      Super        Phosphates        Ammoniu    i         and
Nitrate        Phosphate                  Phosphate |     DAP - MAP       Phosphates        Food Grade
Phosphates
1   ~ ~   _   l ?       -'    -Bulk Bl~~ending t-     
onial                                              
Nitro               Gompound                      Y  Mxed                            Cattle
|Phosphates |       |Fertilizers                 Fertilizers                            Feed
L u   |  N-P-K  !      |   N-P-K       |FSupplenents
Industrial Projects'Department






-ANNEX 2-1
Page 1
MOROCCO
I4AROC-PHOSPHORE PROJECT
THE, SPONSOR: OFFICE CHERIFIEN DES PHOSPHATES (OCP )/
A. History, Organization and Main Activities
1.       COP was established by a Royal decree (Dahir) in 1920 to exploit
and process Morocco's phosphate rock resources.  Until 1960, the production
of OCP was marketed by the Comptoir des Phosphates de l'Afrique du Nord,
whiich was at the same time in charge of selling the Tunisian and Algerian
phosphate productions. The original legal status of OCP was similar to that
of an Administrative Agency. OCP's legal status was modified through several
amendments, and particularly a Royal decree of 1960. The company now operates
under the Moroccan industrial and commercial laws along the lines of private
companies. OCP is fully State-owned but has its own legal and financial
autonomy. It has a capital of DH 554 million. OCP applies accounting principles
according to the commercial code and has the same fiscal status as private
companies.
2.        T'he Board of Directors?/of OCP consists of 14 members of which the
majority are Ministers whose responsibilities are related to OCPls activities.
The authorlty and functions of the OCP's Board are comparable to those of
Boards of private companies.  The full responsibility for management of opera-
tions is left to the "Directeur General" (General Manager).  The Board meets
upon request from the "Directeur Gene'ral" and is mainly concerned with policy
questions, such as expansion plans, plan of operation and sales3, dividend
distribution and control of management. Sinice 1967 the I'Directeur General" of
OCP has been Mr. Karim M. Lamrani, formerly Prime Minister of Morocco.
Mr. Lamrani has extensive experience in corporate management anad has, in recent
years, successfully reorganized OCP and developed mining capacity and exports.
Following a management consultant study (by McKinsey & Company), OCP undertook
an interna:L reorganization in 1970.  The new structure is divided into function-
al departments (Production; Personnel and Social Affairs; Planning and Develop-
ment; Finance; and Marketing). The directors of these departments report
directly to the "Directeur Ge'neral". The directors for Planning and Develop-
ment, for Marketing and Finance have also largely contributed to the preparation
of the NP project. OCP has participations in several companies related to its
mining activities. It also owns a Shipping Agency STAR (Societ' de Transports
et d'Affre-tements Reunis), responsible for shipping a major portion ofOCP's
phosphate rock exports. In addition, OCP has a small equity share (2%) in Maroc-
Chimie. Mr. Lamrani is also Chairman of the Board of Maroc-Chinie and has a
significant influence on its management.  Chart 1 shows the OCP organizational
structure as of July 1972.
I/ OCP, the sponsor of the Maroc-Phosphore (MP) project, will: provide
the equity financing for the project; supply rock to the plant; be the
only shareholder of MP; and have major responsibility in marketing its
output and processing its inputs.
j  Chairec[ by the Prime Minister.



ANNEX 2-1
Page 2
B. Deposits, Mines and Processing Facilities
3.        Deposits of phosphate rock were discovered in the Oued Zem area
near Khouribga at the beginning of 1917. Eifective mining started in the
Khouribga area in 1921 (see Map IBRD 10726,. The rock reserves in Morocco
are mainly located in the Khouribga and Youssoufia areas. They are estimated
at about half of the known world total reserves. The present mining operations
are concentrated in these two areas, Khouribga and Youssoufia. About 77 to
80% of Morocco's present production originates from Khouribga, mainly extracted
in the form of open cast mining. The remaining production -- from Youssoufia --
is predominantly exploited through underground labor intensive mining methods.
4.        The Khouribga deposits (including Beni Idir, Khouribga proper and
Kerkour) are located about 120 km from the port of Casablanca to which the
phosphate rock is transported by ONCF (Office National des Chemins de Fer -
the National Railway Company). At the port of Casablanca, rock is tranship-
ped through OCP's highly mechanized rock handling terminal. The facilities
at Khouribga are one of the largest phosphate rock mining/processing2units
in the world and the deposits stretch over an area of about 4,000 km  and
consist of four phosphate layers divided by interlayers of gangue. Total
employment at Khouribga is about 8,500 people. Up to now the mining activity
has been concentrated on layer 1 and 2 now situated at a depth of 0 to 40
meters. After screening and drying,a rock with an average BPL content of 72 to
about 75% (dry basis) is obtained. At present about two thirds of Khouribga's
production is in the form of 75 BPL and higher grades. In future years it
is expected that Khouribga will produce increasing quantities of 72 BPL grades
which are to be mined simultaneously with 75 BPL rock. The facilities instal-
led at Khouribga consist of: some underground and open cast capital intensive
mining operations; several washing and drying units; and a calcination plant
to upgrade some of the low grades mined in combination with high grades. The
installed mining and processing capacity at Khouribga has reached about 14.5
million TPY of phosphate rock by end of 1973, after a large expansion program
of about 5 million tons undertaken by OCP from 1968 to 1973.  It is concentra-
ted on the fol1owing m;air extraction and treatment centers:
Installed Mining Capacity at Khouribga (end of 1973)
Mining Center      Capacity in     Type of           BPL Content
million TPY     Mining
Beni Idir            9.0           Open cast        Mainly 75.
Khouribga            4.7          Underground  (  68, 72 and 75: low grades
( are mined with high grades.
Kerkour Rih          0.8           Open cast         80.
5.        The Youssoufia mining center is located some  80 km from the coast.
Rock is transported by railroad to the Safi port for local use by Maroc-
Chimie or export.  Its deposits present similar  technical characteristics
as those of Khouribga, although on a smaller scale. However, the phosphate
layer which has been exploited is mainly underground and provides a 70 BPL
rock (dry basis) after screening and drying. The development of the Youssoufia



AYNEX 2-1
Page 3
mnnes -- which started production in 1931 -- responded to some major Govern-
ment and OC' objectives: (i) to ease the strain on the KhouribgaL production
center and the port of Casablanca, (ii) to promote industrial activity in the
Safi region, and (iii) to meet the demand for intermediate grades.  The present-
ly instqllec. mining and processing capacity (1973) at Youssoufia is about
4.5 million TPY of phosphate rock. Capacity would easily be inc:reased by
1974 to about 5.0 million tons through some debottlenecking.  This capacity
includes about 0.5 million tons mined through open cast mining methods by
OCP's sub-contractors. Total employment at Youssoufia amounts to about
4000 people. Employment per ton of rock is higher than at Khouribga because
more labor intensive mining methods are used. In addition to the existing
screening and drying facilities, OCP is constructing  a 500,000 TPY calcination
plant, which will allow up-grading  some of the Youssoufia rock to 75 BPI.
C. Past Production and Sales
6.        Morocco's sales of phosphate rock and share in world production and
international trade are summarized in the Table below:
Morocco's Phosphate Rock Sales and Share in World
Production and Trade
Sales in              Share of            Share of
million TPY       World Production       World Trade
(in %_           _ (in %)
1961          7.6                 18.8                n.a.
1965          9.8                 16.3                32.5
1969         10.7                 13.9                27.8
1970         11.4                 14.1                30.0
1971         12.0                 1h.2                30.0
1272         14.2                 16.2                32.6
Morocco's share of world trade decrease in and stagnated through the late
1960's. It improved considerably since 1969 due to OCP's large' expansion
program and to more favorable worlc market conditions which resulted in high
capacity utilization of all major phosphate rock facilities since 1971. The
distribution of rock sales by BPL content was as follows for 1971 to 1973:
In BPL              Percentage of Annual Production
1971        1972           1973
69 to 72                                        -4g-
73 to 77              63          63             51
78 and more            4           4              3
The share of medium to low grades (69 to 72 BPL) rock has increased substantially
between 1971 and 1973 following higher capacity utilization at Youssoufia and
compulsory production of low grades which -->due to the structure of the
deposits -- are mined simultaneously with higher grades at Khouribga.  It is



ANNEX 2-1
Page 4
expected that the share of 69 to 72 BPL grades will be as much as 40% of
total annual rock production by 1977 (see para 9).
7.        The regional distribution of OCP's sales in 1972 is as followst
1972 Regional Distribution of Rock Sales
(In Million TPY)
Western Europe                          Eastern Europe
Spain                 1.7               Poland              1.2
France                1.5               Yugoslavia          0.8
Belgium               1.3               Czechoalovakia      0.3
United Kingdom        1.3               Others              0.2
Italy                 1.1                     Sub-Total    7
Others                2.3
Sub-Total       9.2              Far East and Australia
Latin America         0.5               China               0.7
Japan               0.5
Local Consumption    0.6                India               0.1
Others              0.1
Sub-Total     a
TOTAL       14.2
At present Europe is by far the most important market for OCP who enjoys
some comparative advantages (location, long established relationships and
rock quality -- like purity and softness -- other than grade).  It is expected
that supplies to developing countries and to Eastern countries will increase
in the future with therefore a relative decrease of sales to convertible
areas. In addition to exports, OCP sells Youssoufia rock phosphate to Maroc-
Chimie (about 0.6 million TPY).
D. Importance of OCP for the Domestic Econozmr
8.        OCP largely contributes to Morocco's overall economic and social
activity. It employs about 14,000 people distributing income to a population
of some 100,000 people in a relatively low income region. OCP staff's
purchasing power generates activities for merchants, craftsmen, and small
businesses in an area where little potential employment, even in agriculture,
is available. OCP also generates external benefits in the economr such as
training and skills promotion. Through its exports of rock, OCP contributes
about 30% of the country's foreign exchange earnings.!/In addition to dividend
payments to the Government (at annual level of about DH 60 million), the direct
and indirect local taxes paid by OCP are substantial and estimated at more
than DH 120 million in 1972.  OCP is also a major purchaser of locally
manufactured equipment estimated to amount to about DH 100 million -- which
reflects OCP's efforts to encourage the local manufacture of an important
I/ This share is expected to increase to about 50% for 1974, as a result of
an expanded sales program and of increases in world phosphate rock prices.



ANNEX 2-1
Page 5
share of its equipment. OCP is furthermore a particularly substantial source
of revenues for the National Railroad Company (ONCF), the Nationa]l Power
Company (OhE), the ports of Casablanca and Safi.  These revenues were esti-
mated at about DH 150 million in 1972.
E. Future Prospects and Expansion Plans
9.        OCP has started executing a program for expanding its total rock
mining and processing capacity by about 6 million TPY as indicated in the
table below:
Existing and Likely Fulture Rock Minin8 and Processing Capacity
(in Million TPY)
Mining Center            End 1973            197h              End 1977
Khouribga                  14.5               15.0               20.0
Youssomfia                  4.5                5.0                5.o  /
Total                      19.0               20.0               25.0
.
Capacity utilization will depend on likely future exports (Annex 4-2). Produc-
tion and sales estimated by mining center and by grade are, however, shown in
the Table below.  Increased production of high grades (74/75 1PL) from
Khouribga coupled with increased production of 72 BPL grades is likely to
limit exports of 70/72 BPL Youssoufia grades. Only local sales (to Maroc-
Ghimie and Maroc-Phosphore) might, therefore, help maintain the level of
activity at the Youssoufia Mining Center.
Present and Likely Future Phosphate Rock Sales (Bank Estimates)
(in Million TPi)
Actual                 Projected
1972    1973            1974      1977
Youssoufia 70/72 BPL
Local                      0.55    0.61             0.65     2.20
Export                     2.30    3.39             4.05      2.30 2/
Calcined (for export)       -       -                -       0.40
Khouribga (Exports)
72 BPL                     1.80    3.75            6.60      5.20
75 BPL                    9.00    8.75             7.60    13.30
Calcined & high grades    0.50    0.50              o.60     o.60
Total                        14.15   17.00            19.50    24.00
1/  Excluding the new Ben Guerir mine, east of Youssoufia, which might
enter into prodauction by 1977-78.
Industrial Projects Department
February 15, 1974






MOROCCO
MAROC-PHOSPHORE PROJECT
OCP ORGANIZATION CHART (JULY 1972)
DIRECTEUR
GENERAL
Okwour: de IIso'C
|  donif1ptm et   1                                                                                      d.6* 
|Ptcol,IICMIOfl!              D4veIqoo~.ent                      ||Hors.Cadres                              o  ndeme c     Or;oi scilon ][1 
D,rect    w                                        | lecte  D'eeceur du nnelonnee   |                                   la oceia,  |t-
Indutria   Prjet   Department                                                                                                              L         >L C
November 15, 1973
Dlejson ~   ~       P,.                                                       n.-eer  D.le                                                                                                               MrwnSrieDwso  Ge!ed  GeiisCe uCr u c, e d   Cfd
.'e"C..b ...ri
Industrial Projects Department                                                                                                                                                                                                             g 
Novernber 15, 1973                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0,






Annex 2-2
MOROCCO
MAROC-PHOSPHORE PROJECT
THE TECHNICAL ADVISOR
1.        After internatioffal consultation, OCP selected Haldor Topsoe AS
(Topsoe) as their Technical Advisor. Although Topsoe was chosen before the
Bank became involved in the project, the Bank has no objection to this
choice. Topsoe is a Danish firm with a worldwide reputation in consulting,
engineering and research in the chemical field and over 30 years experience.
The firm--originally known as Haldor Topsoe--was founded by Dr Haldor Topsoe
in 1940.  It has developed five main fields of activity: Research and Develop-
ment; Catalyst and Catalytic Process Development; Catalyst and High Purity
Silicon Manufacture; Specialized Engineering; Consulting Services. The firm
has about 300 employees about half of whom are engineers, chemists, physicists
and other technically trained persons. While Topsoe is perhaps.most widely
known for its work in ammonia synthesis and catalysts, it has experience in
other fertilizer fields, including sulfuric acid, phosphoric acid and phos-
phate fertilizers.  Mr Mogen Pedersen, who is heading up the Topsoe team for
the Maroc-Phosphore project, has been with the Topsoe organization for about
25 years and has participated in the design and construction of amionin, urea,
nitric acid, sulfuric acid, phosphoric acid and phosphate plants.
a.        The firm incorporated cnly recently (October 1972) wrhen it sold
half of its assets to Snam Progetti S.p.A. of Milan, wholly owned subsidiary
of the Italiarn state organization Ente Nazionale Idrocarburi (ENI). Dr Topsoe
has remained as Chairman and his organization has remained intact.
3.        The functions of the Technical Advisor are spelled out in a contract
dated June 30, 1970 between OCP and Topsoe.J These include the following:
(a) preparation of a feasibility study--(completed); (b) preparation of tender
documents, including a draft conf?ract, soliciting and evaluating bids and
recommending the best bid, and assistance in final contract negotiations--
(completed); (c) assistance to the Project Team on all of the items listed
under the functions of the Project Team; (d) advice on staffing the new facili-
ties and assistance in recruiting local and expatriate staff; (e) assistance
during start-up and commissioning of the uew facilities.
1/ The contract was amended on October 8, 1973, but the main functions
and responsibilities of the Technical Advisor have not been modified.
Industrial Projects Department
February 1$, 1974






ANNEX 3-1
Page 1
MOROCCO
MAROC PHOSPHORE PROJECT
PROCESS DIAGRAM - A
_____                       _-------------- -                                             _--
YOUSSOUFIA                |                                    PORT OF SAFI
MINES
K   ROCK~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2EIT
C GA E                                                        \                   \LINE
TO
MAROC._\
CHIMIE                                              PLANT
> RAWk                          t   60.0003 MT  \                AMMONIA               MAP             PHOS. ACID
81.125 MT
SULFURIC ACID
MILL                       .             -_ . 3 x 1,500 MTD
MILL            MI                           TRAINS
GROUND           O ROUNDO         GROUND\\
ROCKROCK                    LHROCK
1,OOOMT     1.OOOAT          1.OOO MT
PHOSPHOC EC ACID                         MAP
3 x 500 MTD                          "      2 >3610 MTD
_  TRAINS                                       TRA INS
SLUDGE                __
3                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAP l11 Bso
S < ~~WILL HANDLE
GYPSUM                 _      SYSTEM    |UP TO 495,000 MTA
TO SEAI
l                       ~~~~~~~~~~CLARI FIED PHOS. ACI D -54% P2a5
=  Annual Quantities of Raw Materials and Products
Assu-mig that 25% of the P205 Produced is
Converted to Map.                                                                            World Bank-813312RI






ANNEX 3-1
Piae 2
MOROCCO
MAROC PHOSPHORE PROJECT
PROCESS DIAGRAM-B
SULFUR
Il ,
SULFURIC ACID
3x1,500 MTD
TRAINS
YOUSSDUFIA ROCK
PHOSPHORIC ACID             SLUDGE
3x500 MTD                  -
lTR/AINS
AMMONIA                      0                    b   CLARIFYING   WILL HANDLE
SYSTEM      UP TO 495,000 MTA
MAP
2x610 MTD
TRIN
GYPSUM                             BULK                           CLARIFIED
lO SEA                             MAP                              P2 05
2475.000:MT|                       225,940 MT |50MT
Note:     C        }    = Annual Tonnage of Raw Materials and Products
Assuming that 25% of the P205 Produced is
Converted to Map.                                    World Bank-8131i2R)






Annex 3-2
page 1
MOROCCO
MAROC PHOSPHORE PROJECT
PROJECT DESCRIPTION: PLANT FACILITIES, AUXILIARIES AND OFF-SITES
A.   Plant Facilities
1.  Process Intalltions
a) Sulfuric Acid Unit
1.        The sulfuric acid necessary for the phosphoric acid production will
be produced in three production lines, each with a capacity of 1,500 TPD (expressed
as 100% H2S04) of sulfuric acid produced as 98% solution. The sulfuric acid unit
will use elemental sulfur (brimstone) as raw material. It will also use the
Polimex process, based on single absorption, giving a conversion of about 98%.
The sulfuric acid unit includes the following: (i) three lines for sulfur melting
and filtration of liquid sulfur, capable of melting in 12 hours the sulfur con-
sumption for 24 hours; (ii) three storage tanks for liquid sulfur, each with a
capacity of 3,500 tons; (iii) two furnaces for combustion of sulfur, one for
each line; (iv) heat recovery facilities to produce high pressure steam to cover
the steam consumption for: the sulfuric acid unit, the evaporation of phosphoric
acid to produce the 54% solution, and the generation of electricity in two turbo-
alternators;(v) facilities for the conversion of sulfur-dioxide to sulfur-trioxide
and absorption of the sulfur-trioxide in sulfuric acid; and (vi) three storage tanks
for sulfuric; acid, each with a capacity of 10,000 tons.
b) Phosphoric Acid Unit
2.        The phosphoric acid unit will consist of three lines, each with a
capacity of 500 TPD of P205 as clarified and stabilized solutioni containing
54% P2Q5. The raw materials for the phosphoric acid production will be 70/72
BPL Youssoulfia phosphate rock, and sulfuric acid.  The phosphoric acid unit
will include the following: (i) a phosphate rock grinding insta:Llation in three
lines, each with a capacity of 100 tons of rock per hour. This capacity makes
it possible to grind in 16 hours the rock consumption for 24 hours in the
reaction section; (ii) intermediate storage for ground rock in three silos, each
with a capacity of 1,000 tons; (iii) a reaction and filtration section to produce
weak phosphoric acid solution containing 30% P205, using the Nissan hemihydrate/
dihydrate p:rocess; (iv) three stox,age tanks for weak phosphoric acid, each with a
capacity of 1,250 mJ, i.e. approxiinately 500 tons of P205 in each; (v) facilities
for the concentrationC  of the weak acid from 30% P205 to 54% P205; (vi) facilities
for the clarification of the 54% acid, including removal of suspended solids by
2! The concentration section, designed by Struthers Wells, will use
excess steam from the sulfuric acid unit, and will include provision
for future installation of facilities for recovery of fluorine as a
solution of hydrofluosilicic acid.



Annex 3-2
page 2
decantation and by centrifugation; (vii) three tank8 for storage for clarified
acid, each with a capacity of 5,000 m3 corresponding in total to approximately
10 days' production; and (viii) two loading stations each with a capacity of
500 tons/hour of acid solution for delivering the acid into railroad cars.
c) MAP Unit
3.        The M&P unit will consist of two lines, each with a capacity for utilizing
up to 330 TPD of P205, corresponding to 610 TPD of MAP with a composition of
11-55-0.1 The raw materials for the MAP unit will be phosphoric acid and
imported liquid ammonia. The MAP unit will use the Fisons "MINIFOS" process and each
llne will include the following: (i) a pressure reactor for reacting the phos-
phoric acid and ammonia; (ii) a prilling tower for solidifying the MAP product;
and (iii) a fuel-oil fired rotary dryer for reducing the humidity of the product
to 1% in order to make it suitable for long periods of bulk storage and ocean
transport.
2.   Utility Installations
a) Power Station
4.        The power station will include a two 15 MW turboalternators for generating
electric power, using excess high pressure steam from the sulfuric acid plant.
The power generated corresponds closely to the power consumption in the plant.
Any excess or deficit of power is delivered to or supplied from the public grid
through a 60/6 KV transformer. The rating of this transformer is sufficient to comple-
ment the total power needed by the plant from the public grid in case one
turbo-alternator is out of service. There will also be a 2500 KW air cooled
emergency diesel electric generating unit.
b) Water Treatment Unit
5.        This unit will deliver the various qualities of treated water necessary
for the operation of the plant. The raw material will be fresh water delivered
from the Safi dam. The following qualities of treated water will be produced:
(i) demiaerali4ed water as process water for the sulfuric acid unit; (ii)
process water for the phosphoric acid unit; (iii) desilicized water as boiler feed
water; (iv) filtered water for fire-fighting;and (v) drinking water.
c) Cooling Water Installation
6.        Sea water will be used for cooling purposes in the plant.  The plant
will include a sea water intake, a sea water pumping station, and the necessary
distribution system.
1/ 11% Nitrogen, 55% P205 and no potash.



Annex 3-2
page 3
d) Auxiliary Boiler
7.        The plant will include an auxiliary boiler with a capacity of 30 tons/
hour of high pressure superheated steam. This auxiliary boiler serves two
purposes: (i) to supply high pressure steam to start up the sulfuric acid plant;
and (ii) to keep the phosphoric acid unit in operation at reduced load when the
sulfuric acid unit is either stopped or at reduced capacity.
B.  Auxiliaries and Off-sites
1.   In Plant Storages and Phosphate Rock Handling facilities
a) Sulfur Storage
8.        The sulfur storage installations will include the following:
(i) unloading station for railroad cars, bringing sulfur from the port, with
an unloading capacity of 250 tons/hour; (ii) open air sulfur storage with a
capacity of 60,000 tons corresponding to 30 dayst consumption of sulfur; and
(iii) installation for reclaiming sulfur and delivering it to the melting pit
at a rate of 100 tons/hour.
b) Phosphate Rock Storage and Handling
9.        Thke phosphate rock handling system will include the following items
under the general heading of the "Gare Haute Projectt" which is cutside the scope
of the Plant Construction Contract: (i) spur tracks;  leading off the main
Youssoufia to Safi rail line at a point on high ground above the plant site, to
deliver the rock wagons to an unloading system; (ii) a series of' unloading hoppersl/
in a shed into which dried rock (1% moisture) may be dumped from six wagons at a
time at such a rate that 72-wagon trains containing 3,600 tons each may be unloaded
at intervals of 2 hours 30 minutes; (iii) a system of conveyors which will reclaim
the rock from the hoppers and deliver it either to Maroc-Chimiejg or to Maroc-
Phosphore, with separate weigh bridges to weigh the rock to each destination;
(iv) a 25,0(0 ton storage building for the rock delivered to Mar-oc-Phosphore;
(v) a reclaiming system and conveyors to deliver the rock from the storage build-
ing to the rock grinding system at a rate of 300 tons/hour.  Maroc-Phosphore has
issued tender documents for performing the portion of the "Gare Haute Project"t
included in Maroc-Phosphore, has received three bids and awarded the contract to
the lowest bidder by mid-January 1Y74.
c) MAP Storage
10.       The MAP storage installations will include the following: (i) 1KAP bulk
storage building with a capacity of 30,000 tons; and (ii) reclaiming of MAP and
loading of railroad cars, with a c,apacity of 250 tons/hour.
11  This portion of the "Gare Haute Project" will be done by the Railway
Company at no cost to Maroc-Phosphore. Payment will be ref'lected in
the freight rate on rock.
/ The transfer point will be installed but the conveyor to Maroc-Chimie
will be installed at a later date.



Annex 3-2
page 4
d) Ammonia Storage
11.       A high pressure ammonia sphere, with a capacity of 1,000 tons, will
be included.
2.   Storages and handling facilities at the Safi Port
a) Sulfur Storage
12.       Sulfur storage will include the following main items: (i) a conveyor
system for transporting the sulfur from the bin located under a gantry cranel!
(installed and operated by the Port Authority) to a storage  bin    having a
capacity of 35,000 tons, corresponding to 35 days usage at the sulfuric acid
unit; and (ii) a reclaiming and rail car loading system having a capacity of
250 tons/hour.
b) Phosphoric Acid Storage
13.       The phosphoric acid storage will include the following main items:
(i) facilities for unloading phosphoric acid railroad tank wagons at a rate
of 500 tons of 54% solution per hour; (ii) eight storage tanks, each with a
capacity of 4,500 tons of P205 in 54% solution, corresponding to a total storage
capacity of 25 dayst production; and (iii) facilities for loading of phosphoric
acid into ships at a rate of 1,500 tons of solution per hour. Loading facilities
will be installed both on the northern quay of basin No. 3--the sulfur unloading
quay (see Map IBRD 10371). There will also be pumps for reclaiming settled sluage
from the storage tanks      into tank cars for return to the plant.
c) MUP Storage
14.       No storage and handling facilities for MAP will be provided.  The MAP
will be stored in Maroc Chimiets existing storage building for TSP and DAP.
The loading of MAP into ships will be made by the existing installations on the
OCP phosphate loading pier.
d) Ammonia Storage
i5.       A 3,000 tons capacity ammonia sphere will be installed adjacent to
the two existing 3,000 tons spheres owned by Maroc Chimie.  The new sphere will
be connected to the existing MC pumps and pipeline for delivery to the plant
site. A branch line to the MP plant will be installed at the plant site.
3.   Electricity: Connection to the Power Grid
i6.       The existing national power grid can furnish sufficient energy to meet
the project power needs when the project's own generating system is idlle.
j   The crane and receiving bin are not part of the project nor of the plant
construction contract (see Annex 3-3).



Annex 3-2
page 
A connection to the electrical grid will be made at Sidi Bouguedra some 17
miles fro9 the plant site, via the 17-mile 60 KV line which is part of the
project-1 All switchgear, transformers and connections at the plant are
included in the plant construction contract. The Power Company (O.N.E.) will
provide the switchgear for the connection at Sidi Bouguedra and will construct
the 17-mile 60 KV line.  There will be no cross-connection between Maroc Chimie
and Maroc Phosphore. However, both plants may receive power from or deliver
power to the O.N.E. grid. The work contract has been awarded in November 1973.
4.   Railroad Sidings at the Plant Site
17.       This item includes in plant railroad sidings and about 2 km extension
of existing sidings--and necessary switches and signals--serving the Maroc
Chimie plant to connect to sidings in Maroc-Phosphore.
5.   Auxiliary Buildings
18.       The plant will include the following auxiliary buildings: maintenance
shops and storages; laboratory; lockers; first aid station; fire-fighting
station; administration building.
InduEtrial Projects Department
April 15, 1974
1/ See Maps IBRD 10726 and 10727






Annex 3-3
page 1
MOROCCO
MAROC-PHOSPHORE PROJECT
GENERAL INFRASTRUCTURE OUTSIDE THE PROJECT
1.        Certain infrastructure additions needed in connection with but not
exclusively for the project will be made by the appropriate Government Agencies
(essentially the Ministry of Public Works and the National Railroad Company--
ONCF). The infrastructure work, which is closely supervised by OCP and MP,
includes the following: (a) fresh water supply; (b) harbor installations; and
(c) railroad sidings and equipment. Related investment costs are not included
in the total. project cost. They have been estimated by the responsible Agencies
and financing provisions have been included in the Five-Year Devrelopment Plan.
Corresponding service charges to be paid by MP, have been discussed with, and in
most cases, agreed upon with the Agencies involved.  Annex 6-4 shows a tentative
schedule for the execution of the infrastructure.
A.   Fresh Water Supply
2.        The fresh water supply for the new facilities will come from the Safi
reservoir--where water is retained by the Safi dam--which, through existing con-
duits, supplies the City and the Port of Safi and the Maroc-Chimie plant.  Water
from the Oum-Rbia river is supplied to the Safi reservoir through the Doukhala
and Safi canals. The water needs for the project will be handled by the follow-
ing infrastructure work: (i) enlargement and cleaning of the Doukhala and Safi
canals; (ii) construction of a new canal delivering to a new 56,ooo m3 reservoir
to be located near the MC-MP site; and (iii) a new conduit to supply both MC and
MP. These works and improvements will handle the water requirements of the MC
expansion (MC1), the MP project and the MP expansion (MP1) and the potential
addition of a new Maroc-Phosphore (MP2) project in Safi (see Ma_ IBRD 10726).
The water charge will be DH 0.027 per m3 equivalent to approximately US$2.2 cents
per M gallona.
B.   Harbor Installations (Safi Port)
3.        The Department of Public Works will set up a gantry crane and a receiving
bin for unloading and handling imported sulfur, provide some rail sidings and make
some improvements on the north side of Basin 3 (see Map IBRD 10371) so that ships
of approximately 36 foot draft (20,000 tons) can be accommodated and unloaded at
a rate of 500 tons per hour. Tender documents for the portal crane have been
prepared  and have been issued by SMESI (Socie'te Marocaine dtEtudes Speciales
Industrielles), a subsidiary of OCP. The total cost for such harbor installations
is estimated at DR 11,250,000 (US$2.5 million).  MP will pay sulfur handling
charges to the Safi Port Authority for the provision of this service.
C.   Railroad Sidings and Equipment
4.        The facilities to be executed by the National Railroad Company ONCF
include: (i) a new siding on the direct rail line--between the Youssoufia mine



Annex 3-3
page 2
and Safi--to direct rock cars to the "Gare Haute" unloading system; and
(ii) rolling stock (see Mp IBRD 10727). ONCF will purchase--for the needs
of the project during the-Tirst two years of operatipns--3 locomotives,
86 covered hopper cars for handling phosphate rockf', 39 hopper cars for
handling sulfur and MAP and 32 rubber-lined tank cars for phosphoric acid.
Additional wagons needs for plant operations at full capacity are being
determined. The locomotives have already been ordered. Tender documents
for the tank wagons have been issued. The total cost for railroad sidings
and equipment attributed to the project is estimated at about DH 18 million
(US$4 million). Railroad transport charges have been negotiated with ONCF
and are shown in Annexes 8-1 and 9-2.
J  Most of these hopper cars, however, are being ordered in connection
with the expansion of OCP rock production.
Industrial Projects Department
April 15, 1974



Annex 3-4
page 1
MOROCCO
MAROC-PHOSPHORE PROJECT
ECOLOGY
1.        Thes project will be located in a non-inhabited area andL Maroc -Chimie
is the only nearby industry or establishment.  The main potential pollutants
from the project will be: boiler blow-down; filter cake from the sulfur filters;
gypsum from the phosphoric acid plant; dust from sulfur and rock-handling;
dust from the MAP unit; tail gas from the sulfuric acid unit containing sulfur-
oxides; and tail gas from the phosphoric acid unit containing fluorine compounds.
Appropriate measures to handle these effluents are or will be taken as described
below.
A.   Sulfuric Acid Units
2.        Thie tail gas from the absorbers will be let out through stacks with
a height of 230 feet. The acid content in the stack gas will be of the order
of 4oo mg of S03 and H2SO4 per m3 (equivalent to approximately 0.4 ounces per 1000
cu.ft.).    The total quantity of sulfur oxides emitted is about 60 tons/day.
These figures correspond to the design of sulfuric acid plants built in non-
congested areas, and this will not. give rise to any pollution problems. The
filter cake from the sulfur filters will amount to about 4 tons/day, with a
content of about 2 tons of sulfur. This filter cake will be delivered to Maroc-
Chimie and fed into their sulfuric acid units with the normal pyrrhotine feed.
B.   Phosphiric Acid Units
3.        All wet process phosphoric acid plants emit fluorine containing
gases at various steps in the process. It was initially contemplated that
sufficient fluorine would be generated to warrant the inclusion of facilities
to convert it into sodium silicofluoride (SSF), a marketable chemical.
However, bolh laboratory tests of Youssoufia rock and tests in a 300 TPD
plant employing the Nissan process, showed that the bulk of the fluorine
disappears in the gypsum which is formed in the process.  These tests indicated
that the amount of fluorine remaining to be absorbed was not sufficient to
justify the installation of SSF facilities. Hence, the fluorine-containing
gas from thie different sections of the phosphoric acid units wiLl be collected
and let out through stacks approximately 130 feet high. Based upon the test
results the quantity of fluorine discharged is expected to be 1.6 TPD from each
train. This is not expected to give rise to any pollution problems. However,
connections will be provided and space left for the future installation of SSF
facilities, should the amount of fluorine generated in actual plant operation
exceed the quantities predicted by the tests sufficiently to juStify the
installation.
4.        The gypsum from the phosphoric acid filtration will be re-pulped
with sea wa,ter and disposed of by sending this pulp directly to. the sea.
This gypsuml disposal method has been used by Maroc-Chimie since start-up in
1965 and, clue to the strong currents in the sea, it has never giver, rise to
any local or medium distance pollution problems.



Annex 3-4
page 2
C. Storage and Handling Installations for Solids
5.        All storage and handling facilities for sulfur, rock and MAP will be
equipped with appropriate de-dusting equipment, reducing the dust pollution to
acceptable levels.  However, large quantities of dust stem from the handling
and disposal on nearby vacant land of pyrrhotine cinders from Maroc-Chimie
existing sulfuric acid operations. A large tonnage of these cinders has been
cleared from the proposed plant site. A new disposal area on the opposite side
of the Maroc-Chimie plant and at some distance from both the project and Maroc-
Chimie will be used. This will substantially eliminate the dust contamination
from MC. Since there are no nearby habitations and no other manufacturing estab-
lishments in the vicinity, this disposal method is tolerable.
D.   Industrial Zone
6.        It is unlikely that expansion of the residential area surrounding the
port of Safi will extend southward toward the MC/MP site since the south side of
the town is already fairly well industrialized and, in particular, numerous fish
processing plants are located in this area. Residential expansion is moving
northward and eastward. It does not appear necessary therefore to declare
officially an industrial zone to the north of the proposed project site.
E.   Fishing Industry
7.        There have been fluctuations in the take of the commercial fishing
industry centered in Safi and recently the trend has been generally downward.
This has been blamed on over-fishing, on changes in the ocean currents, changes
in water temperature, etc. Recently the Government of Morocco has extended its
territorial waters from eleven miles off-shore to seventy miles off-shore in
order to exert more control over foreign nationals who fish off the coast. Thus
far no connection has been traced between fluctuations in the fish harvest and
effluents from Maroc-Chimie.
F.   General Discussion
8.        The Bank expressed its concern with the possible ecological impact of
the new facilities, discussing each of the matters in this section with appro-
priate Moroccan personnel. The provisions mentioned above are regarded as
acceptable, but should the plant effluents become objectionable in the future,
further measures will be developped and, enforced by OCP and MP in agreement
with their commitments in the legal documents.
Industrial Projects Department
February 15, 1974



ADNEX 4-1
Page 1
MOROCCO
MAROC-PHOSPHORE PROJECT
PHOSPHATE FERTILIZERS: WORLD TRADE AND PRICES
A. World Supply and Consumption
1.        From 1965 to 1972, world phosphate fertilizer production increased
by more than 40% reaching 23.2 million tons of P20 in 1972. Capacity reached
about 25 million tons POg during the same year. the rapid inveestment growth
in phosphoric acid plants has been responsible to a large extent for the
increase in phosphate fertilizers tiupply. While capacity additions far exceeded
the growth in P205 consumption, the movement to concentrated fertilizers caused
a growth rate for phosphoric acid demand far greater than that for the P205
market as a whole.
World Supply of Selected/ Phosphate Fertilizers
(million tons P205 and >)
Products              P20                   Actual               Forecast
CQonent        1965           1970           1975
______   ______              ton            ton     %      ton     %
Single Superphosphate         18         7.1    48     7.0    35      6.o    27
Triple Superphosphate         46         2.0    13     2.9    14      4.2    19
Basic slag                     -         1.5    10     1.2      7     1.1     5
Complex fertilizers         20/55       4.3    29      8.9    44    10.8    49
Total                      14-9   100    20.0   100    22.1   100
The main prcducers and consumers of phosphate fertilizers are Ncrth America and
West and East Europe.  Together they account for about 80% of thLe world produc-
tion against only 10% for the developing countries.  An oversupply situation
developed in the North American industry in the late 1960's and the early 1970's
but was followed by a tight supply/demand situation in 1973. Thie same phenomenon
has happenecd in Europe where the progressive closure of obsolete single super-
phosphate plants has increased capacity utilization.  Table 1 shows World
Production of Phosphate Fertilizers by main areas.
2.        Total phosphate fertilizer consumption reached about 22.3 million
tons P205 in 1972. World consumption grew at a rate of 4.8% per annum during
the period 1969-73.  Whereas developed countries used about 84% of all phos-
phate fertilizers in 1969 their share dropped to 83% in 1972 and is expected
to further decrease down to 74% by 1980. Developing countries have used
nitrogen extensively in recent years. Large applications of nitrogen ferti-
lizers have produced a major       increase in crops (the "Green Revolution"),
but, in turn, have depleted the soil of its phosphate and potash content. Hence
a greatly expanded use of phosphate is likely to take place, particularly in
j Excluding essentially sales of intermediates and nitrophosphates.



Annex 4-1
page 2
developing countries. The current tight supply situation of all forms of
phosphate underlines this situation. World consumption is expected to grow
at 6.0% per annum between 1973 and 1980 reaching a level of about 38 million
tons P205 by 1980 (Table 2).
B.   Supply/Demand Situation and Trade
3.        The phosphate fertilizer supply exceeded demand in the late 1960s
and the early 1970s, but supply became tight during 1973. World capacity
utilization decreased from about'94% in 1965 to 87% in 1970 but is estimated
to have increased again to 92% in 1972. Demand is likely to exceed presently
estimated capacity for 1975 (about 26.1 million tons P205). A tight supply/
demand situation might therefore result and last through 1975. Supply will
progressively exceed demand from 1975 onwards following coming on stream of
on-going construction of new facilities. Annual trade of phosphate fertilizers
amounts to about 3.6 million tons P205 in 1972 as compared to an estimated trade
of phosphoric acid of about 0.4 million tons P205 (see Annex 4-4).  North
America is the leading exporter of phosphate material followed by Western Europe
and by "tAfrica" (in fact only Tunisia and Morocco). Leading importers have been
Latin America and Asia (Table 3). If exports from Africa are deducted, net
imports of developing countries (Asia, Latin America and Africa) can be esti-
mated at a level of 1,400,000 tons P205 per annum (one third of world trade).
Much of these imports were financed through tied bilateral aid given by West
European and North American countries with--according to the OECD publication
"Phosphate Rock and Phosphatic Fertilizers in the World", Paris 1972--the follow-
ing main effects: (i) higher FOB export prices; (ii) distortion in trade and
higher freight costs; and (iii) maintenance of trade patterns (imports of finished
fertilizers) which to a certain extent prevent the free play of market forces and
delay the implementation of the most economic solutions.
c.  Phosphate Ferti-lizr  Prices
14.       Following a period of dep^essed prices from 1968 to 1970, world
prices have increased sharply since 1970. These prices in current US$ reflect
a tightening of the supply/demand situation and the effect of the successive
US$ devaluations. The evolution of FOB export prices is shown in the table
below for two typical phosphate fertilizers (TSP and DAP) particularly repre-
sentative of market and price trends.
Average FOB (US Gulf and Europe) Prices of Selected Phosphate Fertilizers
(Carrent US$/ton)
1970     1 971    1972   First Half   Second Half    Early
-        1          -        1973          1973         19714
TSP Bulk         38/45    45/50    55/70       75/85        100/130      160/200
DAP Bulk         60/65    65/70    85/90       95/110       115/150       150/225
The phosphate fertilizer industry  has been characterized by a 3 to 5 year
price/investment cycle with an accelerated distorting effect resulting from
investment decisions made when prices are high and the supply situation tight,
This cycle, coupled with the supply/demand cycle, would correspond to levelling
off or decreasing prices by 1975/76.
Industrial Projects Department
Februarv 15. 197h



Annex 4-1
Table 1
MOROCCO
MAROC-PHOSPHORE PROJECT
World Production of Phosphate Fertilizers
(in million tons P205)
Areas-/                      1970           1971          1972   Estimate 1973
North America                       5.2           5-5           6.D          6.4
West and South Europe               5.8           6.1           6.5          6.7
East Europe and USSR                4.7           5.4           5.8          6.2
Latin America                       0.4           o.4           0.5         o.6
Africa                              0.8           0.8           0.8          0.8
Asia and Japan                      2.1           2.1           2.5          2.6
Australasia                         1.2           1.0           1.1          1.1
World Total                        20.2          21.3          23.2         24.4
-     -           grs::= ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ = _= m =
World Capacity                     2341.3                       25.1        25.4
/ In this analysis the world regional breakdown is as follows:
Devlped Countries
North America: U.S.A. and Canada
West Europe  : Geographical Europe less East and South Europe
East Europe  : Communist European countries less U.S.S.R. amd Yugoslavia
U.S.S.R.
South Euirope : Spain, Italy, Greece, Yugoslavia and Turkey
Japan
Australasia  : Australia and New Zealand
Developing Countries
Latin America      : Central and South America
Africa
Communist Asia     :  (including People's Republic of China)
Non-Communist Asia :  including the Middle East, excluding Japan).
Industrial Irojects Department
February 15, 1974



MOROCCO
MAROC-PHOSPHORE PROJECT
World Consumption of Phosphate Fertilizers
(million tons P20s)
Average Growth idate
Actual                Estimate         Forecast                   p.a. (%)
World                          1969    1970    1971    1972        1973     1975    1977    1980        1969-73    1973-80
North America                 4.6    4.7      4.7      4.7       5.0       5.5     6.1     7.0          1.7        5.0
Latin America                 0.8     0.9     1.0    1.1         1.4       1.7     2.0     2.7         11.9       10.0
West Europe                   4.0    4.2       4.6    4.8        5.0       5.3     5.6    6.1           4.6        2.8
Southern Europe               1.3    1.4      1.4      1.5       1.7       1.9     2.2     2.7          5.5        6.6
Eastern Europe and USSR       4.3     4.7     5.3      5.7       5.9       6.9     8.0    10.1          6.5        8.0
Africa                        o.6     o.6     o.6      o.6       0.7       0.9     1.1     1.5          3.1       11.0
Non-Comuunist Asia            o.8    0.9      1.0     1.1        1.4       1.8     2.2     3.1         11.9       12.0
Communist Asia                o.8    o.8      0.9      1.0       1.1       1.4     1.8     2.6          6.6       13.0
Japan                         0.7    0.7      0 7      0.7       0.7       0.7     0.7     0.7          0.0        0.0
Australasia                   1.2     1.2    1.1       1.1       1.2       1.4     1.6     1.9          0.0        7.1
World Total:              19.1   20.1    21.3    22.3        24.1      27.5   31.3   38.4            4.8        6.o
Developed Countries            16.1   16.9    17.8   18.5         19.5      21.7   24.2   28.5            3.9        4.8
Developing Countries            3.0     3.2     3.5     3.8        4.6       5.8     7.1     9.9          8.9       10.1
Industrial Projects Department
Februar -15, '974
(D X
M)rs 



NOROCCO
MALROC-PHOSPHORE PROJECT
World Trade of Phosphate Fertilizers
- 00 %ooo     OF  205)  -
1970                            1971                            1972
Imports    Exports    Net       Imports    Exports    Net       Imports    Exports   tet
North America                295       1,004     709          330       1,068     738         331       1,329    998
West Europe                  917       1,186     269        1,091       1,211     120       1,214       1,408    194
South Europe                 272         113    (159)         291         118    (173)        310        i146   (164)
East Europe and USSR         283          89    (194)         240         165     (75)        253         145   (108)
Latin America                531          36    (495)         637          82    (555)        606          93   (513)
Africa                        87         284     197          140         295     155         191         369    178
Asia and Japan               411          93    (318)         364         106    (258)        600         149   (451)
Australasia                   19          -      tl9)          13          -      (13)         13.               (13)
World Total                2,815       2,805    (10)-       3,106       3,045    (61)-/    3,518        3,639    1211/
Discrepancies due to statistical errors and difference in time    recording.
Snurce- BMrtiih Sulohur Corporation-
Industrial Projects Department
February 15, 1974                                                                                                      13






ANNEX 4-2
Page 1
AOROCCO
MAROC-PHOSPHORE PROJECT
PHOSPHATE ROCK: WORLD TRADE, PRICES AND PROSPECTS
World Reserves
1.        Though there is a considerable uncertainty about the amount of
economically nineable phosphate rock reserves, the world reserves are estimated
at 45.3 billion tons of P205 equivalent.  Morocco is estimated to possess about
42% of the world identified reserves (more than 19 billion tons P2,!O) and the
highest estimated average grade (70 BPLI/), and the USA 14 billiori tons of P20O
with an average grade of 50 BPL:
Estimate of the World Phosphate Rock Reserves (1972)
(billion tons P205)
Country                           Tonnage    Estimated Averae Grade (BPL)
Morocco                                   19.1                  70
U?.                                       14.1                  50
U.3.S.R.                                   5.4                  45
Tunisia                                    1.9                  65
Algeria                                    o.8                  60
People's RepubDlic of China                1.9                  55
Other                                      2.1                  55
Total:                  45.3                  59
World Supply
2.        As Table 1  shows, four principal production areas (USA, USSR, North
Africa and Australasia) account for 90% of the world's production of phosphate
rock. The U.S., the U.S.S.R. and Morocco alone account for 80% of the world's
production. Whereas Morocco is essentially an exporter of rock, the U.S. and
the U.S.S.R. have large domestic markets to satisfy:
Domestic and Export Sales for the Major Suppliers - 1972
(million tons of product)
country     Exports    Domestic    Total Sales  Export as a Percentage of Total Sales
IJ.S.        12.5        27.3          39.8                     31.4
U.S.S.R.      6.2         13.8         20.0                     31--0
Morocco      13.6          o.6         14.2                     95.8
Tunisia       2.3          1.0          3.3                     69.7
1/ Bone Phosphate Lime or Tricalcium Phosphate -- Ca3(PO4)2.
31% P205 = 13.6% P = 68% BPL.



ANNEX 4-2
Page 2
Production of phosphate rock grew on average at 7.0% per annum between 1960
and 1972 rising from 39.8 million tons in 1960 to 90.0 million tons in 1972.
Growth was particularly rapid in the U.S.S.R. (10.9% per annum). Installed
capacity rose from 45.6 million tons in 1960 to 98.4 million tons in 1972.
Capacity is often difficult to estimate and figures are usually confidential.
The production constraint is not always at the mine level but frequently at
the inland transportation and harbor facilitie3 levels. World capacity utili-
zation has fluctuated since 1960 (Table 1) reflecting the variations in the
world supply/demand situation.
3.        The expected major additions to existing capacities between 1972
and 1977 will be in Morocco, Spanish Sahara, the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. Morocco
is expected to increase its capacity to 25 million tons of rock. The Spanish
Sahara -- a new supplier of high grade 75 BPL -- will start production in 1973
and is likely to have an installed capacity of 9 million tons by 1977; the U.S.
and the U.S.S.R.'s objectives are to reach 50 and 30 million ton capacities
respectively by 1977 but the lack of information makes it difficult to ascertain
whether this objective can be attained. In particular, for example, the likely
future U.S. rock production is difficult to assess because: (i) the average
grade produced is decreasing which might affect export potentials; (ii) environ-
ment and land reshaping obligations might increase the production cost of rock
and reduce production in marginal mines.
Trade
h.        World trade increased from 29.2 million tons of rock in 1965 to 43.5
million tons in 1972 at an average rate of about 6% per annum. The major
exporters are Morocco, the U.S., the U.S.S.R. and Tunisia. These four countries
account for about 80% of world exports. About 65% of the world exports of
phosphate rock is directed to Europe. Table 2 shows a trade matrix for 1972
by main sources and destinations. In the 1965-1972 period, the market share
of the U.S. increased from 24% to 30% whereas the share of Morocco and the
U.S.S.R. remained constant (30% and 16% respectively). Tunisia's share is
declining as its sales have been stationary in the period considered. The
emergence of the U.S. as a major exporter of rock has caused some changes in
trade patterns. North African exports have been increasingly directed to
Eastern and South Europe and to some developing countries where markets are
expanding faster. Western Europe obtained 65% of its phosphate rock require-
ments from North Africa in 1965 and only 44% in 1972.
5.        A tentative Trade Matrix for 1975 (Table 3) shows: (i) a likely    1/
decreasing share of the U.S. in the world trade particularly if freight rates-
on the Atlantic route are maintained at the present high levels; (ii) an
increased share of Morocco(to about 37% of the world trade)which is likely to
remain the leading exporter in view of its locational advantages and the
average high quality of its rock; and (iii) at the best a likely stagnant share
for the U.S.S.R. The Spanish Sahara will, however, become a major exporter
/ Freight rates -- which represent between one-third to two-thirds of the
delivered price of rock -- also play an important role in the formation
of prices. As known, these rates fluctuate quite substantially and largely
affect delivered prices. As a result the Moroccan price advantage to Euro-
pean destinations over the U.S. varied from US$2 to 5 per ton of rock through
1973 and reached US$10 per ton in early 197T.



ANNEX 4-2
Page 3
and the most important OCP's competitor particularly because its sales will
be concentrated on high grades (75 BPL and above) and directed to the same
markets.
World Demand
6.        Table 4 shows past and projected consumption of rock on a regional
basis. Rock conlsumption doubled between 1960 and 1970 and is likely to double
again between 1970 and 1980. However, developing countries, which consumed
less than 10% of the world total in 1960, raised their share to 12.15% in 1970
aid are likely to increase their share further to 19% in 1980:
Consumption of Phosphate Rock
(million tons of product)
1960    1970    1975    1977    1980
Developed countries          35.7    68.2    97.0  107.3   125.4
Developing countries          3.9     9.7    18.1    22.1    29.7
World Total:             39.6    77.9  115.1   129.4   155.1
The world consumption grew at about 7.3% per year over the 1960-1972 period
(11'S for developing countries and only 7% for developed countries).  World
consumption is expected to increase by 7.5% per annra in the 1972-1975 period
.nd by 6.1% per annum thereafter.  Since a high rate of capacity utilization
in existing finished P20< manufacturing units is projected, the demnand for
phosphate rock will mostty result from high levels of operations in additional
phosphoric acid capacity that will come on stream in the next five years. Such
large phosphoric acid units can have a marked impact on the pattern of phosphate
rock imports since each unit can consume up to 1 to 1.5 million TPY of rock.
Prices
7.        The main factors affecting the delivered price of phosphate rock are
its grade and quality, the freight structure and its end use. Since practically
all the rock traded in the world is under short and medium-term contracts whose
terms are kept confidential, prices can only be estimated. The industry pub-
lishes listed FOB prices which are indicative of world prices and wrere close to actual
3rices in 1973/74. Those prices are summarized in the table below:
Listed FOB Exort Prices for Phosphate Rock
(in $/ton of product)
1973
Suppliers             Grade      1966-1972          January    Mareh  November(for 1974)
(BPL)
tPhosrock/Florida      68          7.58             8.56       9.74         20.00
72         8.88              9.86     11.32         24.00
73         9.15             lo.14     11.81         25.50
75        10.02             11.00     12.89         27.50
OCP
Youssoufia              70        10.15             11.15     12.30         37.50
Khouribga          (   72         11.00             12.00     13.30         40.00
(   75         11.75            12.75      14.20         42.00



Annex 4-2
page 4
b5.       During the 1966-1972 period, surplus capacity in the world encouraged
the concession of substantial discounts (up to 20% of the listed price). Listed
prices have remained stagnant during the period because of an over-supply situa-
tion. Roclc supplies became tighter in 1972; prices are now closer and probably
equal to the listed ones.  In the middle of 1972, the US producers raised their
listed prices by $1 .00 per short ton after having formed (in 1971) an export
organization "Phosrock" whose purpose was to reduce the competition among exporters.
The increase in US prices was followed by a similar increase (US$1 per ton) in
Moroccan prices by late 1972.  The 1972 price recovery can be attributed to both a
tighter supply/demand ratio and a better understanding among producers. Though
the quality of rock and its phosphorus content have a definite effect on its prices,
phosphorus is cheaper in low grade rock than in high grade rock since high grade
rock contains less lime and will demand less sulfuric acid on a per ton basis to
make phosphoric acid. Using the early 1973 listed US prices, the price per BPL
percent is 12.6/BPL percent/ton for 68 BPL rock and 1h.7g/BPL percent/ton for 75
BPL rock.
.        In 1973, phosphate rock prices increased sharply both for Florida and
Moroccan exports.  In March 1973 FOB prices increased by US$1 to 1.5 per ton.
Further major price increases occurred by November 1973; prices increased 2 times
[or Florida rock, and about 3 times in the case of Morocco over their March 1973
level. The main reasons were: (i) a current tight supply/demand situation in the
world; and (ii) a necessary price recovery to improve the profitability in the
sector following a lasting depressed prices situation over most of the last decade.
The level of actual rock prices (delivered to Europe) remained constant in current
terms over the period 1953-1973. Prices (in current US$) were at about the same
level in 1972 as they were some 10 years before (in 1963); 1973 prices (about US$3/
ton higher than prices in 1972) were barely equivalent to 1953 prices. Prices in
constant US$ have therefore largely dropped over the period though fluctuations in
prices (plus or minus $1 to 2) were recorded during the period and a two to three
years up and down price cycle seems to have been in force:
Long-Term Trends in Rock Prices (in current US$/ton)
1963    1965-66    1968-69    1c70-71    1972    Mid 1973         1974
p        P + 2        P         P - 1       P       P+ 3          3P
10.       The FOB export prices of rock also result from the freight rates struc-
ture.  Freight rates fluctuate and depend on a number of factors which are
difficult to predict.  Taking European ports as an example, over the last six
years the following rates were applied:
Typical Freight Rates (FIO) in 1968-1974 ($/ton)
Date              Tampa to Rotterdam      Casablanca to Rotterdam       Difference
(or Antwerp)              (or Antwerp)
June 1S'68              5.00                       3.20                   1.80
June 1969               4.50                       2.70                   1.80
June I170              10.25                       5.00                   5.25
May 1971                4.1J                       2.70                   1.40
June 1972               2.75                       2.75                    -
November 1972           4.60                       2.60                   2.00
June 1973               7.50                       4 40                   3.10
September 1973         11.50                       6.50                   5.00
January 1974          17.0/18.0                  5.0/d.O                10.0/12.0



Annex 4-2
page 5
This table showis that the locational advantage of Morocco over Florida might vary
between Ub,$2 and ub10/12 per ton depending on the level cf freight rates. 'ihis
situation therefore enables Morocco to sell rock at higher FOB prices.
11.       Phosphate rock may have different levels of utilization values in
relation to its end use and to the type of industrial unit using it. In particular,
some European units form captive markets for North African phosphates because oi'
the grinding and filtering equipment used. Under a balanced supply situation
average parity rates, incorporating quality, grade and utilization values are
therefore, in most cases, worked out for each customer. Delivered reference prices
may be determined for specific consumption areas where leading prices are likely
to be related to the large trade of 70/72 BPL; in particular, Europe, the world
major rock importer has played an important role in the formation of world prices.
In the long run, future delivered prices of phosphate rock in Europe will depend
on: (i) the growth of the demand by types of rock; (ii) the ability of the US
producers to export substantial amounts of rock which irn turn depends to a large
extent on the status of the US domestic market; (iii) the build-up, of the exports
of Spanish Sahara; and (iv) the price policy among the different producers to
maintain high levels of prices.
12.       The Bank estimates that the world rock supply and demand are likely to
balance from 1976/1977 onwards, in particular as a result of: (i) renewed interest
in investing in phosphate rock mining; and (ii) the coming on stretam of major
additional facilities in Florida, Morocco and Spanish Sahara. The Bank therefore
projects rock equilibrium prices  to  stabilize--by 1976-77--at about 20;, below
the 1974 price levels and  to  thereafter increase parallel to the world infla-
tion. 1976-77 rock prices are therefore tentatively projected as follows:
Projected World Rock Prices in 1976-77
(in current US$/ton)
Grade             FAS Morocco          FOB Florida
70 BPL               28-30                22-25
72 'BPL             30-32                25-28
75 BPL              32-35                 28-32
Industrial Projects Department
February 15, 1974



I



MIOROCCO
iMAROC-PHOSPHORE PROJECT
Phosphate Rock: World Capacityand Prodaction by Main Areas
(in million tons of product)
Actual                                                   Projection
1960             1965              1970  _           272t                  1975               1977
Produc- Capa-  Produc- Capa-   Produc- Capa-    Produc-  Capa-             Produc- Capa-    Produc-  Capa-
Country           tion    city     tion    city       tion    cit        tion    city        tion     C         tioni
US               17.8     22.0      26.7    30.0     35.1     41.5     37.7      41.5       42.7      45.6     46.5     50.0
USSR              5.8      5.8      11.5    11.5     17.9     18.0      20.0     21.0       26.2      26.2     29.5     30.0
Morocco           7.5      8.4       9.8    10.9     11.4     12.0      14.5     16.0        21.0     22.0     24.0      25.0
Tunisia           2.1      2.)4      3.0     3.5      3.0      3.5       3.3      3.5         3.9      4.5      4.0       5.0
Spanish Sahara     -        -         -       -        -        -         -        -         3.7       6.o      7.0       9.0
Australasia       2.6      3.0       3.0     3.5      2.6      4.0       3.0      4.1         4.3      4.5      4.5       6.o
Others            4.o      4.o      6.3      6.3     11.1     11.1      11.5     12.3       13.3      13.3     14.0      17.0
World Total:     39.8     45.6    60.2    65.7       81.1      91.5     90.0     98.4       115.1    122.1    129.5    142.0
Average Capacity
Utilization (%)       87                 92               89                 92                   94                 91
World Consumption-/  39.6                62.0             77.9               92.6                115.1              129.5
1/ Preliminary.
2/ From Table 4,
Source: British Sulfur Corporation and International Superphosphates Manufacturers Association.
Projections have been made by the Bank.



MOROCCO
MAROC-PHOSPHORE PROJECT
Phosphate Rocks Trade Matrix by Origin and Destination - 1972 (Preliminary)
(million tons of product)
Destination3/                                                      Non-                                          Percentage
Nortl    Latin    West    South   East             Communist  Communist                              Break-
Orlgin                 America  America  Europe Europe  Europe  Africa         Asia       Asia    Japan  Australasia  Total  down
USA                         2.7      1.7      3.3      1.0    0. 3      -        114         -        2.         -         12.5    29
USSR                         -        -       2.1       -     4.l        -        -          -         -          -         6.2   14
Morocco                      -       0.4      6. 4    3.7    1.8         -       0.1        0. 8      0. 4        -        13.6   31
Tunisia                      -       0.2      0.7      0.5    0.8        -        -         0.1        -          -         2.3    5
Spanish Sahara-              -        -         -       -      -         -        -          -                    -          -      -
Africa (south of Sahara)    -         -       2.9      0.2     -         _       0.1         -        0.2                   3.L    8
Middle East                  -        -       0.3      0.24   0.2                o.6        0.1       0.2         -         1.8    4
Christmas/Nauru              -                  -       -                -        -         0.1       0.1        2.7        2.9   '7
Others                     0.1       -        0 .1      -      .2               0.2         0. 2       -         -          0.8    2
Total:        2.8       2.3      15.8     5.8   7.4 a               2.4         1.3      3.0        2.7        43.5  100
1/   In 1972, Spanish Sahara exported 73,000 tons and made trial shipments to Japan (22,000 tons) and Spain (28,000 tons).
The regions are constituted as follows:
Developed Countries                                                    Developing Countries
North America:  USA and Canada                                          Latin America:       Central and South America
West Europe:    Geographical Europe less East & South Europe            Africa
East Europe:    Communist European countries less USSR and              Communist Asia:      (including People's Republic  
Yugoslavia                                                                   of China)                        0
USSR                                                                    Non-communist Asia: (including the Middle East,
South Europe:   Spain, Italy, Yugoslavia, Greece, Turkey                                      excluding Japan)
Japan
Australasia:    Australia, New Zealand
Source: British Sulfur Corporation and International Superphosphates Manufacturers Association.



MOROCCO
MAROC-PHOSPHORE PROJECT
PhospbAte Rock: Trade Matrix by Origin and Destination - 1975 (Tentative Forecaat)
(million tons of product)
Destination                                           Non                                           Prcntagee
North    Latin   'West    South   East            Communist  Communist                               Break-
Origin              America  America  Europe  Europe  Europe  Africa       Asia       Asia    Japan  Australasia  Total   dova
USA                         3.8      2.4      2.1     0.8      -                1.4          -       1.5         -        12.0    22
USSR                         -        -       2.1      -      4.3        -       -           -        -          -         6.4    12
Morocco                      -       o.4      9.5      3.6   -3.4               o.6         1.0      1.          _        20.0-   37
Tunisia                     -        0.1      0.7     0.8    0.8         --                           -          -         2.4     4
Spanish Sahara               -       q.2      0.8     1.9    -                  o 0.2        -       0.3        0.1        3.5      6
Africa (south of Sahara)    -         -       3.2    0.3       -         -       -           -        -          -         3.5     6
Midele East                  _ -               -      0.4   0.6         0.1     0.9         0.5       -          -         2.5     5
Christrwas/Nauru             -        --                       -         -       -                   0.1        3.9        4.0      7
Others                       -        -        -       -      -          -       -           -        -          -          -      -
Total:         3.8      3.1      18.4     7.8    9.1        0.1     3.1        1.5       3.4       4.0        54.3   100
Industrial Projects Department
November 30, 1973



MOROCCO                              ANNEX 4-2
MAROC-PHOSPHORE PROJECT                      Table 4
Consumption of Phosphate Rock
(in million tons of product)
Actual                         Projection
1960    I65  1970    1971                          -1977
Developed Countries
North America       14.2    21.1  24.9    27.7    30.1    36.5         40.2        46
West & South Europe 10.7    15.5  18.7    19.8       21.7    24.7      26.9       30.
Eastern Europe       1.6      2.9   6.1      6.8      7.4      9.7     11.0        13.
USSR                5.0    10.4  12.2    13.8        13.8    18.9      21.6        26c
Australasia          2.1      3.5   3.4      3.2      2.7      4.0      4.3         4.
Japan               2.1       2.5   2.9      2.8      3.0      3.2      3.3         3.
Total              35.7    55.9  68.2    T771       T777    9         15.3
Developing Countries
Africa              1.1       1.7   2.8      3.2      3.9      5.1      6.3         8.
Latin America        0.5      0.7   1.7      2.1      2.6      3.5      4.3         5.
Asia                 2.3      3.7   5.2      6.6      7.4      9.5     11.5        15.
Total               3.9      7-1   9.7      1l.9     13TF-  1-T71      a77T        29.
World Total         39.6    62.0  77.9    86.0       92.6   115.1    129.4
Average Growth Rates per annum (per ent)
Developed Countries   De oin  Countries  World
1960-1972               6.8                      11.2           7.3
1960-1965                9.4                      9.3           9.4
1965-1970               4.1                       9.7           h.7
1970-1972                7.4                     19.7           9.0
1970-1980                6.3                     11.9           7.1
1972-1975                7.2                      9.2           7.5
1975-1980               5.3                      10.4           6.1
Preliminary
Source: British Sulfur Corporation and IS4A for Actual Consumption
Bank estimates for Projected Consumption



Annex 4-3
page 1
MOROCCO
MAROC-PHOSPHORE PROJECT
SULFUR: WORLD SUPPLY, DEAvND AND PRICES
Sources
1.        Sulfur sources can be classified in three main categories:
(i) elemental sulfur (or brimstone); (ii) sulfur from pyrites (extracted in
the form of sulfuric acid); and (iii) sulfur-in-other forms. Elemental sulfur
or brimstone is produced from: the Frasch process through injection of hot
water into the soil and recovery of liquid sulfur; native refined sulfur
obtained by conventional ore mining methods; and recovered sulfur from oil
refineries and natural gas plants through desulfurization of sour gas. Pyrites
consist in sulfides of various metals and sulfuric acid is recovered in the
process. Sulfur-in-other forms mainly comes from sulfur oxydes and sulfuric
acid. In 1971, brimstone accounted for 56% of the world supply of sulfur;
pyrites for 27%; and sulfur-in-other forms for 17%.
Applications
2.        Sulfur is mostly used in the form of sulfuric acid (about 85% of the
world consumption).      The remaining 15% is used in a wide variety of chemical
applications. The fertilizer industry is the largest single consumer of sul-
furic acid, utilizing about 50% of the total acid output.
Supply
3.        The annual level of world sulfur-in-all forms production is currently
approaching 46 million tons with a rapid growth of brimstone production in the
western world (due to the expansion of recovered sulfur associated with increas-
ing exploitation and desulfurizatin of sour oil and natural gas crudes; and,
in the communist world, a predominance of non-brimstone forms. North America,
Western and Eastern Europe, and the USSR account for over 83% of the world's
production. The largest individual producers are the US (24% of the worldts
production), Canada (17%), Poland (7%), Japan (6%) and France (%). Brimstone
production is even more concentrated: the USA, Canada, Mexico, France and Poland
account for 81% of the world's production. The major producers of pyrites are
the Western European countries (33% of world's production), and the USSR (31%).
Trade
4.        Sulfur is mostly traded in the form of brimstone and pyrites.  In
1972, brimstone exports amounted to 8.6 million tons from the following sources:



Annex 4-3
page 2
World Exports of Brimstone in 1972
(million tons)
Canada                           2.8
Poland                          2.5
USA                             1.8
France                          1.0
Mexico                          0.5
World Total:                    8.6
The major importers were the USA (1.2 million tons) and the EEC countries (3-4
million tons). Pyrite exports amounted to 1.2 million tons of sulfur equivalent
in 1972.  The main exporters were Spain (0.1 million tons),    the USSR (0.5
million tons) and Cyprus (0.2 million tons). Practically all the exports were
to Western Europe.
Supply and Demand
5.        Following a very tense and tight supply and demand situation through-
out the 1960s, an oversupply situation developed in early 1969 and lasted through
1972, causing a substantial drop in prices and a continuous build-up of unsold
stocks. This was attributable to: (i) massive growth of production of recovered
sulfur in the West Canada natural gas operations; (ii) increased deliveries of
Polish brimstone to the Western World; (iii) slackening in the demand growth rate
after 1967 and 1968. Sulfur, recovered from sour gas and oil, is a compulsory
by-product of those industries and therefore its production is not affected by
the sulfur market per se, the volume of recovered sulfur resulting from factors
outside the sulfur industry. However, since the end of 1972 the sulfur industry
has moved into a phase of tight market conditions because of: (i) restraints
imposed on dry sulfur shipments through Vancouver; (ii) a large portion of
recovered sulfur stocks in Canada cannot be economically moved; (iii) tighter
supply/demand in the US during 1972 and 1973; and (iv) high freight rates with
exporters refraining from taking shipping space. However in the longer run
supply and demand are expected to balance because of the mounting volume of
compulsory recovered sulfur. Supply/demand forecasts for the 1973-80 period are
summarized below and indicate that a better balance will prevail by the mid to
late 1970s:
Supply and Demand Forecast of Sulfur-in-all-Form s
(million tons)
Available Supply    Demand    Demand as % of available supply
Actual:     1971           12.6            4L0.8                  56
1972          45.4             44.4                  98
Estimate:   1973           47.9             47.0                  98
Forecasts:  1977           61.1             58.1                  95
1980          68.4             66.5                   97
Prices:
6.        Whereas FOB prices in 1969 were in the $40-50 range, they have dropped to
a US$22-26 range in 1972 for Polish and French supplies of liquid sulfur and US and
Mexican frasch. Mid 1973 FOB prices reached a level of US$30-33 per ton. Prices
increased further to a US$30-45 range early 1974. Long term equilibrium prices are
expected to be in the US$30-35 range FOB Europe and US$35-40 FOB Gulf Coast.
Industrial Projects Department
February 15, 1974



ANIEX 4-4
Page 1
MOROCCO
MAR0C-PHOSPHORE PROJECT
INTERMEDIATE PHOSPHATE FERTILIZERS: WORLD TRADE AND PROSPECTS
Capacity and Supply of Phosphoric Acid
1.        Phosphoric acid -- a corrosive liquid -- is the main intermediate
product in the manufacturing of high grade phosphate fertilizers and Sodiwn
Tripolyphosphate (STPP a base product for detergent manufacturing). Though
mostly used as a captive product in integrated plants it recently became an
increasingly traded commodity. Monoammonium phosphate (MAP) -- a free flowing
solid and semi-finished fertilizer -- has also been increasingly uLtilized as an
intermediate :product. MAP is a converted form of phosphoric acid and in many
phosphate fertilizer plants, MAP and acid can be substituted. Together they
are likely to account for a major portion of the bulk of trade for P20s inter-
mediates.   Economies of scale affect mostly the manufacture of phosphoric acid
,and to a much lesser extent the transformation of acid into finished or semi-
finished products. For the purpose of this Annex it is statistically satisfactory
to assume that all phosphoric acid used in fertilizer manufacturing is supplied
by the wet acid process.
2.        World wet process acid capacity increased more than four fold between
1960 (3.6 million TPY P20 r1 )and 1972 (151. million TPY P205) with the bulk of
phosphoric acid produced for captive use:
World Wet Phosphoric Acid Capacity
(Million tons P2Os)
Actual                Forecast
1960Y   1970    1972       15,75    1977
North America                2.3     6.o      6.3       8.5      9.0
Latin America                 -      0.7      0.7       C).9     1.1
West Europe                  0.8     2.5      2.6        3.0     3.0
South Europe                 0.2     1.0      1.2       1.6      1.6
East Europe & USSR            -      1.3      1.9       2.8      2.8
Africa                       0.1     0.4      0.6       1.0      1.2
Asia                         0.2     1.4      1.6       1.7      2.2
Australasia                   -       0.2     0.2        0).4    0.8
Total:                  L U2  1a                   21.7
On the basis of projects under implementation or firmly committecd, phosphoric
acid production capacity is expected to further increase to 19.9 million TPY
P205 in 1975 and to 21.7 million TPY P2 0 in 1977. It has therefore been
possible -- using estimated capacity utilization ratios -- to estimate the likely
production in 1975 and the level of supply in 1977 (Table 1).
/ The best statistical estimate available for the year 1960;
some marginal capacities might have been excluded from these
1960 statistics.



ANNEX 4-4
Page 2
Demand for Phos3phoric Acid
3.        Estimates of the past and future demand for phosphoric acid are
derived frcm the percentages (actual and expected) of Phosphate Fertilizers requir-
ing phosphoric acid as an intermediate product (Table 1):
Estimated Demand for Phosphoric Acid Attributable to Phosphate Fert-lizers
(million tons P205
Actual                  Forecast
1_70     1972       1975      1977     1980
North America              4.2      4.6        5.3       5.8      6.5
Latin America              0.4      0.7        1.1       1.3      1.9
West Europe                1.8      2.1        2.4       2.8      3.4
South Europe               0.6      0.8        1.2       1.3      1.8
East Europe & USSR         1.1      1.5        2.3       2.9      4.3
Africa                     0.3      0.4        0.7       0.9      1.3
Asia                       1.1      1.7        3.4       3.6      5.1
Australasia                0.5      0.7        1.0       1.2      1.6
Total:       10.0     12.5        17.4     19.8      25.9
Between 1970 and 1972 the demand for phosphoric acid grew at an average rate of
12.5% per annum. With the above assumptions, demand for phosphoric acid is expect-
ed to grow at an average rate of 7.6% per annum between 1972 and 1980. This f"gure
is to be compared with the expected consumption growth rate for phosphate ferti-
lizers as a whole which is estimated at 6.5% per annum.
Current and Projected Supply/Demand Balance
4.        On the basis of the projected supply of acid and demand for P205 derived
from acid, the Bank has made a tentative forecast of the acid surplus/deficit situ-
ation in the world and by regions for 1975, and of the acid gap for later years
1977 and 1980. The results are summarized below after aggregation on a world basis
of regional balances:
World" Supply and Demand Position for Phosphoric
Acid and Fertilizer Derivatives
(million tons of P205)
Potential Supply      Demand       9arplus(Deficit)       Supply Gap
1970                  9.9               9.2             0.7
1972                 11.7              11.1              0.6
1975                 15.5              1'4.7            0.8
1977                 16.4              17.3                                 (0.9)
1980                 16.5              22.2                                 (5.7)
I/ Excluding Communist Asia and Australasia.



AINEX 4b-4
Page 3
On an overall world basis, supply and demand are likely to balance satisfactorily
through 1977; with a change from an expected marginal surplus in 1975 to a modest
gap in supply by 1977 (0.9 million tons P205 by 1977). With the uncertainty
related to the implementation of projects and to the performance of plants, the
best conclusic,n is that the world supply is likely to balance demand through
1977. A noticnal supply gap -- estimated on the basis of capacities presently
announced -- has been estimated for 1980 which clearly indicates, in spite of
high statistical uncertainty, that more acid capacity will have to come on
stream before that date.
5.        The situation by region indicates, however, that (Table 2):
(a) Through 1977, there will be a potential supply surplus of phosphoric
acid in North America with potential exports likely to be directed to Latin
Americ),and to the USSR following the recent US/USSR trade agreements.   The
13% du';y on acid at the entry of the Comwon Market is likely to limit US exports
to Europe. Assuming that the U.S. maintain an export level of 1.'5 million tons
of P205 per year, the actual capacity utilization is likely to be about 75% to
80% in 1975. All the other regions are likely to show an import grap from 1975
onwards.
(b) Latin America and Non-Communist Asia which together showed an acid deficit
of about 0.5 million tons of P205 in 1972 are likely to have a gap in supply of 1.5
million tons of P205 in 1977 and of 3 million tons by 1980, if the present consump-
tion trends continue. This gap will be met by some additional local plants but
the level of imports is likely to remain high.
(c) East Europe and the USSR will continue to show a steady deficit
in acid and are likely to become the main importing region for P205 intermedi-
ates in the medium to long run.
(d) West and South Europe are likely to be approximately self-sufficient
through 1977 buit might well develop a total import gap of about 1.3 million tons
of P205 by 1980.
6.        An independent estimate of the world phosphoric acid gap has been
made by the International Finance Corporation (March 1973); the main results
are summarized below with emphasis on the potential acid gap in West Europe
and l4editerranean countries:



ANNE 4-4
Page 4
IFC Estimate of the Acid Sup1l/Demand Gap in West Europe and Mediterranean
in million tons of P205
1977/78
Regions                            1972/73    1974/75    Best Estimate    Range-'
(1) West Europe and Mediterraneana/(   (0.2)       (0.5)          (0.4)          (0.6)
0.2
(2) (1) + East Europe + Western
Hemisphere Zxports-]/                                         (0.4)          (0.8)
0.1
- Essentially Western Europe and all the Mediterranean countries, Yugoslavia,
and Albania excepted. ICM I and II and Maroc-Phosphore included in this zone.
The range is for a 50% confidence and depends on implementation of doubtful
projects and technical success in operating some existing plants at full capacity.
- Excludes Latin America and Asia, major importers but includes Western Hemisphere
exports to zone (1).
This estimate is consistent with the Bank estimates. However, the uncertainty,
related to the implementation of projects and to the performance of plants having
operational difficulties, is extremely large. As IFC puts it: "We must bear in
mind that there is a strong possibility -- although not quantifiable -- that by
1977/78, the balance could also range from a deficit of about 1.9 million tons
to a surplus of 1.5 million tons of P20s per year." If we include Latin America
and Asia (major deficit areas) in the analysis, the best estimate of the world
gap in supply is likely to reach about 1 to 1.5 million tons P205 by 1977 (as
compared to 0.9 million tons P205 projected by the Bank).
Phosphoric Acid Trade
7.        Trade of phosphoric acid on a local or regional scale and exchange
of acid among different units of the same company have taken place for many
years in Europe and North America. However, the quantities of acid involved
were usually small and designed to meet short term requirements of finished
fertilizers plants or to compensate for the fall in production in certain units
(technical breakdown or maintenance stoppage). However, towards the late 1960's
large plantsl/ were set up to supply non-captive acid mostly for export. Ocean
going shipping began in 1969 and specially designed ships were built and termi-
nals set up. The main production units of free acid -- totally or partially
Plant size increased from about 30,000 TPY of P205 in the early 1960's to
about 200,000 TPY in the late 1960's. New plants are now designed for an
even larger capacity (Maroc-Phosphore capacity is 330,000 TPY P205).



ANNEX 4-4
Page 5
for export purposes -- are listed in Table 3.
8.        The list shows,between 1969 and 1973,a substantial increase in
capacity of phosphoric acid for export mostly in developing countries endowed
with rock or sulfur resources.  Fertilizantes Fosfatados Mexicanos (FFM of
Mexico) is the pioneer firm in manufacturing acid for export on long distances.
FFM's plant in Coatzacoalcos -- using local sulfur and rock from the nearby
Florida mines -- has a capacity of 335,000 TPY P 0 of which about 240,000 TPY
are for export as acid solution.  FFM has contragt5for deliveries-eto Europe
(Belgium, Netherlands, Germany) though their terminal in Rotterdam; to India
through its terminal in Madras; to the Philippines and to Brazil. Shahpur
Chemicals from Iran, Industries Chimiques Maghr6bines (ICM) from Tunisia, Arad
Chemicals from Israel and Fosforico Espanol from Spain are the other main
export oriented facilities existing at the moment. Other units in Belgium,
I'etherlands and Germany  export small or marginal quantities of acid.  Most of
these plants (FFM, ICM, Arad notably) had either teething problems during the
start-up phase or faced delays in completion. Actual supply in 1972 and 1973
was therefore much below the estimated capacity.
9.        As a result of these recent developments in manufacturing acid for
sale a phosphoric acid trade emerged progressively and reached about 380,000
tons of P 05 in 1972. At this level, the trade represented about 10% of the
total word trade for finished P205 materials (3.6 million tons P205).
With the expected increase in production capacity for free acid, the acid trade,
and the share of acid in the total world trade, is likely to grow rapidly in
the near future. The Table below summarizes the 1972 acid trade byo sources
and destinations:
Phosphoric Acid Trade by Sources and Destinations (1972)
(in 000 tons P20s
From     Mexico   US    Belg./Neth. Spain  Iran  Tuhnisia  Others  Total
To
Belg./Neth.               15     10        26          2      -      3        3      59
Germany                    3      -        60          -      -      -        1      64
France                     3      3        56          -      -     38        3     103
Italy                      -      -         -          2      -      5       -        7
UK                         -     10        12          3      -      -        -      '5
US                        28      -         -          -      -      -        -      28
Brazil                    18      4         -          4      -      -        -      26
Colom bia                  2     12         -          -      -      -        -      14
India                    20      11         -          -     17      -        -      48
Others                     -      -         5          4      -      -        -       9
Total Exports:     89      50       159        15      17     46       7      383
Trade relationships between suppliers, consumers and traders are aLso being built
up.  Temporary supplies to future producers whose facilities are under construction,
swap arrangements among contract holders and new suppliers -- better located to



Annex 4-4
page 6
serve a specific market--and contracting of production surpluses are being
made. For example, Windmill from the Netherlands and APC, FFM and Cofaz,
FFM and Shahpur Chemicals have such trade arrangements.
10.       A substantial increase in capacity for export is likely to develop
by 1975-1976 particularly in France (150,000 TPY P205)' Spain (100,000 TPY),
the US (200,000 TPY), Tunisia (220,000 TPY) and Morocco (260,000 TPY). The
future world Acid trade might therefore well reach about 1.7 to 2.0 million
TPY P205 by 1977-78, i.e. 10% of the expected world acid supply and about 50%
of the 1972 finished P205 trade. The additional capacity for export and the
trade estimate do not include the quantities of superphosphoric acid to be
produced in Florida for export to the USSR (1 million TPY P205 from 1976)
following trade arrangements of April 1973 between the USSR and Occidental
Petroleum from the US involving purchase of acid and supply of Ammonia and Urea
by the USSR, and financing and construction by Occidental of fertilizer units
in the USSR.
Phosphoric Acid Prices
11.       The present phosphoric acid prices result from two series of factors:
(i) the price of acid sold under medium to long-term contracts (the major part
of the trade) to buyers who have decided to postpone or avoid the construction
of their own acid facilities, is strongly influenced by the expected buyer's
(hypothetical) cost of producing phosphoric acid given local conditions and
raw material prices, notably rock; (ii) prices resulting from supply/demand
considerations for smaller quantities. This two-tier pricing system is a re-
flection of the small size of the international phosphoric acid market and is
likely to remain in existence until the availability of phosphoric acid supplies
is sufficiently large and flexible to precipitate competition for the major
contract business as well. At the present time, the differential between contract
and spot business averages US$15 to $20 per ton of P20s. Practically all the
ocean going trade of phosphoric acid is under long-term contracts. The following
table shows recent quotations for phosphoric acid prices:
Recent Quotations of Phosphoric Acid FOB Prices (US Dollars)
Prices
Location                 Date      (per ton Of P205)        Remark
1972/early 1973 (pre-US$ devaluation)
Florida/Domestic           November 72     101-121       Long-term contract
Florida/Export             November 72     140           Medium-term contract
Florida/Export            February 73      140-165       Spot
Rotterdam                  February 73     128 C&F       FFM contract
Felgian plants            February 73      137-14o       Spot
Huelva                    August 72        127-136       Spot
Mid-1973 (post-US$ devaluation)
West Europe                May 73          155-170       Spot
Rotterdam                  September 73    155 C&F       Medium-term contract
End 1973
US local deliveries        October  73     200          Medium-term contract
Early 1974
4'est Europe ana US       Early 1974      250/3u0        Spot.



ANNEX. 4-4
Page 7
The terms of long-term contracts are confidential but the main determinants
of the price are: the size of contract; the quality of the acid; the cost of
raw materials.; the cost of labor,and the cost of freight. Common indexes are
(i) for phosphiate rock, the price of"75 BPL - Morocco" FAS Casablanca, and
(ii) for sulfur, the Sulexco price of liquid sulfur free tankbarge Rotterdam.
An escalation formula linking the price of acid to prices of raw materials is,
in most cases, included in the contract.
12.       Ln the period 1974 to 1976 additions to merchant phosphoric acid
and changes to the existing trade size and structure are anticipated.
For the majority of acid sales covered by long-term contracts, prices will be
adjusted upwards to take account of sharp increases   in costs of raw materials.
As a result, a net increase of US$60 to 80 per ton of P20t is anticipated from 1973 to
1976 so that existing contract delivered prices (Western turope) will be in the
range of US$210 to 230 per ton of P205. New contracts are expected to be
negotiated at higher 1976 equivalent prices (about US$20 per ton P205). With
a relatively tight market for phosphoric acid expected to extend until 1975,
the prevailing US$15 to $20 differential on spot sales is likely to continue.
Beyond 1975, with increasing free acid production coming on-stream, the differen-
tial between contractual and spot sales is likely to narrow.         An indicative
long-term equilibrium price for acid might be about US$230 to 250 'C&F Europe
(1976 base).
Mono-Ammoniuxn Phosphate (1MAP)
13.       RAP is not yet an internationally traded commodity since only limited
quantities have been available for export and production has been largely captive.
MAP has been used successfully as an intermediate for distribution within a
single count.y by Kemira Oy in Finland and by Fosforico Espahol in Spain provid-
ing feed for a number of small off-site granulating plants. Fosforico also made
the first trans-Atlantic shipment of MAP in 1972 (to Brazil). RAP, using phos-
phoric acid as major input, is a solid intermediate fertilizer which combines
a number of advantages: (i) high P205 content (55%); (ii) cheap transport cost
on a per ton of P20y basis 1/; (iii) highly suitable for blending; and (iv) con-
tains nitrogen nutrient (11%). These qualities make MAP also particularly suitable
for developing countries. Experts agree that large quantities of MAP will be
increasingly traded in the future as export-oriented plants are completed. MAP
might well become one of the most attractive ways of moving P205 from the rock
mine to fertilizer producers. It will supplement DAP which has had great popu-
larity for nearly ten years and substitute for TSP which, though having a high
P205 content, encounters some difficulties in blending with certain nitrogenous
fertilizers (particularly urea) and therefore is of less interest as an inter-
mediate. Prospects are favorable for large-scale export oriented MAP units
located close to raw material sources. Ideal locations are the US Gulf Coast,
1north AfricEL -- given availability of rock, ammonia and nearby slulfur sources --
and some regions in the Middle East. Compared to acid, MAP will probably
emerge as the most favorable product for long shipping distances while acid
1/
Freight per ton of contained P205 is one-half of that of phosphoric acid
and two-thirds of that of phosphate rock and therefore particularly suited
for long distance transport.



Annex 4-4
page 8
will have advantages for use in specific processes or for specific fertilizer
formulae. Medium to long-term equilibrium prices of MAP will be closely linked
to acid prices but with a likely mark-up because of lower investment costs
involved in transport and handling. Late 1973 prices are in the region of
US$120-150 FOB Gulf Coast and Europe (on direct or DAP equivalent basis).  Due
to sharp increases in rock, ammonia and acid prices, early 19Th prices reached
US$160-200 FOB plants. It is expected that trend prices will stabilize at
about US$150-180 in the mid to late 1970s, FOB US and European plants.
Industrial Projects Department
February 15, 1974



ANNEX 4-4
MOROCCO                                 Tabl.e 1
lUAROC-PHOSPHORE PROJECT
PHOSPHORIC ACID: WORLD SUPPLY Ah-D DEMAND ESTIMATES
BY SELECTED REGIONSA/
(in Million tons of P205)
Actual                Pro;ected
1970    1972       1975    1977    19T0
North America
Demand for phosphate fertilizers              4.7      5.0        5.6      6.1     6.8
Percentage utilizing phosphoric acid            90      92         95       95      95
Demand for phosphoric acid for fertilizers   4.2       4.6        5.3      5.8     6.5
Capacity of phosphoric acid plants            6.0      6.3        8.5      9.0     9.0
Capacity utilization                           85       90         90       90      90
Supply of phosphoric acid                     5.1      5.7        7.7      8.1     8.1
Surplus (Deficit) of acid                      1.4     1.1        2.4      2.3     1.6
Latin Amer:Lca
Demand for phosphate fertilizers              1.0      1.3        1.7      2.0     2.7
Percentage utilizing phosphoric acid            45      53         65       67      70
Demand for phosphoric acid for fertilizers   0.5       0.7        1.1      1.3     1.9
Capacity of phosphoric acid plants            0.7      0.7        0.9      1.1     1.2
Capacity utilization                            50      50         50       50      50
Supply of phosphoric acid                     0.3      0.3        0.4      0.6     o.6
Surplus (Deficit) of acid                     (0.2)   (0.4)      (0.7)   (0.7)   (1.3)
West Europe
Demand for phosphate fertilizers              4.3      4.5        4.9      5.2     5.6
Percentage utilizing phosphoric acid            42      46         50       54      60
Demand for phosphoric acid for fertilizers   1.8       2.1        2.4      2.8     3-4
Capacity of phosphoric acid plants             2.5     2.6        3.0      3.0     3.0
Capacity utilization                           90       90         90       90      90
Supply of phosphoric acid                      2.2     2.3        2.7      2.7     2.7
Surplus (Deficit) of acid                     0.4      0.2        0.3    (0.1)   (0.7)
South Eurcpe
Demand for phosphate fertilizers               1.4     1.5        1.8      2.0     2.5
Percentage utilizing phosphoric acid            45      53         65       67      70
Demand for phosphoric acid for fertilizers   o.6       0.8        1 .2     1.3     1.8
Capacity of phosphoric acid plants            1.0      1.2        1.6      1.6     1.6
Capacity utilization                           70       70         70       70      70
Supply of phosphoric acid                      0.7     0.9        1.1      1.1     1.1
Surplus (Deficit) of acid                     0.1      0.1        (0.1)   (0.2)   (0.7)
East Europe and USSR
Demand for phosphate fertilizers               5.1     5.8        7.3      8.5    10.7
Percentage utilizing phosphoric acid            21      25         31       34      40
Demand for phosphoric acid for fertilizers   1 .1      1 .5        2.3     2.9     4.3
Capacity of phosphoric acid plants            1.3      1.9        2.8      2.8     2.8
Capacity utilization                           6C       60         60       60      60
Supply of phosphoric acid                     0.8      1.1        1.7      1.7     1.7
Surplus (Deficit) of acid                     (0.3)   (0.3)       (o.6)   (1.2)   (2.6)
Africa
Demand for phosphate fertilizers               o.6     0.8        1.1      1.4     1.9
Percentage utilizing phosphoric acid            45      53         65       67      70
Demand for phosphoric acid for fertilizers   0.3       0.4        0.7      0.9     1.3
Capacity of phosphoric acid plants            0.4      o.6        1.0      1.2     1.2
Capacity utilization                           80       80         80       80      80
Supply of phosphoric acid                     0.4      0.4        0.8      1.0     1.0
Surplus (Deficit) of acid                     0.1      0.0        0.1      0.1    (0.3)
Non-Communmist Asia (including Japan)
Deamand for phosphate fertilizers             1.7      2.1        2.7      3.2     4.3
Percentage utilizing phosphoric acid            45      53         65       67      70
Demand for phosphoric acid for fertilizers   0.8       1.1        1.8      2.1     3.0
Capacity of phosphoric acid plants            1.4    1i6          1.7      2.2     2.2
Capacity utilization                           60       60         60       6C      60
Supply of phosphoric acid                     0.8      1.0        1.0      1.3     1.3
Surplus (Deficit) of acid                     0.0    (0.1)        (0.7)   (0-8)   (1-7)
/ Discrepancies in totals due to roundings
a - .. 9-;+; h .Riilf'r Cornoration. ISHA and Bank Estimates.



iViOROCCO
ivAROC-PHOSPHORE PROJECT
PHOSPHORIC ACID: WORLD SUPPLY ANiD DEMAND ESTMIATESJ1 BY REGIONS
(in million tons P205)
1972                        1975                         1977                        1980
Supply  Demand  Surplus    Supply  Demand  Surplus    Supply  Demand  Surplus    Supply  Demand   Gap
(Deficit)                   (Deficit)                    (Deficit)
North America        5.7     41.6      1.1         7.7     5.3      2.4       6.1       5.8      2.3       8.1       6.5      1.6
Latin America        3.3      J.7    (O.1 )        o.4     1.1    (0.7)       0.6       1.3    (0-7)       0.6       1.9    (1-3)
West Europe          2.3       2.1     0.2         2.7     2.4      D.3       2.7       2.8    (0.1)       2.7       3.4    (0-7)
South Europe                  0.8      0.1         1.1     1.2    (0-1)       1.1       1.3    (0.2)       1.1       1.8    (0-7)
East Europe & USSz  1.1       1.5    (0.3)         1.7     2.3    (0.6)       1.7       2.9    (1.2)       1.7       4.3    (2.6)
Africa2/             O.    4       u.0.0           0.8     0.7      0.1       1.0       0.9      0.1       1.0       1.3    (0.3)
bNon-Communist Asia  1.0)     1.1    (0.1)         1.0     1.8    (0-7)       1.3       2.1    (0.8)       1.3       3.0    (1.7)
TOTAL:           11.7     11.1      U.6       15.5    14.7       0.7      16.4      17.3    (0.9)      16.5      22.2    (5-7)
j   The gap can be in the form, of ohosphoric acid or of derivatives of phosphoric acid which therefore
represents a gap in manufactured acid itself.  Discrepancies in totals are due to roundings.
2/  North Africa exports acid to Europe and the rest of Africa imports acid.  The net sum of the two
is not a meaningful trade figure for this region.
j Excluding Communist Asia ana Australasia.
Industrial Projects Department
November 30, 1973



MAROC-PHOSPHORM PROJECT
Large Non-Integrated Sales Oriented Phosphoric Acid Units
(in 000 tons of P205)
Country          Company           Location           Year on       Capacity          Export Potential           Remarks
stream    Actual  Forecast    19         195/76
(1975-76)
Mexico           FFM               Coatzacoalcos       1969        335      335        240        240       no expansion fore-
seen
Iran             Shahpur Chem.    Bandar Shahpur       1971        16o      320         95         95
Israel           Arad  Chem.       Arad                1971        165      165         20       0/80      (plant might be
closed because of
difficulties
Tunisia          ICM               Gab6s               1972       i15       220        110        220      (Expansion under
(construction
Algeria          Sonatrach         Annaba              1972        165       165        -          30       second unit delayed
Lebanon          Lebanon Chem.    Beyrouth             1970         ?         ?         30         30
Spain            Fosforico         Huelva              1972        200      300        100        200       part as MAP
Belgium          Rupel             Velvoorde           1970        150      150        120        120
Netherlands    (Windmill           Vlaardiihgen        1970        130       130        30         30
(UMF              Pernis               1969        150      150         60         60
Sweden           Boliden           Halsinborg          1973        100       100        80         80
US              (Texas Gulf          -                 -            -        170        -          -
ITC               Lakeland            197 7        -       540         -         180
Agrico                                19h74        -       400         -          -
Conserv           Nichols             1974         -       200         -         200      mostly as M4AP
Freeport Chem.   Convent              1973        135      135         -          -
Farmland          Lakeland            1973        210      210         -          -
Morocco          Maroc-Phosphore  Safi                 1975         -        330         -        260
France          (APC               Rouen               1975         -        200         -         80
(Cofaz             Le Havre            1975         -       200         -          60
TOTAL:                                                                              885    1885/1965
Industrial Projects Department                                                                                          6 3
November 30, 1(.73
H (D
CD X






rmnex 5-1
page 1
MOROCCO
MAROC-PHOSPHORE PROJECT
TRANSPORT OF PHOSPHORIC ACID
1.        A new company Marphocean--with an initial share capital of DH 4
million--has been formed to purchase and operate three specialized ships for the
transport of acid from Safi to the delivery points. Marphocean is owned by the
Moroccan national shipping company COMANAVki (45%); by OCP (25%); and by the
French ship engineering firm Gazocean (30%). Marphocean will enter into a long
term time chartetr agreement with the Maroc-Phosphore Company for the leasing of
the ships and into an operations contract with COMANAV for their management and
current operations. A protocol has been signed between the three parties in May
1973. It defines the activities of the company, the respective role of the three
parties and the basis for the calculation of the charter rates.
2.        COMANILV, originally the Compagnie Franco-Cherifienne de Navigation
created ir 1i' 7'1,, is 96% State-owned.  Its fleet consists of 11 ships and it has
a leading role i'n ship chartering and sea transport for Moroccan goods. It
employs about 700 people. Gazocean is one of the world's leading firms in the
shipping of liquefied or pressurized gasses and specialty chemicals. Its subsi-
diary Technigaz has long experience in ship engineering particularly for liquefied
natural gas (LNG) and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG).
3.        OCP and Gazocean have planned to purchase three new specialized self-
unloading ocean-going ships: two 10,500 and one 20,000 dwt capacity ships.
The ships will be equipped with rubber-lined tanks. Offers were received, late
1973, from 6 shipyards] for the construction of the two 10,500 dwt ships. A
contract has been awarded, late December 1973, to Ateliers et Chantiers du Havre
(ACH) for the construction of the first 10,500 dwt ship. 3  second cont:ract to
construct an identical ship has also been awarded to ACH.2  The contractual con-
struction period is 24 months from the date of contract signature to the date of
ship delivery; the first two ships are, therefore, expected to be operational in
January and March 1976 respectively. Their availability cannot suffer any delays
and ship construction is likely to mark the critical path for the overall project.
Tender documents for the third 20,000 dwt ship have been issued and offers are
expected by April 1974. The ship is expected to be delivered in December 1976.
The preparation of tender documents, the evaluation of bids and the supervision
of ships' construction by Gazocean is part of a signed Technical Assistance
contract between Gazocean and Marphocean.
4.        A fiim financing plan for the Marphocean company has not yet been
finalized. A 75/25 debt/equity ratio and loan financing from the French Govern-
ment were originally contemplated.  A new financing plan has, however, been
1/  Compagnie Marocaine de Navigation.
j Six shipyards were prequalified after consultation of 18 shipyards.
Among the 6 shipyards, 3 were from France (Ateliers et Chantiers du Havre,
Dubigeon Normandie, Constructions Navales et Industrielles de la ME^diter-
rannee), 1 from UK (Robb Caledon), 1 from Germany (Oramstein und Copel)
and 1 from Finland (Nystats Varve).
/  In March 1974.



Annex 5-1
page 2
conceived following difficulties in obtaining loan financing from France: the
local development bank BNDE would provide most of the debt financing with an
OCP back up for advance payments and guarantee of project completion.
5.        Gazocean has an obligation--stipulated in the protocol--to charter
or arrange for shipping facilities should the ship construction program be
delayed. However, the present world fleet of specialized ships for phosphoric
acid transport consist only of a limited number of small ships or of ships that
belong to OCPss compe itors and will most likely not be available for shipping
Maroc-Phosphore acidY.  Gazocean and MP have, therefore, studied all possible
solutions to ensure a timely disposal of acid production and an adequate
execution of plant acceptance tests during the first months of operations, in-
cluding increasing the MAP production and selling acid to Maroc-Chimie. Pre-
liminary results indicate that: it is necessary to produce and sell the maximum
quantities of MAP; the first ship should be available (as scheduled) in January
1976; acid sales should probably be concentrated, during the first 6 months of
operations, on delivery zones for which the ship rotations are below 10 days;
the second ship should be available (as scheduled) no later than March 1976; the
third ship should be commissioned as early as possible.
6.        Table 1 shows the estimated ship  investment  costs  and
time charter raets for the three ships. On the basis of the daily charter rate and
of the estimated rotation time,the following average freight rates have been
calculated for selected routes.
Estimated Average Freight Rates
Delivery Point      Rotation Time           Freight Cost (in US$ per ton of P205)
(days)                   10,500 dwt      20,000 dwt
Szczecin                 13.5                      23.1              19.0
Rouen                    11.0                      17.4              15.5
Santos                    26.0                     43.0              36.7
Rotterdam                11.5                      19.0              16.i
7.        Table 2  shows a list of available acid terminals in the world.  For the
purpose of the project, CIECH is building a terminal of a capacity of 20,000 tons
of solution at Szczecin for which Gazocean and MP have provided necessary specifi-
cations and information. Fertisul and Luchsinger terminals in Santos and Rio Grande
do Sul will be used to the extent possible but some extension might be needed.
BASF is planning to use the existing FFM terminal in Rotterdam; if satisfactory
rental arrangements cannot be made, BASF will build its own terminal at Antwerp. J
The small French buyers are planning to use the APC terminal in Rouen. IFFCO
alreacdy possesses a terminal at Kandla. Swap trading arrangements are also being
discussed between OCP/MP and several other suppliers (notably APC, Bandar Shahpur
Chemical) to save on transport and terminalling costs.
1/ FF1 possesses 4 ships (3 ships with stainless steel-lined tanks of a capacity
of about 24,000 dwt and 1 ship with rubber-lined tanks with a capacity of
38,000 dwt). ICM possesses 1 small ship (4,500 dwt) and has ordered a larger
one (10,500 dwi).
j OCP might also consider setting up a terminal in Rotterdam if sales
through Rotterdam increase
Industrial Projects Department
April 15, 1974



Annex 5-.
Table 1
MOROCCO
MAROC-PHOSPHORE PROJECT
SHIP INVESTMENT COSTS AND CHARTER RATES
(in 000 US$)
10,500 dwt
Investments
Engineering                                          160
Lump sum price                                   11,300
Interest during construction                         500
Pre-operating expenses                              300
Total:                                        12,260
Charter Rate
Financial charges (10.96%)2/                      1,340
Crew                                                200
Insurance and Maintenance (5%)                      61o
Overbeads                                            60
Ti^ne-charter (per year)i                     2,210
Time-charter (per day)                          6.5
Time-charter per ton per day in US$             0.62
Various operating charges.2/                    0.27
Total freight rate in US$ per ton per day   0.89
a/ Based on BNDE financial plan
g/ Ship operating 340 days per year
j  Average fuel and port charges per day based on planned rotations.
Industrial Projects Department
April 15, 1974



Annex 5-l,
Table 2
MOROCCO
MAROC-PHOSPHORE PROJECT
LIST OF PHOSPHORIC ACID TE&MINAIS
Location
Export Terminals                 Terminal Owner      Number of Tanks      Total Capacity( Ms
USA            Tampa             GATX                        3                13, 500
Mexico         Coatzacoalcos    FFM                          4                42,500
Tunisia        Gabes             ICM                         2                11,000
Iran           Bandar Shahpur   SHAHPIJR Chemical           3                 25,500
Israel         Ashdod           ARAD Chemical                2                10,0U0
Distribution Terminals and Consumers Tanks
USA            New Orleans       J. T. Chemical                               30,000
Colombia       Cartagena        Abocol
Barranquilla     Monomeros                   1                  4,000
Brazil         Rio Grande        Fertisul                    2                18,000
Santos           Tankol                     1 L/                9,000
Australia      Brisbane                                      3                27,000
India         M4adras                                        3                30,000
Kandla           IFFCO                       -                   -
Goa              Zuari                       1                 10,000
Turkey         Iskenderun        Gubre Fabrikalari                             1,800
France         Port la Nouvelle ICM and others               1                 6,800
La Pallice       COFAZ                       4                  6,ooo
Donges           Gardiloire                  2                  8,000
Netherlands    Rotterdam         F VPakhoed                  3                27,000
BoliderVWindmill           1                 1 5,000
UK             Immingham        ACC/Immingham Storage       1                 12,000
i pillow tanks
Industrial Projects Department
April 15, 1974



ANNX 6-1
Page! 1
MOROCCO
MAROC-PHOSPHORE PROJECT
BIDDING PROCEDURE AND SELECTION OF THE CONSORTIUM
A. Pre-qualLfication Procedure
1.       In July 1971, a Pre-qualification advertisement was placed in
technical journals and newspapers in a sufficient number of coun-tries to
assure a world-wide distribution. The advertisement briefly described the
facilities--on the basis of a 1000 TPD P205 capacity with a possible expansion
to the full 1500 TPD P205  project capacity-- to be constructed and invited
firms interested in forming consortia of contractors to execute the project
to apply to 0CP for Pre-qualification Conditions. Over 20 responses were
received.
2.       Copies of Pre-qualification Conditicns dated Auguist 1, 1971 were
sent to all who had applied. This document described in considerable detail
thte facilities to be installed, products to be made, raw materials available
E3rd basic conditions surrounding the work. The document also listed the
criteria that would be used in evaluating the responses. The Pre-Qualification
Conditions had previously been discussed with and had concurrence of the Bank.
A total of 14 responses was received before the deadline of October 15, 1972,
of which 13 were considered responsive. The firms that responded and the
structure of the consortia constituted is shown in Table 1.
3.       Evaluation of the responses was made in accordance with criteria
prepared by OP with the assistance of Topsoe and transmitted to the bidders
before submission of bids. The Bank reviewed and had no objection to, the
short list---prepared by OCP and Topsoe-- of five pre-qualified consortia
to be invited to bid on the execution of the project, but made three tech-
nical reservations. The short list proposed by OCP and agreed by the Bank
is shown below in alphabetical order.
Short List of Consortia to be Invited tc Submit Priced Proposals
Consortium               Sulfuric Acid       Phosphoric Acid       MAP
Leader (Contractor)              Process              Process         Process
Badger Co. (U.S.)               Monsanto            Gulf Design        Swift
Mitsui (Japan)                  Monsanto            Prayon             Sai
Spie-Batignolles (France)       Monsanto            Dorr-Oliver        Fisons
Sybetra (Belgium)               Polimex             Prayon             Fisons
Uhde (Germany)                  Polimex             Nissan             Fisons
4.       Technical reservations were made by the Bank covering:  the Gulf
Design phoQshoric acid process offered by Badger;  the Polimex sulfuric acid
process offered by Sybetra and Uhde and the qualifications of the Polimex-
Cekop firm from Poland, and the Nissan phosphoric acid process offered by



ANNEX 6-1
Page 2
Uhde. A Bank mission, therefore, visited plants employing these processes
and sulfuric acid units constructed by Polimex.
a.    The Gulf Design process was operating on a large scale for the first
time at a plant in Florida, but was experiencing some equipment difficulties.
OCP and the Bank agreed that this process would be finally considered if these
difficulties were overcome and if capacity operation and suitable efficiencies
would have been attained by the time bids were to be evaluated.
b.    The Polimex process had been built in a number of large plants in
Eastern Europe based mainly on pyrite as a raw material and recently in a 1,000
TPD plant in the Federal Republic of Germany based on sulfur as a raw material.l/
After observation of the operation and construction of Polimex plants and visit to
Polimex headquarters in Poland, it appeared that the risk of using this process
was acceptable and Polimex's qualifications adequate.
c.    The Nissan process had been employed in a number of plants up to 300
TPD P205 capacity but never in a plant of 500 TPD as required in this project.
However, several designs for 500 TPD plants had been prepared and, in view of
previous success in scaling up small plants to larger units, the risk involved
in using thi; process appeared acceptable.
In view of the above, and after review of qualifications of all other consortia
members, the Bank accepted the inclusion of the Badger, Sybetra and Uhde propo-
sals in the short list of consortia to be invited to submit bids. However,
Badger voluntarily withdrew from competition-- before evaluation of technical
bids.
2/
B. Invitations to Bid-
5.       As announced in the Pre-qualification Conditions, bids were invited
and evaluated in three phases:
a.    Tender documents were issued to the contractors of the five pre-qualified
consortia on February 9, 1972 with an invitation to submit within 90 days an
unpriced technical proposal for executing the project, with an estimate of time
required to execute the project, and a proposed formula to cover costs escala-
tion or de-escalation.
b.    The technical proposals received were studied by OCP and Topsoe and
a list of auestions were drawn up for each proposal asking for clarifications
or adjustments to make all proposals as nearly comparable as possible, but
giving due regard to the differences in the several processes proposed.
Representatives of each contractor (consortium leader) were invited to Rabat
on successive days for a one-day discussion of the adjusted technical offers.
c.    After all technical offers had been adjusted, priced proposals were
invited.
1/ Polimex currently has about 15 plants under construction and, on the basis
of the performance of this 1,000 TPD unit the owner from Wkst Germany has
ordered a second unit of the same size and same design.
2/ For a capacity of 1,000 TPD P205 with potential expansion to the full
1500 TPD P205 project capacity.



Annex 6-1
page 3
6.        Each step of the bidding procedure was reviewed in advance by the
Bank, including: the text of the advertisement, the list of publications, the
pre-qualification conditions, the tender documents, the questions for harmon-
ization of technical offers and the invitation for priced offers. Technical
proposal before and after harmonization and priced offers were also reviewed
by the Bank. Finally, the Bank is satisfied that bidding procedures actually
followed conformed to Bank international competitive bidding procedures as
conceived for and adapted to the present special case of a lump sum contracL.
C.   Evaluation of Bids
7.        Topsoe and OCP devised a scoring system acceptable to the Hank
according to which the lump sum price was adjusted for the following factors:
(i) the proposed payment schedule; (ii) the guaranteed completion date ann the
guaranteed length of the start-up period; (iii) the proportion of the tctal
price to be paid in Dirhams; and (iv) the possibility of a delay in the comple-
tion due to possible shortcomings in the bidders' professional capabilities anai
experience. Operating costs were based on the guaranteed consumption figures
and the maintenance costs were checked and agreed upon during the technical
discussions prior to the submission of priced offers. Thus, no judgement factor6
-were required for these figures. The unit prices for labor, utilities, raw
materials, and chemicals specified in the tender documents were used in calcula-
ting operating costs.
8.        In the tender documents, penalties had been set for shortcomings in
all of the performance criteria and these penalties had been accepted by all
bidders.  It was therefore possible to arrive at monetary values by applying
attained score to the previously stated penalty. Prices were placed on the
same currency basis by converting them all into Dirhams at exchange rates
announced in the call for priced offers.
9.        The stream of expenses including the phased lump sum cost thus
adjusted and the annual operating costs during the first 12 years of operation
was discounted to the date of start-up, supposed to take place 3 months after
the guaranteed completion date (mechanical reception). The cumulative dis-
counted valuie of this stream gave the ranking of the bids in monetary tenns.
The consortium headed by Uhde offered the lowest evaluated price. OCP and
TUhde completed negotiations (for facilities corresponding to a capacity of
1000 TPD P205) of a first plant contract in June 1973. See Annex 6-2.
D. The Expansion to the Full 1000 TPD Pp05 Project Capacity
10.      Following favorable market developments and to take advantage of an
unchanged priced offer based on the same processes and engineering, OCP decided
(early 1974) to contract immediately the additional facilities and offsites
necessary to reach the full 1500 TPD P205 project capacity (including two lines
of MAP). COP completed negotiations (April 1974) with Uhde of a seccnd plant
contract to carry out these additional facilities. See Annex 6-2.
Industrial Pr jects Department
April 30, 197h






ANhEX 6-1
Table 1
MAROC PHOSPHORE PROJECT
CONSORTIA SUB4ITTING QUALIFICATIOW PROPOSALS
SULFURIC ACID                 PHOSPHORIC ACID                     MAP
CONSORTIUM LEADER
(Alphabetical)         Process       Engineering       Process     Engineering       Process     Engineering
1. Badger                   Monsanto      Gulf Design    Gulf Design   Gulf Design        Swift        Gulf Design
2.  Ensa                     Monsanto     Sim-Chem        Prayon         Coppee-Rust      Fisons       Foster Wheeler
Polimex      Polimex         Kellogg-Lopker  Kellogg         Fisons       Foster Wheeler
Chemiebau    Salzgitter      Dorr-Oliver   Dorr Oliver       Fisons       Foster Wheeler
3. Gexa                      Polimex      Polimex         Dorr Oliver   SNAM/Auxini       Swift        Dorr Oliver/Snam Aux.
Monsanto     DeNora          Dorr Oliver   SNAM/Auxini       Fisons       Power Gas
4. Hoechst-Uhde              Stauffer     Hoechst-Uhde   Nissan         Uhde              Swift        Hoechst-Uhide
5.  Italconsult              Chemico      Siry Chamon    Prayon          Siry Chamon      Fisons       F. Wheeler/Siry Ch
6. Mannesmann                Dorr Oliver  Dorr Oliver    Dorr Oliver   Dorr Oliver        Swift        Dorr Oliver
Polimex      Polimex         Dorr Oliver   Dorr Oliver       Fisons       Lurgi
7. Mitsubishi                Lurgi        Mitsubishi      Fisons         Lurgi/Mitsubishi Fisons       Lurgi
Lurgi        Mitsubishi      Dorr Oliver   Mitsubishi        Fisons       Lurgi
8. Mitsui                   Monsanto      Mitsui          Prayon        Mitsui            Swift/UI   Kurimoto
9.  Societe Gen. DI
Eaterprises            Monsanto      Heurty          Prayon         Speichim/Wellian   Fisons    Power Gas
Power Gas
10. Spie-Batignolles         Monsanto       o              Dorr Oliver   Struthers Wells    Fisons    Power Gas
&tfIgnolles
Monsanto     9ie-            Struthers      Struthers Wells    Fisons    Power Gas
Batignolles    Wells
11.  Sybetra                 Polimex      Polimex          Prayon         Coppee-Rust       Fisons      Lurgi
12. Thyssen                  Kuhlmann/                     Pechiney/                                    Power Gas/
Krebs        Krebs            St. Gobain    Krebs              Fisons      Krebs
13. Uhde/Siemens             Polimex      Polimex          Nissan         Uhde              Fisons      Lurgi
Stauffer     Hoechst/Uhde    Nissan         Uhde               Fisons      Lurgi
14. Fertilizer Corp. of
India                       None Specified                 None Specified                   None Specified
Industrial Projects Department
November 15, 1973






ANNEX 6-2
Page 1
MOROCCO
MAROC-PHOSPHORE PROJECT
-E CONSORIIUM ORGANIZATION AND THE PLANT CONSTRUCTION CONTRACT
Crganization of the Consortium
1.       The rmembers of the consor-tium that has been awarded the plant construc-
t"on contracts are all well known and capable European firms.
a.   Friedrich Uhde GmbH (Uhde) from Germany, the consortium leader, is a
member of the Farbewerke-Hoechst group, and has long experience in the design
and construction of ammonia, nitric acid, phosphoric acid, urea and complex
.rertilizer plants. Uhde will coordinate the overall engineering and the civil
works, engineer and build the phosphoric acid unit, construct the MAP plant,
and design arid construct the offsites and auxiliaries.
b.   Siemens A.G. (Siernens) from Germany is one of the largest electrical
equipment comqanies in the world.  Siemens will perform the electrical work;
it has collaborated with Uhde many times in supplying the electrical facili-
ties for chemical plants, including fertilizer plants.
c.   Polimex-Cekop (Polimex) from Poland, widely known in Eastern Europe,
is engaged in the building materials, chemicals, food, sugar and wood indus-
tries and has built several sulfuric acid plants of both large and small
capacity in East and West Europe. Polimex will provide the sulfuric acid
process and engineer and build the sulfuric acid unit.
d.   Lurgi Gesellschaft fur Chemie und Huttenwesen GmbH (Lurgi) from
Germany has a world-wide reputation for building metallurgical, chemical and
fertilizer plants, and was one of the contractors for the existing Maroc-Chimnie
plant. Lurgi will engineer and procure the MAP unit to be built by Uhde.
e.   Nissan from Japan will provide the hemihydrate phosphoric acid process
and Fisons from the U.K. the MAP process.
B. The Plant Contracts and the Construction Schedules
2.       The tender documents contained a draft contract spelling out in
considerable detail the main technical and financial terms and, -therefore,
provided a good basis for preparation of the final plant contract. CCP and
Uhde completed negotiations in June 1973 of the first plant contract (corres-
ponding to a capacity of 1000 TPD of P2O5 and including two sulfuric acid,
two phosphoric acid and one MAP trains and related offsites) and this contract
was executed and made effective on June 29, 1973. This contract guarantees,
subject to penalty/bonus clauses discussed below, that mechanical completion
will occur 27 months after the effective date of the contract) i.e., on October 1,
1975. Provisional acceptance will take place within a period of 6 months after



ANNEX 6-2
Page 2
mechanical eompletion and final acceptance 12 months later (with not less
than 6 months after provisional acceptance) if there are no hidden defects
or unsuitable eouipment. OCP and Uhde completed negotiations (April 1974)
on a second plant construction contract to carry out the needed additional
facilities to reach the full 1500 TPD P205 project capacity; these facili-
ties inclade a third sulfuric and a third phosphoric acid trains, a second
MAP train and related offsites. The additional trains are identical to those
already contracted. This second contract guarantees mechanical completion of
the additional facilities 10 months (i.e., on August 1, 1976) after mechanical
completion of the facilities included in the first contract.
3.       The contracts include lump sum prices with payments in DH (local
costs), in clearing dollars for the Polimex part as per the terms of a sub-
contract between Uhde and Polimex, and in DM for the remaining balance of
foreign exchange. The lump sum prices for the sulfuric acid, phosphoric acid
and MAP trains are identical in the first and second contracts. The lump sum
prices for the offsites were established on the same terms and only vary pro rata.
Agreed payment schedules in the three currencies are also included in the con-
tracts and payments are specified at intervals and in amounts proportional to
expected cash outlays and work done. The Polimex lump sum prices are firm for
the duration of project execution. The DH and DM portions will be adjusted
up or down over time according to an agreed formula included in and identical
for both contracts and to be applied 14 months after signature of the contracts
for the DM portion and 18 months after such signature for the DH portion.
C. Acceptance Tests
4.       After the facilities will have been declared mechanically complete by
Uhde and accepted as such (mechanical completions are expected to be October
1975 for the first two trains and August 1976 for the third train), they will
be placed in operation and there will be two series of acceptance tests corres-
ponding to provisions in the first and second contracts. After initial adjust-
ments and after the units have operated for at least a month at not less than
70% of guaranteed capacity, yielding products which meet all quality specifica-
tions, a full test run may begin. The test runs will last 168 consecutive
hours (7 full days), during which time the facilities, and each of them, are
to produce products meeting all quality specifications and at the guaranteed
rate of production while not exceeding guaranteed consumption of raw materials,
utilities and supplies. If the test runs successfully meet all guarantees, MP
will issue to Uhde certificates of provisional acceptance. Final acceptance
-- in each case-- will be given 12 months later if no hidden defects develop
and if no equipment is found unsuitable because of excessive corrosion or
excessive repairs with not less than 6 months after provisional acceptances.
D.  Contractor's Obligations and Oaarantees
If any of the facilities fail to meet capacity or quality guarantees,
Uhde has unlimited liability to correct the defects. If any hidden defects
develop or if any eauipment is found unsuitable, Uhde likewise has unlimited
liability to correct this defect and a new 12-month period of liability commences



ANNEX 6-2
Page 3
for any item replaced or repaired. For other shortcomings, such as for raw
materials and utilities consumption, various penalties are assessed unless
the shortfall exceeds a certain specified maximum, in which case Uhde aga-n
has unlimited liability to make a satisfactory correction. Additionally, there
are penalties for failure to meet the completion dates and start-up and dura-
tion of test runs; penalties cannot exceed 6% of the lump sum price. Total
penalties for failure to meet raw materials, utilities consumption and
delivery dates cannot exceed 10% of the lump sum price. When all guarantees
have been met or have been satisfied by the penalties provided, and all parts
of the plant have been in successful operation for 12 months, MP will then
issue a certificate of final acceptance and Uhde is freed of further liability.
6.       Additionally, the Technical Advisor (Topsoe) is also penalized--
as per the terms of the Technical Advisor contract with OCP-- for (i) failure
of products to meet specifications; (ii) failure of facilities to meet capacity
guarantees; cr (iii) for excessive consumption of raw materials or utilities.
These penalties may amount to 20% of Topsoe's fees or roughly $200,000. Hence,
Topsoe has considerable incentive to monitor the project execution carefully.
E. Likely Ef'fects of Guarantees
7.       The result of the foregoing obligations is that the facilities will
probably be somewhat overdesigned as no contractor could afford the maximum
penalties and liabilities provided in the contract.  IWhile this may have
resulted in somewhat higher investment costs, it is likely that the IN? project
will benefit from some built-in excess capacity on which the prof'it margin will
quickly pay'off the added cost.
Industrial Projects Department
April 30, 19'74






Annex 6-3
page 1I
MOXOCCO
I4AROC-PHOSPHORE PROJECT
INDUSTRIAL TESTS
1.        In agreement with the contract, Uhde was required to conduct a
commercial scale test with Youssoufia rock in a Nissan phosphoric acid process
plant of a size and sophistication similar' to the plant proposed for the pro-
ject. This test, utilizing some 20,000 tons of Youssoufia rock and extending
over a period of several weeks was conducted in the 300 TPD P205 plant of the
"Societe Chimique du iupel" at Sauvegarde, Belgium.  Based on a conservative
design and laboratory tests it had been predicted that this plant, which
normally uses a mixture of Khouribga and Florida rock, would achieve a capacity
of 260 TPD whaen operated on Youssoufia rock. Surprisingly, the plant consis-
tently produced over 300 TPD and reached a maximum of 337 TPD. The acid pro-
duced meets all quality specifications.
2.        Furthermore, the sludge obtained during the clarification step has
been recycled to the front end of the plant with no deleterious effect on
operations. This has eliminated an expensive sludge disposal system foreseen
as a probable necessity. The yield of finished 54% P205 solution was higher
than forecast and Uhde consequently has agreed to guarantee a higher efficiency
in the use cf rock, reducing predicted consumption by some 10,000 TPY of rock.
3.        Z,ie test was conducted by Uhde and was monitored by experienced
personnel fiom Topsoe and OCP. A quantity of the 54% acid produLced during the
test was shipped to Avonmouth, England, and was used in the manufacture of
MAP in a plant using the Fisons process. There also a satisfactory product was
manufactured. The Uhde report on the tests at the Rupel and Avonmouth olants
was reviewedi by OCP, Topsoe and the Bank.  There appears to be no doubt that
the Nissan and Fisons processes are acceptable.
Industrial Projects Department
November 1$, 1973






MOROCCO
MAROC PHOSPHORE PROJECT
TENTATIVE PROJECT SCHEDULE
1973                 1974                  1975                  1976
JF MIA MlJ J A S UIN u j F rMIA M' J J"A IOMfliFIAIIlIIIND JIIIIIlIISIOINID
PROJECT EXECUTION
CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS
CONTRACT SIGNATURE                              4
CONTRACT EFFECTIVENESS
INDUSTRIAL TESTS
PROJECT EXECUTION
ENGINEERINGXPCE
I     u-ATO  HROUEMENTr
INFRASTRUCTURE
B - Basic Specs, issued
T - Tender document issued
O - Ordering started
W - Work started
A - Completion date                                                   World Bank - 8137(2R)
REV 15CAPR1974O






MOROCCO
MAROC PHOSPHORE                                               ANNEx 6-5
PROVISIONAL ORGANIZATION                                            Page 1
FOR PROJECT EXECUTION
GOVERNMENT
OF MOROCCO
COMANAV                GAZOCEAN               GENERAL MGR.
M.K. LAMRANI
r   COMMERCIAL                                ADMINISTRATIVE          Pl_ANNING AND
MARPHOCEAN               MANAGER                                       AND FINANCIAL           DEVELOPMENT
D. COHEN                                       MANAGER                DMCLAGRIN
ICOOROINAT        IN                 TECH. SUP. & COORD.   |
PROJECT        TECHNICAL SUPPORT            TEAM OF ENGRS      Z
L       COORDINATION              _        Sr AHAMIERI      COORDINATION                    PROJHAECTS    |
MANAGER                            FOR PHOSACIDI   18
\   K  PROJECT  L__.PJ     INFRASTRUCTURE
O   _ _ _  _   TEAM                     r      ~~~~~~~~AGENCIES
'1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
TECH. ADVISER           TECH. ADVISER
HOME OFFICE              RESIDENT             +
TOPSOE A/S                TEAM
M. PEDERSEN              N.KLUDT
GEN. CONTRACTOR                                 GEN. CONTRACTOR
F. UHDE, GMBH                                    RESIDENT
HOME OFFICE                                      MANAGER
DR. DRILLER                                     DR, WITZEL
EECTRICAL      PHOS.ACID,MAP.        PIME
INSTALLATIONS       OFF-SITES       SULFURIC ACID
|       |   | ~~AUXILIARIES| |_J
World Bank-8497
RFV FFR 1974



ANNEX 6-5
Page 2
MOROCCO
MAROC PHOSPHORE
MAIN FUNCTIONS FOR PROJECT EXECUTION
I_______ _  PROJECT         1
MANAGER
PROJECT TEAM
REPRESENT MAROC
PHOSPHORE IN DEALINGS                           l
TECHNICAL ADVISER                      WITH CONSORTIUM AND                               CONSORTIUM
(TOPSOEI                           ALL OTHER EXTERNAL                                  LEADER
AGENCIES                                            IUHDE)
ASSIST PROJECT TEAM                        COORDINATE ACTIVITIES
AS FOLLOWS                                 OF CONSORTIUM WITH                         ACT AS ENGINEERING AND
*  PREPARE FEASI8ILITY                        ALL OTHER EXTERNAL                         CONSTRUCTION MANAGER
STUOY                                      AGENCIES                          IX       THRU. SUB-CONTRACTORS         T
*  DEVELOP DESIGN DATA                        ASSIST CONSORTIUM IN                   Z   ENGINEER NGCPRCE' DESIGN,    D F
DEALINGS WITH LOCAL,             ENGINEERING PROCUREMENT   < U U
*  PREPARE INVITATIONS FOR                    PROVINCIAL AND NATIONAL            F- T      AND CONSTRUCTION OFD
PRE-OUALIFICATION OF                       GOVERNMENT AGENCESENTIRE PROJECT.                                          D
CONSORTIA AND METHODS E                                                                                           a.X
OF EVALUATING RESPONSES                    SCRUTINIZE AND APPROVE                      t O     Y OUSSOUCT AN
ALL PLANS AND IDESIGNS            0        INDUSTRIAL TEST OF
*  EVALUATING RESPONSES           ~~REVIEWV AND APPROVE              <F4-'X   MODIFY DESIGN OF PROS.
*  PREPARE TENDER DOCU-                       ORDERS                               C IL    BY INDUSTRIAL TEST
MENTS FOR WORK OF                                                               -
CONSORTIUM AND METHOD                      REVIEW PROGRESS                       r   BE RESPONSIBL
OF EVALUATING PROPOSALS                    SCHEDULES AND REPORTS              D       COMPLETING ENTIRE
AND INITIATE CORRECTIVE               _   PROJECT ON TIME
*  EVALUATE PROPOSALS AND                     ACTION IF NEEDED
RECOMMEND AWARD                                                                       BE RESPONSIBLE FOR
REVIEW ALL PROGRESS                       TESTING. START-UP AND
e  ASSIST AS REQUESTED                        SCHEDULES AND REPORTS                      INITIAL OPERATION THRU
iN NEGOTIATING FINAL                       OF GOVERNMENT AGENCIES                    SUCCESSFUL ACCEPTANCE
CONTRACTCHREWIHIFATSS
*  MONITOR INDUSTRIAL TEST                    STRUCTURE WORK AND
OF YOUSSOUFIA ROCK                        INITIATE CORRECTIVE                         PROVIDE COMPETENT
ACTION IF NEEDED                          EXPATRIATE PERSONNEL
ASSIST IN SCRUTINIZING &                   PREPARE AND SUBMIT TO                      FOR THESE DUTIES
APPROVING CONTRACTORS'                     BANK MONTHLY PROGRESS                      ARRANGE FOR TRAINING
DESIGNS AND SPECIFICATIONS                 REPORT                                     MAROC PHOSPFORE
_                               __                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PERSONNEL FOR OPERATING
ASSIST IN MONITORING WORK                  MONITOR ALL PHASES OF                      PLANTS
OF CONTRACTORS AND MAKING                  THE PROJECT                                 .            _
APPROPRIATE RECOMMENDA                     GIVE OVERALL IMPETUS                       UNSUITABLE EQUIPMENT
TIONS                                      TO PROJECT                                 DURING A PERIOD OF
REVIEW CONSORTIUM'S                                                                  12 MONTHS AFTER START-UP
PROGRESS REPORTS AND
MAKE APPRORIATE RE-
MENDATIONS
ASSIST IN PREPARATION OF
MONTHLY PROGRESS RE-                    *  COMPLETED
PORT TO BANK
ASSIST PROJECT TEAM IN
COMMISSIONING AND
TESTING FACILITIES
ASSIST IN RECRUIIING
AND TRAINING STAFF
FOR OPERATING PLANT
ASSIST PROJECT TEAM
IN ALL OTHER TECHNICAL
ASPECTS OF ITS WORK
World Bank-8135(R)
REV 5 FEB 1974



MOROCCO
MAROC - PHOSPHORE
ORGANIZATION CHART FOR THE PROJECT TEAM
MANAGERNT                                                               TRANSPORTATION
PRODUCTION  AINTENANCE          NVESTIGATION           SECUITY              PSONLURCHASING                             FANILSALE'S AND
EPRMNDEEPARTMEN           T               DPARTMN                EATETDPRMENT           RTMENTMN DEPARTMENT                                            MARKETIN
DEPUTYDEPARTM
INVESTIGATIONS                 A~~~~DMINISTRATION                             IACL
MANAGER~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AAYI
FRESH WAPTE                       DIVISION l 1   AND ON ROL  l                   1      DIVISION    l                        1     Dn
ELECTRI~~~ ~ ~ ~~ AL AN
POVV R PLANT                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CCOUNTING
DIVISION                                                                                                    DIV N
PLANNIIONG OP l         STANDARDS               RECORDS
|PROJ. EXECUTION ||       DIVISION              DIVISION
U SECRETARIAT                STORES
-'-R'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
DIVISECRAIA
|   CIVIL  |                                                                                     Wor~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V.ld B-1, 8136  tC4
WORtKS                                                                                                                                                     C",
DIVISION 
SERTRA



MAROC PHOSPHORE
TENTATIVE ORGANIZATION CHART
FOR THE MP COMPANY
SA   A0   EhS AVNFIARE 1N
C  ISIS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MNG 
ACCOUNTANTS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                   AS3TAT 
I AEVIO               SUPE RVSO           SUPERSI_rSECERR      SUPERV YISOR   S2 IVIO                     SRlVRA                                  UFEI               SUECRVISORYSPRIOVRS
|~~~~~~~~ ~  LEGAL ~ L                             I TRINN  |                                                                                                                              TIAN
|~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~                                                                                                                                                                                                         SUPERVISOR         2  SUFERVISORI,R 
I NDUSTELATINS L    RND  EALT  I   PLLAPRRDTTRO  IFPLANTR POPT                ST
|uEDREMENR       r  DRE   PEN   VISO    SHIFT FOEENG4        SF  FOREME  A        STRIEE                 RFAE               AD                  EF  OEE             OE  OEE                 SLE FOEE  4        CHEMIST     S
7.,I, L1, T 'NG~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L TYISTS 2I
SHAOIFT   |-   | lER             4  TYINST MCI  |O          OPERATORSIS          ATTEDANT  -D                                                  PERODUCTRS    I    OPERATORS   1D   SPECREAVR    2             TCN
3 PLUS 25 CALLEDESUPT                                                                            IC           E                   A
MICRONICSAR           O ELECTRIC AURLRES  A                                                                                                  SVLF.R  CACD          PHOC  ACID &                                                      RECE- VEL   |
LAOR RS 12ATsA                                                                                                                               -11                 supI LOADINSo                                                                      SIG  HIO
1                                                          UILIIE        I       SI RS        I        HU EI SA  INSRUEN  - --F'       |  ]I     RCA]                                                            EF       II     SIPN                   LN
| SUPERVISO                     F I    UEVSR IISUPERVISOR          SUPERVISDR   I    UERVISOR                                  .  D1FSAN|      O IER                                               I'l |            IUFVSO      UPRF I IT SUPERVFO      HMS      EEVN        NETGTO 
| MECHANICAL DEPT |   ELECTRICAL EPT |    NSTRUMENT DEPT. |     TILITIES DEPT  ||      STOHES      | | .PLNT ENGR S       1 |   F-7IY DEPT      SUL, AC'.eT      PHDS ACIDDEPT|-              MAPDEPT.                                                      E  ETAL |rSPRETV   GAATIO
; PREEN  4  IN  A   PDREMEN       4 | |EHFfT FOREMEN 4||SHIFT FOREMEN A     STDREKEEPER I   |                             GLSMN4 1I- G1                                                                                     5 ,||SHFFOEN    IIHFTORMN 4|SIT D N4||CEITS S|| pLANT  IICHIPM  ENGRS   3 
| MCHAEN CS410   ||ELECTIRIC ANS 20 |           H      0    |OPERTRS        a |     TEDNSR  1IRL  D                                              ELPEF        IC  |    ER S            |b DOADER9       9       S  AMPLERS   4  ||S. IT FOEMEN S B  
60     1              28                   24 | |               2 |3                                                                                                                         14                 13                    52                    31
TOTAL STAID 40                                                                                                                                   REV  E AF O94 R|
RIV 150ApM 1974



TENTATIVE MANNING TABLE - A
T   ~~~~~~97                          941975
FUNCTION                    NO.      NAME        J    73      J O|M ID       J IF I M AIM                           D J F MIAI  J
MAROC PHOSPHORE PROJECT TEAM
PROJECT MANAGER                               S. M'HAMEDI      _
MECHANICAL COMPLETION
DEPUTY PROJECT MANAGER                   1   F. M. BOUAYED
RTART COMMERCIAL OPERATION--
DEPARTMENT HEADS                                                                                               FPROVISIONAL ACCEPTANCE-
PRODUCTION                              1
MAINTENANCE                             1
PLANT INVESTIGATION                     1 _
PERSONNEL                               1   BELMAACHI
PURCHASING                              1
FINANCIAL                               1
TRANSPORT. SALES. PORT & OFF-SITES      1
DIVISION CHIEFS
PHOS' ACID & MAP                        3                                                                                                * _.
SULFURIC ACID                           2                       ___                              _
PLANNING                                1                                                 __ 
z
MECHANICAL                             2                     _
ELECTRICAL & POWER                      2                                            - _
INSTRUMENT                              1                          _- =O
STANDARDS1 
STORES                                  1                                           -                          -   - _-
CIVIL WORKS                             1                                            - _         - _           -      -             - 
INVESTIGATIONS                          I
PROCESS                                 1                  ._
LABORATORY                              1                                                                      -      -         -       -
RECORDS                                 1m                                                                                   -      m~
ADMINISTRATION & TRAINING
LEGAL                                   1                                T-_ _ -                                   _-
MEDICAL - uSE SAFI HOSPITAL & DOCTOR
HEALTH AND WELFARE                                                                                                                    . 1......-
ACCOUNTING                              1 |                                                                                  =      =
SUB-TOTAL                               30
World Bank - 8162(2R)
REV 15 APR 1974



MOROCCO
MAROC PHOSPHORE
TENTATIVE MANNING TABLE - B
FUNCTION                  NAME       1973                   1974                         1975                      1976
I INITIALSJA 3   N         IiFrM    J]A[ S   N2 D J |FM|A|M| J J|A| SOND  J|  F|M|A|M| J  A s _
TECHNICAL ADVISER (TOPSOE AIS)                                                   MECHANICAL COMPLETiON-
HOME OFFICE                                                            .           START COMMERCIAL OPERATION-
PROVISIONAL ACCEPTANCE-
PROJECT MANAGER                    MP                                                      I         -       -     -
PROCESS ENGINEER                  GCRC       _                                          (MANUALS)
..   ..                 JL       _                         *                    t       .      , JL
RG            __                                       (MANUALS)
MECHANICAL ENGINEER               BKR
JDJ                                          MM= (SPARE PARTS)
MECHANICAL INSPECTOR              EJ
ELECTRICAL ENGINEER                JGS
INSTRUMENT ENGINEER               KF
FINANCIAL EXPERT
RESIDENT IN MOROCCO
RESIDENT MANAGER                  NK       _      __
CIVIL ENGINEER                    SA                 _        .
MECHANICAL ENGINEER               BKR        -      -             M  
PRAD                              .                            .       .
ELECTRICAL ENGINEER               PK                                                -
INSTRUMENT ENGINEER                                                  .
PROCESS ENGINEER                                                                                     -       -
PLANNING ENGINEER                 JNI
SECR ETAR I AT              _                          -
ARCH IV IST                                              _                                                 -
SECURITY EXPERT                                                      .
_____                           . __ _ _ _ _ .         __     , ~      .  _
World Bank - 8164(2R)
* on the basis of arrangements set up for the first two lines.                                                         REV 15 APR 1974
0'
-.



ANNEX 6-7
Page 3
MOROCCO
MAROC PHOSPHORE
TENTATIVE MANNING TABLE -C
1973                 1974                         1975                 1976
FUNCTION                   -   J |A S   ND                           N D i rI D |J| F | MA|M  J  |  J|A|    0 3 N D J I FIMA 1MAI  J A
MECHANICAL COMPLETION-
START COMMERCIAL OPERATION
SHIFT FOREMEN                                                                           |  PROVISIONAL ACCEPT NCE-*F
PHOS. ACID                       4                                  _     kk m1 _ _m "I                            ;
MAP                              4                                       'limit.l ==mXm  _-_m
SULFURIC ACID & SULFIJR          8                                       iUiaEI I  -     ___  __        -      -
SHIP & RECEIVE-PLANT             6                                                                 -               .
PORT               6
MECHANICAL                       4                                                        iium ii1111-
ELECTRiCAL & POWER               8                                                             Bill, 1i .   '
INSTRUMENT                      ,4                                                     _111 IIi 1I      __
LABORATORY                       5                                                        mIi mu.._ -            i
49
DAY FOREMEN
MECHANICAL                       4                                                       ii.,.  imui           -
ELECTRICAL & POWER               4                                                        liii limi        . 
STOREKEEPER                      1                                                                   y         -  -
SECURITY                         1                                                             - r
10
SKILLED LABOR & TECHNICIANS
PHOS. ACID                      16                                                       imuuuimmuim
MAP                              4                                                       umimmumiZ
SULFURIC ACID & SULrUR          12                                                      m1   [Ia 1uiII-4m. ._
MECHANICS                       40                                                                   .
ELECTRICAL & POWER              28                                                                             .-.-
INSTRUMENTATION                 20                                                        mmii mmmi.
STORE                           10                                                             _                    ,
DRAFTSMEN                        4                                                                           -     -
LABORATORY                       4                                                              11 i_
138                                                                  .0
UNSKILLED LABOR
PHOS. ACID                      23                                                                 -U_
MAP                              6                                                 _
SULFURIC ACID & SULFUR          30                                                                 _i
LABORATORY                       4                                                                   .               .-
MECHANICAL                      18 i
UTILITIES                        8                                                                   .
SHIP & RECEIVE-PLA\iT           15
PORT              25                                                                - _
SECURITY & FIRE                 12                                                             - __
141
SECRETARIAL & CLERICAL
PLANT MGR.                       1                         _.
FINANCIAL                        8
PERSONNEL                        8    t1)                  (2)             -              8)  _                       __.
PLANNING                         4                    -       _  |      |              |      _
TRANSPORT. & MKTG.               5               |                                              *.
PLANT ENGR.                      2 |                      |                        -      -    ._
PRODUCTION 6UPT.                 3                             -                -      I _
MAINTENANCE SUPT.                1  _
32
SUB-TOTAL                370
GRAND TOT'AL            400 |
TRAININIG IN MAROC CHIMIE
im  TRAINING IN AN OPERATING PLANT                                                                   WolId Bank - 8163(2R)
mm  FOLLOWI CONSTRUCTION                                                                              REV 15APR 1974
TOTAL WORK FORCE WILL BE ADJUSTED AS
FOUND NECESSARY AFTER PLANT IS IN OPERATION






ANNEX 7-1
Page 1
MOROCCO
MAROC-PHOSPHORE PROJECT
CAPITAL COST ESTIMATES (AT END 1973-PRICES)
(In million DH)                (In million JS$)          Percent
Local     Foreign!' Total       Local    ForeigYLI Total       of Total
igineering Services and Licenses                       -        26.3       26.3        -         6.0       6.0        3.9
jildings and Civil Works                              44.9        4 6      49.5      10.1        1.1       11.2       7.2
luipment, Machinery and Materials                      5.6      233:7 3   239.3       1.3       52.8      54.1       34.8
reight and Insurance                                   3.2       10.4       13.6      0.7        2.4        3.1       2.0
quipment Inspection                                    -          2.2        2.2       -         0.5        0.5       0.3
rection                                               32.8       15.3       48.1      7.4        3.4       10.8        6.9
onstruction Supervision                                3.5       12.7       16.2      0.8        2.9        3.7        2.4
ndustrial Tests                                        0.0        2.5        2.5      0.0        0.6        0.6        0.4
tart-Up Supervision                                    0.9        4.5        5.4      0.2        1.0        1.2        0.8
raining (Ohde Contract)                                0.3        1.5        1.8      0.1        0.3        0.4        0.3
TOTAL TURNKEY CONTRACI' 3/                          91.2      313.7     404.9      20.6       71.0-      91.6      59.0
pare Parts                                             -         21.1       21.1       -         4.8        4.8        3.1
axes and Registration Fee 4/                          17.5        -         17.5      4.0         -         4.0        2.6
nfrastructure 5/                                      16.5        -         16.5      3.7         -         3.7        2.4
re-Operational Expenses
General Project Superv:Lsion 6/                      10.2        1.7       11.9      2.3        0.4        2.7        1.7
Training  l/                                          4.6        1.1        5.7      1.0        0.3        1.3        0.8
Start-Up Expenses                                     1.8        2.7       4.5       0.4        0.6        1.0       0.6
SUB-TOTAL                                          141.8      340.3     482.1      32.0       77.1      109.1      70.2
,ontingencies
Price Escalation 7/                                  13.6       61.3       74.9      3.1       13.8       16.9       10.8
Miscellaneous _/                                      5.5       21.7       27.2       1.3       4.8        6.1        4.0
SUB-TOTAL                                          160.9      423.3     584.2      36.4       95.7      132.1      85.0
qorking Capital                                        72.9        -        72.9      16.5         -        16.5       10.6
TOTAL CAPITAL COST 91                              233.8      423.3      657.1     52.9       95.7      148.6       95.6
Interest During Construction                           11.2       19.1       30.3      2.5        4.4        6.9       4.4
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED 2.                        245.0      442.4     687.4      55.4      100.1      155.5      100.0
1/ Including the clearing dollars share of foreign exchange costs.
2/ FOB value.
3/ As signed with Uhde-Siemens-Polimex Consortium.
41 Taxes include Taxe Speciale, Taxe d'acconage and Droit de Timbre, on value of imported
equipment.  Registration fee amounts to 1.5% fo equity capital.
5/ Portion not included in Turnkey-Contract.
6/ Costs incurred by OCP and the Maroc-Phosphore Company during the project execution phase (including
the cost of the Technical Advisor's services).
7/ Based on the Contract Escalation Formula. The amount of escalation is calculated on the basis of price indexes for
components (manpower, steel, copper, an&cement) derived from those prevailing from October 1972 to March 1974 and
extended, as appropriate, over the period specified in the contracts.
8/ Provision for miscellaneous contingencies above Turnkey Contract cost of about 5% on local and 7% on
foreign exchange costs.
9/ Total capital cost and financing required at start-up at 1976 prices.
Industrial Projects Department
April 15, 1974



MOROCCO
MAROC-PHOSPHORE PROJECT
INTEREST DURING CONSTRUCTION I'
(in million DH)
I.B.R.D.              KfW                BNDE        Commitment
Interest            Interest           Interest         Fee            Total
Local    Foreign  Local    Foreign  Local    Foreign  Foreign  Local    Foreign  Total
July-September 1974             0.1         0.7    0.5        0.1     0.2        0.6       0.4      0.8        1.8      2.6
October-December 1974           0.3         1.2    0.7        0.2     0.2        0.6       0.3      1.2       2.3       3.5
January-March 1975              0.4         1.7    1.0        0.3     0.2        0.6       0.3      1.6       2.9       4.5
April-June 1975                 0.6         2.5    1.4        0.4      0.2       0.6       0.2      2.2        3.7      5.9
July-September 1975             0.7         2.8    1.6        0.5     0.2        0.6       0.1      2.5       4.0       6.5
October-December 1975 2/        0.9         3.2    1.8        0.6     0.2        0.6       0.0      2.9       4.4       7.3
TOTAL                        3.0        12.1    7.0        2.1     1.2        3.6       1.3    11.2       19.1      30.3
1/ Assumed terms of loans:
Guarantee         Commitment
Interest            Fee               Fee            Life         Grace
IBRD                            7-1/4%           1-314%               3/4%         14 years       4 years
KfW                             2%               7%                    1/4%         14 years       4 years
BNDE                            9%                -                   314%         14 years        4 years
2/ Interest after December 31, 1975 is charged to operations.
m 
Industrial Projects Department
April 15, 1974



MOROCCO
MAROC-PHOSPHORE PROJECT
Convertible Foreign Exchange Retroactive Financing
Until Expected Date of Board Presentation (June 197b)
Exchange Rate US$ 1   DM 2.80
Total Disbursement (Turnkey Contract)       Financing (Cumulative) in million US$ equivalent
in million US$ equivalent               Total
Month        Date  In million DM  Monthly       (Cumulative;4/  BNDE    Bank & KfW      Bank (6%)       fW (35%)
July, 73      29         6.o         2.2            2.2         2.2          -
September,    29         6.o         2.1            4.3         4.3          -
October,      29         0.1          -             4.3         4.3          -
November,     29          -           -             4.3         h.3          -          
December,     29        11.3         4.0            8.3         8.0         0.3             0.2           0.1
January, 74   29          -           -             8.3         8.0         0.3            0.2            0.1
February,     28         2.3         0.8            9.2          8.0        1.2             0.8           o.4
March,        29         4.5         1.6           10.8          8.o        2.8             1.8           1.0
April,        29         5.7         2.1           12.8          8.0        4.8             3.1           1.7
May,          29           -          -            12.8          8.0        4.8             3.1           1.7
35.9       12.8
/ Including payment on date shown.                                                                                  It
Industrial Projects Department                                                                                         l
April 15, 1974



MOROCCO
MAROC-PHOSPHORE PROJECT
PHASING OF EXPENDITURES DURING CONSTROCTION
(in million DH)
July-September 1973          October-December 1973           January-March 1974               April-June 1974             July-September 1974          October-December 1974          January-March 1975
Local    Fureign  Total    Local    Foreign  Total    Local    Foreign  Total    Local    Foreign  Total    Local    Foreign  Total    Local    Foreign  Total    Local    Foreign  Total
Turnkey Cootract
Payments                    4.2        24.5    28.7       4.2        20.6    24.8       2,1        13.2    15.3        15.0       40.3    55.3       6.7        40.6    47.3       14.6       36.3    50.9        9.2        37.7    46.9
Project Infrastructure         -          -        -        2.2         -        2.2      1.5          -        1.5       3.3        -        3.3      3.0         -        3.0       1.5         -        1.5      2.0         -        2.0
Spare Parts                    -          -        -         -          -         -        -          0.6      0.6         -         -         -        -          -        -          -          -         -        -          5.6      5.6
Pre-Operating Expenses
and Taxes                                                  -                                        -          -        0.3        0.1      0.4       7.3        0.5      7.8       7.4        0.4      7.8       4.1         0.5      4.6
Contingency & Escalation       -          -        -         -          -          -       -           -         -        0.1        0.3      0.4       0.1        0.3      0.4       4.6        15.0    19.6       0.6        40.8    41.4
Working Capital                -          -        -         -           -         -        -          -         -         -         -         -        -          -        -           -          -        -        _          _         -
Interest During
Construction                 -          -        -         -          -         -        -          -          -         -         -         -        0.8        1.8      2.6       1.2        2.3       3.5     1.6          2.9      4.5
'OTAL FINANCING REQUIRED        4.2         24.5    28.7       6.4        20.6    27.0       3.6        1358    17.4       18.7        40.7    59.4       17.9       43.2    61.1       29.3       54.0    83.3    17.5           87.5   105.0
April-Jose 1975              July-September 1975         October-December 1975        January-March 1976             April-June 1976               July-September 1976                  TOTAL
Local    Foreign  Total    Local    Foreign  Total    Local    Foreign  Total    Local    Foreign  Total    Local    Foreign  Total    Local    Foreign  Total    Local    Foreign  Total
Turnkey Contract
Payments                   11.3        30.2    41.5       7.0        16.0    23.0    10,0          35.2    45.2         3.2        7.4    10.6        1.0        1.0      2.0       2.7       10.7    13.4    91.2          313.7   404.9
Project Infrastructure        1.5         -        1.5      0.5          -       0.5       1.0         -        1.0        -         -         -        -          -        -           -          -        -      16.5         -       16.3
Spare Parts                    -          -        -         -           -         -       -          13.4    13.4         -         -         -        -          1.5      1.5                   -                  -         21.1    21.1
Pre-Operating Expenses
and Taxes                   4.1         0.3      4.4      5.8          1.4     7.2      2.5          1.5     4.0        0.9        0.3      1.2       1.7        0.5      2.2        -           -        -      34.1         5.5    39.6
Contingency & Escalation    9.5           2.9    12.4       0.4          1.5      1.9     0.7        21.6    22.3         3.0        0.3      3.3       0.1        0.3      0.4         -          -        -      19.1        83.0   102.1
Working Capital                -          -        -         -           -         -     52.9          -       52.9        -         -         -       20.0        -       20.0         -          -        -      72.9          -      72.9
Interest During
Constr.ction                2.2         3.7      5.9      2.5         4.0      6.5      2.9         4.4       7.3        -         -         -        -          -        -          -           -        -      11.2        19.1    30.3
'OTAL FINANCING REQUIRED       28.6         37.1    65.7    16.2          22.9    39.1    70,0          76.1   146.1        7.1         8.0    15.1      22.8         3.3    26.1        2.7       10.7    13.4   245.0          442.4   687.4
ndustrial Projects Department
.pril 15, 1974



ANNEX 7-3
MOROCCO
MAROC-PHOSPHORE PROJECT
WORKING CAPITAL ESTIMATES
(in million DH)
19751/    1976       1977       Total
Inventory
Phosphate Rock: (2 days)                          1.1         -          -          1.1
Sulfur (45 days)                                  8.8         -          -          8.8
Ammonia (8 days)                                  0.6         -          -          O.6
Sulfuric and phosphoric acid in process,
consumables                                     3.0         -          -          3.0
Phosphoric Acid (20 days production)             10.6       10.6         -         21.2
MAP (30,000 tons)                                 5.9        5.9         -         11.8
30.0      16.5         -         46.5
Accounts receivables (40 days)                        -       31.9       20.2        52.1
Cash                                                5.0         -          -          5.0
ss
Accounts Payable (1 month)                            -       21.5        9.2        30.7
rmanent Working Capital Required                      35.0      26.9       11.0        72.9
1975 requirements will be financed directly through working capital provided for in
the capital costs estimates. The finished products for stocks in 1975 result from
the production during the commissioning period.
.dustrial Projects Department
ril 15, 1974



MOROCCO
MAROC-PHOSPHORE PROJECT
FINANCING PLAN - EQUITY SUBSCRIPTION AND LOAN WITHDRAWAL SCHEDULE
(in million DH)
Capital Costs                                                            Financial Plan
Foreign                                       Equity                                                 Loans
Clearing    Convertible                           Clearing    Convertible
Local      Currency       Currency      Total    Local       Currency     _Currency       Total       IBRD        KfW        BNDE      Total
July- September 1973              4.2         5.6            18.9         28.7      4.2         5.6            18.9        28.7          -          -          -          _
October - December 1973            6.4         2.8           17.8         27.0       6.4        2.8            17.8        27.0          -          -          -          -
January - March 1974              3.6          2.9           10.9         17.4      3.6         2.9            10.9        17.4          -          -          -          -
April - June 1974                 18.7         7.0           33.7         59.4      18.7         7.0           33.7        59.4          -          -          -          -
July - September 1974             17.9        5.8            37.4         61.1     17.9         5.8           (79.9)1/  ( 56.2)         53.4       28.6      35.3      117.3
October - December 1974          29.3          4.3           49.7         83.3     29.3         4.3             1.3        34.9         31.6       16.8        -        48.4
January - March 1975             17.5         5.7            81.8        105.0     17.5         5.7             1.5        24.7         52.3       28.0        -         80.3
April - June 1975                 28.6         2.2           34.9         65.7      28.6         2.2            1.4        32.2         21.8       11.7        -         33.5
July - September 1975            16.2          1.4           21.5         39.1      16.2         1.4            2.5        20.1         12.4        6.6        -         19.0
October - December 1975          70.0          4.0           72.1        146.1     70.0          4.0            2.6        76.6         45.1       24.4        -         69.5
January - March 1976               7.1         1.5            6.5         15.1       7.1        1.5             0.3         8.9          4.0        2.2        -          6.2
April - June 1976                 22.8         1.8            1.5         26.1      22.8         1.8            0.9        25.5          0.4        0.2        -          0.6
July - September 1976             2.7        10.7              -          13.4       2.7        10.7             -         13.4          -          -          -          -
245.0        55.7          386.7        687.4    245.0         55.7           11.9       312.6        221.0      118.5      35.3       374.8
In US$ Equivalent                55.4         12.6           87.5        155.5     55.4         12.6            2.7        70.7         50.0       26.8       8.0        84.8
1/ Due to retroactive financing until effectiveness of loans; advance payments will be made by OCP.
Industrial Projects Department
April 15, 1974



ANNEX 8-1
MOROCCO
MAROC-PHOSPEIORE PROJECT
Operating Costs Estimates (at Full Capacity) 1/
(at 1976 prices)
Unit Cost
Annual           Cif or Fob                     Total               Reimbursable    Non Reimbursable
iUnit        Quantities  (excl. reimbursable Taxes) (excl. reimusable Taxes)           Taxes-              Taxes
D                       million PO./year       million DR/yr.  million DH/yr.
Production
Phosphoric Acid             000 T of P205           371.3            $/T 210.0
DH/T 928.2
MAP 11-55-0                 000 T of Product        225.8            $/T 150.0
DH/T 663.0
Raw Material
Phosphate Rock 2/           000 T of Product      1,622.8                115.8/T                     187.9                26.2                -
Sulphur                                             481.1                141.8/T                      64.9                13.9               3.5
Amjonia                                               30.8               486.2/T                      15.0                 6.6               1.2
Sub-Total                                                                                      267.8                46.7                4.7
Utilities
Water (Port)                000 s3                    30.0                 0.85/m3                     0.0
Water (Plant)                                     5,000.0                  0.027/m3                    0.1
Fuel Oil                        T                 2,080.0                240/1T                        0.5
Elect. Purchased at Plant (000 Kwh               23,000                    0.096/rwh                   2.2
Elect. Purchased at Port                          1,000                    0.17/Kwh                    0.2
3.0
Chemicals
Various                     Various                                                                    8.7                 2.8               0.5
Transport and Handling-                                                                                  8.0                 0.2                -
Fixed Charges
Personnel
Management/Supervisory                                                                               4.4                 -                  -
Skilled                                                                                              4.1                 -                  -
Unskilled                                                                                            1.6                 -                  -
Maintenance Materials-                                                                                25.0                 -                 5.8
Insurance-/                                                                                            2.7                 -                  -
Marketing                                                                                              0.8                 -                  -
Research                                                                                               1.0                 -                  -
headquarters                                                                                           1.0                 -                  -
Local TaxesY6                                                                                           8.4                -                 8.4
Sub-Total                                                                                        49.5                -                 14.2
Expert Tax (0.511)                                                                                     2.5                 -                 2.5
TOTAL COSTS                                                                                     339.0               49.7               21.9
1/ Total Phosphoric Acid plaint capacity will be 1,500T/day of P205 or 495,OOOT/year.  The MAP capacity will be able tL  convert 670day of P205 into
MAP; but on a yearly average only 25% or 375T/day of the P205 produced as Acid will be converted into MAP.  Taxes are shown separately since
some taxes on operating snaterials are reimbursed.
2/ Price em mine   DR 110.0/ton
and transport   DH   5.8/ton
DH 115.8/ton
3/ Inland Transport and Har.dling of Raw Materials and Finished Products.                         4/ CIF Price                      15.5
+ escalation of 247.         3.7
19.2
+ 307, non-reimabursable
import duties            5.8
25.0
_/ 0.5% of plant value.
ElPcalTaxes-Year 1    2    3    4    5    6-12
Patents                               -  - 2.8
Urban Tax           -    -    -   3.5  3.5   3.5
Municipal Tax      2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1   2.1
2.1  2.1  2.1  5.6  5.6   8.4
Industrial Projects DepartUent
April 15, 1974



MOROCCO
MAROC-PHOSPHORE PROJECT
Projected Income Statements (at 1976 Prices)
(in million DH)
6 months
Fiscal Years Endina December 31                     19761=      1977       1978       1979       1980       1981       1982       1983       1984       1985        1986      1987        1988
Production
Capacity Utilization in %                               65        85        95        100        100        100        100        100        100        100         100        100        100
Phosphoric Acid in tons of P205                   194,400   315,560  352,690   371,250   371,250   371,250   371,250   371,250   371,250   371,250   371,250   371,250   185,625
MAP in tons                                       118,220   193,230  214,490   225,780   225,780   225,780   225,780   225,780   225,780   225,780   225,780   225,780   112,890
Sales Volume
Phosphoric Acid in tons of P205                   183,400   315,560  352,690   371,250   371,250   371,250   371,250   371,250   371,250   371,250   371,250   371,250   185,625
MAP in tons                                       103,220   193,230  214,490   225,780   225,780   225,780   225,780   225,780   225,780   225,780   225,780   225,780   112,890
Sales Revenue
Phosphoric Acid at $210/ton                 t          170       293       327        345        345        345        345        345        345        345         345        345        173
MAP at $150/ton                                         68        128       142        150       150         150       150        150        150         150        150        150         75
Other Revenues                                          11          2        3           3          3          3         3           3          3          3          3          3          2
249       423       472        498        498        498        498        498        498        498        498         498        250
Changes in Stock                                          17         -         -          -          -          -          -         -           -          -          -          -          -
Variable Costs
Phosphate Rock                                          99        160      179        188        188        188        188        188        188         188        188        188         94
Sulphur                                                 34         55        62         65         65         65         65         65         65         65         65         65         32
Ammonia                                                  8         13        14         15         15         15         15         15         15         15         15         15          8
Utilities and Chemicals                                  6         10        11         12         12         12        12         12          12         12         12         12          6
FPreight and Handling                                    4          7        8          8          8          8          8          8           8          8          8          8          4
t                                           151        245       274        288        288        288        288        288        288        288        288        288        144
pperating Costs
Personnel                                               10         10        10        10         10          10        10         10         10          10         10         10          5
Maintenance Materials                                   25         25        25        25         25          25        25         25          25         25         25         25         12
Insurance                                                3          3         3          3          3          3         3          3           3          3          3          3          2
Marketing and Research                                   2          2         2          2          2          2          2          2          2          2          2          2          1
Headquarters                                             1          1         1          1          1          1          1          1          1          1          1          1          1
Export and Local Taxes                                   5          5        5           8          8         11        11         11         11          11         11         11          5
46        46        46         49         49         52         52         52         52         52         52          52         26
)perating Profit                                          69       132       152        161        161        158        158        158        158        158         158        158         79
Less: Interest on Long-Term Debt                        34         34       33         31         28         25         22         19          15         12          8          4          1
Depreciation                                     45         49        49         49         49         49         49         49         49         49         49         49          31
iet Income Before Taxes                                 (10)        49        70         81         84         84         87         90         94         97         101        105         47
Taxes on Income                                         _          -         -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          48         50         22
{et Income After Taxes                                  (10)        49        70         81         84         84         87         90         94         97         53          55         25
J One third of production facilities will start commercial operations only in August, 1976.
:ndustrial Projects Department
,pril 15, 1974



MOROCCO
MAROC-PHOSPHORE PROJECT
PROJECTED CASH FLOW STATEMENTS
(in million DH)
6 months
iscal Years Ending December 31            1973       1974      1975       1976      1977      1978       1979      1980       1981      1982       1983      1984       1985      1986       1987        1988
OllRCES
Net Income before Interest on Long-
Term Debt and Taxes on income           -          -         -         24         83       103        112       112        109       109        109       109        109       109        109         55
Depreciation                               -         -         -          45        49         49        49         49        49        49         49        49         49         49        49          24
Subtotal                              -         _          _         69       132        152       161        161       158        158       158        158       158        158       158          79
Increase in Accounts Payable               -         -         -          22         9         -         -          -         -         -          -         -          -          -         -           -
Long-Term Debt:
-IBRD                                   -          85       132          4        -          -         -         -          -         -          -         -          -         -          -           -
-KfW                                    -          45        70          3        -
- B N D E                               -          3 5       -          -         -          -         _         -          -         -          -         -          -         -          -           -
Subtotal                              -        165        202         7         -
Equity                                    56         56       154         48        -          -         -          -         -          -         -         -          -          -         _           _
TOTAL                                 56       221        356       146        141       152        161       161       158        158       158        158       158        158        158          79
PPLICATIONS
Receivables                                -         -         -          32        20         -         -          -         -          -         -          -         -          -         -           -
Tax Advances                               -         -          -         46         4         -
Inventories                               -          -         30         17        -          -         -          -         -         -          -         -          -          -         -           -
Fixed Assets                               56       221       303         35          2         2         2          2         2          2         2          2         2          2          2          2
Interest on Long-Term Debt:
-IBRD                                   -          -         -          20        20        20         19         17        15        14         12        10          8          5         3           1
-KfW                                    -          -         -          11        11         10         9          9         8          6         5         4          3          2         1           0
-BNDE                                   -          -         -           3         3          3         3          2         2          2         2          1         1          1         0           0
Subtotal                              _          -         _         34         34        33         31        28         25        22         19        15         12         8          4           1
Repayment Long-Term Debt:
-IBRD                                   -          -         -          -         -           8        16         17        19        20         22        23         25         27        29          15
-KfW                                    -          -         -          -         -           6        12         12        12         12        12         12        12         12        12           6
-BNDE                                                                                         1         3          3         3          3         3          4         4          4         4           2
Subtotal                              -          -         -          -         -         15         31        32         34        35         37        39         41         43        45          23
Taxes on Income                            -         -          -         -          -         -          -         -          -         -         -          -          -         48         50          22
TOTAL                                 56        221       333       164         60        50         64         62        61        59         58        56         55        101       101          48
=      =         _                                                                            =                  =_  _  _                                  =
Annual Cash Generation                     -         -          23       (18)        8i       102         97        99         97        99        100       102        103        57         57          31
Accumulated Cash                           -          -         23          5        86       188        285       384        481       580        680       782        885       942        999       1,030
Debt Service Coverage                      -         -          -          2.0        3.9       3.2        2.6       2.7        2.7       2.8        2.8       2.9        3.0        3.1       3.2         3.3
0,
adustrial Projects Department
?ril 15, 1974



MOROCCO
MAROC-PHOSPHORE PROJECT
PROJECTED BALANCE SHEETS
(in million DH)
Fiscal Years Ending December 31          1975      1976      1977      1978      1979      1980     1981      1982      1983      1984      1985      1986      1987      1988
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                                   23         5         5         5         5        5         5         5         5         5         5         5         5         5
Receivables                            -         32        52        52       52        52        52        52        52        52        52        52        52        52
Tax Advances                           -         46        50       50        50        50        50        50        50        50        50       50         50       50
Inventories                            30        47        47       47        47        47        47        47        47        47       47        47        47        47
Subtotal                             53       130       154      154       154       154       154       154       154       154      154       154       154       154
Surplus Cash Accumulated                 -         -         81       183       280      379       476       575       675       777       880       937       994    1,025
Fixed Assets
Gross Fixed Assets                    580       615       617       619      621       623       625       627       629       631       633       635      637        639
Depreciation                           -         45        94       143      192       241       290       339       388       437      486       535       584       615
Net Fixed Assets                    580       570      523       476       429       382       335       288       241       194       147      100        53        24
TOTAL                               633       700       758      813       863       915       965    1,017    1,070    1,125    1,181    1,191    1,201    1,203
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                       -         22        31        31        31        31        31       31        31        31        31        31        31        31
Current Portion of Long-Term Debt   -            -         15        31        32       34        35        37        39        41        43        45        23        -
Subtotal                             -         22        46       62        63        65        66        68        70        72        74       76        54        31
Long-Term Debt
IBRD                                  217       221       221      213       197       180       161       141       119        96        71        44        15        -
KfW                                   116       119       119       113       101       89        77        65        54        42        30        18         6        -
BNDE                                   35        35        35        34        31       28        25        22        18        14        10         6         2        -
Subtotal                            368       375       375      360       329       297       263       228       191       152       111        68       23         -
Less:  Current Portion                 -         -         15        31        32       34        35        37        39        41        43        45        23        -
Subtotal                            368       375       360      329       297       263       228       191       152       111        68        23        -         -
Capital
Equity                                265       313       313       313      313       313       313       313       313       313       313       313       313       313
Retained Earnings (Losses)             -       ( 10)       39       109       190      274       358       445       535       629       726       779       834       859
Subtotal                            265       303       352      422       503       587       671       758       848       942    1,039    1,092    1,147    1,172
TOTAL                               633       700       758      813       863       915       965    1,017    1,070    1,125    1,181    1,191    1,201    1,203              00
Current Ratio                            -          6.0       3.3       2.5       2.4       2.4       2.3       2.3      2.2       2.1       2.1       2.0       2.9       5.0
Net Long-Term Debt/Equity Ratio    58:42    55:45    51:49    44:56    37:63    31:69    25:75    20:80    15:85    11:89                 6:94      2:98        -         -
Industrial Projects Department
April 15, 1974



MROCCO
MAROC-PHOSPHORE PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF REPAYMENTS AND INTEREST ON LOW-TERM DEBT
(in million DH)
I.B.R.D.                          KfW                                 BNDE                                   Total
Outstanding  Repayments            Outstanding  Repayments             Outstanding                           Outstanding
Amount     February/               Amount         June/                Amount                                Amount
Year     End of Year   August    Interest  End of year   December  Interest  End of year Repayments  Interest    End of Year  Repayments  Interest
1976       221.0          -         19.9       118.5           -        10.7        35.3         -           3.2         374.9            _         33.8
1977       221.0          -         19.9       118.5           -        10.7        35.3         -           3.2         374.9            -         33.8
1978       213.3          7.7       19.5       112.6           5.9      10.4        33.7        1.6          3.1         359.6           15.3       33.0
1979       197.0         16.3       18.5       100.8          11.8       9.6        30.7        3.0          2.9         328.5           31.1       31.0
1980       179.6         17.4       16.9        88.9          11.9       8.5        27.6        3.1          2.6         296.1           32.4       28.0
1981       160.9         18.7       15.3        77.1          11.8       7.5        24.5        3.1          2.3         262.5           33.6       25.1
1982       140.8         20.1       13.6        65.2          11.9       6.4        21.2        3.3          2.1         227.2           35.3       22.1
1983       119.2         21.6       11.7        53.4          11.8       5.3        17.8        3.4          1.8         190.4           36.8        18.8
1984        95.9         23.3         9.7       41.5          11.9       4.3        14.2        3.6          1.4         151.6           38.8        15.4
1985        70.9         25.0        7.5        29.7          11.8       3.2        10.4        3.8          1.1         111.0           40.6        11.8
1986        44.1         26.8        5.2        17.8          11.9       2.1         6.4        4.0          0.8          68.3           42.7         8.1
1987        15.1         29.0        2.7         5.9          11.9       1.1         2.1        4.3          0.4          23.1           45.2         4.2
1988         -           15.1        0.7         -             5.9       0.3          -         2.1          0.1           -             23.1         1.1
Industrial Projects Department
April 15, 1974



MOROCCO
MAROC - PHOSPHORE PROJECT
FINANCIAL BREAK-EVEN CHART
100
80
z 6C 0                                PROFIT BREAK-EVEN PRODUCTION
0
CASH BREAK-EVEN PRODUCTION                                                          wm~  w
tL      1L11        1 r
4 0        _ _ _ _ _         _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..    _
20
1976                      1978                       1980                      1982                       1984                       1986                      1988
FISCAL YEARS ENDING DECEMBER 31
World Bank-8113 (2RX
Industrial Projects Department
April 15, 1974



M1ROCCO
MAROC-PHOSPHORE PROJECT
FINANCIAL RETURN CALCULATIONS
(in million DH)
1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
Revenues                  -       -       -     249    423    472    498    498    498    498    498    498    498    498    498    250
Costs
Capital Costs           56    209    286       33       2       2       2      2       2       2       2       2       2      2       2   ( 58)
Working Capital         -       -      53      20      -       -       -      -       -       -       -       -       -      -       -    ( 73)
Operating Costs         -       -      -      180    291    320    337    337    340    340    340    340    340    340    340    170
Taxes on Income         -       -       -      -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -       -       -      48      50      22
56    209    339    233    293    322    339    339    342    342    342    342    342    390    392                 61
Net Benefits            ( 56)  (209)  (339)    16    130    150    159    159    156    156    156    156    156    108    106    189
F c R o t ( r e i_1
Financial Rate of Return (after taxes on income): 16.97
Financial Rate of Return (before taxes on income): 17.4%~
Industrial Projects Department
April 15, 1974
e 1
(D 



ANNEX 8-7
Page 2
MOROCCO
MAROC-PHOSPHORE PROJECT
FINANCIAL RATES OF RETURN AND SENSITIVITY ANALYISI /
Financial Rate of Return
Base Return
(US$210 per ton of P205 for acid and US$150/ton of MAP)               16.9%
Sensitivity Analysis using Base Return
Revenues
up 5%                                                                  20.0%
up 10%                                                                 22.8%
down 5%                                                               13.8%
down 10%                                                              11.2%
Phosphate Rock Price
(Base price US$2 =.O/ton delivered plant)
up US$2                                                                15.2%
down US$2                                                             18.6%
Sulphur Price
(Base price US$32/ton C&F Safi)
up US$8                                                               14.7%
Investment Costs
up 10%                                                                15.3%
.~ ~~53
1/ Rates of Return are after taxes on income. Since the project is
export oriented, it benefits from a 10 year income tax holiday;
therefore there is only a 0.5% difference in the rate of return
before and after taxes for the base case.
Industrial Projects Department
April 15, 1974



MOROCCO
MAROC - PHOSPHORE PROJECT
FINANCIAL RETURN SENSITIVITIES (AFTER TAXES)
TO DIFFERENT PRICES
251                                                                                         
20                                                   
z
0
-10%             -5%                               +5%             +10%
(US$189.00)      (US$199.50)     BASE PRICE       (US$220.50)     (US$231.00)
(PHOSPHORIC ACID US $210 per ton of P205 fob)
CHANGE OF PRICE                              i
OF PHOSPHATE ROCK                       (US$30.20) (US$28.20)          (US$24.20) US$22.20)                                                     tRL
USED AS RAW MATERIAL                                         BASE PRICE                                                                       Oq 
(PHOSPHATE ROCK US$26.20 per ton DELIVERED PLANT)
World Bank-8112 12R)
Industrial Projects Department
April 15, 1974






MOROCCO
MAROC-PHOSPHORE PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return: Investment Costs
(million DH)
Items                                 Market Prices                 Accounting          Total        Applied
Value of Local       Economic      Ratio to
Lvcal    Foreign    Total         Expenditures           Cost      Local Cost (%)
Engineering Services and Licenses              -        26.3       26.3              -                26.3            -
Building and Civil Works                      44.9        4.6      49.5             40.4              45.0            90
Equipment, Machinery and Materials             5.6     233.7      239.3              2.9             236.6            93
Freight and Insurance                          3.2       10.4      13.6              2.5              12.9            a/
Inspection of Equipment                        -         2.2        2.2              -                 2.2            -
Erection                                      32.8       15.3      48.1             29.3              44.6            89.5
Construction Supervision                       3.5       12.7      16.2              2.6              15.3            75
Industrial Tests                               0.0       2.5        2.5              0.0               2.5            -
Start-up Supervision                           0.9       4.5        5.4              0.7               5.2            75
Total Installed Plant Cost                 90.9     312.2      403.1             78.4             390.6
Project Infrastructure                        16.5        -        16.5             13.9              13.9            84
Spare Parts                                    -         21.1      21.1              -                21.1            -
Taxes and Registration Fee                    17.5        -        17.5              -                 -              -
General Project Supervision                   10.2        1.7      11.9              9.2              10.9            90
Training                                       4.9        2.6       7.5              3.4               6.0            70
Start-up Expenses                              1.8        2.7       4.5              1.5               4.2            85
Price Escalation                              13.6       61.3      74.9              9.8b/            71.1            72
Miscellaneous Contingency                      5.5       21.7      27.2              4.l.I/           25.8            75
Interest during Construction                  11.2       19.1      30.3              -                 -              -
Total Project Cost                        172.1     442.4      614.5            120.3             543.6
a/ 81% for local transport and 50% for insurance.
b/  Based on the average of total installed plant cost nipis taxes and registration fees.
c/ Based on the average for all items above.
Industrial Projects Department                                                                                                  d
April 15, 1974                                                                                                                  m 



MOROCCO                              ANNEX 9-1
NAROC-PHOSPHORE PROJECT                       page 2
CALCULATION OF THE PART OF DIRHAM EXPENSES ENTERING
INTO THE ECONOMIC COST
Breakdown of             Percentage applicable
Local Costs in %           for Economic Costi./
1. Buildings and Civil Wbrks:
- Cement                                     30%                            30%
- Reinforcing bars                           15%                            15%
- Scaffolding                                10%                            10%
- Skilled labor                              15%                            15%
- Unskilled labor                            20%                            15%
- Profit and supervision                     10%                             5%
100                            75%
2. Local Manufactured Equipment
- Materials                                  60%                            60%
- Scilled labor                              12%                            12%
- Unskilled labor                             8%                             6%
- Profit and supervision                     20%                            15%
100o                            93%
3. Local Transport of Equipment
- Use of equipment (repair,depreciation,etc)35%                             30%
- Fuel                                       15%                            13%
- Skilled labor                              15%                            15%
- Unskilled labor                            20%                            15%
- Profit and supervision                     15%                             8%
1,00                           B1%
41. Erection
- Use of equipment                           30%                            30%
- Consumables                                10%                            10%
- Utilities                                   5%                             2%
- Skilled labor                              30%                            30%
- Unskilled labor                            10%                              7.5%
- Profit and supervision                     15%                            1 o
100                           -89.5%
(Profit and supervision under (1) to (4) refer to the local subcontractors)
5. Construction Supervision
- Local clerical assistance                  20%                            15%
- Housing                                    20%                            10%
- Local consumption of foreign super-
visory personnel                          60%                            50%
100                            Ts
6. Start-up Supervision
- As for (5)                                                                75%
7. General Project Supervision
Covers local costs incurred by OCP and local expenditures of Foreign Supervisory
Personnel (Topsoe)
1/ The socio-economic indicators were derived on the basis of: (i) broad estimates
prepared and direct enquiries made by Topsoe for cost components for major items
like building and civil works or erection; (ii) general discussions with Govern-
ment Agencies on shadow prices for key activities in Morocco; and (iii) review
of some itemized accounts for specific activities like railroad transport and utilities.
Industrial Projects Department
April 15, 1974



MAROC-PHOSPHORE PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return: Basic Case Operating Costs (1976 Prices)
One Year Operating Costs at 1007. Capacity
Market Prices                           World Prices
Annual           Unit Price      Total Cost in       Unit Price or Factor       Total Cost in
Quantities           in DH         million DH/yr         Ratio in DH or %         million DH/yr
1. Raw MaLerials
Phosphate Rock (ex-Mine)       1,622,800 tons    110.0/ton             178.5             110.0 DH per ton             178.5
Rock transport                 1,622,800 tons       6.0/ton              9.7                    81%                     7.9
Sulfur                           481,100 tons    141.8/ton a/           68.2                    95%                    64.7
Ammonia                           30,800 tons    486.2/ton a/           15.0                    92%                    13.8
Sub-total:                                                          271.4                                         264.9
2. Utilities
Water (plant)                  5,000,000 m3       0 027/mr3              0.1                    -                      _
Water (port)                      30,000 m3       0.85 /m3               0.0                        b
Fuel Oil                           2,080 tons    240/ton                 0.5                    85%7                    0.4
Electricity (plant)           23,000,000 kwh      0.096/kwh              2.2                    85%7                    1.9
Electricity (port)             1,000,000 kwh      0.17 /kwh              0.2                    85%                     0.1
3. Chemicals
Total imported (various)            -                  -                 8.2                   100.                     8.2
4.  Transport and Handling                                                                                                         c
Sub-total:                          -                  -                 8.0                    -                       6.5
5. Fixed Charges
Personnel - Management                                                   4.4                   100%                     4.4
- Skilled                                                     4.1                   1007.                    4.1
- Unskilled                                                   1.6                    757.                    1.2
Maintenance materials                                                   25.0                    -                      19.34
Insurance                                                                2.7                    507.                    1.4
Marketing                                                                0.8                   1007                     0.8
Research                                                                 1.0                   100%                     1.0
Headquarters                                                             1.0                    80%                     0.8
Sub-total:                                                           40.6                                           33.0
6.  Export Tax                                                                  -                                              -
T.Lrol T-ax 
GRAND TOTAL:                                                        331.2                                          315.0
a/ Including port charges.
b/  See footnote Annex 9-1 page 2.
c/  See Annex 9-2 page 2.                                                                                                             m 
d/  Excluding 30% duties and TPS on spare parts, which are included in the cost at market prices.                                       x
I',
Industrial Projects Department
April 15, 1974



ANNEX 9-2
Page 2
MOROCCO
MAROC-PHOSPHORE PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN: TRANSPORT AND HANDLING
(in 000 DH)
Market Cost    Factor-/   Economic Cost
Port Fees (Acconage)
Sulfur  481,100 t at 3.60 DH/t                1,732.0         80%          1,385.6
Acid    687,600 t at 0.01 DH/t                    6.9          -              -
MAP     225,800 t at 0.01 DH/t                    2.3          -              -
Transport ONCF
Sulfur  481,100 t at 2.005 DH/t                 964.6         81%            781.3
Acid    687,600 t at 2.271 DH/t               1,561.5         81%          1,264.8
MAP     225,800 t at 2.005 DH/t                 452.7         81%            366.7
Transport Amnonia
30,800 t at 15 DH/t                             462.0         80%            369.6
Transit MAP                )
225,900 t at 7 DH/t      )
)
)                   2,146.1         80%          1,716.9
Loading of MAP
225,900 t at 2.5 DH/t   )
7,328.1                      5,884.9
Price Escalationk'                              732.8                        588.5
TOTAL                                           8,060.9                      6,473.4
a/ See footnote Annex 9-1 page 2.
b/ Tc convert 1973 to 1976 prices.
Industrial Projects Department
April 15, 1974



MIUKA(.W
MAROC-PHOSPHORE PROJECT
Calculation of the Economic Rate of Return (1976 Prices)
(in million DR)
July to                                                                               Jan. to
Dec.1973     1974      1975      1976     1977      1978      1979     1980-87       June 1988      ERR
Social Benefits
Acid Sales at US$210.0/ton of P205                                                 170      293       327       345        345            173
MAP Sales at US$150.0/ton                                                           68       128      142       150        150             75
Other P.evenues                                                                     11         2        3         3          3              2
Recovery Working Capital                                                                      -        -         -          -              70
Total Benefits:                                                                249       423       472      498        498            320
Social Costs
Fixed Investment Cost                                52         195      266        31                                                    (54)
Working Capital1/                                                         51        19
Operating Costs
-variable costs2/                                                                145      235       262       276       276            138
-transport and handling                                                            3        6         6         6          6              3
-fixed cost                                                                       33       33        33        33        33              17
Total Costs:                                  52         195       317      231       274       301      315        315            158
Net Social Benefits and ERR
Scrap value estimated at 54.0 million DH            (52)       (195)    (317)       18       149      171       183        183            216         21.2%
l/  Working capital assumed to have same usage breakdown as operating costs.
2/  Assumes rock economic price at DH 110.00/ton ex-Mine (or US$24.90/ton) and Sulfur price at US$32/ton C&F Safi.
Economic Rate of Return: Sensitivity Analysis
Net Social Benefits under different assumptions
1.  Acid Sales at US$220.5/ton of P20s and
MAP sales at US$157.5/ton (equivalent
to 5% increase).                                   (52)       (195)    (317)       30      170       195       208        208            229         24.1%
2.  Acid Sales at US$199.5/ton of P205 and
MAP sales at US$142.5/ton (equivalent
to 5% decrease).                                   (52)       (195)    (317)        6       128      147       158        158            203         18.2%
3.  Acid Sales at US$189.0/ton of P205 and
MAP sales at US$135.0/ton (equivalent
Lo iO% decrcase).                                  (52)       (195)    (317)       (6)      107      123       133        133            190         14.9%
4.  Phosphate Rock at DR 103.4/ton (US$23.40/ton)   (52)          (195)    (317)       24       158       181      194        194            221         22.5%
5.  Sulfur at US$40/ton C&F Safi                        (52)      (195)    (317)         9      135       155      167        167            208         19.2%
Industrial Projects Department
April 15, 1974






TANGIER
Asiah
MOROCCO
MAROC PHOSPHORE PROJECT                                                                                        /             Kscr ElKebi35r
PORTS, RAILROADS AND PHOSPHATE ROCK DEPOSITS                                                                           /    kArb.usa
4.    Ports                         |                                                       RAB        a
Railroods                                                                                  Skhit
Phosphate Rock Deposits                               C                          'in Se'ba
Bouskouro
a   o    ~~~~~~/                    } ~~~~Noucxsseur
\ a       /       ~~~~Sidi El A'idi KRasE IAin    AvwAmor5
0        50       100       150       200                                                                              Ouu d  Zem
I                  I                   I s i i   |   I   |            /        Mechra Ben Abbou       KHOURIBGA
KILOMETERS                                                        e    Re                                               t
SAFI
YOUSSOUFtA       Benguerir
/AREA SHOWN 
IN NSET
MARRAKECH
PROJECT WORK SHOWN IN RED                                                                                               The b-andar-es showA-   thits map do sof!
OTHER NEW WORK SHOWN IN GREEN             /op!,p -vdorse-m-t or a-cepta,,-e hr the
C                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wsrld Ba-k asodft-affi1iat,,
O                                                   /ii                                                                    SPAIN)\.d,fet--;rn-itan  |
W \  Oceatn  ( )';  
, AR S;AFI Haste         Reservoir         ~            ~~ore~osos:c~ro          30~                               Atlatic                                   MjA  L G E R I A
v   4 Ft,@,j--                                             -~~~~~                                       ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~30 '  \<
/9 ^\,i                      ~~~~~~~S Mborekbou Guedra                                          J        i     >
MAROC                                                                                                                                  M A LI          NI G E R    .CHAD_ 
PHOSPHORE    aute                                                                                                                                                           4 ,






IBRD 10727R
35               100        TANGIER   5                     The bouddaies shown on this map do not                    FEBRUARY 1974
imply  endorsement or acceptance bv the
World Bank and its affiliates.
A tl/anti/c            RA
CAABLANCA                                                                           ,0'
Ocean
PROJECTAE                                                                               / 
1  ARRAKECH      0                                                           vz 
/  ~~                                                                  j. 8 \03-o  
30'-~~~~~
C)                   ci7
0'  UNLOADING  SHED
SAHARA                         5 S.'
7             GARE HAUTE /
/ /-
> t.(Q
MOROCCO
MAROC-PHOSPHORE PROJECT /'                                                                      /
GENERAL LAYOUT                                                              /
STORAGE
I -----i-Railroads
Conveyors                             h\  
- - -  Plant Boundaries                                                            /
Roacls                            /(/
----------  Provisions for Expansion
Map is not drown to scale except inset.
Project shown in red
Sidings by ON.C.F shown in green
__                                                 z
0
i                            MAROC -FllOSPHORE 
F LIRATION   l 
ANC P.JMPING|                                            I
OF RAW WATER| 
i To SAFE                 PUMPING STATIONS   A         c/    n  tic              O  c e a  n






MOROCCO
MAROC -PHOSPHORE PROJECT
PORT OF SAFI
OSPH R C                                                                                      STORAGE   AND   HANDLING   FACILITIES
CON VEYORS
---f-RAILROADS
\TRY CIZANEPROJEC  SHOWN  IN RED
ISOm. EHADDTTONAL PHOSPHATE oERTH                                                            MMMRA  NR  S
Access Channel to - t0.00 M.rnimu.                     (NOt inctvded in p,ciect I                   GRAJtN SILO V
BASIN 2    24                 4       / T..At RA                                   t{
0  C., ~    ~     xf140                                                                                                  A
AGAISIE   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.'IHIG P R
0   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AI 
POR T UF sAL)    oP hA I
tua     NGX,11V
0,        TANCEC      A                                                                                                                                                                R
CAALAWA  RABAT OFES                                  I       I       20      30      40 
P AHAR AAARRAKCH                                                        MT R                                                                                                                                                   r
SAHARA  1i                                    WfPMd AP Rkd ft #fdffl                                      .                                                                                                                         _



