lBETURuM                   RETICE
CIRCULATING COPY ;-.                               RERPOIS ESKD
BE~ RETURNED -0 REPORTS gX   aT              0m          Report No. TO-466a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
SAN LORENZO IRRIGATION
AND
LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
(STAGE III)
PERU
March 26, 1965
Projects Department



C JR SX\YC 7 L
g   .z  ,  Z - _.-  ?,- 7, ? -O  -73
x Sol          27, IIJI . IS .s t 3 S   .- _- 



P E R U
SAN LORENZO IRRIGATION AID LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
(STAGE III)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No*
SIkMARY      .... o                                                 i - ii ooo 
I,     INTRODUCTION  .      .  . ... .  . o . . . . . .  .  .         1
II.    BACKGROUND . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       1
III.   THE SAN LORENZO PROJECT AREA .    *. .  . . . . . .   . o. .   3
Location and Irrigable Area a  b. . .    .  . . .. . .     3
Physical Characteristics..... . . o       . 0  . . . . .   3
Climate . . . . . . a o . . . . . . . . .     9 .  o . .    4
Population. . * *    * O   * * a  * * *  *   * , * * e * * V
Land Settlement and Development . . .     . . . .  . .  a  4h
Land Tenure and Use .d. .e . .        ...             .    5
Irrigation Water Supply .. . . . .      ........           6
Drainage. .       .  . . . .  a . . . .  .    a .  0 . . . .  6
Services.   . . 0 . . . .  . . . . . . . .   . . . . .    7
Marketing ...      ..     ..    .....         ..            7
IV.    THE PROJECT   -STAGE III.e                 o  o o o a  o a     7
Heavy Equipment and clTorks  . .        . e   Q   O   .     8
Technical Services, Facilities and Equilpment. . . . 0     9
Agricultural Credit . . . . . . . d   . t.   . . ..  . . ..   10
Electric Power. . . . . . . . . . . .             . . * . a . . .  11
Basin Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    . * . . .   12
V.      COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING .    .......           . .  .e  12
VI.    ORGANIZATION AND IMiANAGEMENT . .*. . *  . . . . . . . .      15
Government Level. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . *   . . .   15
Project Level . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       15
Lending Operations. . i  .  . . . gao .  .  ....  a. ....  16
Basin Program ...      .... . .... . . .....a             16
VII.   OPERATING RESULTS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      17



-2-
Page No.
VIII. BEITEFITS AMD JUSTIFICATION . . . .@ .   * .   00 . . . . .   17
IX.    CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . .  o . . .   . .   18
ANNEXES
Annex 1 - Map
Annex 2 - Land Sales and Projected Sales by Economic Group of
Irrigable Land
Annex 3 - San Lorenzo Agency - Banco de Fomento Agropecuario
Table 1 - Terms and Conditions of Loans to Settlers
Table 2 - San Lorenzo Agency of the Banco Agropecuario
del Peru - Summary Balance Sheet (Provisional)
as at August 31, 1964
Annex 4 - Projected Schedules
Table 1 - On-Farm Investments
Table 2 - Loan Disbursements
Annex 5 - San Lorenzo Project Investments - Projected Cashflow
1965 - 1985
Annex 6 - Organization Chart - San Lorenzo Irrigation and Land
Settlement Project - Organization and Functions
Annex 7 - Agricultural Production and Cropping Pattern
Annex 8 - List of Goods and Services to be Financed



PER U
SAN LORENZO IRRIGATION AND IAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
(STAGE III)
S UMMNi A R Y
i.        The Government of Peru has requested additional financing for
the San Lorenzo Irrigation and Land Settlement Project to accelerate land
settlement and development.
ii.       Stage I consisting of the diversion works, canals and tunnels
to supplement irrigation water only for the Piura Valley, was completed
in 1953 . The cost was met by the Government. A Bank loan of US$18 mil-
lionl! was made in 1955 to finance the foreign exchange costs of engineer-
ing and construction of additional irrigation works (Stage II). These
were completed in 1959 at a total cost equivalent to US$26.6 milliono,/
The local currency costs of appraximately US$8.6 million2/ equivalent were
financed by P.L. 480 funds from the United States. From 1959 through
August 31, 1964, the equivalent of US$12.9 milliong/ was spent for addi-
tional facilities, technical services, investigations, equipment, adminis-
tration, and on-farm investnents. In this period 14.,270 ha were sold and
partially developed.
iii.      During the period September 1, 1964, through December 1967, now
under consideration, the equivalent of US$29.8 million would be required
to meet additional costs necessary to further develop the 14,270 ha and
to settle and bring into production approximately 17,700 additional ha
(Stage III). This would raise the total irrigable hectares settled and
developed in the San Lorenzo area to approximately 32,000 by the end of
1967. Approximately US$6.7 million of the US$29.8 million would be met
by the settlers on the Project through water payments, their initial
share of on-farm development costs, and sub-loan repayments of earlier
settlers, and by the farmers of the Piura and Chipillico Valleys through
water payments. The undisbursed portion of the current A.I.D. loan would
cover an additional US$3.3 million. However, the Government lacks the
resources to provide the balance of approximately US$19.8 million in addi-
tion to meeting the debt service charges on the existing Bank and A.ID.
1/ About 68 percent of total Stage II costs of approximately US$26.6
million.
2/ Dollar equivalent adjusted to present exchange rate.



- ii -
loans and providing short-term agricultural credit for the settlers.
Hence the need for additional Bank financing (Stage III) for equipment,
technical services, drainage works and medium- and long-term agricul-
tural credit. Financing is also provided in the loan for a Basin Pro-
gram for Northwestern Peru for costs of engaging a firm of consultants
to survey the water and related resources of the Region, to develop
plans for the financing and implementation of projects to utilize these
resources according to a system of priorities, and to develop recommen-
dations for instituting the most effective regional organization for
local administration of the Program.
iv.       Despite delays and problems, the Project is emerging as a suc-
cessful one financially, economically and socially. It is estimated that
the total Project will yield an internal rate of return to the economy of
14 percent and the incremental benefits of Stage III would result in an
internal rate of return on Stage III investments of 16 percent. The Pro-
ject has achieved a balance of services to physical development which is
resulting in financiallv secure              well-adiusted settlers.
v.        The proposed loan would be to the Republic of Peru.   The loan
funds for Stage III would be exclusively for the Project and would be ad-
ministered by the Project Management under authority delegated to the
Director General by the President of Peru and the Minister of Agriculture.
The San Lorenzo Agency of the Banco de Fomento Agropecuario de Peru would
administer the agricultural credit portion of the loan on behalf of the
Management, but with the latter participating in the sub-loan determina-
tions. The loan funds for the Basin Program would be administered through
the Office of the President of the Republic by a local Northwestern Peru
Regional Development Service.
vi.       The Bank appraisal confirmed the need and justification for Bank
financing of US$104. million or approximately 35 percent of total Stage III
costs of US$29.8 million, and for US$0.6 million to cover the costs of the
consulting services for the Basin Progriam, or a total loan of US$11.0 mil-
lion. The loan for Stage III would cover foreign exchange costs estimated
at US$5,5 million (approximately 53 percent) and local currency costs esti-
mated at US$4.9 million (approximately 47 percent). The loan for the Basin
Program would be for consulting services. An appropriate term would be 20
years, including a four year grace period.



p E t u
SAN LOPRENZO IRRIGATION AND LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
(STAGE III)
I.  INTRODUCTION
1.        The Government of Peru (the Government) has submitted a request
for a Bank loan for financing a further stage (Stage III) of the San
Lorenzo Irrigation and Land Settlement Project (the Project). Financing
totaling US$20.75 million was specifically requested for a program of agri-
cultural credit, for graveling of the canal roads, for construction and
asphalt surfacing of two main artery roads, for a small hydroelectric power
installation and related transmission facilities, and for equipment0 A
Bank appraisal mission visited Peru in September 1964 and eliminated the
road construction and hydroelectric components as not being presently jus-
tified, and reduced the overall equipment component as excessive. After
consultation with the Project Management (Management), however, components
were added for technical services, for the construction of drainage works,
and for types of equipment to enable Managementfs program of farm-to-market
road construction and graveling to continue. These actions result in pro-
posed Bank financing totaling US$10.4 million, or approximately 35 percent
of total Stage III costs estimated at the equivalent of US$2908 million.
US$0.6 million was also added for financing a Northwestern Peru Regional
Basin Program (Para. 60).
II. BACKGROUIND
2.        The Project is located betwieen the Quiroz and Chira Rivers on
the north and the Piura River on the south, about 1,000 kilometers north
of Lima near the Ecuador border (See Annex 1 Map). Works affecting it
have been constructed in two stages. Stage I ccnsisted of the diversion
works, canals and tunnels to supplement water from the Piura River for
irrigating about 31,0001/ ha only in the Piura Valley. These facilities
were financed by the Government from its own resources, and construction
was completed in 1953.
3.        Stage II had the objective of supplying water for irrigating
about 50,000 ha of new land in the project area and for providing supple-
mental water for the Piura Valley. It consisted of enlarging the Stage I
1/ All hectares referred to in this report are considered to be irrigable.



- 2 -
facilities and construction of the San Lorenzo Dam and Reservoir and the
canal and lateral system on the Project. It was completed in 1959 at a
total cost of S/ 718.5 million (US$26.6 million equivalent,    of which
the Bank financed the US$18 million foreign exchange costs 2/   From 1959
through August 31, 1964, the equivalent of US$120,91/ was spent for addi-
tional facilities, technical services, investigations, equipment, admin-
istration and on-farm investments.
4.        Effective and expeditious development and settlement did not
take place as expected in Stage II. Causes of delays were many, Local
pressures from farmers of the Piura Valley who desired a greater share of
the water supply at the expense of the development of part of the project
area were at the root of the problem. There was divided responsibility
and authority between the several agencies of the Government associated
with the Project, and little authority was delegated to Management. Nec-
essary legislation was delayed. Effective regulations and procedures
failed to materialize. Funds were insufficient for development of land
and for support of essential services and facilities. Water meant for the
project area was utilized by farmers of the Piura Valley for approximately
18,000 ha additional to the 31,000 ha for which they were entitled to water
from Stage I and II or a total of 49,000 ha.3/ This increased the pressure
frcm the Piura farmers to delay or abandon development of a substantial
portion of the project area on the argument that use of Project water in
the Piura would be more economic. The need for a basin survey to resolve
this problem prior to consideration of development beyond the 32,000 ha
contemplated in the proposed Bank loan is specified in paragraph 22,
5.        In 1961 the Bank reviewed the Project with special reference to
soil conditions. It recommended continuation of the original plans for
the project area with certain reductions. Further studies basic to the
most economic development of the lands of the Project were recommended.
The Bank also established an office in Peru to maintain constant liaison
with the Project,
6.        In early 1962 the Government approached the Bank for additional
financing for Stage III. The Bank pointed out that progress in land sales
1/ Dollar equivalent adjusted to present exchange rate.
2/ See Report No. T.0. 24-c dated March 25, 1955.
3/ This figure has since been reduced to an estimated 40,000 ha due to
salinity. A survey is currently underway to determine the magnitude
of the problem and to recommend solutions. This survey would support
the application for the Chira-Piura Project presented to the Bank in
mid-1964. The object of this project would be to divert water from
the Chira River to the lower Piura Valley to further supplement water
for the area.



-3
and in settlement had been disappointing, and outlined the steps needed
to insure the Project's success. It agreed to consider the request for
a further loan only after the Government had taken necessary remedial
action.
7.        In 1963 the new Government accorded greater priority to the Pro-
ject. A more effective organization with more autonomy stemming from the
President of Peru was created. Steps were taken to provide more funds.
Effective regulations and procedures were implemented, and a competent
and experienced Director General of the Project appointed. The pace of
development and settlement and provision of the necessary supporting serv-
ices and facilities was accelerated. As of May 1963, only about 6,100 ha
of irrigable land had been sold. By September 19644, 14,270 ha had been
sold, and mostly settled out of a possible total of 37,569 ha.
8.        For a period it appeared that Management at long last had the
continuing operational authority and backing to proceed. In May 1964,
however, there emerged a new and complicated law (Law 15037) which changed
lNanagement's line of authority from the Presidential level to the Minis-
terial level. The necessary Decrees to implement the new arrangement were
not issued and the status of San Lorenzo once again became confused,
9.        The Bank informed the Government in early October 196)4, that the
requested loan could not be considered until the Government took action to
again grant Management adequate operational and budgetary authority and
funds. On NTovember 25, 1964, the President signed two Decrees granting
such authorities for the Project. These have been studied in the Bank and
are considered satisfactory,
III.  THE SAN LOIR\EZO PROJECT AREA
Location and Irrigable Area
10.       The project area is interrelated with the Piura and the Chipillico
Valleys. Approximately 2,148 ha in the Chipillico and 40O,000 ha in the
Piura presently draw partially or wholly on the same facilities which supply
water to the Project. Planning prior to 1961 envisioned approximately
50,000 ha being settled on the Project. The Bank review of 1961 (Para. 5)
and investigations conducted subsequently by Management resulted in a re-
duction to 37,569 ha pending further investigations. Annex 1 Map shows the
location of the irrigation works and districts of the project area.
Physical Characteristics
11.       The project area is 100 to 250 meters above sea level.   The to-
pography varies from flat lands or gentle slopes in the flood plains of
the rivers to rolling, rough topography in parts of the San Isidro, Malin-
gas and Hualtaco districts.  The soils vary from the loamy sand of the



Parkinsonia, Algarrobo and Somate districts, to sandy loam in the Hualtaco,
M4alingas and San Isidro districts, to clay loam and clay in the Partidor
and parts of San Isidro and Malingas districts.
Climate
12.       Although located in the tropics, the zone has a desert climate.
Rainfall is negligible--about 3 inches annual average in the project area--
and its economic significance to the Project is nil. With irrigation a
full 365 day growing season is enjoyed and most crops can be planted at
any time, W^Jinter (May to November) temperatures range between 20- and 242
centigrade (682 to 750 Farenheit) while summer (December to April) tempera-
tures are above 24Q, sometimes moving as high as 370. Relative humidity is
fairly constant at 65 percent to 75 percent. Prevailing winds are from the
south.
Population
13.       The present population of the project area is approximately 750
families. These are largely former goat herders who had squatted on lands
in the project area, and former farm hands on haciendas of the area, each
of whom was entitled by law to purchase and settle a 6-8 ha-farm on the
Project.  When fully developed and settled, approximately 1,570 families
could be settled. Settlers additional to the existing 750 families would
come from all sections of Peru, and would qualify for eligibility accord-
ing to a system being used by Managements which rates each applicant accord-
ing to such factors as need, experience, industry, education and credit-
worthiness. Moreover, a new project headquarters known as San Lorenzo is
being built in the San Isidro district. It is estimated that when the Pro-
ject is in full production, more than 50,000 people of the project market
area would derive their livelihood from it either directly or indirectly.
The Department of Piura in which the Project is located is estimated to
have a total population of approximately 670,000, but only about half this
number could be considered to be in the project market area. Four towns--
Piura, Sullana, Talara and Paita--easily accessible to the Project, have
a combined population of approximately 181,000.
Land Settlement and Development
1h.       At the outset of Stage II it was projected that land development
and settlement of the Project would be completed by the end of 1962. This
target was not realized. In 1963, recognizing the inadequacy of funds for
land development and agricultural credit, the U. S. Agency for Interna-
tional Development (A.I.D.) made available us$5 million for these purposes.
These funds, together with improved management and services, enabled the
pace of land development and settlement to accelerate.
15.       Settlement and development during the 1965-67 period depends
greatly upon the continuation of adequate operational authority and funds



- 5 -
for Management, and the availability to the settlers of agricultural credit.
Demand for the land is great. As land has come into production and the
favorable yields have become known, applications exceed many times the land
available under each sale. Late in 1964 nearly 10,700 ha were being pro-
cessed for sale.
16.       Management has prepared a schedule of sales of irrigable and
classified land (Annex 2) divided into five economic soil types. If sales
proceed within a six month tolerance of schedule, it is estimated that by
the end of 1967 approximately 32,000 ha of the potential 37,569 would be
settled and under cultivation.
17.       Development, consisting of such improvements as leveling, ditch-
ing, fencing, construction of the farm dwelling and other farm buildings
etc., takes place after the settler assumes ownership, except in the Parkin-
sonia and Algarrobo districts where they would precede sale of the land,
The farmer is entitled to receive medium- and long-term credit for approxi-
mately 80 percent of the total of such costs. He may elect to do the work
himself in a manner approved by Management; or to have the work done by
Management on a reimbursable basis. Most farmers elect the latter method
for such items as leveling, ditching and dwelling construction.
Land Tenure and Use
18.       Farm sizes range from 6 ha minimum to a small number over 80 ha.
Each farm is classified by economic soil type (Para. 16 and Annex 2). The
minimum size of each is determined by its potential productivity according
to the formula based upon these soil types, As of August 31, 1964, approxi-
mately 60 percent of the total number of sales were in small sizes of 6 to
8 ha.  This resulted from the provision of the law requiring the first sales
to be to the squatters and farm hands (Para. 13) of the area. Only 3,000
ha of the 14,270 ha were divided into these small farros, The ave--age size
of all farms sold was approximately 19 ha. iWhen the Project is fully de-
veloped, the average size of all farms would be approxiriiately 24 ha.
19.       At the time the settler receives title to his land he must agree
to keep the farm and to cultivate it in a manner satisfactory to the Manage-
ment for a period of eight years. Land thus far settled is being farmed
principally in cotton, maize, root crops, fruit and other tree crops, vege-
tables and forage crops. Rice production is being discouraged because of
its high water requirements. The range of possible cropping patterns is
large, due to the year-around growing season and favorable soil types.
Cotton is grown only in the so-called winter season because of insect pests.
Management is strongly encouraging a diversified cropping pattern includ-
ing livestock, to spread water use, work, and income more evenly through-
out the year. It is expected that livestock production, especially dairy
production, would be a major source of income in the Algarrobo and Parkin-
sonia districts where more sandy soils predominate and forages thrive.



-6-
Irrigation Water Supply
20.      1Monthly water allocations are specified in each farm plan for
each year. These are based upon the hydrological and soils studies. Cur-
rently, water requirements are higher in the Parkinsonia, Algarrobo and
Somate districts of sandy soil than in other districts. There is not yet
sufficient experience in the Project, however, to determine the optimum
applications of water for each crop in each district. Management is cap-
able of solving this problem.
21.       Despite below average flow of the rivers for the past few years,
water supplies have been adequate for the Project and for the Piura and
Chipillico Valleys. The reservoir was drawn down to the extremely low
figure of 18 million m3 (maximum capacity is 250 million mi3) by the end
of the dry season in September 196h. Heavy rains during late September
and October raised the reservoir to approximately 94 million m3 at the
end of December. This reserve, plus estimated availabilities from the
rivers in 1965--based upon 1964 availabilities which were below average--
should produce a net availability of approximately 730 million m3 in 1965,
after deduction of 90 million m3 for a technical reserve in the reservoir
and for water losses. This would barely cover a full requirement totaling
725 million m3 for 1965, assuming an average of 20,000 ha under cultivation
on the Project, 40°,00 ha in the Piura, and the 2,148 ha in the Chipillico.
A normal supply from the Quiroz in 1965 would produce a net availability
of approximately 800 million m3 and build scme further reserve. On the
basis of these figures the water supply would be tight.
22.       Adequacy of water supplies for the Project beyond 1965 would be
affected by the degree of enforcement of the provisions of Supreme Decrees
of November 1964, specifying annual water allocations to the Project, the
Piura Valley and the Chipillico Valley. Given good enforcement, there
should be adequate water in normal years for the Project and the Chipillico.
There would not be adequate water, however, for the full 40,000 ha now esti-
mated under irrigation in the Piura (Para. 4) and alternate sources would
have to be found, or the hectares under irrigation reduced. Some Piura
farmers are drilling tubewells as a supplemental source, but the problem
needs to be treated on a broader basis. A basin survey is required to
provide the basis for a regional approach and should move forward without
delay. Appropriate assurances were obtained during negotiations that
water allocations would be enforced, and the Government would expedite the
basin survey.
Drainage
23.       Management is conducting some field investigations designed to
anticipate drainage problems as the Project develops. These investigations
are not sufficient. It is desirable that a comprehensive drainage and
salinity survey of the Project be made without delay supervised by an ex-
perienced consulting firm, and that construction of an adequate drainage
system in critical areas be undertaken during 1966 and 1967 (Para. 33).



-7-
Services
2h.       The Project has a well developed system of services, thus far
concentrated principally in the higher developed districts of San Isidro,
Partidor, Malingas and Somate. Services available to the settlers without
cost are in the fields of agricultural extension, farm planning, marketing,
home economics, education, public health, and social services. Medical
and hospital care is available on a partially reimbursable basis. These
services are already yielding benefits in terms of better farm planning,
higher yields, and more rapid adjustment of the settlers to their new en-
vironment.
25.       One important service not yet adequately organized is that of
the Agricultural Experiment Stations. There are two stations, each con-
taining approximately 150 ha in the Partidor and the Algarrobo districts.
These have been poorly managed and have provided little useful information.
The Partidor station has recently been reorganized. The Algarrobo station
needs reorganization. Technical assistance is needed for both stations.
Marketing
26.       Marketing has not been a problem so far.  Local markets slhould
absorb most of the cereals and root crops, and part of the dairy products
and fruits. Other Peruvian markets should absorb the remainder of the dairy
products and part of the fruit. Export markets would be relied on to absorb
the balance of the fruit and all of the cotton fiber production. Cotton
fiber and seed processing in nearby mills raise no specific problems. Ex-
port demand for the Project's Pima Cotton (long staple) should continue
good but prices may drop in the 1970?s.
27.       Anticipated problems of marketing relate primarily to tree crop
products (mango, citrus, avocado) and vegetables which, partly in processed
form, would have to be exported, and to dairy products for the dcmestic
market. Marketing of these camodities pose many problems (quality, grad-
ing, processing, transportation, packaging, etc.) with which Management is
not familiar. Although the volume of tree crop production would not ex-
ceed local consumption until the 1970 s, it is important now to undertake
comprehensive studies as a basis for good planning. Technical assistance
would be needed for this task.
IV. THE PROJECT - STAGE III
28.       Stage III is the further development of the 14,270 ha and the
settlement and development of approximately 17,700 ha of new land, to
bring into full production a total of approximately 32,000 ha by the end
of 1967. It would include the following: Operations and Maintenance
(O&M), land development and roads equipment; drainage and ancillary works;
technical services and training, and supporting facilities, materials and



- 8 -
equipment; agricultural credit to finance on-farm investments and produc-
tion costs; and financing to the Government to cover the costs of consult-
ing services for the Basin Program. Bank financing would supplement
Government and settlers contributions and the remaining A.I.D. funds for
the programs. Cost estimates and financing by source are presented in
paras. 52 and 53.
O.&M., Land Development and Roads Equipment; Drainage and Ancillary Works
29.       A. O.&M. and Land Development Equipment
Management would have a heavy and continuing responsponsibility
for operation and maintenance of the irrigation facilities and canal roads,
and for leveling and ditching of land. These require heavy mechanical
equipment. Much of the existing equipment has outlived its useful life
and must be replaced,
30.       B. Roads Equipment
The Government requested Stage III road financing for construc-
tion and asphalt surfacing of approximately 104 kma of main artery roads,
and for equipment for graveling about 200 km of canal roads.
31.       The great bulk of traffic which would use the project road system
for the foreseeable future would originate in the project area or would
be closely related to the people and products of the Project. The basic
justification must therefore arise from the Project. Asphalted roads rate
a relatively low priority until the Project is more completely developed
and the production of the project area generates enough traffic, supported
by increased traffic from without, to justify the necessary expense.
32.       Gravel roads are justified, however, in these areas not serviced
adequately by the canal roads. Some such roads have been constructed by
Management using its own or rented equipment and its own engineers. They
are well ccnstructed, and cost only about 60 percent of the estimates of
the consulting engineers. It is therefore proposed that the Bank act on
the experience Management has gained and finance equipment for Management
to continue its program of constructing necessary gravel roads, as well as
to continue its practice of graveling canal roads. The same equipment is
needed for land development and for operation and maintenance work. Its
provision would enable Management to have alternate but complementary uses
for both engineering personnel and equipment at considerable savings in
cost.
33.       C,  Drainage and Ancillary Works
Some drainage and salinity problems have emerged and would be
further identified by a proposed survey (Para. 36). Financing has been
provided in the proposed loan to enable construction in 1966 and 1967 of



- 9 -
a system of drainage works to service approximately 5,000 ha in the most
critical areas. Construction would be dependent on prior Bank approval.
34.       Management would provide the necessary ancillary works and facil-
ities for the Project. These would include service centers still required,
improvement of the experiment stations, and construction of better head-
quarters' facilities. Service centers would provide administration, opera-
tion and maintenance facilities, technical services, machinery pools,
schools, stores, hospitals, auditoriums, etc. All service centers are
scheduled to be completed by the end of 1965.
Technical Services, Facilities and Equipment
35.       A. Services
The original request for Stage III financing did not contain any
element of technical assistance. In the course of the project apFraisal,
however, the need for technical assistance and related training in specific
fields clearly emerged and was agreed by Management.
36.       There is sufficient experience on the Project to indicate that
some drainage and salinity problems can be expected. The problem areas
would be identified without delay and an appropriate drainage system would
be designed and constructed in the critical areas (Paras. 23 and 33).
Management would engage a firm of consultants, satisfactory to the Bank,
to supervise a comprehensive drainage and salinity survey, to prepare the
general plan of the recommended project drainage system, and to prepare
the preliminary design, plans and specifications for the most critical areas.
37.       Work at the experiment stations has lagged (Para. 25).   Moreover,
there is too little coordination of research at these stations with that
of the National Agricultural University and the Ministry of Agriculture.
A team of short-term consultants from an experiment station located in an
arid area is needed for approximately three months to study the Project
research program and to recommend a future program. The services of one
consultant is needed on a continuing basis for two years to assist Manage-
ment in implementing such a program.
38.       The equipment management program needs improvement. An effective
preventative maintenance program would be instituted and enforced by Manage-
ment. More effective use of project vehicles is needed. Other aspects of
equipment management can be improved. A consultant for a two-year period
is required to assist Management in instituting and implementing such a
program, including training.
39.       As agricultural production increases, the settlers are expected
to encounter marketing problems (Para. 27). The services of a consultant
is needed for a two-year study with particular reference to fruit, live-
stock and vegetables.



- 10 -
40.       Vocational and artisan schools are needed and a limited amount
of equipment is proposed for such schools (Para. 42)e The services of a
consultant experienced in this field is needed for approximately three
months to study the curriculum and facilities, to recommend a course of
action and to assist in the refinement of the education equipment list ac-
cordingly.
41.       The local technical services for the settlers and the necessary
O.&M. and administrative services for the Project would be provided by
Management. They will also provide the local research and investigative
services0
42.       B.  Equipment and Facilities
Some imported equipment is necessary to continue and improve
essential services.  This would include vehicles, laboratory and agricul-
tural equipment for the experiment stations, and equipment for vocational
and artisan schools.
43.       While justification exists for these items during the develcp.
ment phase, Management would avoid the temptation of purchasing equipment
to provide marginal services or those which could be provided by private
operators at reasonable costs. If development and settlement proceed on
a reasonable basis, the need for Project-otmed equipment, other than for
O.&4. services, would possibly be limited to three or four additional
years by which timethe provision of such services as extension, health
and education would possibly be assumed by the respective Government
agencies or by a regional organization.
The Agricultural Credit Progran
844       The settlers would require short-term credits to finance annual
recurring production costs, as well as medium- and long-term credits to
finance on-farm investment costs. The short-term production credits would
be provided entirely by the Banco de Fomento Agropecuario (Banco) from its
ovn resources, through its San Lorenzo Agency (the Agency) (Annex 3) lo-
cated at the San Isi To service center. No Bank funds would be used for
short-term credits./
45.       Bank funds would be for the medium- and long-term. credits to the
settlers through the Agency. The on-farm investments to be financed would
include land development, housing, machinery, livestock and semen, and
tree crops. The projected schedule for on-farm investments is shoTri in
Annex 4, Table 1.
1/ Further financing to the Banco for a country-wide program of medium-
and long-term agricultural credit is currently under consideration
by the Bank.



46.       Land development would include leveling, ditching, fencing and
construction of farm structures except dwellings. The housing program
would finance approximately 850 additional farm homes of minimal standards
for settlers, Construction would be approximately 90 percent from local
materials. Houses would be built by the Housing Division, or by private
contractors in accordance with plans and specifications designed or ap-
proved by the Project architects and under their supervision. The rate
of construction is reaching one house per day. As of August 31, 1964,
365 houses had been built and the results were very good. Satisfactory
housing has contributed much to successful development of land thus far
settledO,
47.       The livestock program would be principally one of financing
breeding herds of imported Brown Swfiss or other breeds of cattle proven
adaptable to the area, or semen, for selected farms. As such, it would
constitute an extension to San Lorenzo of the National Livestock Policy
and Program the Bank has been financing for some years through the Banco.
Bank loan funds for such cattle would be limited to settlers with expe-
rience in cattle management and whose operations are sufficiently large
to support a breeding herd of approximately twenty or more producing cows.
Some financing to smaller settlers is contemplated for domestically pro-
duced improved cattle&
48.       The machinery program would finance the settlerst needs for
tractors, implements, tools and related sPare pa: -ts. The tree crops pro-
gram would finance the purchase of stocks from nurseries operated by
Management, and the establishment and initial care of tree crops on an
area approximating 5,000 ha. Plantings would be carried out over a ten-
year period, only four years of which would be financed under the loan.
Electric Power
49.       Reference has been made in paragraph 1 to the request for a small
hydroelectric power installation and related transmission facilities. The
plant would be located at a drop on the Yuscay Canal on-the Project. Power
for the service centers is presently being provided in each service center
by diesel electric generators. Power is not available for farm electrifi-
cation. As settlement and development progress and agricultural production
increases, electric power on the farms would be important both in terms of
economic and social consequences.
50.       A power survey is currently being made by a qualified firm of
consultants. This is not yet completed, however, and too little is known
as to the merits of the various alternative sources of power, their possi-
ble interrelationship with other consuming areas, and costs, to make a
reasonable appraisal of the power request at this stage.   Accordingly,
finance for power development is not involved in the present loan.



- 12 -
Basin Program
51.       Northwestern Peru is an area of much potential development.
Such development, however, has and will continue to be hindered until a
regional, integrated approach to the use of its scarce water and related
resources is adopted. As indicated in Paragraph 22, the resources of
the Region should be surveyed, plans should be developed for financing
and implementing projects for the utilization of these resources in ac-
cordance with a system of priorities, and adequate arrangements should
be made to administer such a Basin Program at the local level. Bank
loan funds would finance the services of a firm of consultants with an
international reputation in the field of regional development to conduct
the basin survey, to prepare the plans for financing and implementation
of projects, and for preparing recommendations and assistance for the im-
plementation of these plans.
V. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
520       Cost estimates have been calculated on the basis of interna-
tional prices for imported equipment and technical services. Costs of
local services, facilities, ancillary works, administration and on-farm
investments have been checked against approximately three-year experience
on the Project. Cost of drainage works have been checked on a per hectare
basis against similar works with which the Bank has had experience. Short-
term on-farm production costs have not been included in the cost estimates
because they are of a recurring nature and are liquidated annually through
crop liens and would not be financed under the loan. Cost estimates for
the 1964-67 programs of the Project, excluding debt service, short-term
credit and costs of the Basin Program, are shown below and on the follow-
ing page:
Program                           Cost Estimatesl/
Million         U.S. Dollar
Soles          equivalent
millions
A. O.&M., Land Development and
Road Equipment; Drainage and
Ancillary Works                          245.3              9ol
B. Technical Services, Facilities
and Equipment                            100.2              3.7
C. Cn-farm Investments (Medium- and
Long-Term Agricultural Credit)           399.4             12.6
D.  Administration                           120.0              4.4
Total                               804.9             29.8
1/ Costs of the Basin Program totaling $0.6 million are not included
because they are not costs attributable to the San Lorenzo Project,



- 13 -
53.       The proposed sources of financing the costs of these programs
are shown below, in millions:
Programs to be Financed.i/
Sources        A.     B.      C.       D.               Total
Soles  US$ Eqv. Percentage
Farmers2/      -       -     66.8    11514   182.2     6.7       22.8
Government   178.1    71.8     .7      4.6   255e2     9.4       31.6
A.I.D.          -      -     89.o0/    -      89,0     3.3       11.1
T.B.R.D.      67.2   28.4  182.9       -     278e5    10,4       34.5
Total        245.3 100l 2   339e4    120.0   804.9    29,8      100l 0
1/  See paragraph 52 for title of each program.   Does not include Basin
Program.
2/ Includes farmers initial share of on-farm investment costs, repay-
ments on land and investment loans, and water charges.
3/ Contributions cease about mid-1965.
54.       The Bank loan for Stage III would be divided into £oreign ex-
change and local currency estimated as follows, in millions:
LC               FX
Program    Soles    US$ Eqv.     Soles       -    Soles
A.       67,2        2.5       25.4    37,8     41.8    62.2
B.       28.4        1.1        -       -       28.4   100.0
C.      182,5       6.8       100.4    57.1     78.5    42.9
D.        -           _         _       _        _       _
Total      278.5      10.4       129.8    46.6    148.7    53.4
55.       In addition to the contributions shown in paragraph 53, the
Government would also be responsible for debt service (See Annex 5) total-
ing the equivalent of soles 203 million through 1967. Moreover, the Banco
would be expected to provide a revolving fund of approximately soles 180
million for short-term production credits to the settlers. The Government
would also be responsible for debt service for the Basin Program.
56.       The projected schedule of disbursements under the proposed Bank
loan is presented in Annex 4, Table 2. Documentation which the Bank would



- 14 -
require for disbursement would be different for the imported equipment
and services, and for agricultural credit. Disbursements for equipment
imported by Management would be against standard purchase and shipping
documents, and should occur largely in the first year of the loan. Dis-
bursements for imported technical services would be for service rendered
and associated costs as specified in each contract. A disbursement pro-
cedure satisfactory to the Bank for the construction costs of the drainage
works would be determined when the survey is completed and the method of
construction is agreed upon.
57.       The agricultural credit program would involve disbursements for
sub-loans to the settlers for procurement locally--either from local
dealers, private contractors or Management--of eligible items whose origin
is both local and imported. Inasmuch as Management performs most of the
land development services, constructs housing, imports livestock and semen,
and produces tree crop nursery stock for resale to the settlers--all on a
reimburseable basis--a revolving fund was established in order that Manage-
ment would have the funds to perform these services and purchases. The
funds for the revolving fund were initially derived from an A.I.D. advance
and Government contributions. Services were performed by Management, the
costs were allocated to each farm, and the settler received a sub-loan
from the Banco to reimburse Management for those costs which Management
had incurred on his behalf. A statement of sub-loans to settlers is pre-
sented periodically by the Banco to A.I.D. and this certified statement
serves as the documentation for A.I.D. disbursement to the Banco of further
funds for re-lending.i/ The same method is used for the settlers purchases
of farm machinery from local dealers.
58.       The Bank loan funds for agricultural credit would become effec-
tive as soon as the A.I.D. funds are exhausted about mid-1965 and would
be used to finance the same items A.I.D. is now financing. Under the pro-
posed Bank loan the system of documentation and disbursement presently
employed by A.I.D. would be continued in a similar fcrm. Bank disburse-
ments would be made against statements of expenditures presented by the
Banco showing sub-loans made to settlers for eligible items under the Bank
loan. Bank disbursement would be for 100 percent of the amounts of sub-
loans made to settlers shown on each list.
59.       Sub-loans would average up to 80 percent of the total cost to
the settler for land development, machinery, livestock or semen, and tree
crop plantings. The remaining 20 percent would be borne by the settler.
Sub-loans for housing would each have a maximum financing level of 45,000
soles (less than US$1,700) per house. The settler would bear all costs
over this figure. Most houses thus far ccnstructed have been within the
maximum cost figure.
1/ The Bank uses a similar system of documentation under Uruguay Loan
245 U.R. and Paraguay I.D.A. Credit P.A. 47.



- 15 -
60,       Costs of a contract for consulting services and supporting fa-
cilities for the Basin Program through December 31, 1967, are estimated
at the equivalent of US$0o6 million. Disbursements against such contract
would probably be spread rather uniformly throughout this period on a
monthly basis.
61.       Documents executed or payments made after August 31, 1964, for
eligible items on all programs in which the Bank is participating would be
acceptable for disbursements.
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Organization and Management at the Government Level
62.       The National Agrarian Council (C.N.A.), chaired by the lMinister
of Agriculture, is the policy making body for the Project. The Director
General of the Project reports directly to the Minister as Chairman. The
agency within the Ministry responsible for providing backstopping for the
Management is the Institute of Agrarian Reform (I.R.P.A.), formerly I.R.A.C.
I.R.P.A. also Reviews the procedures, budgets, and operating policies of
Management and makes appropriate recommendations to the C.N.A. It is yet
too new to enable an accurate appraisal of its efficiency.
63.       The Supreme Decrees signed by the President and the Minister on
November 25, 1964, grant the Director of San Lorenzo adequate operational
authority and funds which, when supplemented by the proposed Bank loan,
would be sufficient to enable the operations of the Project and develop-
ment and settlement to proceed.
Organization and Management at the Project Level
64.       Operation of the Project is the responsibility of Management,
headquartered on the Project. The organization is shown in Annex 6. It
consists of the Director General, his deputy, four staff offices (Legal,
Planning, Social and Welfare and Public Relations) and five operating
divisions (Administration, Agriculture, Engineering, Economics and Hous-
ing).
65.       The project area has been divided into seven irrigation districts.
Responsibility for operation and maintenance of the irrigation works is
vested in the Chief of the Engineering Division, a civil engineer with ex-
tensive experience. Both the Chiefs of the Maintenance and Operations De-
partments are civil engineers and operate under the Chief Engineer. Both
have had adequate experience.
66.       The central equipment repair shop is operated by the Administra-
tion Division and is supervised by a chief mechanic. While a reasonably
satisfactory job of equipment management and maintenance has been done,



- 16 -
some improvement is desirable. Technical assistance would be provided
under the loan to help implement such improvements (Para. 38).
67.       Most of the technical assistance or services to settlers such
as extension, home demonstration, adult education and operation of the
tree nurseries and experimental stations operate under the Chief of the
Agriculture Division. Although relatively new on the Project, he has had
extensive experience and is qualified*
68.       All inventory control, accounting and internal auditing is per-
formed in the Administration Division. The Chief is adequately trained.
The Division appears to be operating efficiently, The accounts of the Pro-
ject are further audited annually by the auditors from the Government and
also by a private firm.
Administration of Lending Operations
69.       The present status of the system of credit to settlers is de-
scribed in detail in Annex 3. The San Lorenzo Agency of the Banco is the
agent for making loans to the settlers for their capital requirements0
Since July 1961, when it was set up, the Agency has developed into an ef-
ficient and sound credit institution worling in close cooperation with
Management. The continuation of the Project at the proposed accelerated
pace would call for staff increase which would be met in time by the Banco's
head office. The organization, lending policies and procedures, which have
proved efficient, would remain unchanged.
70.       The Agency is assisted by the technical staff of the Project in
administration of the agricultural credit program. They assist in the
preparation of the farm plans, and in determining the credit needs of each
settler. They help determine each settlers credit-worthiness and serve
as members of the credit committee which recommends the sub-loans.. Follow-
ing sub-loan approval the extension agents and other technicians work with
the settlers to assist them to make their operations most effective. This
system of assistance and supervision is working well.
71.       Management can provide valuable assistance to the future loan
operations of the Agency by instituting more systematic collection and
recording of the operating results of established farms. Precise data
are indispensable as a basis for orienting development and eventually for
deciding upon changes in cropping patterns and for extending credit to
settlers.
Udministration of the Basin Program
72.       Responsibility on behalf of the Government for administration
of the Basin Program would be vested in the office of the President of the
Republic of Peru. A Northwestern Peru Regional Development Service, with
headquarters in that Region, would bear, under the President of the Republic,



- 17 -
the responsibility for carrying out the Basin Program. The firm of con-
sultants would conduct the survey, and advise and assist the Service in
its responsibilities.
VII, OPERATING RESULTS
73.       The cash flow of the Project has been projected through 1985--
the life of the loan--and is shown in Annex 5. During the investment
period 1965-67 Project revenues would be small. From 1967 through 1970
revenues would increase substantially and expenditures would decline.
From 1971 forward through 1979 revenues would be sufficient to meet all
costs and provide some reserves. From 1980 forward substantial surpluses
would occur annually, and would be available to be returned to the Govern-
ment development budget for financing other development projects.
74.       Water charges and the proceeds from land sales would pay for
O.&M. costs and would recover investments since 1955 in the irrigation
facilities and ancillary works (Stage II and Stage III) in 40 years. Ac-
cording to projected production and income figures, farmers would be able
to make water payments and repayments of loans for land and on-farm in-
vestments without undue strain, and obtain a discounted rate of return
on their investments of approximately 18 percent, after taxes, and deduct-
ing the value of farm labor.
VIII. BBIEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
75.       Present gross value of agricultural production in San Lorenzo
at about 145 million soles (Annex 7) is seven percent of the value of agri-
cultural production in the Piura Department and only about one-half percent
of the agricultural production of Peru.  However, at full development in
1977, valued at 560 million soles, this share might increase to over 25
percent of the Piura Department and be 2-3 percent of the total Peruvian
agricultural production. For specific commodities the share of national
output of San Lorenzo production would be higher. For fruits (citrus and
other, but excluding bananas) it may be around ten percent; for cotton,
yuca and maize about seven percent; for pasture over five percent, The
expected pace of development is based on recent past experience and future
prospects.
76.       Most of the incremental net value of production would be due to
increases in fruit trees, cotton and pasture/milk, the remainder being
taken up by maize, yuca and vegetables. Yields, prices and gross and net
production figures are shown in Annex 7. The annual increase in the net
value of production in the San Lorenzo and the Lower Piura areas since the
beginning of the investments in the irrigation facilities in 1955 when
Stage II began, and projected over the 50 year project life is estimated



- 18 -
as equivalent to an internal rate of return to the economy of approximate-
ly 14 percent. The incremental net value of production of the area to be
settled resulting from the presently proposed investments is estimated,as
equivalent to an internal rate of return of approximately 16 percent.1!
77.       In 1966, the San Lorenzo area would produce more than US$7 mil-
lion equivalent foreign exchange revenues from cotton exports. Cotton,
fruit and vegetable exports together would provide more than 50 percent
of the total agricultural gross income of San Lorenzo, or appraximately
US$12 million equivalent by 1977 excluding incremental cotton exports from
the Lower Piura. The Project would also reduce imports for dairy products,
or at least prevent further increases, as growing population and increasing
income lead to a fast graxing demand for milk and milk productso
78.       The Project is the biggest of its kind ever undertaken in Peru
and represents an important step toward relieving a very heavy population
pressure for arable land in the country. It would also provide a substan-
tial increase in employment due to the intensive character of production.
The production of vegetables, fruits and milk should favor the establish-
ment of processing plants in the area.
79.       The importance of San Lorenzo as a pilot scheme for the rest of
the country is already noticeable in the fields of irrigation, settlement,
agricultural education and social services.
IX. CCMCLUSICNS AND REC0MMETDATIONS
80.       Further development of the San Lorenzo Project should enable the
settlement of approximately 850 families on an additional 17,700 ha of land
and bring a total of approximately 32,000 ha into production by late 1967e
Such settlement is warranted by the yields and production being obtained
from the land on the Project now settled, by the estimated internal rate
of return of the proposed investments, and by the projected net rate of
financial return to the farmer.
81.       The Project is technically sound and is economically justified.
A loan totaling US$11.0 million is warranted for project equipment, drain-
age works and technical services and medium- and long-term agricultural
credit, and for the Basin Program. The Borrower would be the Republic of
Peru, the administering organization would be the Project Management for
the Stage III portion of the loan, and an appropriate term would be 20
years, including a grace period of four years0
?./ The costs of the Basin Program have not been considered in these cal-
culations since such costs are attributable to the entire Northwestern
Peru Region and not to the Project.



- 19 -
82.       During negotiations assurances satisfactory to the Bank were
obtained as follows:
a. Funds totaling at least soles 255 million in addi-
tion to approximately soles 203 million for debt
servicing, would be provided by the Government
during the 1965-67 period as required for the Pro-
ject (Paras. 53 and 55).
b. Water charges as provided in the Supreme Decrees of
November 25, 1964, would be collected, and projected
cost deficits during the investment period and there-
after in the first years of operation would be met by
Government allocations (Annex 5)e
c.  Operational authority contained in the Supreme Decrees,
or as otherwise agreed to by the Bank, would continue
to be delegated to Management during the life of the
loan to assure satisfactory operation and management
of the Project (Parao 9).
d. The Bank's funds for financing credits to settlers for
imported cattle would be limited, except as the Bank
may otherwise agree, to settlers with experience in
cattle management and whose operations are sufficient-
ly large to support a breeding herd of approximately
20 or more producing cows (Para. 47)
e. Management would obtain technical assistance to be
financed under the Bank loan, satisfactory to the Bank,
to study and assist in implementing improved programs
of research, equipment management, vocational educa-
tion, and marketing (Paras. 35-40).
f. Management would engage a firm of consultants under
the Bank loan, satisfactory to the Bank, to conduct a
comprehensive drainage and salinity survey of the
entire project area (Paras. 23 and 36).
g. The system and percentages of water allocations con-
tained in the Supreme Decree of November 25, 1964,
would be enforced and water-use managed in a manner
which would assure adequate water for the Project
(Para. 22).
h. The Government would engage a firm of consultants with
international experience in the field of regional de-
velopment to undertake the Basin Program (Paras. 22
and 51).
March 26, 1965



SAN LORENZO PROJECT
PE RU
ECUADOR
J,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
JANUARY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tSi 195oBR-160
S..ate ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~o Sric  etr
a Gasping Station
0  5  0  0                      T.2. Tusei
JANUARY i965



PERU - SAN LORENZO PROJECT
LAND SALES AND PROJECTED SALES BY ECONOMIC GROUP OF IRRIC-ABLE LAND
A       B       C         D         E       Total    Cumulative
-            Hectares            -
Sales through August 31, 1964_1/           3,553    225     8,o75     1,875      542    14,270      14s270
Projected Sales through June, 1965         12585     12     69,02     1,954      730    10,683      24,953
Projected Sales June 1965 - Decemnber 1966   -       -      2,253     4,547      316     7,11.6     32,069
Projected Sales after 1966                   730    2]5     2,h38     1,761      356     5,500      37,569
Total                            5,868    452    19,168    10,137    1,944    37,569
1/ Sales by size of Parcel were as follows:
Up   to    8           Total Area          No. of Sales
801   to   13           (hectares)
13.1   to   20              39000                448
1450               146
20.1   to   40                906                 55
40.1   to   60             13s934                 67
3,695                 714
60,1   to   80              2,006                 29
M4ore than  80              2,279                 29
Total                      14s,270               748                                      '



ANNEX 3
P E R U
SAN IOREN70 AGENCY
BANCO DE FOMENTO AGROPECUARIO
1        The San Lorenzo Agency (the Agency) of the Banco de Fomento
Agropecuario del Peru (Banco) was opened in July 1961 to cater for the
credit requirements of the settlers under the San Lorenzo Project. Its
head office is in San Isidro, an important service center of the irrigated
area; a nobile office is to function shortly to serve four other service
centersl1 once a week.
2.        The staff of the Agency has been adequate to handle the credit
operations of about 750 settlers and a few deposit accounts. The staff
would be increased as new settlers are brought in. The accounting system
is satisfactory and up-to-date. Auditing is carried out by the inspectors
of the Banco.
3.        Like similar agencies of the Banco it is empowered to carry out
lending operations with farmers or settlers. It can conduct banking opera-
tions with any depositors.
4.        Medium- and long-term loars to settlers are made on a special
trust fund 4eposited with the Banco by the Institute of Agrarian Reform
(I.R.P.A.)!/ and U.S. A.I.LT. contributions of S/ 115 million (US$0.4
million) and S/ 134 million (US$5 million), respectively. A.I.D. made
available an initial advance of $200,000 to the trust fund and replenishes
the fund as loans are disbursed. The amount still undisbursed and the
availabilities on the I.R.P.A. contribution amounted to S/ 89 million 
(about US$3.3 million) as at August 31, 1964.
5.        An agreement of March 1962 between the Banco and I.R.A.C. set
forth the general lending policies and defined the relations and respon-
sibilities of each institution. It gave the Agency full authority to
carry out lending operations with settlers, including the assessment of
the settlers' repayment capacity and credit ratings, approval of the loan
agreements, the keeping of records of loans and loan collections.
1/ Partidor, Malingas, Hualtaco, Somate.
2/ Formerly I.R.A.C.
3/ This includes advances to a "Revolving Fund of the project adminis-
tration" in an amount of S/ 23 million (about US$0.9 million).



ANNEX 3
Page 2
6.        Farm and credit plans are worked out by technicians of the San
Lorenzo Project Mainagement in agreement with the settlers. The procedure
involves the cooperation of the Bancots Agency in charge of the appraisal
of the settlers' creditworthiness and the various elements of the Manage-
ment; (1) the Division of Agricultural Engineering makes all plans related
to the settlement lots; (2) the Division of Construction makes the design
and cost estimates of buildings; (3) the Department of Rural Administra-
tion within the Economic Division is in charge of planning the settlerst
needs for farm equipment and livestock and of working out a land-use plan.
7.        Loan applications and related plans are submitted to a Credit
Committee, including the Chief of the Agency and representatives of the
departments of the Management involved in the installation of farmers, The
Banco's representative is entitled to reject applications on the grounds
that the settlers' repayment capacity is insufficient or that their former
repayment records are unsatisfactory. An Administrative Committee of the
Agency which consists of the Chief of the Agency and the Chief Accountant
reviews each case before the loan is finalized. The procedures are exe-
cuted expeditiously.
8.        Short-term crop loans are made by the Banco from its own resources
on the recommendation of the Credit Committee of the Agency. When a repre-
sentative is in conflict with the other members of the Credit Committee,
these may recommend the loan to be made on the Trust Fund. The Bancots
risks regarding short-term loans are very small because they are repayable
on the settlers' proceeds of crops prior to the payment of other types of
loans which are themselves repayable prior to the payment for the land.
Short-term crop loans are eligible for discount with the Banco Central de
Reserva (Central Bank) at a rate of 2 percent.
9.        Specifications and terms and conditions of loans are summarized
in Table 1. Short-term loans are made for a period up to one year; long-
term loans are up to 20 years, including a period of grace up to three
years. The rate of interest on short- and long-term loans is 7 percent.
The security is a crop lien for short-term loans, a chattel mortgage for
farm machinery and livestock loans and a property mortgage for long-term
loans.
10.       The Banco's remuneration consists of the 5 percent margin between
the rate of discount of short-term loans with the Central Bank and the to-
tality of interest at 7 percent charged on long-term loans. The operating
and administrative expenses of the Banco's Agency for the year 1963/64 are
estimated not to exceed 2 percent of the average amount of loans outstand-
ing leaving, therefore, a sizeable margin to take care of the Banco's
general expenses.
11.       Lending operations to August 30, 1964, carried out by the Banco
with the San Lorenzo settlers include over 2,000 long-term loans for an
amount of about S/65.9 million (about US$2.5 million) and 1,264 short-term



ANTEX 3
Page 3
loans for about S/60 million (about US$2o2 million). The settlerst repay-
ment records have been excellent so far; they are expected to remain so
if favorable conditions of marketing continue to Irevail. The provisional
balance sheet of the Agency as at August 31, l964, is given in Table 3.
12.       Since it started operations, the Agency has gained valuable ex-
perience and is now capable of handling a considerably higher volume of
operations efficiently.  It will need, however, some additional staff as
operations develop further, especially if the pace of lending is speeded
up.



TABLE I
SAN LORENZO PROJECT
TERKS AND CONDITIONS OF LOANS TO SETTLERS
Terms       Srace
Purposes            Amount       Incl. Grace     Period      Paymant        Security        Interest      Repayment
Short-Term Crop Loans     Operating 4 living    Up to 80% of       1 yr           -       By install-     Crop lien     7% on amount     Principal
expenses until the    gross output                                                                             & interest
crop is sold                                                    ments as                       outstanding     at maturi-
ty dats
expenditures                   from tium to
Long-Term Loans
Farm machinery            Purchase of farm      Actual cost         8 yrs                 are made        Chattel        tima; not       Annuities
machinery, imple-                                                                mortgage      compounded
ments' draft          within cail-                                               on machin-                    inclpfined
animals                                                                          ery and/or
ings for                                                  livestock                      amount on
Livestock loans           Purchase of
breeding stock        each cate-         12 yrs         3                                                      principal
Development loans         Erection of houses    gory               20 yrs         5                       Property                       & earmed
& farm buildings;                                                                mortgage
all land improvao                                                                                               interast
Agricultural loans        Establishment of                         15 yrs         5                        Property
tree crops planta-                                                               mortgage &
tions                                                                            crop lien
Ceilings on Loans         Ceilings are set for each category of loans and for each settler in accordance vith the capabilities of the land and
budgets of investetnts and costs of production0



AN NEX 3
TABLE 2
SAN LORENTZO AG&JCY OF
THE BANCO AGROPECUARIO DEL PERU
Summary Balance Sheet (Provisional) as at August 31, 1964
(in S/fOOO)
A S S E T S
Cash in hand                                      2,193.2
Loan Portfolio
Short-Term
Loans to settlers              l44hlO.O
Advances on loans                   3.0
Miscellaneous debtors               30O
Advances to personnel              68e.1
Sub-total            14,484.l
Long-Term
Agricultural loans                718.2
Livestock loans                   456.o
Farm machinery loans           10,329.9
Development loans              38,693.7
Advances on loans                 144eiO
Sub-total            50341.8          64,82509
Miscellaneous assets                                 42.2
Fixed assets                                        406.6
Expenditures                                        716 3
Total Assets                           68,184h2
L I A B I L I T I E S
IRAC (Trust Fund)                                47, 518.2
Piura Branch                                     15,77h46
Suspense account                                  3p179.2
Sundry liabilities                                  550e3
Income                                            1, 162,0
Total Liabilities                      68,184.3



ANNEx 4
TABLE 1
SAN IDRENZO PROJECT
PROJECTED SCHEDULE FOR ON-FARM ITVESTMENTS
Sep 1964-
Dec 1965        1966        1967       Total
-    Moillion Soles   -
E2cpendituresl/
Land development               86.2          54.0       24.1      164.3
Houses                         18.0          14.O        9.1       41.1
Machinery, implements          45.3          19,2      12e8        77.3
Livestock and Semen             8.2           4.8       6.0        19.0
Tree Crops                      9,2         10.5       18,0        37.7
Total               166.9         102.5       70.0      339.4
Soiuces
AID                            89.0           -           -        89.0
Banco                           2.3           -           -          2.3
IBRD                           50.1          81.8      51.0       182.9
Loan collections                3,8           7.2       9.0        20e0
Farmers                        21c7          13.5       10.0        45.2
Total               166.9         10265       70.0      339.4
1/ After 1967, expected investments in plantations will amount to
S/39.5 million, 20 percent of' which would be financed by the farmers



ANN    
TABLE 2
PERU - SAIN IORENZO PROJECT
PROJECTED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEl.TS
OF BANK LOAM BY -AJOR CATEGCQ  EST7/
Item                 Total     1st Year    2nd Year    3rd Year
-    Thousand Dollars     -
A. Operations and Manage.-
ment, Land Development
and Roads Equipment         1,250      1,250         --
B.  Drainage Works              1,250        -           600          650
C.  Technical Services,         19070        790         170         110
D.  Agricultural Credit         6,780      1,860       3,030       1,890
Total                10,350       3,900       3,800       2,650
1/ Does not include disbursements for the Basin Program, which are ex-
pected to take place uniformly through the third year.



P E R U
SAN LORENZO PROJECT INVESTMIENTS
PROJECTED CASHFLOW 1965-1985
1965   1966  1967   1968   1969  1970   1971  1972   197;  1974   1975   1976  1977   1978   1979  1980   1981   1982  1983   1984   1985
Millions of Soles
CASH FLOW
0& land development
and roads equipment;
drainae and ancill1ary
worksa7                 56.5 106.9   81.9    -     -      -      -      -     -      -     -
Technical services,
facilities and equip-
ment                    58.5   33.3    8.4   -      -     _-                                      -      -      -     -      -
Administration (O&w)/   4O.o  hOxo   4Oxo   12.5  12.5   12.5   12.5  12.5   12.5   12.5  12.5   12.5   12.5  12.5   12.5   10.0  10.0   10.0   10.0  10.0   10.0
On-farm investment     166.9 102.5    70.0  10.7   11.9   9.2    5.3    2.0   0.4    -     -      -      -      -     -      -      -     -      -      -     -
Sub-total         321.9 282.7 200.3    23.2   2h4.  21.7   17.8   1.5   12.9   12.5   12.5  12.5   12.5   12.5  12.5   10.0   10.0  10.0   10.0   10.0  10.0
Debt Service2/          57.8  63.4   81,8   83.7  95.1   95.1   95.1  95.1   95.1   95o1  95.1   95.1   95.1  95.1   95.1   77.2   40.2  26.4   26.14  26.1,  26.4
Total             379.7 346.1   282.1 106.9 119.5 116.8 112.9 109.6 108.0 107.6      107.6 107.6 107.6 107.6 107.6     87.2   50.2  36.4   36.4   36.4  36.4
CASH INFIOW
AID loan                89.0    -     -      -      -     -      -      -     -      -      -     -      -      -     -      -      -      -     -      -      -
IBRD loan              105.1  102,0  71.3    -      -     -      -      -     -      -      -     -      -      -     -      -      -      -     -      -      -
Government             128e2 185.1 144,5    31.7   19.8   2,9    -      -     -      -
Farmers' own resources  21.7   13.5  10,0    2,0    2,3   1.8    1,0    o.4   -      -      _     _      _      _     _      _      _      _
Sub-total         34405 300.6 225,8    33.7   22,1  4i7     1,0   04    -      -
Fanrsrs' repayments on
land and on-farm in-
vestment loans          11,7   20,0   28,9  245,8  70.0  84.7   88,7   90.1  8544   82.9   81,3   81.3  80.0   79,3   78A4  76,2   75,1   72,4  72.4   72.4   61.3
Water chargos:
Louar Piura             17,3   17.3  17,3   17.3   17.3  1701, ).7,3   MI    17,3   17.3   1703  1703   17,3   17,3   173   17,3   17.3   173   17.3   17.3   17.3
SCn Loranzo and
Chipi]Llico              6,2    8,2  10,1   10,1   10,1  101   10.1   10,1  ,Ool   10,1   10.1  10,1   10,1   10.1   10.1  10.1   10.1   10,1  10.1   10.1   10,1
Total                  379,7  3246.1  282,1 106.9 119.5 116.8 117.1 117.9 U2,8 110,3 108,7 108,7 107,24 106.7 105,8 103,6 102,5           99.8   99.8  99.8   88.7
Deficit                  -      -     -      -      -     -      -      -     -      -      -     -      0.2    0.9   1,8    -      -      -     -      -      -
Surplusk/                             -      -      -     -      242    8,3   4.8    2.24   1.1   11     -      -      -    16.4   52.3   63.24  63.4  63.4   52.3
Balance, cumulative      -      -     -      -      -     -      242   12.5  17.3   20.0   21.1   22,2  22.0   21.1   19.3  35.7   88.0 151.24  214.8 278.2  330.5
Includes service centers, experimental stations, other works and 33.8 million soles for construiction of drainage works.
Includes O'3¶ for the Banco de Forento Agropecuario at s/2.5 million a year.
T/ Tn'ludes comnounded annuities equivalent to soles 17.9 million and 37.0 million to A.I.D. and I.R.R,D. for existing Stage JI loans through 1979 an1 1980 respectively.
Balance annually through 1985 would he for A.T.D. -urrent $5 million loan for agricultural credit and pronosed new J.9.r.D. loan. Does not include debt service on
the portion of the loan for the Basin Program.
,/ Surplus in 1986: S/ 21108 millinn. From 1987 on: 5/17.24 million.



PEU
SAN IORENZO IRRIGATION AND LIND SEfLEMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
D I R E C T O R G E N E R A L
DEPUTT
PTJBLIC REIATIRTS-  -------  -----URBAN AND REGICMAL PIANNING
LEGAL SERVICE-----   --  --------- -      -____SOCIAL SERVICE
ADI~TNSTRAJON DIVISION    ENGINEERING DIVISICN     BJILDIN DIVISICN       AGRICUL'U Y L DIVISIC      ECONOMICS DIVISION
Personnel Department.    Operations Departent     Settlcws' Hcusing     ReeGae h and Propagaion     Rural Administration
Depaltaient0          Departzant,                Dapartnento
General Services Dept.   Maintenance DepartRent,
Eztenaion and FQmily       Cooperativee
Workshops Dapartmente    Agricultursl, Engineer- Public Buildinge        Education Dsorbsstai       Dapartnent.
ing Deritmento             pent.
A.rcolint5 Department.                                                                               kGting    part
Population Centers
Cortructicn Pugra,
Special prcgransg                             9spfid1 ~reogrnaao           Spocial pragraz=t
Lot subdivsnio                                    2ao &vo                  gplloitstion of
Hydrological studi.eeo                         Puit-g7cngo                 MauEbial areae!
Roads,                                         Steokfavaing0
Telephones.
ELsctric powers
Soil conservation,
This organization functions Prom the Head Office at Laz LemasD the Piura Office and the service centers nts   Son Isi&-O
Hzlingaz, Sozate, PartidorD, Hualtaco, Algarrobo and Parkizneniao



ANNEX 6
P E R U
SANT LOREZO IRRIGATIOT AND LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS
The San Lorenzo Organiz-ation
1.        As shown in the attached organizational chart, the authority
responsible for all works at San Lorenzo is the Director General who rep-
resents the Minister of Agriculture. The Director General acts through
the Deputy Director and the Chiefs of the Administration, Engineering,
Building, Agriculture and Economics Division. He also has a Public Rela-
tions Office, a Legal Service, a group of technical specialists for the
Town and Regional Planning Program and another group of experts to provide
social welfare services for the settlement. Under the chairmanship of the
Director General, the Division Chiefs make-up the General Planning Group
at the Project level; the Chiefs of the Agricultural Engineering, Rural
Administration and Agricultural Extension Departments, together with a
representative of the Agricultural Development Bank at San Lorenzo, form
the Settlers' Loans Committee under the chairmanship of the Chief of the
Economics Division.
The Director General
2,        He is responsible to the Minister and shall perform the follow-
ing duties subject only to such limitations as may be imposed by the
Minister:
a. to provide guidance in the carrying out of the land
settlement scheme;
b.  to submit a quarterly report to the CNA on the work
he has been doing, and also the relevant Annual
Report;
c.  to comply with, and cause to be complied with, the
Resolutions of the CNA concerning the land settle-
ment scheme for which he is responsible;
d. to sign agreements of any kind relating to the San
Lorenzo Land Settlement Project with Peruvian, for-
eign or international public or private bodies;



ANNE 6
Page 2
e. to perform any acdinistrative, civil or commer-
cial acts that the law may allow for the more
effective discharge of the tasks laid down in the
relevant Development Plan;
f. to engage office staff and workpeople, and to sign
the employment contracts in question;
g. to propose to the CNA the appointment, promotion or
dismissal of the permanent technical and administra-
tive staff of the Land Settlement Directorate;
h   to put forward candidates for the granting of fellow-
ships;
i. to draw up the programs of land settlement and submit
them to the CNA for approval;
j. to administer the waters of the San Lorenzo system
in accordance with the regulations that have been ap-
proved by the issued Supreme Decree;
k. to draw up the detailed plans relating to the parcel-
ing of land, carry out the valuation of the parcels of
land, issue the necessary invitations and publicity
matter for the sale of lots and deal with applications,
grading the applicants in accordance with the relevant
Award Regulations;
1. to draw up the draft Budget-Annual Program of the Land
Settlement Directorate in accordance with the Organic
Law concerning the Operational Budget and the relevant
annual Acts;
me  to obtain direct from the Public Treasury, administer
and render account of the funds allotted to him in ac-
cordance with the law and the provisions of the stat-
utes and also to submit an Annual Balance Sheet in
respect thereof; and
n.  to exercise the remaining powers contained in Article
103 of Act No. 15037.
Deputy Director
3.        He shall deputize for the Director in his absence and perform
the following duties:



Page 3
a. to control and superintend the work carried out
in various departments of the San Lorenzo Project;
bo to deal with enquiries made by the staff and the
general public;
c.  to make decisions himself in al1 matters that do
not require the approval of the Director General;
and
de to handle such matters as may be assigned to him by
the Director General.



PERU - SAN LORENZO PROJECT
PRODUCTION AND CROPPING PATTERN./
1964 AND PROJECTED 1972
Area           Yield                           -       Million Soles
Hectares         kg/ha        Price
Thousands      Thousands     Soles/kg     Gross Value        Costs         Net Value
19T      111972  16     1     194     T7 2  194972          196h   1972   1964     1972
Cotton                  6.78   15.00    2.8     2,5   6.0   5.00   llh.0   188,0   47.5  102.0   66.5     86.0
Beans/Corn
Beans/Sweet Potatoes    1.49    7.90     -       -     -     -      6.8     69.0    4.2   41.0    2.6     28.0
Beans/Groundnuts
Yuca                     .4o    1,50   16.0    20.0   1.0   0.95     6.4     29.0    1.6   6.0    4.8      23.0
Vegetables               .16    1.90   18.0    25.0   1.2   1.00     3.5     49o0    1.2   22.0    2.3    27.0
(2 crops)
Pasture                  .26    6.20    3.8     5.5   2.0   2.00     2.0     68.0    1.0   36.0   1.0     32,0
(liters milk  (per liter)
equivalent)
Fruits                   .80    5,00     -      8.0    -    1D05      -      42.0/ 2.7     24.0   (2.7)    18.0
Otherl/                 1.18     -               -                  12.4       -     6.7    -     5,7
Total        11.07   37.50                               145.1   445,01/ 64,9  231.0   80.2    214.0
1/  Gross annual value of fruit production should progressively increase up to Soles 158 million by 1977,
making a total gross value of production of Soles 561 million a year.
2/ Rice, peanuts, etc.



ANNEX 8
P E R U
SAN LOREFIZO PROJECT
LIST OF GOODS AND SERVICES TO BE FINANCED
Item                           Sub-Total     Total
Thousand Dollars
A. Operations and Management, Land
Development and Roads Equipment                               1,250
1. Heavy Equipmentl/                              950
2. Vehicles                                        60
3. Spare Parts and Repair Equipment               240
B. Drainage Works                                                 1,250
'.  Technical Services, Facilities and Equipment                  1,070
1. Salaries, Amenities and Contract
Services                                      550
2. Vehicles                                       160
3. Education and Extension Facilities
and Equipment                                 150
4. Research Facilities and Equipment2/             80
5. Spare Parts and Repair Equipnent               130
'. Agricultural Credit                                            6,780
1. Land Development3/                           3,280
2. Housing Development                            820
3, Agricultural Machinery                       1,550
h.  Livestock and Semen                           380
5. Tree Crops                                     750
). Basin Program                                                    600
VOTAL                                                            10,950
/ Includes trucks above 1 ton.
./ Includes trucks, tractors and farm tools for experiment stations.
B/ Includes fencing and miscellaneous farm. structures other than
housing.



