Report No. PID9238
Project Name                     Kyrgyz Republic-Second Health Sector...
Reform Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Reform and Financing
Project ID                       KGPE51372
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Ministry of Health
148 Moskowskaya Street
Bishkek, Kyrgyz Republic 72405
Contact Person: Minister Tilek Meimanaliev
Tel: 22-86-97
Fax: 66-08-57 or 66-04-93
Email: moh@manas.elcat.kg
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                April 13, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         January 9, 2001
Projected Board Date             May 8, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
1. Health Status of the PopulationAs occurred in most countries of the
FSU, many health status indicators in the Kyrgyz Republic deteriorated in
the early part of the 1990s and then began to improve again in 1994-95.
Many health status indicators mirrored this trend of decline followed by
improvement. This is the case with the crude death rate and with
mortality from diseases related to the circulatory system (the leading
cause of death) and specific types of heart and cerebrovascular diseases.
Each worsened from 1990 to 1994/5, and then improved, although 1998
mortality rates were still well above 1990 levels. On a more positive
note, mortality from all forms of cancer in the under-65 population
declined after 1992 and was at its lowest level of the decade in 1998.
However, death rates from liver disease and cirrhosis increased over the
same period. Overall, mortality rates from non-communicable diseases
remain high in the Kyrgyz Republic.Perhaps more worrying are trends in
incidence and mortality from several categories of communicable diseases.
The Kyrgyz Republic shows the highest levels of respiratory disease
mortality of any FSU country (WHO/EURO 2000) and mortality from infectious
and parasitic diseases was considerably higher in 1998 than in 1990. The
incidence of some diseases has increased rapidly, notably syphilis and
tuberculosis (TB). The latter may be explained, at least in part, by the
identification of an increased number of TB cases associated with the
implementation of the DOTS (Directly Observed Therapy, Short-Course)
strategy and its expansion in 1998. A positive feature associated with
this is the decline in TB mortality observed in 1998, even as the
incidence of TB continued to rise, reflecting the effectiveness of the
treatment strategy.Infant and child mortality rates have fluctuated
somewhat during this period, but remain largely unchanged. Provisional



evidence from an analysis of data from the 1997 Demographic and Household
Survey (DHS) in the Kyrgyz Republic shows that these rates differ
considerably across households of different wealth. This analysis
indicates that infant mortality was 1.8 times higher in the poorest 20- of
households than in the wealthiest 20-, and child mortality was almost
twice as high. Nutritional indicators also followed the same pattern with
2.4 times the stunting rate in the poorest quintile as compared to the
wealthiest, as did indicators for underweight children. Female children
tended to have slightly better health and nutritional status than male
children in all wealth groups. The DHS also shows a very strong income
gradient for adolescent fertility, with teenagers (age 15-19) in the
poorest quintile being more than four times as likely to become pregnant
as those in the wealthiest 20%.The Kyrgyz Republic has very few reported
cases of HIV infection, but several factors suggest that there may be
cause for concern. One is the rising incidence of syphilis, since this
reflects an increased frequency of unsafe sex and because this and other
sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) facilitate HIV transmission. Second,
data from the Republican Narcology Center indicate that the number of
registered drug addicts" per capita has increased steadily during the
1990s. Injecting drug use is a major form of HIV transmission in many FSU
countries. Finally, the evidence from DHS of high fertility among poorer
teenagers suggests, again, that there is considerable scope for
transmission of STDs, and that this may affect poorer persons
disproportionately. While there should not be an over-reaction to these
trends, they do create cause for vigilance, even though reported HIV
incidence remains very low.Many of the causes of the high rates of
non-communicable diseases and the rising rates of several communicable
diseases are rooted in non-medical factors. Major risk factors for the
high levels of non-communicable diseases are aspects of unhealthy
lifestyle choices, such as excessive consumption of tobacco, alcohol, and
high-fat foods. Similarly, social factors are associated with the rapid
increase in some STDs. The disproportionate burden of infant and child
mortality and under-nutrition among poorer households seems to be
associated with economic factors. Attacking these causes is important,
but so is progress on delivering specific, cost-effective clinical
interventions. These can make important contributions to reductions in
mortality and ill-health from a number of important conditions, such as
TB, acute respiratory infections, and STDs. The epidemiological situation
in the Kyrgyz Republic suggests that priority needs to be given to
improving both the availability and quality of primary curative care (e.g.
treatment of respiratory infections, STDs and TB. Preventive
interventions designed for healthy lifestyles (e.g. to reduce the future
burden of alcohol, tobacco, and diet related diseases) are also important,
as are, cross sectoral "social" interventions such as getting information
to young people about avoiding STDs. Analysis of the 1997 household
survey data suggests that targeted interventions to improve infant and
child health and nutrition in poorer households are also important
priorities. The health system must respond to these priorities without
expecting any significant increases in real resource levels, because rapid
economic growth is not anticipated and the Government's fiscal reform
package demands continued efforts to bring public expenditures in line
with public revenues. Hence, any strategy to improve the quality and
availability of health services in a financially sustainable manner will
require cost reductions and efficiency gains.2. Health Expenditure
Patterns and PrioritiesThe Kyrgyz Republic is unquestionably a regional
- 2-



leader in the implementation of a coherent package of reforms in the
organization of health care delivery and provider payments. However,
patterns of Government health expenditure undermine the potential benefits
of these reforms to the population. The main problems are in two areas:
(i) a substantial proportion of public funds devoted to hospitals,
especially specialized facilities; and (ii) extensive geographic inequity,
with more than three times the level of per capita funding in Bishkek as
compared to the oblasts as is illustrated in the following
figure.Distribution of Per Capita Health Spending by Oblast, 1998A recent
re-calculation, using population data from the '99 census, shows a lesser
disparity between Bishkek and the rest of the country but it still exists.
Even after deducting the spending from the Republican Budget for
specialized tertiary care, for education, administration and services
outside the influence of MOH, 27% of the 1999 Republican Budget for
Bishkek is proposed by the MOH to be redistributed over a period of 10
years.The main cause of the geographic inequity is expenditures from the
Republican budget going to the specialized Republic facilities located,
primarily, in Bishkek. Unless this is addressed by the Government, there
is little chance that the Kyrgyz health system will be able to provide
universal access to good quality primary care. Thus, it is absolutely
essential that the reform process be matched by a progressive reallocation
of resources from tertiary facilities to primary care and from Bishkek to
the oblasts. Current spending patterns are also inconsistent with
priority needs, such as improvements in the quality and availability of
primary curative care, promotion of healthier lifestyles, and targeted
measures to improve the health and nutritional status of children in poor
households. These spending patterns also put the population at greater
risk for incurring high levels of out-of-pocket expenditures, as this
contributes to low levels of public finance for priority inputs such as
essential drugs. Analyses of household surveys from 1994, 1996 and 1997,
in addition to reports (Abel-Smith and Falkingham, "Financing health
services in Kyrgyzstan: the extent of private payments" 1995; Dorabawila,
"Health status and private health expenditures in the Kyrgyz Republic"
1999) suggest that the need to make payments for health care imposes a
substantial financial burden on families unfortunate enough to experience
illness or injury, and that these burdens have probably grown worse as the
need to pay for health care services has grown. Among the reasons for
this increasing burden on families is the pervasive lack of medical
supplies provided through the budget as well as the fact that salaries of
medical staff are very low and are usually not paid on time or even for
long periods of time. As a result, there is an inherent incentive of
medical staff to seek informal payments. In 1994, the total cost of an
illness episode for one member of a family exceeded the monthly income of
the entire household in 20% of households experiencing an illness.    Almost
50% of inpatients reported severe difficulties in finding the money to pay
for their stay. Many had to borrow money or sell assets, such as farm
animals, in order to obtain the needed money. From 1996 to 1997, monthly
per capita expenditures for chronic illness rose by about 40% in real
terms, reaching about 590 soms in 1997. On average, these expenditures
were about 125% of monthly per capita consumption expenditures. However,
for chronic illnesses among the poorest 20% of the population,
expenditures were more than 3 times per capita consumption levels. Hence,
it is fair to conclude that arrangements for financing health care in the
Kyrgyz Republic do not protect individuals and families from falling into
poverty as a consequence of health care expenditures. In many cases,
- 3-



people must make a difficult choice between their short-term physical
well-being and their financial status, and many forego much needed care
because of its expected cost. Overall, the impact of these expected and
actual costs falls disproportionately on the poorest families that are
least able to cope with them.3. The Kyrgyz Health Insurance System: Main
IssuesA. Health Insurance. In 1997, the MHIF was established as a
judicially independent body. In 1999, the MHIF was moved into the
Ministry of Health (MOH) as a department, but retained its status as a
judicially independent body with a separate source of funds. In late
1999, the government adopted a new health insurance law that extended
coverage to children. Officially, as of October 18, 1999, in compliance
with the Law of the Kyrgyz Republic "On medical insurance of the citizens
of the Kyrgyz Republic," the executive body of the mandatory health
insurance system is the Mandatory Health Insurance Fund (MHIF) under the
Ministry of Health. Insurance tax collection, to be channeled to the
mandatory health insurance system, is executed by the Social Fund, which
also collects other payroll taxes for social protection programs.
Mandatory health insurance fee rates are annually approved under the Law
"On State Social Insurance Rates." Before 2000, the source of funds for
the mandatory health insurance system was the mandatory health insurance
tax, paid by employers at 2% of the payroll. In addition, the Social
Fund, at the expense of the Pension Fund and the Employment Fund, made
contributions for pensioners and for officially registered unemployed to
the MHIF. However, given gradual stage-by-stage introduction and coverage
by MHIF, the Social Fund has been planning MHIF costs of the above
mentioned categories of the population in the amount which does not exceed
50% of the actual requirements, thus leaving the MHIF with deficits.
Currently, the sources of funding for the MHIF are:1. Financial
resources transferred from the Social Fund:MHIF tax, paid by employers at
2% rate of the payroll;MHIF tax paid by farmers, self-employed;MHIF tax
paid by the Social Fund from the Pension Fund resources for
pensioners;MHIF tax paid by the Social Fund from the Employment Fund
resources for officially registered unemployed.2. Resources of the
Republican Budget transferred to the Ministry of Health.Given the general
administrative reform, including the abolition of the Oblast Health
Departments, as of January 2000, functions of budget financing of Oblast
Health Care Facilities have been transferred to Oblast MHIF Departments.
The central MHIF is working on regional finance plans, as well as, on a
new arrangement of budget resources transfer, to be incorporated in the
provider payments system.B. Insured Population. Insured members of the
population include: employees; pensioners; the unemployed; children under
16; day time students; citizens disabled since childhood and individuals
with social allowances. In 1997, the number of the insured was 1.1
million; in 1998 1.45 million; in 1999 1.47 million, of which 59% were
employees, 36% were pensioners, and 4% were unemployed citizens registered
with the Employment Service.   Since 2000, the number of the insured has
increased to 3.4 million, due to extended coverage for children and those
receiving social allowances.   In total, about 70% of the population is
currently covered by the MHIF system.   In 2001, the issue of students'
contributions to the MHIF has to be addressed. C. Information System of
MHIF and MOH ("jointly used system"). Since the introduction of the MHIF,
all data processing is done using a management information system. To
identify citizens, data is integrated with an individualized population
registration database of the Social Fund. At present, the initial data
input is made at health care facilities, except in Osh, Naryn, and Talas
-4 -



Oblasts, due to lack of computers in these oblasts. Oblast Departments of
MHIF process data received from health care facilities on the basis of
which health services are paid. Development of an information system
which involves software improvement and the creation of a single health
information system (integrated with the MOH system) is underway. D.
Health Service Payments under the MHIF System. In compliance with the
Basic Program of the MHIF, the insured citizens are entitled to in-patient
and primary health care services at medical facilities. Upon admission,
the insured citizens are provided with the required medicines from the
essential Drug List. At the primary health care level the insured can
also receive x-ray diagnostics, basic laboratory diagnosis, and drugs in
cases when urgent health care/first aid is required. The rate of payment
from 1998-2000 per treated in-patient case, depending on the severity of
the case, has varied from 240 Som to 1900 Som, whereas per capita rate
for primary care has remained 35 Som since 1998.MHIF continuously reviews
the quality of the individual medical services provided under the MHIF
system, monitors the health care facilities effectiveness and the quality
of services. A mechanism to impose financial penalties for poor treatment
of patients, useless and irrational MHIF resource utilization, has been
developed.   In 1998, the amount of collected fines was 60,000 Som or 0.17%
of total funding. In 1999, the MHIF's approach was further strengthened
which resulted in total fines of 650,000 Som, or 0.7% of total funding.
The review results demonstrate some improvement in the quality of services
provided to the insured population, as well as, a more rational use of
drugs.E. Problems of the Mandatory Health Insurance Fund. A major
difficulty of the MHIF is untimely and low (less than committed) transfers
of the MHIF tax by the Social Fund which makes MHIF indebted to the health
facilities. As a result, in 2000, MHIF had to limit the process of
entering into contracts with medical providers and to reduce coverage of
the population at the primary level. As of January 1, 2000, total
arrears of the Social Fund to MHIF totaled 127.7 million Som, and during
2000, this debt continued to increase. Recently, a schedule for debt
recovery has been developed by the MHIF, pending approval by the Social
Fund.F. Further development of the MHIF System. During the second half of
2000, the MHIF is testing a new program of drugs supply at the out-patient
level, on a limited scale, to be executed through FGPs/FMCs. Under this
program, a patient has an opportunity to pay only a part of the selling
cost, with MHIF compensating the remainder at the expense of the insurance
tax. Given that the Oblast MHIF Departments also finance oblast health
care facilities from the Budget, the MHIF plans to develop health finance
and economic programs for each region and submit them to Local
Administrations. 4. Government StrategyThe main framework for the current
health policy was established in the context of the three phased Health
Care Reform Program (named after a famous Kyrgyz leader Manas) which was
adopted by the Government in 1996. The MANAS program was the successor of
the earlier health policy for the country defined in the State program
"Healthy Nation" (1994-2000). The broad health system goals defined in
the MANAS Program (1996-2000) are focused on four goals: health gain,
equity, efficiency and effective and high quality care. The program is
concerned with (i) improving the health of the population and access to
care; (ii) reducing disparities in health; (iii) guaranteeing the
population's access to existing health services; (iv) improving the
effectiveness and quality of care provided by the health system; and (v)
increasing the responsibility of citizens for their own health, while
protecting patients' rights. The Manas Program also established specific
- 5 -



objectives to be achieved in the first several years of implementation,
particularly related to a focus on re-orienting the health system towards
primary care, and away from its previously specialized, hospital care.
This was to be supported by a reallocation of the Government's health
resources, accompanied by a reduction in the number of hospital beds and
the closure of some hospitals. The goal was to improve the quality of
care at all levels updating and standardizing clinical practices for
examination and treatment, and protocols for referral to inpatient care.
In addition, new management models were to be developed for hospitals as a
basis for greater managerial autonomy in the future, supported by new
management structures and information systems. The MOH has updated the
MANAS document late last year, with assistance from WHO, in an analytical
report entitled, "Health 21 - the health for all policy framework for
Kyrgyzstan." While the MANAS program provides a coherent policy framework
for personal health care services (both preventive and curative), the
public policy framework for public health services (not delivered to
individuals) is not as well developed and little change has been made in
the content or organization of these services or in the Sanitary
Epidemiological Services (SES) Department of the MOH.
2. Objectives
The project development objective is to improve performance and long term
financial viability of the health system by adjusting the delivery system
to available means and focusing on important health risks and diseases;
improving access through better distribution of services and offering
financial protection for the population against potentially impoverishing
levels of out-of-pocket health spending; and improving the responsiveness
of the health system to the expectations of the population.The Second
Health Sector Reform Project (Health II) will build upon the work carried
out under First Health Sector Reform Project (HSRP), which has already
generated considerable development impact and whose implementation has
been rated as highly satisfactory. The main objective of the HSRP was an
integrated effort in the: (i) promotion of primary health care and modern
treatment protocols for diseases; (ii) restructuring of the delivery
systems; (iii) management of the pharmaceutical system; and (iv)
introduction of an incentive-based medical provider payment system. The
HSRP was designed and implemented in close cooperation with a USAID funded
project and it has mainly contributed to the: (a) establishment of family
group practices/family medicine centers (FGPs/FMCs) in Chui Oblast and
Bishkek through rehabilitation works, purchase of equipment, as well as,
training of family physicians and primary care nurses, particularly in
reproductive health and diseases such as tuberculosis, acute respiratory
infections and diarrheal diseases;(b) improved management of
pharmaceuticals by strengthening the registration procedure and quality
control of drugs; introducing an essential drugs program; and supporting
adequate procurement and distribution of drugs; and(c) introduction of new
provider payment systems: capitation-based system for primary care and
case-based system for inpatient care. This was implemented by the
Mandatory Health Insurance Fund (MHIF), which had completed contracts with
the primary care centers, as well as, with a number of the hospitals. The
quality of medical services has also improved through the: (i)
strengthening of primary care (retraining and the introduction of new
treatment procedures for selected diseases and conditions); (ii)
establishment of professional and branch organizations (e.g. FGP/FMC
Associations and Hospital Associations); and (iii) implementation of an
- 6 -



external evaluation system through the licensing and accreditation of
health care provider organizations at all levels. Quality assurance has
also been enhanced by establishing and using the health information system
of the MHIF, which contains clinical, as well as, financial data.Annex 11
provides more details and a preliminary assessment of the results achieved
by the HSRP and the impact of the project on the effectiveness and
efficiency of service delivery.The goal of the Health II Project is to
deepen reform efforts already underway. Specifically, it will continue
its efforts in restructuring the health system, health finance, quality
improvements in the sector, improvements in public health strategies for
dealing with communicable and non-communicable diseases and promotion of
healthy lifestyles. This will be accomplished by supporting the
implementation of health reform measures piloted in a few oblasts during
the HSRP to the rest of the country.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank is the major development lender engaged in the health sector in
the Kyrgyz Republic. Bank staff have been involved in the health sector
since 1994, which marked the beginning of the identification phase of the
HSRP. Since that time, staff have provided policy advice and assistance
to the Government in a variety of sectoral areas, including health
finance, development of legislation for health insurance, provider payment
systems, pharmaceuticals, and changing clinical protocols for diseases
such as TB, STDs, etc. Bank support in the sector has demonstrated its
value added in its ability to initiate policy reform on the national
level, and to strengthen the main institutions of the system and provide
for large scale structural investments. While there are a number of other
donors providing assistance to the health sector in the country, only the
Bank can act as a catalyst in providing assistance of the magnitude that
will be required to impact on the Government's comprehensive reform
program for the sector. In its catalytic capacity, the Bank can further
mobilize significant financial and intellectual resources that will be
required to assist the Government in focusing on realizing the menu of
sectoral reforms that will be necessary in the system. In addition,
through the assistance of the Japan Policy and Human Resources Development
Grant (PHRD), the MOH is able to focus on critical structural,
organizational and sustainability issues, as well as to deepen the
analytical underpinnings of the components proposed for the Health II
project.         The Bank has been closely cooperating with the other
donors in the country by organizing coinciding missions, cooperating with
contracted implementation institutions (USAID/Abt; UK/DFID; WHO and Swiss
Cooperation) and exchanging documents (ADB) during the preparatory stages
of the project. Excellent collaboration and synergy has also been
achieved with other donors in the design of systems reform, as well as,
the integration of vertical disease programs into the evolving project
structure.
4. Description
The key components of this project and indicative costs are as
follows:I.    Health Services Delivery Restructuring:    The aim of this
component is to improve the health of the population through improved
management in the delivery of secondary and primary health care services.
A modernized hospital system together with primary care will support the
numerous changes that are already taking place within the primary care
services in the country, and achieve greater effectiveness from available
- 7-



resources. The component is divided into five sub-components: (i)
supporting family group practices/family medicine centers (FGPs/FMCs),
continuing the effort of re-focusing care on high quality, cost-effective
primary service with emphasis on rural areas, and expanding it nationwide;
(ii) creating central rayon and oblast merged hospitals, in order to
modernize, streamline and rationalize secondary delivery systems in line
with the country's health needs and sector resources; (iii) restructuring
Bishkek territory hospitals within the overall reform of health delivery
systems; (iv) improving human resources policy and management, including
supporting an extension of the MOH database; (v) supporting the MOH
strategy for mental health services reform by promoting rationalization of
Republican psychiatric institutions in Bishkek, re-profiling of services
in Mental Health Dispensaries, and providing short-stay psychiatric
in-patient facilities of 10 beds in each of the three pilot rayon
hospitals, in order to reduce patient displacement from their
communities. As part of this sub-component, an establishment and
provision of support to a Mental Health Resource Center, will be parallel
financed by the United Kingdom's Department for International Development
(DFID); and (vi) building capacity for sustainability of reforms through
estate management, hospital management training and functional services
planning. II. Health Financing: The aim of the Health Financing
component is to: further develop a logical, efficient, equitable and
sustainable health care financing system for the whole country, enabling
universal access to an affordable specified package of services including
a differentiated co-payment system in order to improve access to the
poor. Moreover, it will further develop the already existing health
information system that provides the Government, the purchaser, the
providers and the clients with the financial, clinical, epidemiological
and quality data needed to monitor and improve the performance of health
care. The component is divided into three sub-components: (i)
development of a health financing policy; (ii) strengthening of the
purchasing function of the MOH/MHIF; and (iii) development of a health
information systems.The development of an information system and its
potential integration with other main project components was discussed
during project preparation. The consensus is to create a common
conceptual model for all health information system components aimed at a
synchronized information system which builds on the independent small
systems (e.g. the Department of Pharmaceuticals), and the current jointly
used information system of the MHIF. The goal would be to establish a
series of Local Area Networks (LANs), followed by a Wide Area Network
(WAN) to enable shared resources and information flow. The first step in
this challenge is to conduct a survey (audit) to identify data structures
which can be shared (based upon the relevant European standards) and
carry out an analysis of data communication costs. From a procurement
view, such an approach would enable the development of synchronized
procurement planning and shared technical specification criteria which
would also result in a unified pricing of the tendered systems across the
components. III. Quality Improvement: This component will aim to
promote quality improvement of health services through the creation of
appropriate structures that would enable sector-wide quality improvement
capacity. Actions planned are grouped into three sub-components: (i)
education of health professionals and (re)training interventions through
reinforcement of the technical basis of educational institutions;
facilitation of curricula revision focusing on evidence based medicine,
primary care and practical clinical skills; development of health
- 8 -



management and systems research expertise; and retraining of staff to meet
the needs of newly established primary care functions; (ii) professional
development supported by professional (Family Group Practice) and branch
(Hospitals) associations through the strengthening of service evaluations
using licensing and accreditation and through the promotion of
evidence-based medicine. The latter activity will encompass increased
access to health care related information through an improved National
Medical Library, the introduction of modern tools for information
management, systematic review and grading of evidence (literature), as
well as, support for the development of evidence-based practice
guidelines, their implementation and evaluation; and (iii) improvement of
the management of pharmaceutical products in the country through the
strengthening of quality assurance systems (testing, inspection),
reinforcement of pharmaco-information and vigilance functions, and
promotion of rational drug use. This sub-component will be parallel
financed by DFID.IV. Public Health: The goal of this component is to
strengthen, reform and reorient public health activities to effectively
tackle the main health burdens of the Kyrgyz population. This component
will create a restructured system of disease prevention and health
promotion, which will be aligned with the country's recent epidemiological
changes and the continuously changing profile of the main health
problems. The project will support activities which have been proven
effective as public health measures in preventing illnesses and promoting
health at the national level. Component activities include: (i) the
establishment of a National Center for Health Promotion; (ii) the
development of a new and improved pattern of operation for health
promotion activities; and (iii) the reform of the present sanitary and
epidemiological services (SES) system.    V.  Project Administration and
Evaluation: This component will support and ensure effective
administration of the overall project program, as well as, project
monitoring and evaluation in accordance with sound procurement and
financial practices. For these purposes, a Project Implementation Unit
(PIU), has been set up in January 2001, and will be responsible for the
coordination, management and monitoring of the Health II Project's
implementation, as well as, the coordination of other donor-funded
activities in the health sector, including parallel financing from DFID.
The PIU will draw on the staff of the current Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) which has been implementing the HSRP. The PIU is headed by a
Director, with support from core staff, including two procurement
officers, a senior accountant, two junior accountants, a disbursement
officer, a secretary and a driver. During the course of the project, the
PIU staff will work closely with the staff of the Technical Coordination
Unit (TCU) to ensure effective project implementation. The TCU, headed by
a Director, has also been established and includes five component
coordinators (Director of TCU handling one of the components), one of
which is charged with all information technology related matters in the
project. Component financing includes staff, office equipment and
operating expenses of the PIU throughout the project implementation
period.The project will be monitored and evaluated in detail.
Arrangements have been made to strengthen the evaluation and policy
research capacity in the MOH and DFID has agreed to fund this part of the
reform strategy. A detailed monitoring and evaluation plan of the project
has been prepared which aims not only to process indicators but also to
monitor the outcome indicators and the impact of the project. The design
and the indicators are carefully related to the project objectives as
-9-



mentioned in Annex l.Agreement was reached with senior MOH staff
concerning the evaluation strategy for the project. To the greatest
extent possible, sector and project performance will be assessed by
analyzing data generated by the information systems of the MOH. In order
to understand the effects of the reforms on the population, however, it
will also be necessary to undertake a household survey in 2001, as well
as, several years later (e.g. 2003-4). It was also agreed that it is
feasible and desirable to implement a baseline survey as soon as possible
in mid-2001, as an added 'module' of the National Statistical Committee's
monthly Family Budget Survey. DFID has already committed funds to support
the design, implementation and analysis of this survey.
1. Health Services Delivery
Restructuring
2. Health Financing
3. Quality Improvement
4. Public Health
5. Project Administration and
Evaluation
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost 19.5
6. Implementation
The project would be implemented over a four and a half year period in
accordance with the Project Implementation Plan. The timetable of
activities draws from the valuable information and experience gained in
the planning and implementation of the HSRP. All implementation
arrangements under Health II will be governed by the guidelines and
procedures set out in the Project Operational Manual (POM). The
completion and Bank's approval of the POM was a condition of project
negotiations and was met prior to negotiations. Any subsequent changes to
the POM will need prior Bank review and approval. The overall
responsibility for the implementation of Health II will reside with the
MOH. It is critically important that the project receives strong policy,
technical, operational and logistical support from the Ministry. To
ensure this support within the MOH, a Deputy Minister of Reform Policy,
Planning and Coordination will have the responsibility of overseeing the
project's overall implementation and will report on the project's progress
directly to the Minister of Health. Two divisions will report to the
Deputy Minister for Reform Policy on project progress: one is a newly
created Coordination and Evaluation Division and the other is the External
Relations and International Projects Division, which will be strengthened
under the project. In addition, the MOH will establish a Health Project
Implementation Department, under the Deputy Minister of Health. This
Department will oversee the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and the
Technical Coordination Unit (TCU), the operation of which will be partly
supported by Credit funds. This new Department within the MOH will also
contribute to strengthening long-term sustainability and the
implementation capacity within the Ministry. The PIU has been established
and is headed by a Director and includes a team of procurement
specialists, accountants and disbursement officers. The PIU will share a
secretary/translator with the TCU. The TCU has also been established and
includes a Director, who will also serve as a component coordinator for
one of the project components, and technical component coordinators for
- 10 -



each of the respective components of the project. In addition, the TCU
includes an additional coordinator for all information technology
matters. Whereas the PIU will have the overall responsibility for
overseeing all project management activities, including procurement,
disbursement and general administrative issues, the TCU will coordinate
all technical aspects of the project's implementation. This structure has
worked well under HSRP and provides for a check and balance approach to
project management since technically appropriate recommendations by the
TCU may not always be appropriate as far as fiduciary and procurement
requirements are concerned. Close coordination will be maintained with
DFID which is providing substantial resources to the project as parallel
financing. It is expected that several other donors and agencies will
also play an important role in the successful implementation of the
project. Regular donor consultations and meetings will be held, and donor
representatives will be invited to participate on supervision missions.
In addition, aide-memoires will be shared with the primary donor agencies.
7. Sustainability
The project is designed in a way that major structural changes required
for specific components must be made or well advanced either before the
project's effectiveness or prior to the utilization of project funds, and
conditionalities have been designed to ensure this. The economic and
financial analysis evaluates the sustainability of the project by
estimating the recurrent cost implications and ensuring that the sector's
budgetary flows will include adequate financing. In terms of risks, it
should be noted that any serious disturbance in the financial markets (as
experienced during the after effect of the Russian financial crisis two
years ago) or in the security situation in the country would have serious
implications on the project. If savings had to be achieved, activities
related to quality improvement, training, education and health promotion,
could be hampered, since these activities are often easier targets than
activities related to the delivery of care.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Lessons of experience need to be considered from several perspectives: (i)
lessons learned from working in the Kyrgyz Republic; (ii) lessons from
other health projects in the Europe and Central Asia (ECA) region; and
(iii) lessons gained from the Bank's work on the Kyrgyz Republic,
including a poverty assessment and the social expenditure review.(i)
Limited resources and excess capacity are general features of the health
sector in all FSU countries, and the Kyrgyz Republic is no exception. The
country has grappled with a number of structural issues which have plagued
the health system, including over-capacity and over-employment,
inefficient skills mix, inadequate targeting of services to those most in
need, uncertainties in funding to providers, and inequitable distribution
of health care funding. Traditionally, and particularly in terms of first
generation donor supported health projects, the Kyrgyz Republic's health
sector has shared the same characteristics of other FSU countries,
including: (a) the dispersion of responsibilities among various levels of
Government; (b) lack of coordination among various entities involved in
health care; (c) inexperience with Bank procedures; (d) weak
implementation capacity; and (e) a resistance to credit-funded external
technical assistance. As the Health II project will be the second Bank
funded health operation in the country, it will, therefore, benefit from
the experience and lessons of the first project which will close in June
- 11 -



2001. As a result of the successful implementation experience gained
through the HSRP, and other donor financed projects, the Government and
the MOH have improved internal coordination mechanisms for implementing
health projects, gained hands-on, and valuable experience and acquired
knowledge of Bank procedures, including procurement, disbursement and
reporting. As a result, their implementation capacity has been
strengthened considerably. Given the country's tight fiscal situation and
desire to maximize limited resources, the Kyrgyz Government still has a
strong aversion towards borrowing for foreign technical assistance,
preferring to seek foreign technical assistance from bilateral donors,
through grants or other means. However, in order to ensure adequate
project implementation, limited foreign technical assistance has been
integrated in the proposed project. In terms of the technical
implementation, the groundwork has been solidly laid through the HSRP and
USAID support for the expansion of the provider payment system and
FGPs/FMCs. A system is now in place for the continued training and
re-training of doctors and other health workers, and pharmaceutical
management is also now firmly in place and will be strengthened through
the second project with support from DFID. Furthermore, the health
system, as planned, is in the process of being re-oriented towards primary
health care with the restructuring and reconfiguration of facilities that
began under the first health project. These efforts will also be expanded
and strengthened in the context of Health II. (ii) Due consideration has
been given to lessons of other health projects which have been implemented
in the region including Bank supported projects in Estonia, Russia,
Kazakhstan and Romania, as well as European Union projects in Central and
Eastern Europe - TACIS and PHARE. Some of these lessons include: (a) the
need to recognize that health sector reform is a lengthy and often a
politicized process, therefore, flexibility should be built-in and
expectations need to be realistic; (b) institutional aspects of reform are
as important as the technical approaches used; (c) attention must be paid
to the political economy through marketing reforms to lawmakers, the
general public, as well as, the medical community; and (d) projects should
be focused key essential elements and not overly complex. In addition to
regional lessons, special efforts have been made to incorporate the
lessons of other donors working in the sector who have developed some
comparative advantage in specific areas including: USAID for health
finance and incentive-based payment mechanisms for medical service
providers; DFID's work on facility and staff rationalization in the health
sector; and WHO and UNICEF for the implementation of some clinical
treatment guidelines in the region. (iii) The project will also
incorporate lessons from the findings of the Bank's work done during the
last few years in assessing the depth of poverty in the country, as well
as, the Bank's social expenditure review which was carried out in
1999/2000. As a result of recommendations made from these findings, the
Health II project will use a comprehensive approach, with a bias towards
those who are impoverished and living in rural areas. It will also
emphasize the need to better utilize limited resources by reallocating
from the secondary and tertiary levels to the primary care level, thus
reinforcing this increased on the poor and rural areas.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  There are no environmental issues in this project.
- 12 -



Some minor civil works will be done to rehabilitate existing buildings,
however, no new premises will be sought. The MOH is preparing detailed
plans which will need to be reviewed for eventual, unforeseen
environmental consequences. During preparation, special attention was
made on adequate waste management. Although general waste management of
health facilities will not be supported by the project, the MOH is
nevertheless working on plans for waste management, including training.
The instructions on dealing with potential hazardous waste during civil
works will be included in the Project Operational Manual.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Jan Bultman
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473-5310
Fax:   (202) 477-0711
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending April 27, 2001.
- 13 -



