                                       Document of
                                   The World Bank



                                                    Report No. ICR 85




                       IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT


                                      ON A


                                     CREDIT


                          IN THE AMOUNT OF US$15 MILLION


                                     TO THE

                                 KYRGYZ REPUBLIC


                                      FOR A

                     SECOND HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT

                                  January 31, 2007




Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
Central Asia Country Unit

                                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                        ( Exchange Rate Effective 07/28/2006 )
                                           Currency Unit = Som
                                               Som 1.00 = US$ .025

                                               US$ 1.00 = Som 39.8


                                                    Fiscal Year

                                                        2007
                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB   Asian Development Bank                                   OED      Operations Evaluation Department

ADP   Additional Drug Package                                  OOPP     Out of Pocket Payment

ALOS  Average Length of Stay                                   QAG      Quality Assurance Group

CAS   Country Assistance Strategy                              QER      Quality Entry Report

CDF   Comprehensive Development Framework                      PHC      Primary Health Care

CFP   Country Financing Parameters                             PIU      Project Implementation Unit

Dfid  U.K. Department for International Development            PP       Provider Payment

DHS   Demographic and Household Survey                         PREM     Poverty Reduction and Economic Management

DOTS  Directly Observed Treatment, Short-Course                RAC      Resource Analysis Center

EBM   Evidence Based Medicine                                  PRSP     Poverty Reduction Support Paper

FAP   Feldsher-Midwife Point                                   PHCD     Priamary Health Care Department

FGPA  Family Group Practice Association                        RCHP     Republican Health Promotion Center

HA    Hospital Association                                     SES      Sanitary Epidemiological Services

HIS   Health Information System                                SDC      Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation

HMTC  Health Management Training Center                        SHSRP Second Health Sector Reform Project

HPAP  Health Policy Analysis Project                           SIDA     Swedish Agency for International Development

HPMR  Health Management and Health System Research Center      SPS      Single Payer System

M&E   Monitoring and Evaluation                                SIL      Specific Investment Loan

MHIF  Mandatory Health Insurance Fund                          SWAp     Sector-Wide Approach

MOEF  Ministry of Economy and Finance                          TT       Task Team

MOH   Ministry of Health                                       UNDP     United Nations Development Program

NHPDC National Health Promotion Development Center             UNFPA United Nations Fund for Population Activities

NML   National Medical Library                                 UNICEF United Nations Children's Fund

OECD  Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development




                               Vice President:             Shigeo Katsu
                               Country Director:           Annette Dixon
                               Sector Manager:             Armin H. Fidler
                               Project Team Leader:        Sarbani Chakraborty

                                                        Table of Contents




1. Basic Information............................................................................................................................... 1

2. Key Dates........................................................................................................................................... 1

3. Ratings Summary............................................................................................................................... 1

4. Sector and Theme Codes.................................................................................................................... 2

5. Bank Staff........................................................................................................................................... 2

6. Context at Appraisal........................................................................................................................... 3

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes...................................................................... 7

8. Assessment of Outcomes ................................................................................................................. 11

9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome................................................................................ 17

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance........................................................................... 17

11. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................................. 19


Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis................................................................................................ 21

Annex 2. Restructuring ........................................................................................................................ 34

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing ................................................................................................. 35

Annex 4. Outputs by Component......................................................................................................... 37

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis ........................................................................................ 45

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .................................... 46

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 48

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results .................................................................................................. 49

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results.......................................................................... 51

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR ............................................................................................ 52

Annex 11. List of Supporting Documents............................................................................................ 62

1. Basic Information

Country:                Kyrgyz Republic          Project Name:          Health Sector Reform 2
                                                                        Project
Project ID:             P051372                  L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-35060
ICR Date:               01/22/2007               ICR Type:              Core ICR

Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Borrower:              GOVERNMENT OF
                                                                        KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Original Total
Commitment:             SDR 11.7M                Disbursed Amount:      SDR 9.9M

Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies Ministry of Health

Co financiers and Other External Partners
SIDA
UK Department for International Development (DFID)
US Agency for International Development (USAID)
World Health Organization (WHO)



2. Key Dates

Process            Date                Process             Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                            Date(s)
Concept Review:    05/25/2000          Effectiveness:      10/01/2001       10/01/2001
Appraisal:         01/08/2001          Restructuring(s):   NA               NA
Approval:          05/08/2001          Mid-term Review:    09/01/2003       11/14/2003
                                       Closing:            12/31/2005       06/30/2006



3. Ratings Summary

3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Moderate
Bank Performance:                                 Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Satisfactory




                                                1

3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators

Implementation Performance           Indicators   QAG Assessments (if any)        Rating:
Potential Problem Project
at any time (Yes/No):                Yes          Quality at Entry (QEA):         Highly Satisfact

Problem Project at any time (Yes/No): Yes         Quality of Supervision (QSA):   Satisfactory
DO rating before Closing/
Inactive status:                     Satisfactory



4. Sector and Theme Codes

                                                          Original           Actual
Sector Code (as percent of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                          17                20
Compulsory health finance                                 6                  20
Health                                                    77                 60
                                                          Original Priority  Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Other communicable diseases                                 Secondary          Secondary
Health system performance                                   Primary            Primary
Population and reproductive health                          Secondary          Secondary



5. Bank Staff

Positions                                At ICR                              At Approval
Vice President:                          Shigeo Katsu                        Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:                        Annette Dixon                       Kiyoshi Kodera
Sector Manager:                          Armin H. Fidler                     Annette Dixon
Project Team Leader:                     Sarbani Chakraborty                 Jan Bultman
ICR Team Leader:                         Sarbani Chakraborty
ICR Primary Author:                      Anne Bakilana; Tamar Gotsadze




                                                2

6.1 Context at Appraisal

At the time of project appraisal:

Kyrgyzstan was the second poorest country of the Former Soviet Union States (FSUs). During the first
five years of transition, the country lost 50 percent of its Gross Domestic product (GDP). Just as economy
recovery became visible, the country was affected by the August 1998 regional financial crisis resulting in
a 43 percent depreciation of the real exchange rate. Post transition, as unemployment became more
rampant and social systems collapsed, poverty gained intensity. In 1998-99, about 64 percent of the
population fell below the poverty line by an average of 25 percent. Data on key social indicators show
that access to some social services was limited. Out-of-pocket payments among the poor were widespread
­ generating financial protection concerns.

Population health outcomes were poor: Mortality rates from non-communicable diseases were showing
worrisome trends: the country had the highest levels of respiratory disease mortality of any Former Soviet
Union (FSU) country (WHO/EURO 2000) and mortality from infectious and parasitic diseases was
considerably higher in 1998 than in 1990. The incidence of diseases, such as syphilis and tuberculosis
(TB), had increased rapidly. The Crude Death Rate (CDR) as well as mortality from diseases related to
the circulatory system and heart and cerebrovascular diseases had improved somewhat between 1990 and
1994/5, but had not even reached pre transitional levels. Health of the poor was worse. Infant mortality
was 1.8 times higher in the poorest 20 percent of households than in the wealthiest 20 percent, and child
mortality was almost twice as high. Nutritional indicators followed the same pattern with 2.4 times the
stunting rate in the poorest quintile as compared to the wealthiest, as did indicators for underweight
children though female children tended to have slightly better health and nutritional status than male
children in all wealth groups. Teenagers (age 15-19) in the poorest quintile were more than four times as
likely to become pregnant as those in the wealthiest 20 percent. At the time of project design, the Kyrgyz
Republic has very few reported cases of HIV infection, but several factors suggested that there may be
cause for concern. One was the rising incidence of syphilis, since this reflects an increased frequency of
unsafe sex and because this and other sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) facilitate HIV transmission.

Health expenditure priorities were misaligned and misallocation of expenditures meant that the poor
were at greater risk of high out- of- pocket expenditures. A substantial proportion of public funds
earmarked for the health sector went into hospitals, especially specialized facilities creating extensive
geographic inequities where more than three times the level of per capita funding went to Bishkek
compared to other oblasts. The sector's expenditure patterns were not consistent with priority needs such
as improvements in the quality and availability of primary curative care, promotion of healthier life styles
and targeted measures to improve health and nutritional status of adults and children in poor households.

The quality of delivered health care was inferior and in general the health sector was poorly positioned to
deal with delivery of care. Delivery of care was poor because of limited use of evidence based medicine;
medical education institutions had poor technical basis and in general medical curricula were old and
outdated. The use of modern methods of searching for knowledge was very low and the quality of
pharmaceuticals and medicines prescribed to patients was of unreliable quality; basically the sector was in
urgent need of improvements in its testing and inspection roles and reinforcement of vigilance functions.
The need to make payments for health care put a substantial burden on families experiencing illness or
injury. The burden placed on families was made worse by the lack of medical supplies provided through
the budget; very low salaries for medical staff which are not paid in time and sometimes not paid for very
long periods of time which gave staff an incentive to seek informal payments. In addition, the Kyrgyz
Health Insurance System needed further strengthening. The health insurance system which had been in
place since 1997 was in deficit, partly because expanded insurance coverage of the population was not




                                                       3

supported with sufficient resources. Data from 1998 showed that only 15 percent of the population lived
in communities where the health care was considered to be good, and for the poor a larger proportion
lived in communities that rated the health services to be bad and less than half of the extreme poor and the
poor in general lived in communities where medicines are always available (regardless of source),
compared to three quarters of the non-poor.

A Bank-financed health sector reform project was already under implementation and showing good
results:. The First Health Sector Reform Project (HSRP I) which became effective in 1996 was close to
completion and showing good results. The HSRP I Implementation Completion Report (ICR) rated
outcome as satisfactory; sustainability as highly likely and institutional development impact as
substantial. Both Bank and Borrower performance was rated highly satisfactory. Health I supported the
Government Manas health reform program, the objective of which was to improve the equity and
efficiency of health sector resources by shifting orientation towards primary care and rationalizing the
delivery of specialist and outpatient services. The key achievements under Health I were: (i) piloting
family medicine as a model of primary care through the establishment of autonomous and accountable
family group practices, (ii) separation of purchasing from the provision of health services through the
establishment of the Mandatory Health Insurance Fund (MHIF) and the expansion of the single-payer
system in Issyk-kul and Chui oblasts, (iii) implementation of output-based payment mechanisms for
paying providers, moving away from historical budgets based on inputs, (iv) strengthening
pharmaceutical management and the supply of essential drugs. Despite these achievements, there was a
large unfinished reform agenda in the health sector and further interventions were necessary to carry the
pilot reforms to fruition and generate system-wide impacts.


6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The project development objective was to improve performance and long term financial viability of the
health system by adjusting the delivery system to available means and focusing on important health risks
and diseases; improving access through better distribution of services and offering financial protection for
the population against potentially impoverishing levels of out-of-pocket health spending; and improving
the responsiveness of the health system to the expectations of the population.

These objectives were to be measured and monitored through the following key indicators:
         Increased use of accepted guidelines in clinical practices and improved consistency with outcome
         indicators as well as for Acute Respiratory Infections (ARI)/ Control of Diarrheal Diseases
         (CDD) and others, as well as re-admission rates;
         Improved cost-effectiveness of services within and across providers;
         Improved equity in the distribution of health resources and services;
         Reduced financial barriers to access care;
         Greater role for consumer choice as reflected by the percent of FGP/FMC payment steered by
         consumer choice-based capitations; and improved access to services & prompt attention to health
         needs; improved basic amenities & greater privacy in health facilities;
         The functioning of larger financial risk pools; reduction in the percent of out-of-pocket spending
         in total health spending, and increase in the progressivity of the burden of health financing;
         Reduction in demand for fixed inputs (e.g. utilities);
         Consumption of services on the most cost/effective level of provision (PHC/specialized care);
         Increased number of discharged patients per bed.




                                                       4

6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

There were no revisions to development objectives or strategic outcomes. The indicators for tracking the
PDOs were refined and streamlined during the course of the project. This was as a result of the work
carried out between the Ministry of Health in close collaboration with the DFID-financed WHO
Monitoring and Evaluation Project, to develop a broader sector performance monitoring framework. A
sub-set of indicators from this broader framework was meant to help monitor achievement of the PDOs
under the HSRP II. The refined set of indicators was based on stakeholder consultations and they became
available during the first year of project implementation. This set was subsequently used to track
achievement of project development objectives.

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised

        The whole population was expected to benefit from improved access to better quality health care
        (through well equipped and sufficiently staffed primary health care) and a more efficient health
        system.
        The entire population was also expected to benefit from prevention programs to address non
        communicable diseases that are one of the main causes for morbidity and mortality among the
        population as well as savings and improved access to essential drugs to be achieved through
        better pharmaceutical management.
        The poor, and especially the rural poor, were expected to benefit from the more equitable
        distribution of health care system funds (from the relatively rich and over serviced Bishkek to the
        oblasts). Training of health care providers and expansion of primary health care centers in poor
        rural areas would allow for better addressing of health risks and infectious diseases.
        Psychiatric patients and their families were to benefit from the project, using more integrated and
        ambulatory services.
        The Public Health component would lead to immediate benefits to target populations.
        Other beneficiaries of the project were medical education and training institutions and their
        students who would receive better training. Furthermore, the entire medical profession would
        benefit from belonging to professional/branch organizations; access to current information; access
        to evidence on health care practice and effective practice guidelines.

6.5 Original Components

The key components of this project and indicative costs were as follows:

Component 1: Health Services Delivery Restructuring (US$7.54 million base cost): The objective of this
component was to modernize and improve the management of primary and secondary health care
services; and support ongoing reforms of primary care services. The following six sub-components were
included: (i) supporting family group practices/family medicine centers (FGPs/FMCs) to provide high
quality cost effective care with emphasis on rural areas, and expanding it nationwide; (ii) modernizing,
streamlining and rationalizing secondary health delivery systems in line with the country's health needs
and sector resources by creating central rayon and oblast merged hospitals; (iii) restructuring Bishkek
territory hospitals; (iv) improving human resources policy and management; (v) supporting the MOH
strategy for mental health services reform (activities to be parallel financed by DFID); (vi) building
capacity for sustainability of reforms through estate management, hospital management training and
functional services planning.




                                                     5

Component 2: Health Financing (US$2.67 million base cost). The objective of this component was to
further develop a countrywide health care financing system that was logical, efficient, equitable and
sustainable; one that gave universal access to an affordable package of services for improved access to the
poor. Moreover, it was to further develop the already existing health information system that provided the
Government, the purchaser, providers and clients, with financial, clinical, epidemiological and quality
data needed to monitor and improve the performance of the health care system. Activities in three sub
components supported these aims: (i) development of a health financing policy; (ii) strengthening of the
purchasing function of the MOH/MHIF; and (iii) further development of the health information system.

Component 3: Quality Improvement (US$3.52 million base cost). This component aimed at improving
the quality of health services by creating sector-wide quality improvement capacity. Activities were
grouped into 3 sub-components: (i) education of health professionals and (re) training interventions;
facilitation of curricula revision; development of health management and systems research expertise; and
retraining of staff; (ii) professional development supported by professional (Family Group Practice) and
branch (Hospitals) associations; and (iii) improvement of the management of pharmaceutical products
(activities under this sub-component was also to be parallel financed with DFID).

Component 4: Public Health (US$2.01 million base cost). This component aimed at strengthening health
care delivery reform and reorient public health activities to effectively tackle the main health burdens of
the Kyrgyz population by restructuring the system of disease prevention and health promotion. Identified
activities were divided into three sub-components: (i) the establishment of a National Center for Health
Promotion; (ii) the development of a new and improved pattern of operation for health promotion
activities; and (iii) the reform of the sanitary and epidemiological services (SES) system.

Component 5: Project Administration and Evaluation (US$1.74 million base cost). This component aimed
at supporting and ensuring effective administration of the overall project program, as well as, project
monitoring and evaluation under the Project Implementation Unit (PIU). It was planned that the PIU
would be staffed by individuals that implemented the first HSRP, and would also be responsible for
coordination of other donor-funded activities including parallel financed activities by DFID. The PIU was
expected to work closely with the staff of the Technical Coordination Unit (TCU) within the MOH.
Component financing included staff salaries, office equipment, and operating expenses of the PIU
throughout the project implementation period. The project was expected to be monitored and evaluated in
detail and arrangements were made to strengthen evaluation and policy research capacity in the MOH and
Dfid agreed to fund this part of the reform program. To the greatest extent possible, it was expected that
sector and project performance would be assessed by analyzing data generated by the information systems
of the MOH. In order to understand the effects of the reforms on the population, it was expected that it
would be necessary to undertake a household survey in 2001 (for baseline data), as well as several years
later (2003-04). It was also agreed that it would be feasible and desirable to implement a baseline survey
as soon as possible in mid-2001, as an added module of the National Statistical Committee's monthly
Family Budget Survey. Dfid committed funds to support the design, implementation and analysis of the
survey.

6.6 Revised Components

The project was not restructured; however some originally planned activities were dropped during
implementation because of changes in availability of funding, these are described in section 6.7.




                                                        6

6.7 Other significant changes

Component 1: At project appraisal, DFID had made an allocation of US$3.0 million to support:
Component 1 (sub-component on mental health and sub-component on building capacity for
sustainability of reforms through estate management, hospital management training and functional
services planning); Component 3 (sub-component i on education of health professionals and retraining
interventions); and Component 5 on monitoring and evaluation. After project effectiveness, the
Government was informed that DFID had approved a smaller sum for the project than was originally
agreed. This left the mental health sub-component unfunded; and the Government was unable to mobilize
other sources of funding for this sub-component.

Component 2: This component included the provision of technical assistance (TA) for health financing
reforms. However, during implementation a USAID grant of US$22 million (2001-2005) became
available to the Government (not exclusive support for project related activities). These funds were used
to finance technical assistance under Component 2. About US$2.5 million were spent through the USAID
financed Zdrav Plus Project. Instead, IDA funds only provided for local technical assistance (financing of
working groups), local training, civil works and goods under the second project component. Some IDA
funds from the component were used to compensate for the doubled daily subsistence rates of trainees
coming from outside of the capital; the remainder of funds was cancelled.




7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

·       The project was assessed by QAG for Quality at Entry in July 2001, and was found to be highly
satisfactory.

·       The Project was fully aligned with national priorities and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS): The main objective of HSRPII was to implement Phase II of the Government health reform
program. The project was fully aligned with the Comprehensive Development Framework (CDF) and
Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRSP). It was consistent with the 1998 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
which stated that the Government's over-arching objective was to establish long-term sustainable growth
as a key instrument for poverty reduction. Poverty alleviation strategies in the CAS also included
improving basic social services, strengthening aid coordination, and strengthening institutions by
introducing cost effectiveness and efficiency.

·       The project was buttressed by solid background analysis and incorporated lessons from the
previous health reform project as well as health reform projects from the region. Analysis from poverty
assessments and social expenditure reviews was used for identifying macro issues and implications for
project design. Moreover, project design took into account the lessons learned from HSRP I and ECA's
experience in health sector reform projects in Estonia, Russia, Kazakhstan and Romania as well as TACIS
and PHARE - EU projects in Central and European Union.

·       The Government's participation and commitment was strong during preparation. The Manas
health reform program was endorsed by the previous President (President Akaev). The capacity built
under HSRP I was mobilized for the design of HSRP II and there was strong ownership and commitment
for various stakeholders, including medical providers.




                                                     7

·        Participatory processes for constituencies and the donor community were exemplary.
Consultation with donors was very visible in the very initial stages of project preparation and remained a
very strong feature of project supervision.

·        Assessment of the relationship between the health financing reforms and public expenditure
management systems was weak. One of the key objectives under HSRP II was to scale-up health
financing reforms. At the time of project design the implications of scaling up in the context of a
traditional public expenditure management system (input based) were not evaluated or considered. This
proved to be one of the most important bottlenecks for scaling-up and sustaining the health financing
reforms during HSRP II. However, this weakness was corrected during implementation.

·        Assessment of political risk was not very explicit. For a project that aimed to simultaneously
tackle issues in the structure, financing, labor market, professional education, service delivery models,
processes and protocols for quality assurance, as well as other aspects of the health care system,
assessment of political risks should have been more explicit. Though in many cases no concrete actions
could have been pre-planned, assessment and acknowledgement of political risks could have been better
elaborated on. The role of the Ministry of Finance in supporting complex health financing reforms and
bringing medical professionals at Tertiary level institutions in Bishkek that were likely to oppose the
reforms would have helped the team better identify and mitigate key risks in project implementation.

7.2 Implementation

·        Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA) of September 2003 rated the overall quality of
supervision of this project as Satisfactory (2 on a six point scale). As with the QER panel, the QSA panel
found the project's design at entry to be sound, that the project's assumptions about reaching PDOs were
realistic; and that the Borrower's commitment was strong. As was the case under the QER panel, the QSA
panel identified M&E design and use as a weakness and that the project did not have a sound mechanism
for tracking progress in meeting the PDOs.

·        The high quality of supervision had a positive impact on the implementation of a project of such
complexity. The supervision team brought extensive experience from the region and from the previous
operation; the team composition included specialists from the Bank and also from specialist agencies
which allowed for sufficient oversight of different components; collaboration with donors ensured that the
whole system received attention with little duplication; the team was very focused on development
effectiveness and paid attention to bottlenecks outside the health sector. Technically sound advice was
provided in good time throughout project implementation. The Bank introduced regular budget
supervision and monitoring and used this information to proactively dialogue with the Ministry of
Finance on budget problems in the health sector and implications for project implementation. As a result
of the Bank's intervention, key programs for vulnerable groups (health insurance programs) received
expected funding.

·        The Bank supported the ongoing health reforms through other operations and instruments in
other sectors. For example the 2002 Governance and Structural Adjustment Credit (GSAC) included
policy action on the health sector that helped institutionalize the health insurance reforms through the
adoption of a legal framework, as well as actions on reforming the public expenditure management
system to better support output-based payment mechanisms in the health sector. In 2002, when the Social
Fund stopped transferring payroll contributions for health to the Health Insurance Fund and built-up
significant arrears, the team worked closely with the country economist to bring this to the attention of the
IMF. Since the IMF carefully monitors social fund arrears, a benchmark was introduced in the IMF's




                                                      8

Poverty and Growth Reduction Facility (PRGF) that disallowed the build-up of Social Fund arrears to the
MHIF.

·        Shortage of counterpart Government funding was a chronic problem from the beginning of
project implementation. Shortage in the amounts and delays in the availability of counterpart funding was
experienced right from the first year of project implementation. Not only did lack of counterpart funding
threaten progress, but by the second year of implementation it was causing errors in information
submitted to the Bank for reimbursement of expenses under SOEs (basically, absence of counterpart
funding was being offset with funding from IDA). The shortage of counterpart funding necessitated the
changing of Country Financing Parameters (CFP) which allowed the financing of the project entirely
from IDA sources. At one point, lack of counterpart funding put the project at risk of achieving its
development objectives.

·        Decline in public financing for the health sector and problems with cash management were a
major constraint on the implementation of health reforms under HSRP II. HSRP II was implemented in
the context of a weak public expenditure and financial management system. The main problems were
poor and non-transparent cash management that resulted in the health sector often not receiving funds for
key programs (example, the health insurance program for vulnerable groups). During this period, public
financing for the health sector experienced a continuous decline, from 13.5% of government spending to
only 9 percent in 2005. Since public financing was critical for effective financing of the Basic Benefits
Package and the additional package for vulnerable groups (reduced co-payments for drugs and
hospitalization), the lack of financing was detrimental to achieving the goal of enhanced financial
protection for the population. Out of pocket payments for health services, consequently, increased during
the lifetime of the project.

·        Political changes in counterparts resulted in wavering Government commitment to health
reforms. HSRPII implementation took place during a highlight volatile political period for the country,
which finally resulted in the Tulip Revolution of 2005 and overthrowing of the previous Government.
HSRPI, in contrast, was implemented under conditions of political stability and strong Presidential
support for the health reforms. The previous Minister of Health (who was the key architect of the health
reforms) was changed in July 2002. These changes in top leadership considerably delayed the
implementation of the agreed financial mechanisms, such as establishment of a single payer system and
introduction of formal co payments were postponed. At some point, the MOH (which now had a Minister
of Health from Osh) was considering the re-establishment of Oblast Health Departments which would
have jeopardized establishment of a single payer system. In addition, the Minister of Health argued that
people of Osh could not really afford to pay (co payments) for healthcare and instead of rationalizing the
overcapacity of the health sector, actually proposed to increase the number of buildings in Osh. These
delays were especially critical in Bishkek City and Osh Oblast, which resisted the introduction of a full
single payer system or other health delivery reforms, which meant that the realignment of resources from
favored areas to other less privileged areas was not fully achieved. Because of stalled progress in health
reforms, the project became a problem project and progress towards achievement of development
objectives was downgraded to Unsatisfactory (ISR # 4, 11/28/2002). The option to restructure the project,
e.g. concentrating on infrastructure development, was not a sensible option given that the sector already
had an overcapacity of buildings and staff. Intensified dialogue, supported by a cohesive donor
environment, in the end ensured that comprehensive health sector reform was put back on track. While
the overall political environment later improved, events around this difficult political environment
underscore the importance of Government commitment and garnering the support of a wider
constituency.




                                                    9

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The Project's M&E Framework focused on Sector Performance Monitoring and Capacity building in
M&E: Instead of simply developing a project monitoring framework, HSRPII sought to put in place and
support a sector performance monitoring framework that could be used to track progress under
Government's health reform program. The goal was to use a sub-set of indicators developed under this
framework to track progress against the project's development objectives. The design of the project also
aimed to build capacity of MOH staff in M&E and integrating this function permanently into the MOH.
Throughout the four and half years of the project, the DFID-supported Health Policy and Analysis Unit
(HPAU) was operational. At the end of the project, the monitoring function was institutionalized under
the MOH as was planned while the evaluation function was institutionalized within the Center for Health
Systems Development. Key outputs under M&E included: i) the development of a sector performance
monitoring framework and regular reporting of progress (quarterly for some indicators and bi yearly for
others), (ii) use of the data to inform policy making and policy interventions of the MOH (for example,
health financing data used for policy dialogue with the Ministry of Finance), (iii) capacity-building of
health sector managers and MOH departments in M&E, (iv) evaluation studies on poverty impacts of the
health reforms, (iv) evaluation studies of lessons learned under Manas to contribute to the development of
the next phase of health reforms.


The project supervision documents could have done a better job of reporting on project indicators and
progress on M&E: At project approval, the logframe for the project was not sufficiently developed and
baseline data and targets were not developed. This was because the sector performance monitoring
framework was not yet finalized, as discussed above. In the first year of implementation, the indicators
were finalized and the HPAU began regular collection and reporting of data based on these indicators.
However, the Bank's supervision reports do not mention these developments and their impact on the log
frame for the project. Around the mid-term, the Bank supervision team became more proactive about the
project M&E framework and the need to regularly report on the indicators. The Aide-memoirs from the
mid-term review mission noted the complexity of the original indicators and number of indicators used to
measure the project development objectives and project components. Modification of the project log
frame was discussed with the PCC/PIU during the September 2004 mission. During this November 2004
mission, a review of indicators and data was conducted and suggestions for simplifying the log frame of
the project were made to the TCC/PIU. From 2004 onwards, the Bank aide memoirs and PSR also began
regularly reporting on process and outcome indicators using the set of indicators used by the MOH to
track the Government's health reform program. Nevertheless, none of the aide memoirs clearly reported
on the trajectory of events, activities and achievements on M&E.


7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

No safeguard issues were triggered in this project. There were no procurement issues/ problems;
supervision of Financial Management was provided by a FM Specialists who participated in most
missions and provided satisfactory supervision on status and issues. Project accounting and internal
control were adequate. The team provided the needed supervision in fiduciary matters.

7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

As a result of the project, there have been instrumental changes in the functioning of the MOH. This is
demonstrated by the MOH' Center for Health System Development which supports the MOH in its new




                                                     10

role as a steward of the sector. The Center works on quality improvement of health services through
promotion of evidence-based medicine; it provides medical library services which improve access to
information to health professionals; it delivers training of health care managers, financial officers, public
health specialists and others and arranges international training programs. The Center also assists the
MOH in monitoring, evaluation and analysis of health care reforms. This center has become a key
regional partner in health system development and provides training to participants from the region. To
guarantee that medical equipment purchased under the project would be adequately maintained after
project closure, an Operations and Maintenance Fund was established and budget allocated for this Fund
from the Republican budget.

Furthermore, the follow up operation in the health sector (SWAp) became effective in June 2006, a few
months before the closing of HSRP II. The Project is supporting implementation of the Manas Taalimi
Health Reform Program (follow-up to Manas Health Reform program). The objective of Manas Taalimi
is to institutionalize the reforms initiated under Manas I and to strengthen parts of the health system that
were relatively less emphasized under Manas I. In particular, it seeks to strengthen the targeting of
resources and interventions at groups with worse health outcomes, including MDG outcomes; implement
structural improvements in the public health and health promotion systems; enhance capacity in the MOH
and other relevant institutions in policy formulation, priority setting, policy-based budget planning and
monitoring and evaluation; and strengthen quality of care with a focus on priority health problems
including maternal and child health, cardiovascular diseases, respiratory illnesses, HIV/AIDS and TB.
.The Bank's support for the Manas Taalimi Program through the HSPP aims to strengthen the use of the
country's system contributing to broader harmonization efforts. The project's fiduciary dimensions and
efforts to strengthen public budgeting, procurement and financial management also fit with broader
efforts in this direction-as supported by a wide range of donors and operations including DFID, the
GSAC/GTAC operation. Activities under the Manas Taalimi Program emphasize transparency and
predictability in budgeting and sector planning and are thus in keeping with higher-level objectives in
governance and public sector, civil service and public expenditure management reform. Aspects of the
Manas Taalimi Program also respond to CAS objectives on community-linked development, stemming
the decline in key services and addressing governance constraints to growth and poverty reduction. An
important element in the success of this follow up operation includes the capacity developed in the MOH
in various areas which strengthened the MOH's stewardship and policy making functions. HSRP II was
very successful in bringing about institutional changes necessary for performance of the core functions of
the health system including budget execution, priority setting, resource mobilization, and monitoring and
evaluation.


8. Assessment of Outcomes

8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

This was a highly relevant project at the time of its design and remains highly relevant at the time of this
ICR. Project objectives still reflect key priorities for the health sector at the time of the ICR and are in line
with the Government's current health sector reform program (MANAS II), the Poverty Reduction
Strategy and the current World Bank CPS.




                                                       11

8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The achievement of project development objectives is rated Satisfactory because:

I. The project improved the performance and long term financial viability of the health system by
adjusting the delivery system to available means and focusing on important health risks and diseases. One
of the key objectives of the reform was to right-size the excessive health infrastructure and health
personnel. The savings from efficiency gains were supposed to be reinvested into improving quality and
equity of health care. Under the Soviet system, the health budget for a facility was formulated on the basis
of the number of beds, which in turn determined the number of staff. This meant that facilities in the
capital city and hospitals were well funded while primary care, especially in rural areas, was severely
under funded. Utility costs were prohibitive. The health reforms introduced incentive-based payment
systems. As a result of these reforms, the number of health personnel in the health sector has been
reduced, rural hospitals have merged, the number of beds has been reduced, buildings have been closed
and allocations for primary health have been increased. This meant that under the input-based budget
system, reductions in line items resulted in a reduction in allocations.

The health service delivery restructuring component led to significant savings and higher allocation of
input for essential service delivery as follows:

    The number of hospital beds and bed capacity in the hospital sector was reduced by almost 25 percent
    during 2000-2005. Indicator #9 in Annex 1 shows that almost 300 hospital buildings had been closed
    by 2002 and the number of hospitals per 100,000 population decreased from 7.03 in 1999 to 3.01 in
    2004. In addition, indicator #11 in Annex 1 also shows that the total number of beds per 10, 000
    population was reduced from 70 to 52 by the end of the project. This restructuring resulted in fixed
    costs reductions from 21.3 percent in 2000 to 12.4 percent in 2005; allowing expenditures for meals
    and drugs in the hospitals to increase from 18 percent in 2000 up to 20 percent in 2004; increasing
    quality of services while reducing financial burden on the population which had previously financed
    such expenditures from their own pockets. In most ECA countries, restructuring reforms have been
    difficult, if not impossible to implement and generated very few quantitative results. In comparison,
    HSRPII's contribution to improving operational efficiency is exemplary.

    The introduction of a case-based payment system in the hospital sector decreased unnecessary
    admissions. The average length of hospital stay decreased by 12 percent over a 5-year period as a
    result of the establishment of legally autonomous primary health care centers. These were staffed with
    trained and equipped physicians which removed the need for unnecessary hospitalization levels by
    providing a gate-keeping function at the PHC level hence providing services at a lower cost. Data
    from the MOH show that during 2000-2004 hospitalization for hypertension decreased from 21.5
    percent in 2000 to 13.9 percent in 2004, for peptic ulcer from 45.4 percent to 37.3 percent and for
    bronchial asthma from 54.6 percent to 22 percent. The share of unnecessary referrals from PHC to
    hospitals decreased from 2.5 percent down to 0.6 percent, signifying both the quality of care provided
    at PHC levels but also a health care system that is more logical.

    Progress was achieved with the restructuring of Bishkek territory hospitals, but more could have been
    done had there been continued support for this part of the project from the Government. Progress in
    reducing the proportion of resources going to Bishkek and Osh cities was also limited. As a result
    health infrastructure of these cities continued to draw a large share of Kyrgyz Republic's total health
    infrastructure. In Bishkek, a master plan was developed with the assistance of DFID and parallel
    health care systems were integrated. There are still two levels of pooling but payment is based on




                                                     12

    output rather than input and there is no line item earmarking of funds going to hospitals meaning that
    hospitals have autonomy in how funds are used. A notable innovation was the creation of the Health
    Technology Fund which allowed patients from Osh to access care in Bishkek hospitals. The HTF was
    funded with resources taken out of Bishkek Hospital Budgets showing a good example of how
    `money was following the patient'.

Activities under the Public Health component contributed to achieving the first project development
objective by strengthening the health reform process and reorienting public health activities to effectively
tackle the main health burdens of the Kyrgyz population by restructuring the system of disease prevention
and health promotion. The project supported the establishment of a National Center for Health Promotion
and the development of a new and improved operation of health promotion activities. Indicator # 38 in
Annex 1 shows the number of people trained in courses organized by the National Center for Health
Promotion. A new medical library was established as well as an Evidence Based Medical Center which
developed guidelines which were distributed and are extensively used by medical practitioners. Indicator
# 39 in Annex 1 shows that upto 78, 000 information and educational materials on health promotion and
prevention of diseases were issued the Center and this included radio, TV programs, articles in print
media, booklets and posters. The retraining of medical practitioners was evaluated and it was found that
these activities had a very positive impact in the ways that medical personnel approached their
professions (R. Atun study).


II. There were improvements in distribution of services and financial protection for the population against
potentially impoverishing levels of out-of-pocket health spending. A number of activities led to a health
care financing system that is more logical, equitable and sustainable giving better access to an affordable
package of services.

    Changes in health financing policy led to the expansion of a single payer system anchored by the
    country's legal framework enacted by Parliament. Indicator #20 in Annex 1 shows that the number of
    purchasing pools has been reduced from 62 to 2, which is an exemplary achievement of this project.
    Hospital payment mechanism has moved to capitation basis and the Ministry of Health did admirable
    work in creating, defining and costing a benefits package that guarantees basic health care services to
    an expanded section of the population (though the self employed are still out of this arrangement).
    Ministry of Health statistics show that as a result of moving from input to output based financing and
    granted greater autonomy to hospital administration to manage budgets resulted in a 39.6 percent
    reduction in the total square footage occupied by hospitals, 46.5 percent reduction in the number of
    hospital buildings and 10 percent reduction in utility expenditure between 1999 and 2004. Increases
    in hospital productivity have been noted: admissions per staff increased by 50 percent and per bed by
    25 percent.

    Ninety-eight percent of the population now has access to primary health care services through the
    "state guaranteed benefit package" which guarantees services for free and for secondary care
    substitutes out of pocket payments with formal co-payments with certain exemptions for pregnant,
    children under 16, pensioners and other socially vulnerable groups. As a result, there has been an
    increase in access to secondary referral services by the poor from 1.6 percent in 2000 to 3.8 percent in
    2004. Reforms in pharmaceuticals financing led to the introduction of "outpatient drug benefit" which
    reduced out of pocket payments for outpatient drugs in turn reducing barriers to accessing essential
    medicines since pharmaceutical spending accounted for the largest share of household budget
    expenditure on health. MOH data show that access to drugs improved: during 2000-2004 the cost of
    prescribed drugs that were covered by the Mandatory Health Insurance Fund has increased from 54.2
    percent to 61.5 percent thus decreasing the financial burden on insured population. According to
    MOH data, there were non-personnel cost savings which on average amounted to 1.4 percent




                                                     13

     annually over a 5-year period and cost increase of personnel costs on average increased by 1.2 percent
     annually as a result of higher salaries/incomes for doctors and nurses. Though cost increase observed
     in personnel costs was still 0.2 percent lower than cost savings materialized in the non-personnel
     costs.

The introduction of primary health care delivery system that is based on the family medicine model
brought health services closer to the poor than was the case under the previous system. Indicator #7 in
Annex 1 shows that, across the board, the percent of total payments to primary care from pooled
resources steered by consumer choice of FGP significantly increased. In addition, introduction of the
family medicine model gave patients a choice of providers all under a guaranteed benefit package
provided a formal entitlement to free health services at the primary level and with small co-payment to
referral care (for those not enrolled) and the outpatient drug benefits subsidized the majority of drugs
typically prescribed in primary care; by moving the financing of health care from an input-based system
to one based on capitation and patient enrollment; and by reforming undergraduate, postgraduate and
continuous medical education curricula to suit the new model of health care delivery.

     Evidence on the impact of health sector reforms in reducing the financial burden of seeking care is
     harder to disentangle. On the one hand, indicators #3, 5 and 6 in Annex 1 suggest that private
     spending on health might have increased during the life of this project, but on the other hand, such
     increases might be the expected result of improved economic situation. However, another
     complication obscuring data interpretation is that the sector as a whole has been under-financed and
     in the presence of fiscal constraints or decline in public funding for the system, it is possible that this
     resulted in higher private expenditures for health.

     Health outcome improvement probably connected to these reforms included a 60 percent decline in
     the infant mortality from respiratory infections between 1996 and 2004 falling from 123 per 10,000
     life births to 48 and more modest decline in mortality rates from TB due to successful implementation
     of the DOTS approach, from 13.4 per 100,000 in 1995 to 11.8 in 2004. Evidence from qualitative
     research shows that the new family medicine model is welcomed by users and health professionals
     thanks to the user centeredness of the PHC model.

III. The project improved the responsiveness of the health system to the expectations of the population:

     Quality improvement component supported many activities that are necessary for, and should lead to,
     sector wide quality improvement in health services. These include the education of health
     professionals including the re-training in medical interventions; curricula revision; development of
     health management and systems research expertise; and retraining of staff; professional development
     supported by professional (Family Group Practice) and branch (Hospitals) associations; and
     improvement of the Management of pharmaceutical products in the country. The project supported
     the further development of a health information system capable of providing the Government, the
     purchaser, the providers and the clients with the financial, clinical, epidemiological and quality data
     needed to monitor and improve the performance of health care. Unfortunately, the M&E system did
     not collect data that directly allow for measuring the impact of these activities on quality of health
     care; possibly one could make an inference that the 2000-2004 reduction in referrals from PHC
     physicians to hospitals from 15.8 percent down to 9.3 percent for patients with hypertension, from 20
     percent down to 9.5 percent for peptic ulcer, from 34 percent down to 22 percent for bronchial asthma
     cases is a reflection of improved quality at the primary health care level that is now able to diagnose
     and provide treatment for such patients.




                                                       14

8.3 Efficiency

No data were available to recalculate quantifiable cost savings for this project as a whole because
available data allow for analyses for only some of the subcomponents. However, estimates for the Quality
Improvement component show that activities led to cost-savings from inpatient services on an average of
4 percent annually over 5 years. The Public Health Protection component led to a better trained and
equipped workforce for prevention of communicable and non-communicable diseases. Though increased
costs of public health services amounted to 0.4 percent on average annually, this increase led to higher
output and better functionality of the system, which helped to increase immunization coverage rates and
improvements in prevention of iodine deficiency through better quality and availability of iodized salt on
the local market. It is very likely that in the coming years benefits from activities in all components will
increase and costs will level off. Such returns come from decreasing hospital costs and from using more
cost effective PHC and public health services.

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

The achievement is rated as Satisfactory for the following reasons: This project had highly relevant
PDOs, the design was appropriate for the types of activities that were supported and the revised results
framework shows that significant progress was made in improving performance and long term financial
viability of the health system through adjustments in the delivery system, through better distribution of
services; through financial protection for the population against potentially impoverishing levels of out-
of-pocket health spending; and through improvements in the responsiveness of the health system to the
expectations of the population. The project supported key institutional development which have improved
the Borrower's capacity to manage health expenditure priorities. Though (cost benefit) analysis was not
completed in time for this ICR because of lack of appropriate data, all indications show that the project
objectives were efficiently attained especially because the current sector policy and ongoing operation
will further extend many of the activities such as rationalization of health sector infrastructure.

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Specific interventions implemented through the project led to 95 percent enrollment of the Kyrgyz
population with a family doctor. Primary health care is free and covered under the constitutionally-
guaranteed health benefits package. Utilization of primary care and outpatient care by the poor and the
whole population in general shows the intended positive trend. However, since health reforms were
introduced, the health sector has received a smaller share of the government budget and the Government
continues to spend very low amounts on health. This is partly explained by macroeconomic constraints,
however, it is less clear why allocations for health, as a percentage of total Republican and local public
spending has continued to decline, from 13.5 percent in 1996 (when the reforms began) to 7.2 percent in
2004 (Republican funds) and from 25 percent to 22 percent for local resources. Since public financing
covers the Program of State Guarantees (PSG) and the MHIF program for vulnerable groups, if the
allocated levels of public financing are less than what is required to provide the PSG, the gaps are likely
to be met through out-of-pocket payments and/or reduced services through implicit rationing. The input-
based budget formulation process penalized the health sector for rightsizing health infrastructure and
personnel. Since health was the only sector that had moved to output-based payment systems, it was
difficult for the MOF to determine how to treat health differently from all other sectors. Analysis of
household data shows that, in all income groups, households spent a greater share on health care in 2003
than in 2000. Data on visits to doctors by income groups shows that while the number of visits declined
between 2001 and 2003, the decline was largest for the 4th and 5th richest quintiles. The poorest and third




                                                     15

quintiles saw very minor changes, though the second quintile actually saw an increase in visits to doctors
during this period (Source: Jakab et al. 2005."Who benefits from the Kyrgyz Single-Payer System:
Analysis of the incidence of Public Expenditures" Forthcoming).

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Institutional changes necessary to improve the performance of the core functions of the health system
were accomplished. The project supported activities to strengthen the Stewardship Function of the MOH
by reorganizing the role of the MoH at all levels, to being one of stewardardship and policy maker and no
longer being the purchaser and service provider. The MOH is now a modern MOH, engaged in policy
making, priority setting, resource mobilization, budget formulation linked to policy priorities and
monitoring and evaluation. Project support equipped the MOH with the necessary tools and capacity by
creating and developing (i) Primary Health Care Department (PHCD); (ii) Human Resource Planning
Department (HRPD); (iii) National Health Promotion Center (NHPC); (iv) Licensing and Accreditation
Center (LAC); and (v) Health Sector Development Center embodying Health Policy Analysis and
Planning (HPAP), Evidence Based Medicine (EBM), National Medical Library (NML) and Health
Management Training (HMT); Pharmaceutical Quality Assurance, etc.

The project supported the strengthening of the Purchasing Function of the MHIF. After the MHIF
became autonomous, several interventions were still needed to strengthen its capacity to purchase
services. The Resource Analysis Center (RAC) which houses an automated database enabling MHIF to
analyze financing policy, evaluate strength and weaknesses and base the planning on the evaluation
results; regularly monitor budget execution and contracts, as well as control quality of purchased services
and patient satisfaction. Extensive training and the equipment provided by the project to MHIF, its branch
offices on Oblast level and providers created enabling environment for Single Purchaser to practice new
functions.

Project support for strengthening service provision: The financing reforms institutionalized by the project
such as abolition of line item budgeting, new payment methods, and allowing managers to reinvest saved
funds in strategic priority areas, created incentives for introduction of new management practices in
restructured and optimized network of providers. Management training courses created at the Health
Sector Development Center, allowed the critical mass of hospital managers to attain knowledge and apply
it in practice, thus achieving more efficient use of available funding and production of better quality
services.   Moreover, the project supported improvement of service infrastructure and re-training
personnel.

The project supported the MOH in building its capacity to skillfully present data on Budget execution.
This greatly improved its capacity to argue for sufficient resources and support from the MOF; and
enabled the Ministry of Health to make substantive contributions to the preparation of the MTEF.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

At the beginning of the project, the pharmaceutical market was completely private and small (MHIF
Resource Information Center, 2005). It was characterized with limited geographical distribution, mainly
concentrated in the capital and Oblast centers, thus with limited access of population to medicines. The
introductions of the ADP lead to the strengthening and geographical expansion of the pharmaceutical
market allowing 91 percent of enrolled population to have access to medicines. The ADP also had a
positive impact on pharmaceutical price regulation. A 30 percent price decrease on most frequently used
drugs for hypertension has been observed.




                                                     16

8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
N/A


9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate.

Risk to development outcome is rated as moderate because any type of reform bears a degree of risk that
in worse cases can lead to reversal of reform processes. The project supported substantial reforms in the
health sector, a process that has led to a reformed health system that is already showing many of the
anticipated efficiency and health gains. Despite the apparent difficulty in acceptance of some reform
elements introduced by the project, overall the reforms were accepted and internalized by the population
and there is little likely hood of a reversal. Moreover, all the activities that were supported by the HSRP II
are ongoing, under a different implementation approach which demonstrates the harmonized approach to
dealing with systemic issues in the health sector. It also demonstrates continued commitment of the
Government to implement further reforms and to solidify previous achievements.


10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

10.1 Bank

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank team ensured that project activities were in line with stated Government reform priorities and
strategies in health sector. The project was consistent with the objectives of Country Assistance Strategy,
and built on the good experience and foundation of the First Health Sector Reform Project. The project
design attempted to promote reforms in all areas that would have ensured improved health sector
performance and achievement of the development objectives. Project also benefited from other donor
financed projects. The design was very well informed by analytical pieces from within and outside the
sector; and the project aimed to address factors outside the sector e.g. performance of the Social Insurance
Fund which was holding back expected improved performance from health reforms. Both the QER and
the 2004 QSA6 Panel found that the project design at entry was sound and that the projects assumptions
about reaching its objectives as realistic though the tough reforms being supported were considered by the
panel to be overly ambitious.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

Performance of the Bank during supervision was satisfactory. Technically sound and frequent supervision
conducted by the project team, with high quality contribution provided on an ongoing basis by the local
project officer, allowed for timely identification of problems and development of viable solutions. The
team received backing from the Bank management in critical phases of implementation, for example,
when the policy environment deteriorated to a situation that threatened the sustainability and achievement
of project objectives. The continuity and stability of the supervision team was satisfactory, though the
project had three TTLs all of them were technically strong in areas that the project was supporting, which




                                                      17

ensured continuation in active policy dialogue and with the involvement of donors. The 2004 QSA6 panel
rated the overall supervision of this project as Satisfactory, even though the quality of the team's
relationships with the Borrower and with donors as well as attention given to cross sectoral issues were
considered exemplary. With support from the Bank team and the DFID project, the M&E framework was
refined and the reporting on project progress became regular and more visible. However, as was pointed
out in the earlier section, the Bank team could have done a better job in documenting how the framework
was refined. This weakness in supervision was also noted by the QAG panel, and in response, the
supervision team ensured that the revised M&E framework was formally adopted by the Government in
November 2004.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's role as coordinator, technical adviser and supervisor of implementation was satisfactory. In
addition, the Bank very efficiently used its fiduciary role when needed to enhance project implementation
and effectiveness.

10.2 Borrower

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The Borrower took decisive steps to initiate politically sensitive reforms and showed strong leadership
and willingness to proceed with sector reforms when dissent arose. While the Borrower mostly relied on
external expertise during the previous operation, their engagement in preparation and implementation
was, on the whole, exemplary. Government implementation performance was partly marred by shortage
of counterpart funds, as well as annual and quarterly disbursement ceilings established at the beginning of
project implementation. This issue was partly resolved for Bank supported operations following
agreements with MOEF and IMF. Decreasing sector funding does remain an issue that the Government
needs to address, a situation that goes beyond the performance of the sector and not just for Bank and
other donor funded operations. The Borrower was particularly successful in coordinating the activities of
international agencies, resulting in a SWAp which followed the closure of the HSRP II. The MOH
continues to successfully coordinate inputs funding WB, WHO, USAID, DFID, ADB and SDC. This has
meant that activities are not duplicated or fragmented and a coherent sector development program has
emerged underpinned by the Manas Reform Program.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Project ownership had rested with the MOH from the origin, and enjoyed strong support from the
ministerial leadership and core group of ministerial staff who were directly involved in project
preparation and implementation despite of change in the ministerial leadership over the course of project
implementation. Contrary to many other projects in other FSU countries, the project was implemented by
the MOH while the PIU was an integral part of the Ministry, in charge of providing fiduciary services and
support, rather than implementation. This set-up ensured that project activities were in direct support of
relevant agencies' work program and increased project ownership and support by implementing
departments and institutions. Due to MOH's proactivity and persuasive policy dialogue coupled with the




                                                     18

donor (WB and others) support shortly restored and even strengthened GOK's commitment to reforms
which were later were supported by the President and the Legislative house of the Parliament
consequently adopting major reform support package of laws.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Overall Borrower performance was satisfactory despite setbacks and delays caused by changes in political
climate. The project was the logical continuation of the previous operation supporting Government's
health policy agenda, thus benefiting from active Borrower engagement and strong ownership and
commitment despite of changing political environment in which politically sensitive reforms were
implemented. In many ways, the Kyrgyzstan health sector reforms provide a unique example in the
region.

11. Lessons Learned

Sound quality at entry is critical; design must be supported by solid analytical work; piloting smaller
scale operations and reforms can help build capacity and stakeholder support. The successful
implementation of the HSRP I project had provided an opportunity for the basic health reform model to
be developed. Many of the early adjustments and fine-tuning of the reforms already took place in the pilot
region. The latter became a visible symbol of reform, and greatly helped the expansion of these reforms to
other parts of the country, especially in the further expansion of the FGP model. The pilot oblast
continues to serve as a demonstration site for the country as the reforms here have been deepened over
time.

Strong Government ownership is not sufficient, it must be backed up with resources and budget execution
must be synchronized with health reforms: This project was strongly supported by the Government and
fully integrated into the Comprehensive Development Framework (CDF) and the National Poverty
Reduction Strategy (NPRS); however, this support was for many years not backed by resources, a
situation that did jeopardize implementation reducing the benefits that were expected. Of general
applicability is that, budget formulation must be aligned with reforms. For example, if savings accrued
from the right sizing of hospitals and other health facilities cannot be retained by health providers, or if
they can not freely allocate these then it is likely that reforms would not be supported. Output-oriented
incentives within the health sector need to be matched with an end to input-based budget determination
from outside the sector. This was of critical importance in Kyrgyzstan where public financing covers the
Program of State Guarantees (PSG) and the MHIF program for vulnerable groups. If the allocated levels
of public financing are less than what is required to provide the PSG, the gaps have to be met through out-
of-pocket payments and/or cutting services through implicit rationing.

Explicit assessment of political risks could provide guidance to teams embarking on projects that support
reforms. When resistance to reforms surface, data/evidence on the benefits to be accrued can go far in
calming doubters and dissidents. In addition, stakeholder analysis that identify the `winners' and losers
from intended reforms, and assessment of potential demand for services to be introduced would provide
`ammunition' to the team by being able to address very specific concerns that different constituencies
might have. Explicit political risks analysis looking at how reforms would `look like' should political
climate change would also be useful so that teams can focus on what is doable at that time.

A lesson on how to undertake health sector reforms is that sometimes complex designs are necessary and
a broader approach could be the only way to achieve the expected outcomes: This means that within the




                                                     19

Bank, teams from different sectors need better coordination that would allow for full use of instruments;
and within a country better alignment of frameworks such as the MTEF, CDF, PRSP is a must. In the
case of the Kyrgyzstan the balanced use of the different advantages from various lending instruments
(adjustment and investment operations) and ability to link these to policy dialogue provided a strong
leverages for addressing key policy issues in the health sector (GSAC/GTAC and Health-II).

In a developing sector supported by a large number of donors; successful donor coordination is critical
for successful comprehensive reforms. The satisfactory implementation and supervision of this project is a
result, partly, of exemplary donor coordination on reform issues within the Manas Program that was
supported by this project. Coordination was made possible from leadership provided by the MOH and the
willingness and goodwill from a group of donors. The objective of the ongoing operation was to
formalize such donor collaborations by explicitly supporting the Government's policy and program of
work. This coordination has paid off; the current SWAp operation is a result of the foundation laid in
previous projects in the country.

When health reforms change the role of MOHs to one of stewardship, focus must also be on institutional
development and governance: The Manas Program that ran between 1996 and 2005 began to change the
MOH's role from being a provider of services to one of stewardship. This function requires strategic
investments in oversight functions that remain very weak, such as monitoring and evaluation. Moreover,
as a steward of health care, more transparency and accountability become expected. This means that
MOH and the sector as a whole need stronger and transparent fiduciary function (procurement, financial
management). Activities such as campaigning for patients' rights and the prevention, detection and
response to allegations of malfeasance need to be normal functions of the health sector.


How lessons are reflected in follow-up activities:

These lessons have been incorporated in the current Bank supported Health and SP project. The new
health project, designed to support a Sector Wide Approach (SWAp) incorporates key lessons from
Health II: (i) the importance of adequate levels and predictability of health financing for implementing
and sustaining complex health reforms. Under the SWAp, the levels of budget financing are agreed (as a
percent of total government expenditures) and one of the conditions for continued donor financing is 100
percent budget execution for the health sector, (ii) unfinished reforms from Health II are further supported
(rationalizing the number of outpatient specialists, rationalizing health facilities in Bishkek and
continuing to refine and strengthen provider payment reforms, (iii) building MOH stewardship capacity
and public health reforms, while initiated under Health II, will be scaled up under the SWAp, (iv)
weaknesses in key public expenditure and financial management functions and procurement are
addressed, thereby strengthening these function in the MOH and contributing to the country level
objective of strengthened public expenditure and public financial management, and (v) continuing the
excellent donor cooperation developed during Health II but formalizing it and taking it to new,
strengthened levels that has the potential of stronger contribution to development results in the health
sector and operationalize donor harmonization agenda.




                                                     20

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The project development objective was to improve performance and long term financial viability of the
health system by: adjusting the delivery system to available means and focusing on important health risks
and diseases; improving access through better distribution of services and offering financial protection for
the population against potentially impoverishing levels of out-of-pocket health spending; and improving
the responsiveness of the health system to the expectations of the population.

These objectives were to be measured and monitored through the following key indicators:

    · Increased use of accepted guidelines in clinical practices and improved consistency with outcome
         indicators as well as for ARI/CDD and others, as well as re-admission rates.
    · Improved cost-effectiveness of services within and across providers
    · Improved equity in the distribution of health resources and services
    · Reduced financial barriers to access care
    · Greater role for consumer choice as reflected by the percent of FGP/FMC payment steered by
         consumer choice-based capitations; improved access to services & prompt attention to health
         needs; improved basic amenities & greater privacy in health facilities
    · The functioning of larger financial risk pools; reduction in the percent of out-of-pocket spending
         in total health spending, and increase in the progressivity of the burden of health financing.
    · Reduction in demand for fixed inputs (e.g. utilities)
    · Consumption of services on the most cost/effective level of provision (PHC/specialized)
    · Increased number of discharged patients per bed.

Original Results Framework.

 Indicator 1

 Percentage of cases of the following diagnoses for which clinical practice is considered to be appropriate and in
 accord with MOH clinical guidelines (according to detailed specifications):
 1. asthma,
 2. hypertension,
 3. peptic ulcer disease;
 4. acute upper respiratory track infections in children;
 Baseline Value                                                End of Project Value
 1) 27.2%                                                      1)     27.4%
 2) 48.6%                                                      2)     68.4%
 3) 27.7%                                                      3)     57.0%
 4) 66.9%                                                      4)     57.1%
 Source: HPAP, Annual Package of Monitoring Indicators,        Source: HPAP, Annual Package of Monitoring
 2002                                                          Indicators, 2005
 Comment: This indicator was supposed to measure increased use of accepted guidelines in clinical practices and
 improved consistency with outcome indicators for ARI/CDD re-admission rates. The following numbers refer to
 achievement by 2002:




                                                         21

1) 54.1%
2) 77.1%
3) 63.5%
4) 71.5%
Source: HPAP, Annual Package of Monitoring Indicators, 2004


Indicator 2
Increased share devoted to PHC and public health (as a portion of Republican and local government spending on
health care)
Baseline Value                                                 End of Project Value
10.2% (PHC)                                                    25.1% (PHC)
5.2% (Public health)                                           7.1% (Public Health)
                                                               Source: HPAP, Annual Package of Monitoring
                                                               Indicators, 2005
Comment: This indicator was supposed to measure improved cost-effectiveness of services within and across
providers. The following had been achieved by 2002:

18.4% (PHC)
5.0% (Public health)


Indicator 3


Budgetary (Republican and Local combined), insurance and out-of-pocket expenditures on ambulatory care and on
population-based health (i.e. health promotion and health protection) services as a percent of total health spending.
Baseline Value                                                 End of Project Value
2000                                                           2004
Budget ­ 42.0% (incl. Republic ­ 13.3% and Local ­             Budget ­ 34.8% (incl. Republic ­ 10.1% and Local ­
28.7%)                                                         24.7%)
MHIF ­ 4.9%                                                    MHIF ­ 6.2%
Private ­ 53.2%                                                Private ­ 59.0%

Comment: This indicator was supposed to measure improved cost-effectiveness of services within and across
providers. The following had been achieved by 2002:
Budget ­ 36.9% (incl. Republic ­ 9.6% and Local ­ 27.3%)
MHIF ­ 4.4%
Private ­ 58.7%


Indicator 4

More equitable per capita distribution of Republican funds (currently allocated to MOH for tertiary level
institutions) across oblasts
Baseline Value                                                 End of Project Value
2000 (Republican budget, per capita in soms)                   2004 (Republican budget, per capita in soms)
Naryn ­ 4.3                                                    Naryn ­ 4.1
Issyk-Kul ­ 22.3                                               Issyk-Kul ­ 34.0
Batken ­ 4.6                                                   Batken - 7.9
Jalal-Abad ­ 19.2                                              Jalal-Abad - 16.6




                                                       22

Talas ­ 0.5                                                    Talas ­ 1.2
Osh - 3.0                                                      Osh - 3.0
                                                               Osh city - 23.8
Chui ­ 32.6                                                    Chui ­ 30.0
Bishkek city - 425.1                                           Bishkek city - 604.3
Comment: This indicator was supposed to measure improved equity in distribution of health resources and services.
The following had been achieved by 2002:
(Republican budget, per capita in soms)
Naryn ­ 2.6
Issyk-Kul ­ 27.2
Batken - 4.4
Jalal-Abad - 11.6
Talas ­ 0.8
Osh - 1.1
Osh city ­ 14.6
Chui ­ 46.0
Bishkek city - 408.5


Indicator 5
Health spending as a percent of total household and per capita consumption, by consumption decline and region

Baseline Value                                                 End of Project Value
4.5% (in the poorest quintile);                                Not tracked.
4.8% (in the richest quintile).
Source: Policy Brief #10, WHO-staff calculations based on
HBS 2001.

Comment: This indicator was supposed to measure reduced financial barriers to health care. The following had been
achieved by 2003:
7% (in the poorest quintile);
4.5% (in the richest quintile).
Source: Policy Brief #10, WHO-staff calculations based on KIHS 2004.


Indicator 6
Reduction in the percentage of out-of-pocket spending in total health spending
Baseline Value                                                 End of Project Value
51.7%                                                          59 %
Source: HPAP, Policy Research Paper #24, 2003                  Source: HPAP database


Comment: This indicator was supposed to measure reduced financial barriers to health care. By 2003, out of pocket
spending in total health spending amounted to 58.7
Source: HPAP database


Indicator 7

Percent of total payments to primary care from pooled resources (central MOH, local governments, MHIF at
national and regional levels) steered by consumer choice of FGP.
Baseline Value                                                 End of Project Value
Bishkek city-31%                                               Bishkek city -35%
Chui ­ 19.5%                                                   Chui -31%
Osh-10.4%                                                      Osh-25.5%
Batken-10.3%                                                   Batken-28.6%




                                                       23

Jalal-Abad -10.4%                                                 Jalal-Abad -32.4%
Issyk-Kul -15.7%                                                  Issyk-Kul -25.3%
Naryn -13.1%                                                      Naryn -32.3%
Talas -17.5%                                                      Talas -35%

Source:MHIF                                                       Source:MHIF

Comment: This indicator was supposed to measure improved responsiveness of the health system to population
needs. The following had been achieved by 2002:

Bishkek city ­33.9%
Chui -22.4%
Osh-17.7%
Batken-16.0%
Jalal-Abad -20.7%
Issyk-Kul -23.6%
Naryn -26.8%
Talas -24.3% Source: MHIF


Indicator 8

Percent of inpatients rating the cleanliness of hospitals to be "good" or "very good" (amenities), by region and level
of hospital.
Baseline Value                                                    End of Project Value
Nationally:                                                       2005 (see notes after the table)
-Poor ­ 5%
-Good ­ 82.3%
1. Bishkek - 78.1%                                                1. Bishkek -86.2 %
2. Djalal-Abad ­ 84.7%                                            2. Djalal-Abad ­85.1 %
3. Issyk-Kul ­ 78%                                                3. Issyk-Kul ­ 85.1%
4. Naryn ­ 83.3%                                                  4. Naryn ­ 83.2%
5. Osh ­ 88.7%                                                    5. Osh ­97%
6. Talas ­ 91.2%                                                  6. Talas ­85 %
7. Chui ­ 72.1%                                                   7. Chui ­ 52.8%
8. Batken ­ 85.2%                                                 8. Batken ­ 58.1%
Source: Health II Project TCU, List of Indicators, 2002           Source: MHIF
Comment: This indicator was supposed to measure improved basic amenities & greater privacy in health facilities.
The following had been achieved by 2002:
Nationally:
-Poor ­ 7.1%
-Good ­ 79.1%
1. Bishkek -
2. Djalal-Abad ­
3. Issyk-Kul ­ 82.1%
4. Naryn ­
5. Osh ­
6. Talas ­
7. Chui ­ 76.6%
8. Batken ­
Source: Health II Project TCU, List of Indicators, 2002




                                                           24

                                          KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Indicator 9

Overall number of closed hospital buildings and hospitals compared to planned closures approved by MOH, by
region, among them/ Percentage of Plan Execution
Baseline Value                                                    End of Project Value
The restructuring plan was developed in 2001 & monitoring         Monitoring has not been conducted.
started only in 2002.
Comment: This indicator was expected to track reduced number beds and variety of secondary and tertiary care
facilities on all territorial levels.

The target was­ 969; and the achieved value by 2002 was - 696
Source: Health II Project TCU, List of Indicators, 2002


Indicator 10
Percent of population enrolled with accredited FGPs out of total number enrolled population, by region
Baseline Value                                                    End of Project Value
Indicators for 2000 not available.                                KR ­ 37.6%
                                                                  Batken ­ 30.6%
                                                                  Djalal-Abad ­ 77.3%
                                                                  Chui ­ 56.4%
                                                                  Bishkek ­ 44.6%
                                                                  Osh City ­ 100%
                                                                  Source: HPAP, Annual Package of Monitoring
                                                                  Indicators, 2005

Comment. This indicator was expected to measure the increased population coverage with fully equipped
FGPs/FMCs. By 2002, the following had been achieved:

KR ­ 24.5%
Djalal-Abad ­ 10.4%
Issyk-Kul ­ 99.9%
Chui ­ 42.9%
Bishkek ­ 51.2%
Source: HPAP, Annual Package of Monitoring Indicators, 2005
Not tracked in earlier years.


Indicator 11

Total number of beds and number of beds per 10000 population, by category (general hospital, specialized hospital)
by region
Baseline Value                                                    End of Project Value
34,412 ­ Total number of beds                                     26,040 ­ Total number of beds
70.4 ­ Beds per 10,000 population                                 52.8 ­ Beds per 10,000 population
Source: HPAP, Annual Package of Monitoring Indicators,            Source: HPAP, Annual Package of Monitoring
2005                                                              Indicators, 2005



Comment. This indicator was expected to track the reduced number beds and variety of secondary and tertiary type
care facilities on all territorial levels. By midterm the following had been achieved:




                                                            25

27,447 ­ Total number of beds
55.3 ­ Beds per 10,000 population
Source: HPAP, Annual Package of Monitoring Indicators, 2005 (Same figures as in Health-II TCU List of
Indicators for 2002).


Indicator 12

Percentage of all patients that received consultative-diagnostic services in hospital Ambulatory Diagnostic
Departments (ADDs) without hospitalization
Baseline Value                                                   End of Project Value
Not available.                                                   Not available.




Comment: This indicator was expected to measure increased availability and use of ambulatory diagnostic services
in CRHs. No data were collected to allow tracking of achievement.



Indicator 13
Total number of beds and mix of hospitals
Baseline Value                                                   End of Project Value
Specialized hospitals - 58;                                      Specialized hospitals - 45;
General ­ 194.                                                   General ­ 110.
Total N of beds ­ 30,313                                         Total N of beds ­ 26,594
Source: Policy Paper #30, HPAP, 2005.                            (Data for 2003)
                                                                 Source: Policy Paper #30, HPAP, 2005.



Comment: This indicator was used to track reduced number beds and variety of secondary and tertiary care facilities
on all territorial levels. The following had been achieved at mid term:
Specialized hospitals - 46;
General ­ 129.
Total N of beds ­ 27,447
Source: Policy Paper #30, HPAP, 2005.


Indicator 14
Distribution of doctors, nurses, all staff per 10,000 population
Baseline Value                                                   End of Project Value
Doctors ­ 18.5                                                   Doctors ­ 20.3
Nurses ­ 60                                                      Nurses ­ 47.8
Source: Health II Project TCU, List of Indicators, 2002          Source: HPAP, Annual Package of Monitoring
                                                                 Indicators, 2005


Comment: This indicator was used to track results of human resources restructuring activities. By mid term the
following had been achieved:

Doctors ­ 20.8
Nurses ­ 52.7
Source: Health II Project TCU, List of Indicators, 2002




                                                         26

Indicator 15

Population per primary healthcare doctor (FMCs plus FGPs) (aggregate, and by urban / rural and regional
distribution)
Baseline Value                                                End of Project Value
5.8 doctors per 10,000 population                             Total: 8.2 doctors per 10,000 population
Source: Research paper #30, HPAP, 2005                        1. Bishkek -14.9
                                                              2. Djalal-Abad ­6.6
                                                              3. Issyk-Kul ­ 7.3
                                                              4. Naryn ­ 8.1
                                                              5. Osh ­5.3
                                                              6. Osh city- 13.0
                                                              7. Talas ­7.8
                                                              8. Chui ­ 7.8
                                                              9. Batken ­ 5.3
                                                              Source: RMIC, 2005

Comment: This indicator was used to track increased population coverage with fully equipped FGPs/FMCs and the
following had been achieved by midterm:

Total: 8.4 doctors per 10,000 population
1. Bishkek -15.5
2. Djalal-Abad ­7.0
3. Issyk-Kul ­ 7.1
4. Naryn ­ 8.5
5. Osh ­5.5
6. Osh city- 12.5
7. Talas ­8.3
8. Chui ­ 8.6
9. Batken ­ 4.7
Source: RMIC, 2003


Indicator 16
Hospital admissions per hospital doctor per year
Baseline Value                                                End of Project Value
Not available                                                 231,2
Comment: This indicator was used to track overall provision and mix of health facilities and providers. No baseline
data were available but by midterm this number stood at 212.8


Indicator 17
Beds occupied (bed days / 365) per hospital nurse
Baseline Value                                                End of Project Value
3/1.                                                          3/1.
Comment: This indicator was used to track the overall provision and mix of health facilities and providers. At
midterm this ratio stood at 3/1.


Indicator 18
Ratio of PHC doctor to PHC nurse
Baseline Value                                                End of Project Value
No such data was collected                                    1/1.9




                                                      27

Comment: This indicator was used to track increased population coverage with staffed and equipped FGPs/FMCs.
At midterm this ratio stood at 1/1.8

Indicator 19
Ratio of occupied positions to actual persons (doctors, nurses, other staff, total)
Baseline Value                                                  End of Project Value
Doctors ­ 1.4                                                   Doctors ­ 1.3
Nurses ­ 1.3                                                    Nurses ­ 1.2
Total ­ 1.3                                                     Other staff ­ 1.3
Source: ICR team calculations based on data provided in         Total ­ 1.2
Research paper #30, HPAP, 2005                                  Source: RMIC, 2005


Comment: This indicator was used to track the overall provision and mix of health facilities and providers. By
midterm the following had been achieved:

Doctors ­ 1.32
Nurses ­ 1.22
Total ­ 1.27
Source: ICR team calculations based on MOH data.


Indicator 20
Number of purchasing pools, by region and nationally
Baseline Value                                                  End of Project Value
62                                                              2 - MOH and Central MHIF
Source: Health II Project TCU, List of Indicators, 2002


Comment: This indicator was used to track increased size of funds pools. By midterm there were 35 purchasing
pools.



Indicator 21
More equitable per capita distribution of public funds across oblasts
Baseline Value                                                  End of Project Value
2000                                                            2004
Naryn ­ 257.1                                                   Naryn ­ 341.2
Issyk-Kul ­ 219.6                                               Issyk-Kul ­ 322.4
Batken ­ 164.2                                                  Batken ­ 273.2
Jalal-Abad ­ 198.7                                              Jalal-Abad ­ 273.4
Talas ­ 232.4                                                   Talas ­ 310.1
Osh - 179.8                                                     Osh - 313.9
                                                                Osh city ­ 232.9
Chui ­ 260.3                                                    Chui ­ 346.5
Bishkek city - 658.2                                            Bishkek city - 973.1
                                                                (Included republican institutions)


Comment: This indicator was used to track progress towards more equitable per capita distribution of public funds
across oblasts. The following had been achieved by midterm:




                                                        28

Naryn ­ 280.3
Issyk-Kul ­ 274.7
Batken ­ 193.8
Jalal-Abad ­ 216.9
Talas ­ 229.4
Osh - 227.8
Osh city ­ 200.6
Chui ­ 337.4
Bishkek city - 699.2


Indicator 22
Number of pharmacies that have contracts with MHIF for the Additional Drug Package (ADP) program, and (ii)
number of drug stores (retail outlets) associated with these pharmacies in each rayon/city of the oblast,
Baseline Value                                                  End of Project Value
0                                                               (i) Total ­ 167
                                                                (ii) Total ­ 633
                                                                (iii) The numbers by oblast are available in the
                                                                Source.
                                                                Source: Health II Project TCU, List of Indicators,
                                                                2005
Comment: This indicator was used to track improved capacity of the MHIF to purchase health care services. By
midterm the following had been achieved:
Total ­ 89
(i) Total ­ 268
(ii) The numbers by oblast are available in the Source.
Source: Health II Project TCU, List of Indicators, 2005


Indicator 23

Number of insured persons enrolled with FGPs participating in the ADP program, by rayon/city and region.
Baseline Value                                                  End of Project Value
0                                                               4,520 thousand people
                                                                Source: Health II Project TCU, List of Indicators,
                                                                2005
Comment: This indicator was used to track progress towards more equitable per capita distribution of public funds
across oblasts. The following had been achieved by mid term:

4,124 thousand people
Source: Health II Project TCU, List of Indicators, 2005


Indicator 24
i) Percent of the population included in the enrollment database, and (ii) percent of FGP capitation payments made
on the basis of the enrollment database, by region
Baseline Value                                                  End of Project Value
0                                                               i) 78% for Bishkek, Databases have been started in
                                                                Chui, Issyk-Kul and Jalal-Abad.
                                                                (ii) 61.4%, exists only in Bishkek.
                                                                Source: TCU Health-II

Comment: This indicator was used to track progress in improved capacity of the MHIF to purchase health care
services. The mid term value was 0.




                                                         29

Indicator 25
Number of users per month of the MOH Central Information Portal
Baseline Value                                                   End of Project Value
0                                                                Not tracked.
Comment: This indicator was expected to track improved capacity of the MHIF to purchase health care services.
By mid term activities leading to this achievement had not yet started and these data were eventually never tracked.


Indicator 26

Proportion of rayon health information departments (HIDs) equipped adequately to launch the MOH corporate
network system, to be reported by oblast.
Baseline Value                                                   End of Project Value
0                                                                60.4%
                                                                 Source: TCU Health-II

Comment: This indicator was used to track improved capacity of the MHIF to purchase health care services. By mid
term activities leading to this achievement had yet to start but by project close this number stood at 64%. Source:
TCU Health-II.


Indicator 27
Number of FM residents trained per year
Baseline Value                                                   End of Project Value
59                                                               30
Comment: This indicator was used to track output from medical education and (re)training activities. In 2002, 59
were trained.



Indicator 28
Number of FM residents graduating per year
Baseline Value                                                   End of Project Value
..                                                               18
Comment: This indicator was used to track output from medical education and (re)training activities. In 2002, 42
were trained.



Indicator 29
Ratio of FM residents to the total number of residents
Baseline Value                                                   End of Project Value
..                                                               5,1%
Comment: This indicator was used to track output from medical education and (re)training activities. By midterm
this ratio stood at 13%.


Indicator 30
Number of trained (nationally) and re-trained FGP physicians and nurses per 10,000 population (nationally and by
region) and their share to the total number of physicians and nurses working in health system
Baseline Value                                                   End of Project Value
Not Available                                                    Total number:
                                                                 2,478 physicians
                                                                 3,419 nurses
                                                                 Source: HPAP, Annual Package of Monitoring




                                                         30

                                                                  Indicators, 2005
Comment: This indicator was used to track output from medical education and (re)training activities. The following
numbers applied at mid term:

Total number:
1,654 physicians
1,953 FM nurses
Source: HPAP, Annual Package of Monitoring Indicators, 2005


Indicator 31
Percent of licensed specialists by category and specialization to the total number of specialists employed in the
health sector (on national level and by region; by level of health care provided)
Baseline Value                                                    End of Project Value
Not available                                                     Not available
Comment: This indicator was used to track improvement in medical/facility accreditation process. Data for this
indicator were not tracked.


Indicator 32
Percent of accredited health facilities by type: inpatient care and primary care; nationally and by region
Baseline Value                                                    End of Project Value
11% (2001)                                                        20%
Source: HPAP, Annual Package of Monitoring Indicators,            Source: HPAP, Annual Package of Monitoring
2005                                                              Indicators, 2005
Comment: This indicator was used to track improvement in the medical/facility accreditation process. By mid term
this number stood at 18%.
Source: HPAP, Annual Package of Monitoring Indicators, 2005



Indicator 33
Number of new clinical guidelines approved by MOH Prikaz
Baseline Value                                                    End of Project Value
22                                                                27
                                                                  Source: HPAP, Annual Package of Monitoring
                                                                  Indicators, 2005
Comment: This indicator was used to track the extent of evidence-based clinical guideline
Development. By mid term, 89 more had been approved.
Source: HPAP, Annual Package of Monitoring Indicators, 2005


Indicator 34
Number of health facilities that are due-paying members of FGPA doctors
Baseline Value                                                    End of Project Value
1221                                                              4819
Comment: This indicator was used to track increased membership in professional organizations. By 2002, this
number stood at 2380.




                                                           31

Indicator 35
Number of health facilities that are due-paying members of HA facilities
Baseline Value                                                   End of Project Value
3                                                                30
Comment: This indicator was used to track increased membership in professional organizations. In 2003, this
number stood at 18.


Indicator 36
Number of users of evidence-based medicine literature, electronic databases, and Internet
Baseline Value                                                   End of Project Value
Not tracked.                                                     Not tracked.
Comment: This indicator was not tracked.


Indicator 37

The percent of drugs tests at the two quality control laboratories that are rejected/faulty
Baseline Value                                                   End of Project Value
Bishkek ­ 5.24%; Osh ­ 10.55%                                    Bishkek ­ 1.94%; Osh ­ 2.03% (2004 data)
Source: HPAP, Annual Package of Monitoring Indicators,           Source: HPAP, Annual Package of Monitoring
2005                                                             Indicators, 2005
Comment: This indicator was used to track use rates of pharmaceutical quality labs. The following data applied at
midterm:

Bishkek ­ 5.33%; Osh ­ 5.9%
Source: HPAP, Annual Package of Monitoring Indicators, 2005


Indicator 38
Training courses organized by Health Promotion Center
Baseline Value                                                   End of Project Value
20                                                               1316
Comment: This indicator was used to track output of new national health promotion center in terms of number of
people trained and guidelines issued. By mid term the number trained was 385.



Indicator 39
Number of informational-educational materials on health promotion and prevention of diseases issued by RHPC
(radio, TV programs, articles in print media, booklets and posters)
Baseline Value                                               End of Project Value
193,064                                                      78,000
                                                             Source: HPAP, Annual Package of Monitoring
                                                             Indicators, 2005 at
                                                             http://eng.hpap.med.kg/MyFiles/Indicators2005_eng.pdf

Comment: This indicator was used to track the number and setting (e.g. FGPs/FMCs, schools) of local health
promotion activities and effect of these on population understanding of healthy behaviors.
Source: HPAP, Annual Package of Monitoring Indicators, 2005 at
http://eng.hpap.med.kg/MyFiles/Indicators2005_eng.pdf




                                                         32

Indicator 40
Incidence of TB per 100,000 population and incidence of brucellosis per 100,000 population:
1) Kyrgyz Republic 2) Batken oblast 3) Jalal-Abad oblast 4) Issyk-Kul oblast 5) Naryn oblast 6) Osh oblast 7)
Talass oblast 8) Chui oblast 9) Bishkek city 10) Osh city
Baseline Value                                                 End of Project Value
1) 121.8; 24.9                                                 1) 166.7; 69.5
2) 102.2; 14.3                                                 2) 155; 200.4
3) 136; 25.2                                                   3) 138.1; 88.0
4) 91.4; 55.9                                                  4) 93.9; 84.6
5) 86.5; 80.1                                                  5)119.4; 136.0
6) 142.9; 7.4                                                  6)110.1; 32.3
7) 109.5; 33.1                                                 7)210.8; 153.7
8) 130.6; 32.3                                                 8) 175.0; 58.6
9) 104.7; 13.2                                                 9) 167.5; 11.8
Source: RMIC Database                                          10) 134.4; 23.3
                                                               Source: RMIC Database
Comment: This indicator was used to track the trend in the incidence of selected common infections (TB, hepatitis
A and B, brucellosis) in pilot oblasts is similar or better than in other oblasts (efficiency and quality improvements);
extension of similar gains to all oblasts by end of project. The following data applied at mid term:


1) 139.5; 60.7
2) 101.7; 108.8
3) 157.4; 64.7
4) 116.8; 142.4
5) 123.7; 184.6
6) 112.6; 15.7
7) 150.1; 89.0
8) 152.3; 54.3
9) 150.6; 22.1 Source: RMIC Database




                                                           33

Annex 2. Restructuring
N/A




                          34

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

            Components                Appraisal Estimate Actual/Latest Estimate
                                          (USD M)              (USD M)         Percentage of Appraisal

HEALTH SERVICES DELIVERY
                                             7.54                6.24                   83
RESTRUCTURING

HEALTH FINANCING                             2.67                1.91                   72

QUALITY IMPROVEMENT                          3.52                3.05                   87

PUBLIC HEALTH                                2.01                2.67                   132

PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND
                                             1.74                0.71                  40.8
EVALUATION

                   Total Baseline Cost      17.48                14.58                 83.41

Physical Contingencies                       1.35                  -                     -

Price Contingencies                          0.67                  -                      -

                   Total Project Costs      19.50                14.58                 74.77

Front-end fee PPF                            0.00                  -                     -

Front-end fee IBRD                           0.00                  -                     -

             Total Financing Required       19.50               14.58                  74.77



(b) Financing

  Source of        Type of Co        Appraisal Estimate  Actual/Latest Estimate     Percentage of
    Funds          financing            (USD M)                 (USD M)               Appraisal

Borrower                                   1.50                   0.65                   0.43

IDA                                       15.00                   13.94                  0.93




                                                    35

(c) Disbursement Profile




                            36

Annex 4. Outputs by Component

The project supported a number of activities that made significant contributions to the achievement of the
project development objectives.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Component 1: Health Service Delivery Restructuring (US$6.24 million actual cost)
Activities under this component supported the modernization and improvement in management of
secondary and primary health care services; and supported reforms of primary care services that were
ongoing. These activities supported ongoing changes in the inverted pyramidal structure of the delivery
system in Kyrgyz Republic, that is, from a small base in primary care and a broad top in highly
specialized services.

Sub-component 1.1: Continued Development of the Primary health Care
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

Primary Health Care services have been modernized through the family medicine approach, supported by
the project as well as other donors active in the sector. In 2001, the PHC Department was established in
the MOH, with branches t the oblast level. Previous polyclinic facilities were separated from hospitals
and converted into Family Medicine Centers. This process was completed in 2002 leading to a doubling
of primary care personnel in the health care system. The project financed the renovations, rehabilitation,
providing new instruments and equipment, including laboratory testing equipment for facilities. Family
Medicine concept was introduced to primary care physicians through improved training, and continuous
medical education/continuous professional development (CME/CPD). The project supported development
and integration of the primary care clinical practice guidelines in to the daily operation of the
FMCs/FGPs. Currently, the sector is represented by 87 FMC incorporating 675 FGPs, and independent 34
FGPs, all contracted by MHIF and providing services to the population. FMC/FGPs are linked to the
national HIS, maintaining data on enrolled population, population served, provided services, types and
prescribed drugs under the ADP; reproductive health offices, opened in FMCs offer modern
contraceptives; and emergency ambulance services previously managed by the hospital sector have now
been merged with the FMC. Given the continued shortage of family doctors in rural areas, the
Government decided to keep FAPs providing core primary health care services in rural areas for the next
3-5 years.

The success of the Family Medicine model of delivering care did depend on the availability of facilities
staffed by trained family doctors and nurses, and adequately equipped to ensure quality and accessibility
of care. It is important to note that financing for primary care, in absolute value, increased almost three
times and the share of actual expenditures for Primary Care increased over the same period from about 15
percent to 34.8 percent. Per capita expenditures tripled from 2001 to 2005 despite constraints on the
overall health care budget mentioned in previous sections. Increases in primary health care expenditures
allowed significant increases in the salary and benefits of primary care personnel which increased four
times, and the average wages of physicians increased by 70 percent, nurses by 78 percent, and support
staff by 77 percent. Introduction of the Additional Drug Package, covered under MHIF, to encourage
treatment of primary care clinical diseases on an outpatient basis resulted in decrease of unnecessary
referrals to in-patient services from 2.2 percent of total hospital referrals in 2002 to 0.6 percent in 2004.




                                                     37

At the end of the project, 98.5 percent of the population had access to enhanced and improved PHC
services.

Sub-component 1.2: Rationalization and Modernization of Central Rayon & Oblast Hospitals
Rating: Satisfactory

Another key reform area supported by the project was the major restructuring and rationalization of the
system of tertiary care delivery, from the FSU model of significant over-capacity of physical
infrastructure and human resources in tertiary care. Before reforms, the hospital sector consumed 80-90
percent of health system resources. Reforms included reducing bed capacity; closing facilities, and
renovating, rehabilitation, purchase of new equipment, and improving management. The result was
consolidation of building space and reductions in occupied space needed to provide care in oblasts and
rayons. Between 2001 and 2003, approximately 97 inpatient facilities were closed, including 13
specialized hospitals and 84 general hospitals. The number of buildings was reduced from 1464 to 784;
reduction in personnel staffing inpatient services was reduced by approximately 25 percent; the
approximate number of doctors was reduced by 32 percent, number of nurses by 30 percent, and number
of supporting and other personnel by 19 percent. At the same time, the average salary for inpatient
services has increased 39 percent for physicians, 38 percent for nurses and 33 percent for support
personnel and others.

Approximately US$2 million was used for renovation of 36 inpatient facilities and $2,099,431 from the
Kyrgyz-Swiss Health Reform Support Project were used for renovation of 5 hospitals. Had restructuring
not taken place and consumption of utilities had remained at the 1999 level, then expenditures for utilities
would have increased on average by 44 percent during the four years and by 57 percent in 2004. This
would have been caused by increased prices and tariffs for energy resources.             Actual electricity
consumption was reduced by 23 percent but expenditures increased by 34 percent as a result of tariff
increase by 87 percent during the last four years. Consumption of heat as well as expenditures for heat
was reduced by an average of 41 percent during the last four years. Consumption of coal was reduced by
64 percent and expenditures for coal were reduced by 14 percent with the increase in tariff by 92 percent.
Consumption of water was reduced by 30 percent and expenditures by 20 percent. Installation of water-
meters to measure consumed water allowed for actual savings of resources, consolidation of space
reduced utility expenses through improved planning and control processes, including major
improvements in insulation.

Over the reporting period, ALOS reduced from 13.3 to 9.04 days and bed turnover increased from 22.9 in
2001 up to 24.2 in 2003 signaling increasing productivity of the hospital sector. Reduction in physical and
human resource infrastructure allowed the health system to spend a greater share of scare resources on
costs associated with direct patient care (drugs, medical supplies). Between 2000 and 2003, the share of
health expenditures allocated to direct patient care expenses increased from 16.4 percent to 36.6 percent.
This large reallocation of expenditures would not have been possible without significant downsizing the
infrastructure of service delivery.

Sub-component 1.3: Restructuring of Hospital System in the Bishkek Territory
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Restructuring and rationalization of Bishkek City (both Republican and City facilities) and Osh City/Osh
Oblast was less successful; partly because pooling of funds and implementation of a single payer system
did not proceed as planned. This impeded improvement of regional inequalities in resource distribution.
Inability to keep savings from restructuring slowed the progress of reform because health care




                                                     38

professionals did not see any incentive to do so. It is also the case that the public sector as a whole
continued to function and allocate budgets based on inputs rather than outputs. In part, this is also due to
weakness in advocacy functions within the health sector which has not been very successful in fighting
for at least constant budget shares in the annual budget negotiation process.

The following reorganizations were implemented between 2001 and 2004: (a) the Republican Dermato-
Venerology Dispensary was transferred to the Republican Infection Hospital; (ii) The National Center of
Pediatrics and Children Surgery was established through merger of two pediatric services (KRIOP and
Bishkek Children Hospital); (iii) the Maternity Hospital of the Kyrgyz Research Institute of Obstetrics
and Pediatrics (KRIOP) was transferred to the National Hospital of the MoH; (iv) Republican Centre of
Mental Health was established; (v) the Research Institute of Cardiovascular Surgery and Organs
Transplantation was established; (vi) all urological beds of Bishkek were merged with the National
Hospital of the MoH with establishment of the Republican Research Urology Centre (2002); (vii) all
trauma beds in Bishkek were merged with City Emergency Care Hospital where Bishkek Trauma
Research Center and Orthopedics were later on established.

Sub-component 1.4: Developing Capacity to Plan and Manage Human Resources
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

This sub-component supported the design and development of the national human resource database.
Though developed with notable delays, the database is functioning. As expected, further developments
and enhancements will be needed in order to enable policy makers to fully plan for the sector.

Sub-component 1.5: Mental Health
Rating: N/ A.

Activities under this sub-component were dropped when funding from DFID became unavailable.

Sub-component 1.6: Capacity Building for Sustainability
Rating: Satisfactory

This subcomponent supported capacity building by providing expertise in developing the training plan,
budget and content in (i) human resource planning and management; (ii) estate management; (iii) general
management and (iv) health service strategy development and planning. While training plans and course
design were originally to be supported by the project, the MOH managed to leverage funds from other
donors for implementation.       The borrower was extremely successful in developing the Health
management course for health staff as well as by delivering Flagship courses tailored to the needs of
Central Asia and the Caucasus which attracted health policy makers and personnel from these countries.

Component 2: Health Financing (US$1.91 million actual cost)
Rating: Satisfactory

This component supported achievements of the first Health Sector Reform Project by establishing a
Single Payer System in all oblasts, including Bishkek and Osh, which resulted in pooling of funds at the
oblast level; and strengthened the strategic purchasing functions of the MHIF. With additional support
from USAID funded Zdarv Plus project the government introduced the Program for State Guarantees for
Health Services and explicit co-payment requirements. The HIS supported by the project provides the
Government, the purchaser, providers and clients with the financial, clinical, epidemiological and quality
data needed to monitor and improve the performance of the health care system.




                                                     39

Sub-component 2.1: Health Financing Policy Development.
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

This sub-component supported the establishment of the MOH/MHIF policy analysis center which
conducts policy analysis and design in main areas of health financing; the center also provides the
necessary support for adoption of legal and regulatory framework, including amendments to the budget
law, health insurance law, labor laws and the law on introduction of the Single Payer System (SPS).
Developed policies contributed to the continuation of `purchaser ­ provider' split and extension of greater
managerial autonomy of the purchaser (MHIF) and providers in use of budget funds. Moreover, better
geographical equity of healthcare financing and institutionalization of pooling funds as well as the shift
from line item budgeting towards outcome based financing of providers was achieved. Development and
implementation of the unified system of provider payment (PP) methods by level of care (case-based
payment to hospitals, capitation payment to FGPs) and introduction of the health insurance system
covering the most poor in society were achieved. The single payer reforms were introduced gradually,
allowing the MHIF to build its own capacity, win confidence of key stakeholders, and evaluate the effects
of the reforms and make changes appropriately. The first pilots were conducted in Issyk-Kul and Chui
oblasts in 2001; reforms were extended to two additional oblasts every two years1.

As was the case on the restructuring of Bishkek and Osh hospitals, health financing reforms in Osh and
Bishkek cities were not fully successful. Local Governments strongly resisted relinquishing their
authority over financial resources to territorial health insurance departments. In Bishkek, republican and
city health facilities had clear differences in budget norms and the Bishkek self-government did not wish
to cross-subsidize republican health facilities. A compromise was reached in 2004: Republican and city
health facilities are financed through different budgets, but Bishkek TDMHIF manages both of them. In
Osh City, pooling of funds of Osh city and Osh oblast was impeded by the Law #97 on the Status of Osh
City passed in June 2003. The Law provided Osh city the same privileges enjoyed by Bishkek, including
a separate city budget. Only after the reorganization of the TDMHIF to allow it to maintain the two
budgets separately did the city authorities gave up their attempt to create a separate health insurance
entity.

Sub-component 2.2: Strengthening the Purchasing Function of MOH/MHIF
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The Mandatory Health Insurance Fund began operating in 1997; its role became more important with the
introduction of the "Single-Payer". This sub-component supported the development of the purchasing
function of the MHIF, including further refinement and country-wide implementation of previously
developed provider payment (PP) methods, introduction of mechanisms for cost containment in hospitals,
regular monitoring by MHIF of patient satisfaction, and introduction of the Outpatient Additional Drug
Package. All activities critical for a HIF to function were fully implemented.

As a result, the new provider payment methods associated with the single payer system encouraged
hospital sector downsizing that occurred between 2000 and 2005: between 2000 and 2003, 42 percent of
the buildings and 35 percent of the floor space had been reduced. Improved planning and insulation
methods together with reduction in square footage and closing of buildings significantly reduced utility


1 1st wave (2001): Issyk-Kul, Chui, 2nd wave (2002): Talas, Naryn; 3rd wave (2003): Jalal-Abad, Batken; 4th wave (2003/04): Osh city and
oblast, Bishkek city




                                                                     40

expenses. Analysis of eight hospitals in Chui, Issyk-Kul, and Naryn oblasts shows that restructuring led to
a substantial decline in utility costs in the 2001-2002 heating period as compared to 2000-2001 (HPAP).

Sub-component 2.3: Health Information Systems Development
Rating: Satisfactory

This sub-component supported the development of Health Information System (HIS) which encompasses
different databases (clinical, financial, HR) which enables policy makers ( MOH), purchaser (MHIF),
service providers (hospitals, FMC) and clients receive comprehensive set of information (financial, HR,
clinical, and quality data) to monitor and assess the health care system performance. The developed HIS
is impressive, however impediments originating from outside the health care system continue to impede
full usage of the HIS: (i) high communication costs and general connectivity issues at rayon level; (ii)
population database needs further work from the National Registration System, the latter being the
responsibility of the Ministry of Interior.

Component 3: Quality Improvement (US$3.05 million actual cost)
Rating: Satisfactory

This component supported the promotion of quality health services through a comprehensive Quality
Improvement Strategy, which was developed with additional technical assistance from the USAID-funded
ZdravPlus Project. The strategy provided a framework for planning coordinated improvement activities,
building the capacities needed, institutionalizing a continuous dynamic of quality improvement in the
system, and establishes a clear linkage between health financing reforms and improved health outcomes.

Sub-component 3.1: Medical Education and Re- training
Rating: Satisfactory

This sub-component strengthened the technical capacity of training centers, facilitated revision of training
curriculum and trained staff needed for the new primary health care function. Support was provided to
strengthen the technical foundation of the Family Medicine, General Practice and Pediatric Departments
of the Kyrgyz Medical Academy through refurbishment and equipping the Family Medicine Training
Center, revision of curricula and establishment of a monitoring unit. The project provided basic
infrastructure and equipment as well as foreign and local technical assistance for the establishment of the
Health Management and Health System Research unit in the ministry with the responsibility to link all
existing health management training programs delivered by different education institutions (KMA,
Kyrgyz International University and CCME) and support the development of national programs on health
management training for the staff deployed in the health system. Specifically the project supported the
CCME in re-training FGPs/FMCs staff, revision of existing curricula with more focus on practical skill
development and expending curricula by adding modules on rational drug use and health promotion.
Moreover, modular training programs which address issues of practice management and financing, public
health and health promotion pharmacology were introduced.

Sub-component 3.2: Professional Development
Rating: Satisfactory

This sub-component strengthened professional associations (FGPs/FMCs and Hospital) by providing
supplemental financial assistance so that they could meet the associations' operation costs needs, as well
as for the organization of conferences and training. In addition, support was provided for evaluation of
services and enhancement of the Licensing & Accreditation system, by separating licensing from




                                                      41

accreditation activities and integrating licensing services into the MOH and further developing
Accreditation by establishing autonomous, self-sustainable Accreditation Commission. This Sub-
component also promoted the introduction of Evidence Based Medicine (EBM) in the Kyrgyz health care
system by providing access to the latest medical literature, building local capacity for systematic review
and grading of evidence as well as methodology for the preparation and implementation of clinical
guidelines. The National Medical Library (NML) was relocated to the new well equipped and furnished
premises, its functions were reorganized, and staff was trained in modern information and library
management.

Sub-component 3.3: Pharmaceutical Management
Rating: Satisfactory

With technical support from DFID, activities under this sub component strengthened pharmaceutical
quality assurance and promoted rational use of drugs. The Pharmaceutical Department of the MOH was
refurbished and renovated; in 2002, the New National Pharmaceutical Policy was adopted. Notable results
include the revised List of Essential drugs as well as the implementation of the Rational Use of Drug
concept. Guidelines in health professionals' training programs have included drug use concepts and the
Drug information Center has expanded its activities to include conferences and training, improved access
to health information system and establishment of a unit responsible for monitoring and evaluation of
activities, including actively exploring knowledge and physician's rational prescription practices.

Component 4: Public Health (US$2.67 million actual cost)
Rating: Satisfactory

The project supported important steps in downsizing of Sanitary and Epidemiological Services (SES) and
its laboratory system, as well as separating out health promotion and health protection functions. A
significant amount of training activities begin modernization of public health activities were supported.
Starting in 2001, the MOH developed and approved two main documents: Concept for SES Service
Reform and Development in the Kyrgyz Republic for 2001-2005 (January 11, 2002) and Health
Promotion Concept for 2003-2007 (December 12, 2002).

Sub-component 4.1: Health Promotion
Rating: Satisfactory

Health promotion services were to be supported under an independent unit of the MoH; at the central
level the service is under the National Health Promotion Center (NHPC) and at oblast level ­ under the
Oblast Health Promotion Center (OHPC). Health Promotion Units were established under raion FMCs
and FGPs in order to integrate health promotion service with primary health care. The Health Promotion
Units coordinate all healthy lifestyle promotion activities including providing motivation for local
community organization of health committees in villages; they also support FGPs in their work. 200
health promotion trainers at oblast health promotion centers and rayon/city FMCs were trained.

The RCHP, with assistance from WHO, assisted in the establishment and support of an Inter-Ministerial
Committee (5 Ministries) on Health Promotion. The committee has been instrumental in developing and
adopting a National Strategy for Health Promotion. Implementation of the latter is being supported under
the SWAp supporting KG's Manas II. The RCHP has had significant collaboration with international
organizations including the WB, USAID, AED, SDC, WHO, UNFPA, DFID, UNICEF, SIDA, ADB,
JICA, City Hope, Finnish-Kyrgyz Project, the Aga Khan Foundation, and others.




                                                    42

Sub-component 4.1: Health Protection
Rating: Satisfactory

Under this sub-component the design to modernize the existing health protection system called the
Sanitary Epidemiological System (SES) to make it more efficient and effective was developed. The SES
restructuring is still ongoing due to the newly emerging functions dictated by the improved business and
regulatory environment reforms as well as by Kyrgyz membership in the WTO. SES funding has moved
to full budget financing transferring all special funds to the republican budget.

The project heavily supported (i) Restructuring the SES laboratory system and restructuring of SES units.
Two out of five virusological laboratories have been closed; 120 virusologists, bacteriologists and
laboratory assistants were trained on modern methods of laboratory researches. Training seminars on safe
immunization practice were held for 293 nurses of maternal hospitals and vaccination rooms; similarly,
four radiologial laboratories were merged into two.               The structure of sanitary-hygienic and
microbiological laboratories has also been downsized. As of today there are 34 primary (rayon and city
SSECCs) and 20 basic laboratories. Modern laboratory equipment procured under the Health-2 Project
funded by the World Bank facilitates quick and accurate implementation of laboratory researches.
Functions of the National Plague Center have been revised transforming it into the National Center of
Quarantine and Life Threatening Infections (NCQLTI). Seventy five epidemiologists were trained on
issues of modern epidemiological control and role of FGPs/FMCs in epidemiological control system.

Component 5: Project Administration and Evaluation (US$0.71 million actual cost)
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

Sub-component 5.1: Project Administration
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The main implementation agency for the project was the Technical Coordination Unit (TCC) consisting
of Component Coordinators for each of the project component. The TCU was supported in project
implementation by the project coordination unit (PCU). The project implementation arrangements were
well designed to blend the day-to-day details of project implementation and the need for a high-level
technical committee given the health sector reform objectives of the project. Implementation agency
performance was exceptional, and the project was implemented in a timely manner, despite external
problems (delays in the availability of counterpart funds and delays in allocation of the space for the
National Medical Laboratory), however they did not have a substantial negative impact on the project's
overall performance. The PCU carried out its fiduciary responsibilities, particularly financial management
and procurement, in an exemplary manner.




                                                      43

Sub-component 5.2: Monitoring and Evaluation

Rating: Satisfactory

One of the significant objectives of the project was to support the establishment of a single monitoring
and evaluation framework, which would assist the ministry in policy analysis and allow evidence based
policy formulation. Moreover, it was intended that the M & E framework would also be suitable to the
wide range of donor financed projects supporting health sector reforms, to measure project specific
outcomes and implications on the overall health sector performance. This sub-component was mainly
financed by DFID to establish the Health Policy Analysis Project (HPAP); and is seen as an important
part of project implementation. By and large, the main purpose, i.e., to strengthen evaluation and policy
research capacity of the MOH and to the greatest extend possible assess sector and project performance
by analyzing the data generated by the MOH information system was achieved. Of great achievement is
the fact that MoH's capacity in monitoring overall health sector performance as well as specific reform
areas to inform policy makers on required re-adjustment of reform design has been greatly improved. The
HPAP is the unit responsible for pooling together all data from all routine sources, analyzing, as well as
producing policy briefs and policy recommendations. Most of the policy recommendations produced
where consequently approved and implemented. In fact, the design of the M&E framework contributed
greatly to improving readiness for implementation of the follow on health project.




                                                   44

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis

The overall objective of the Health 2 project was to improve health status through financial protection of
the population against potentially impoverishing levels of out-of-pocket spending, and improve the
responsiveness of the health system to better respond to the needs and expectations of the population.
Information used in economic analysis is derived from various sources, mainly from the original
economic analysis and project reports. Expenditure figures used in all calculations and detailed in the
analytical tables were supplied by the GoKR. Calculations of DALYs gained could not be calculated
because appropriate data was not available. Disbursement levels for each component and for each
calendar year were available from the project reports. Monitoring and evaluation costs available for each
year were proportionally allocated to each project component based on the component costs. An
examination of sub-components and key aspects of each sub-component gives some indications of gains
from supported activities.

The health service delivery restructuring allowed GoKR to decrease bed capacity by almost 25 percent
during 2000-2005 as a result of which fixed costs of the system were brought down from 21.3 percent in
2000 to 12.4 percent in 2005, resulting in a significant cost savings and higher allocations towards
essential inputs for care provision. E.g. the levels of expenditures for feeding and drugs in the hospitals
increased from 18 percent in 2000 up to 20 percent in 2004, allowing for improved quality of services
and a decreased financial burden on the population that previously had to bring own drugs to the hospital.
Through improvements in quality and efficiency of primary care; and establishment of legally
autonomous PHCs staffed with better trained and equipped physicians, hospitalization rates decreased by
keeping patients on the PHC level hence keeping costs low. For example during 2000-2004 levels of
hospitalization for hypertension decreased from 21.5 percent in 2000 to 13.9 percent in 2004, for peptic
ulcer from 45.4 percent to 37.3 percent and for bronchial asthma from 54.6 percent down to 22 percent. In
addition, there was a decrease in the average length of hospital stay by 12 percent over a 5-year period;
and a reduction in the number of hospitals per 100,000 population from 7.03 in 1999 to 3.01 in 2004.




                                                     45

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team Members
Names                  Title                     Unit     Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Jan Bultman            Lead Health Specialist    ECSHD    Program Team Leader
Veerle Coignez Sterling Consultant               ECSHD    Pharmaceuticals
Strasimir Cucic        Consultant                ECSHD    Health Quality Assurance
Dinara Djoldosheva     Senior Country Officer    ECCKG    Operations Officer
Maria Gracheva         Operations Officer        ECSHD    Project Appraisal Document
Dominic S. Haazen      Sr Health Spec.           ECSHD    HIMS
Spencer Hagard         Consultant                ECSHD    Public Health
Carol A. Hoppy         Sr Operations Off.        ECAVP    Operations
Simo Kokko             Consultant                ECSHD    Public Health

Joseph Douglas Kutzin  Consultant                HDNVP    Health Finance& Evaluation

Kees Schaapveld        Consultant                ECSHD    Health Finance
Yves J. Tencalla       Consultant                AFTH1    Education Specialist
Supervision/ICR
Roque A. Ardon         Sr Auditor                IADDR    Financial Management
Anne M Bakilana        Economist                 ECSHD    ICR Author
Jan Bultman            Lead Health Specialist    ECSHD    Program Team Leader
Sarbani Chakraborty    Sr Health Spec.           ECSHD    Team Leader
David A Cochrane       Consultant                ECSHD    Human Resources
Almazbek Djanaliev     Procurement Analyst       ECCKG    Procurement
Dinara Djoldosheva     Senior Country Officer    ECCKG    Operations Officer
Gabriel C. Francis     Program Assistant         ECSHD    Team Assistant
Paolo Giribona         Consultant                ECSHD    Medical Equipment Special
Joana Godinho          Sr Health Spec.           LCSHH    Public Health
Tamar Gotsadze         Health Specialist         ECSHD    ICR Author
Spencer Hagard         Consultant                ECSHD    Public Health
Naushad Ahmed Khan     Lead Procurement Spec     CMERI    Procurement
Simo Kokko             Consultant                ECSHD    Public Health
Nurbek Kurmanaliev     Procurement Officer       ECSPS    Procurement
Joseph Kutzin          Consultant                HDNVP    Health Finance, M&E
Akiko Maeda            Sector Manager, HNP       MNSHD    Health Specialist
Elina Manjieva         JPA                       ECSHD    Health Financing
John Otieno Ogallo     Sr FM Specialist          ECSPS    FMS
George Purvis          Consultant                ECSHD    Facility Restructuring
Asel Sargaldakova      Health Specialist         ECSHD    Operations Officer
Dennis Streveler       Consultant                MNSHD    Human Resources
Ronald F. Venezia                                ECSHD    Procurement
Yingwei Wu             Sr Procurement Spec.      ECSPS    Procurement




                                               46

(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

No. Date ISR Archived DO                          IP             Actual Disbursements (USD M)
1   06/28/2001         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                0.00
2   12/21/2001         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                0.20
3   06/28/2002         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                1.41
4   11/28/2002         Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory              2.39
5   06/19/2003         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                5.19
6   11/29/2003         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                6.17
7   12/15/2003         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                6.34
8   06/25/2004         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                7.57
9   12/09/2004         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                9.60
10 06/23/2005          Moderately Satisfactory    Satisfactory                11.05
11 04/03/2006          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                13.59




                                      (c) Staff Time and Cost

                                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

              Stage of Project Cycle                                             USD Thousands
                                                       No. of staff weeks      (including travel and
                                                                                 consultant costs)
                    Lending
                      FY99                                                             6.52
                      FY00                                     44                     123.93
                      FY01                                     39                     171.90
                      FY02                                     5                       8.60
                      FY03                                     1                       0.14
                      FY04                                                             0.00
                      FY05                                                             0.00
                      FY06                                                             0.00
                      FY07                                                             0.00
                      Total:                                   89                     311.09
                Supervision/ICR
                      FY99                                                             0.00
                      FY00                                                             0.00
                      FY01                                                             0.00
                      FY02                                     28                     110.22
                      FY03                                     43                     153.00
                      FY04                                     38                     135.72
                      FY05                                     33                      71.81
                      FY06                                     34                      91.35
                      FY07                                     2                       4.88
                      Total:                                   178                    566.98




                                                   47

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank                    Ratings            Borrower           Ratings
Ensuring Quality at
Entry:                  Satisfactory       Government:        Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory       Implementing
                                           Agency/Agencies:   Satisfactory

Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory       Performance:       Satisfactory




                                          48

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results

This section is based on findings of the World Bank review of the Experience of Family Medicine in
Europe and Central Asia which included the Kyrgyz Republic as a Case Study, as well as, findings of
stakeholder interviews carried out by the team during the ICR mission.

Perception of Reforms: Most respondents viewed the Kyrgyz health sector reforms and introduction of
Family Medicine to be complex, especially since they involved a comprehensive restructuring of the
health care delivery system which in many cases was difficult and painful. Key informants commented
that the new system not just restructured but redesigned care delivery process by putting family
physicians at the center of delivering care with their gate keeping function and broadened scope of
services, including disease prevention and health promotion. New care guidelines helped change the
scope, approach and delivery of services. Respondents also felt that the reforms entailed complex changes
to the financing and resource allocation functions by separating financing and provision, introducing new
entities (MHIF and its Oblast branch offices), and creating single resource pool and payer at oblast level.
Many respondents identified that the concept of users having a choice of provider and free enrolment in
the PHC system, was one of the major achievements of the reform. Those interviewed, commented that
reforms introduced new stakeholders, such as MHIF, HA and FMA, international agencies and
international and local NGOs. Direct interest of the current and previous President showed the importance
of reforms.

Perceived Benefits for Users: Respondents enthusiastically identified many benefits of PHC, both for
users and the system as a whole. In particular, increased user satisfaction, improved physical and financial
access, continuity of care, single person responsible for care, comprehensiveness of care and increased
awareness of rights. Most of the respondents felt that the new PHC system increased user satisfaction, as
the family doctors were able to address most health problems at the PHC level hence reducing the need
for cross-referrals within the PHC and referrals for secondary care. Further, the new consumer-provider
relationship encouraged doctors to deliver higher quality health services and attract more patients to
enroll. Having a single named doctor for most health care problems was identified as a key benefit to the
patient. A WHO study revealed that almost 70 percent of respondents are satisfied with the health
services and think that introduction of official co-payment has positively impacted on the provision of
services and quality of care. Increased access to health was emphasized as key achievement of FM,
positively impacting waiting times and Out of Pocket Payments. Efficient utilization of resources,
improved equity (of financing and access), as well as increased transparency of fund flows ware the most
frequently sited benefits to the health system, as illustrated by comments of the policy makers and FMC
managers.

Barriers to change: The majority of informants responded that there was significant opposition to reforms
from various groups such as senior government officials, parliamentarians and medical personnel who are
specialists in specific fields. Many observed that governments of other Central Asian Countries were
strongly opposing to a system based on FM and tried to influence the Kyrgyz Government; clearly, health
reforms had become highly politicized. The respondents stressed that comprehensive restructuring of the
health system redistributed management authority, financial benefits and control of resources. This clearly
separated winners from looser and clearly those who stood to lose showed resistance towards reforms.

Respondents noted that introduction of reforms was hindered by negative feelings towards reforms;
clearly lack of understanding at the introduction stage led the medical community to cultivate its negative




                                                     49

perception of reforms. Most people failed to understand the nature and goals, the latter eventually led to
misunderstandings and reduced the buy-in from different constituents. User involvement as well as the
need for effective and sustained communication with clear, consistent and focused messages was
highlighted as being critical for the successful implementation of reforms. Nostalgia for the old times,
with perceived `free' care was a theme that repeatedly emerged in interviews of medical personnel,
management and the public. Poor financial support of the reforms was identified by all informants as
critical factor that slowed down the pace of change. Particularly the lack of incentives has retarded the
pace of reforms, as FGP are not motivated to adopt changes or improve quality.

Job Satisfaction: A large majority of doctors interviewed strongly agreed that they were interested in their
work and found it full filling. Only 30-50 percent of doctors surveyed thought the degree of effort and the
rewards were balanced out. Similar proportion thought that much of their effort was wasted. A large
majority of doctors strongly or more-or-less agreed with the fact that their work is overloaded with
unnecessary administrative duties. However, it is of real concern that most of the doctors, if they had the
opportunity will leave their posts and either pursue non-medical work or migrate to neighboring countries
offering better remuneration.




                                                     50

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results


n/a




                                           51

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR


1.      Review of Project's Goals, Objectives and Structure

The project "Health Reform-2" financed by the World Bank is a logic continuation of the project "Health
Sector Reform" implemented by the Ministry of Health of the Kyrgyz Republic during 1996 ­ 2001. The
first project had a significant impact on the sector development processes and the health financing
component was assessed by the World Bank as highly satisfactory. Under the first project integrated
efforts have been undertaken in the following areas: restructuring of the system of provision of medical
assistance, promotion of the primary health care, pharmaceutical system management and introduction of
the new system of payments to heath institutions.

The design of the second project financed by the World Bank has been prepared with an active
participation of Kyrgyz specialists. To implement the reforms supported under the project "Health
Reform-2", the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic made commitments to carry out a number of legal
and administrative activities. These commitments have been reflected in the Letter sent to the World Bank
by the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic (20-17/13 as of 19.03.01), as well as the Credit Agreement.




2. Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation Process

The poverty level in the Kyrgyz Republic remains to be high. Poverty fighting is one of the top priority
objectives under the strategy of sustainable human development of the state. The improvement of health
of the country's population, formation of a healthy lifestyle are emphasized in all strategic documents of
the KR Government as one of the most important priorities of the social policy conducted. All
benchmarks for healthcare development in the nearest years, major directions of reform deepening in the
health sector have been reflected in the Comprehensive Development Framework of the Kyrgyz Republic
till 2010.

A delay in implementation of planned activities under two major components took place from the very
beginning of the project. The supervision mission of the World Bank visiting the republic during October
16 ­ 23, 2002 assessed the process of reforms and, accordingly, the project implementation as slowed
down and practically stalled on the issues of introduction of new mechanisms of health financing and
restructuring of health institutions.

The last year of the project was implemented in a complicated political situation in the country. On March
24, 2005 some developments took place in the country, as a result of which the President of the KR Askar
Akaev left the Kyrgyz Republic. A new president of the country was elected ­ Kurmanbek Bakiev. There
were also some other changes in the structure of the KR Government, including the appointment of
Shailoobek Niyazov as a new minister of health in summer of 2005. During the process of
implementation of the project "Health Reform-2" two ministers have been replaced, which also affected
the progress of implementation of the planned activities. Notwithstanding the complicated political
situation in the country, the replacement of the President and the Government of the KR has not affected
the achievement of the project goals.




                                                    52

3.       Project Introduction: Achievements and further perspectives

3.1.     Statutory and Legal Basis

Strengthening of the legal basis of activities implemented under the project is the foundation for a
successful introduction of the reform in the sector. The Ministry of Health undertook serious efforts in
developing framework laws ensuring the support for reforms. During the period of implementation of the
project "Health Reform-2" the following major statutory documents have been adopted:

·        The Law "On Introducing Amendments and Addenda to the Law of the Kyrgyz Republic "On
Health Insurance of Citizens in the Kyrgyz Republic" envisaging the payment of contributions for MHI
for pensioners from the republican budget (June 10, 2003);

· The concept on the health financing system reform in the Kyrgyz Republic till 2006 and sector
development till 2010 (June 17, 2003);

· The Law "On the Single Payer System in Financing Healthcare in the Kyrgyz Republic" (June 24.
2003);

· The Law "On Healthcare Organizations in the Kyrgyz Republic" (August 13, 2004);

· The Law "On Introducing Amendments and Addenda to the Law of the Kyrgyz Republic "On Basic
Principles of the Budget Law" (September 17, 2004);

· The Law "On Protection of Citizens' Health in the Kyrgyz Republic" (January 9, 2005).

The above mentioned laws contain all elements accumulated as a result of sector reform experience.

3.2.     Component "Restructuring of the System of Provision of Health Services"

The goal of the component is formation of an effected integrated system of medical assistance provision
in the republic.

Institutional reforms have been conducted at all levels of the health sector starting with the Ministry of
Health, where the primary medical and sanitary care unit was established (2001). Under the project
special types of medical assistance have been gradually integrated into the PMSC service. The reform of
the sanitary and epidemiological services was started alongside with strengthening and modernization of
bacteriological services. Principles of family medicine started to be introduced into practice of FGPs. The
presence of narrow specialists in the system of primary medical and sanitary care interferes with the
development of family medicine principles. Clinical protocols started to be introduced into the practice
of FGPs. An additional program of mandatory health insurance (MHI) is being introduced to ensure
affordability of medications for the population. The Program of State Guarantees is being introduced at a
level of FGPs. In 2004 to increase the efficiency of primary care and improve the consistency of the
ambulance service and family practitioners the ambulance divisions were separated from hospitals and
transferred to FMCs.


In 2001 plans were developed to restructure in-patient facilities based on reducing duplicating institutions,
which are inefficient and do not correspond to modern requirements from the viewpoint of technical
equipment. As a result of a more rational approach to the utilization of resources, the number of beds was
reduced. Thus, the number of beds decreased by 14.6 percent - from 30,313 in 2001 to 25,895 in 2005. At
the same time the total number of hospital institutions decreased from 256 in 2001 to 125 in 2005.




                                                     53

3.3.    Component "Financing for Healthcare"


The goal of the component is the development of an effective system of health financing and further
development of the informational system for monitoring and improvement of the results of activities in
the health sector. The introduction of activities planned under the component "Financing for Healthcare"
is a key factor for successful implementation of the project "Health Reform-2".

                                Introduction of New Financing Methods

The MHIF still plays a key role in introducing new mechanisms of financing. New methods of payment
for medical services at the level of hospitals ­ "per treated case", at a primary level ­ "per-capita norm"
have been tested in the system of mandatory health insurance. The MHI Fund has its territorial
departments in all oblast and Bishkek city. With the establishment of the "single payer" in the person of
the MHIF, new methods of payment for medical services have been also extended to budgetary resources,
which make up the major share of public expenditures for healthcare.

The Program of State Guarantees (PSG) was introduced in pilot oblasts in 2001. Further on the PSG was
gradually rolled out throughout the country together with the new methods of financing. The PSG is
approved annually by the KR Government, and consists of two parts: a universal package of services
provided to the whole population, and an additional package of privileged services for insured persons.

The introduction of the Program of State Guarantees with accumulation of resources of the budget and
mandatory health insurance enable to consistently plan expenditures for healthcare, increase the
efficiency of the use of healthcare resources, to ensure access to medical services for the most vulnerable
categories of the population.

The Ministry of Health jointly with the Ministry of Finance passed an order on budget financing for the
health sector in 2006, which envisaged a transfer to program-based budget financing. In addition, the
funds of local budgets, except for Bishkek city, have been transferred to the republican level.

                                       Health Information Systems

The goal of this sub-component is to establish a uniform information system of the health sector of the
Kyrgyz Republic for operational management and decision-making.

All information infrastructure of the health sector is being modernized: a new communication network is
being built. Under the project activities health institutions have been equipped with modern computer and
communication equipment.

In 2002 the MoH made a decision on establishment of medical and information units (MIU) under FMCs
at rayon and city levels. Medical information units provide for primary input of information necessary for
the functioning of new methods of financing, drug provision, and medical services quality assurance.
Medical and information units provide for exchange of information with the oblast-level healthcare.

Collection, processing of medical and statistical data and generation of financial reports take place at the
oblast level. To avoid the duplication of functions on information processing and for efficient use of
computer and communication equipment at the oblast level, the MoH took a decision on the
appropriateness of joint location of MHIF TDs and oblast medical information centers (OMIC).




                                                       54

At present to ensure the efficient functioning of health institutions they continue improving the earlier
developed software: "Enrollment of the Population to FGPs", "Treated Case", "In-Patient and Polyclinic
CIFs", "Additional Drugs Package". It is worth mentioning that the functioning of these software
products in the autonomous regime did not provide for the required productivity of information
processing, reliability of medical and statistical data and did not provide a possibility for conducting a
comprehensive analysis. Therefore serious efforts are taken currently to integrate major software
applications.

3.4.    Component "Healthcare Services Quality Improvement"

The goal of the component is to promote the information on the quality of healthcare services by
establishing a supporting relevant infrastructure of institutions involved in the system of quality
improvement. Under the project the major focus is placed on the following areas:

· Training of specialists in family medicine;
· Professional development;
· Pharmaceutical sector management.



              Re-training and Continuous Education for Medical Staff of FGPs/FMCs

To introduce the system of family medicine a great attention is paid to re-training and continuous
education of medical staff of FGP/FMC. This process was started under the project "Health Reform-1"
and continued to be financed under the project "Health Reform-2", as well as by the program
ZdravPlus/USAID.

A key role in the training of instructors and re-training of specialists in family medicine is played by the
Kyrgyz State Institute of Re-training and Qualifications Upgrading (KSMIT&QU). During the whole
project period (2001-2005) 23 physicians-instructors; 43 medical nurses-instructors; 22 feldshers-
instructors have been trained. Re-training has been provided in the area of family medicine to 924
physicians, 2,604 medical nurses, 503 FAP feldshers, and 348 ambulance feldshers.

At present oblast branches of Family Medicine Training Centers (FMTC) have been established in all
oblasts of the republic (6), except for the Chui oblast, in order to ensure accessibility to the training
process for regional medical staff.

In 2003-2004 the activities of physicians in FGPs/FMCs of the republic were studied in order to conduct
monitoring and evaluation of the efficiency of training for specialists in family medicine. The findings of
the study enabled to identify the major problem affecting the quality of work of family physicians ­ a
weak motivation of medical staff for training (qualifications upgrading). In this connection it is necessary
to improve the statutory and legal basis in the area of certification of family physicians and medical
nurses given the system of credit-hours and differentiated wages.

                                 Courses on Health Sector Management

Starting from January of 2002 the Courses on Health Sector Management were organized under the
project with the support from the Program ZdravPlus/USAID on the basis of the Chief Department for
Reform Coordination and Introduction. The major goal of the courses is to train managers in basic
principles of health sector management with the focus on the reforms conducted in the sector. The
program of a 4-week course in major areas of organizations and management consists of 10 modules.
During the project implementation 168 managers and specialists of health institutions have been trained.




                                                     55

The system of testing for courses participants has been developed and is being applied. Using a standard
method of written appraisal it identifies the original level of knowledge, intermediate questioning on each
individual module, and in the conclusion ­ the obtained knowledge of each participant is identified by
using computerized tests.

The course trainers are the staff from the Ministry of Health, representatives of subordinate institutions, as
well as invited lectures from international donor organizations.

At present the Courses on health sector management have been institutionalized and exist within the
structure of the new Healthcare Development Center established in 2005.

                  Association of Family Group Practitioners, Association of Hospitals

The major role in disseminating key directions of health reforms is played by the Association of Family
Group Practitioners (FGPA) and the Association of Hospitals (AH) by conducting a wide-scale training
for the staff of health institutions, disseminating information (web-sites have been developed and
information bulletins and other publications of the associations are periodically published and
disseminated), as well as organizing and conducting conferences.

During the years of project implementation the FGPA and the AH conducted an active work attracting
grants and humanitarian aid (in the form of medical equipment, implements and medications) for health
facilities.

In order to implement the planned activities the FGPA and the AH closely cooperate with departments
and divisions of the Ministry of Health in reviewing the legislation and regulatory basis of the health
sector, conduct educational workshops, as well as participate in the work of various advisory and working
bodies.

In the end of January of 2003 the FGPA became a member of the World Association of Family
Practitioners (WONCA). During the project implementation the AH established partnership relations with
the French Hospital Federation. Kyrgyzstan was elected to be a Board member of the International
Hospital Federation (IHF).

                                    Medical Accreditation Commission

During 2001-2002 the Program of Accreditation was reorganized. As a result the methodological
approaches to the development of accreditation standards have been changed. The new system of
gradation and changes in the accreditation standards, the system of gradation of the appraisal scale values
to determine the validity of the accreditation status have been developed and the system of categorization
of HIs when conducting the accreditation has been abolished, as well as certain changes have been
introduced to the HI accreditation procedure technology.

At present the Medical Accreditation Commission (MAC) plays a key role in implementation of the
Program of accreditation of HIs of the republic. Under the project specialists of the MAC conduct training
workshops for HIs on accreditation issue and conduct accreditation of HIs. Gradually the role of
accreditation in improving the quality of assistance provided to the population of the republic is
increasing. In total 185 health organizations have been accredited during this period, including hospitals,
FMCs, FGPs and sanatoria and resort facilities. The MAC noted some positive trends in development of
health institutions influencing the quality of medical services.




                                                      56

                                 Development of Evidence-Based Medicine

The activities planned under the project for development and introduction of clinical protocols (CP) into
practice are the most important factors promoting the provision of quality medical services. The
permanent Coordination Council on development of clinical protocols has been established and works in
the Ministry of Health.
On the whole during the operations period 80 protocols for the primary level, 65 protocols for the
secondary level and 60 protocols for the tertiary level have been developed in the republic. Collections of
clinical protocols have been published and disseminated. The process of introduction of clinical protocols
(dissemination, conducting training workshops) is carried out with the support from two Associations
(FGPA, AH),

Given the importance of evidence-based medicine in improving the quality of clinical practice, during the
project implementation the World Bank emphasized the importance of formal establishment of the
Evidence-Based Medicine Center (EBMC). At present the issues of coordination and advancement of
clinical protocols have been transferred to the unit of evidence-based medicine (UEBM), which is a
structural subdivision of the Healthcare Development Center.



                                    Pharmaceutical Sector Management

Certain amendments have been introduced to major documents regulating the pharmaceutical sector of
the republic. The new version of the Law of the KR "On Pharmaceuticals" has been adopted (13.03.03).
The major part of objectives set up by the State Drugs Policy adopted in 1998 has been resolved. In this
connection on October 15, 2002 a new State Drugs Policy was adopted, which envisaged a number of
further activities to regulate the pharmaceutical sector.

Three studies on introduction of the State Drugs Policy (SDP) have been conducted under the project. The
monitoring is based on adopted indicators of the World Health Organization enabling to trace the
introduction of the concept of rational drugs use, economic and physical accessibility of drugs and other
aspects.

The National Drugs Committee of the MoH conducted the planned revision of the List of Essential Drugs.
A new amended and edited edition of the National Blank-Forms was need published with the circulation
of 5,500 copies.

In order to reduce prices for drugs the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic, when signing the Credit
Agreement on the project "Health Reform-2" undertook the commitment to abolish VAT on drugs. Since
January of 2003 the republic abolished VAT on drugs according to the KR Law "On Introducing
Amendments and Addenda to the Tax Code of the KR". The introduction of amendments and addenda to
the Tax Code of the Kyrgyz Republic related to the exemption of drugs from value added tax is
considered as a real economic step towards improvement of access to drugs by the population. The
availability of drugs for the population increased noticeably due to broadening of the pharmacies network
in the republic.

In connected with an increase in the volume of drugs imported to the republic, the issue of drugs quality
control becomes more pressing, which is now dealt with by the Central Control and Analytical Laboratory
(CCAL) under the DD&MES and a branch of the CCAL in Osh city.




                                                      57

3.5.    "Public Health" Component

The goal of the component is to improve health of the population by developing and improving the public
health service in integration of other healthcare services.

The major directions of activities under this component are health protection and promotion.

In order to form the public health service the Ministry of Health has developed and approved two major
documents: the Concept of Reform and Development of the Sanitary-Epidemiological Service of the
Kyrgyz Republic for 2001-2005 (January 11, 2002) and the Concept for Promoting Health of the
Population of the Kyrgyz Republic for 2003-2007 (December 30, 2002).

                              Restructuring and Rationalization of the SES

With the beginning of reforms in the health sector and adoption of the new legal basis in the republic
regulating the operations of institutions of the sanitary-epidemiological service (SES) the following
restructuring and streamlining of SES activities has been implemented.

Until 2001 there were 5 viral laboratories and 5 radiology laboratories functioned in the republic. As of
today these laboratories function under the Department of State Sanitary-Epidemiological Supervision
(DSSES) ­ for the north of the republic and in Osh CSSES (for the south). The project provided
trainings in modern methods of laboratory studies for 120 virologists, bacteriologists and laboratory
physicians.   Educational trainings were provided for 293 medical nurses of maternity homes and
vaccinating rooms on safe immunization practices.

The structure of sanitary-hygienic and micro-biological laboratories has been streamlined. As of today
there are 34 primary (rayon and city CSSES) and 20 basic (7 oblast and 13 large rayon and city)
laboratories in the republics.



                          Development of the Health Promotion Service (HPS)

From the organizational viewpoint the health promotion service at the central level is represented by the
Republican Health Promotion Center (RHPC), at the oblast level ­ the Oblast Health Promotion Center
(OHPC).

The Ministry of Health established health promotion offices under rayon FMCs or large FGPs with a
legal status. Health promotion offices coordinate all activities on promoting a healthy lifestyle. The staff
of health promotion offices (a physician and a medical nurse) has been trained on the basis of the
Republican Health Promotion Center and makes use of new methods of work with the population.

The pilot project "Healthy Schools" has been introduced under the project "Health Reform-2" with the
support from the WHO, USAID jointly with the Ministry of Health. The National Program "Healthy
Schools" has been developed.

New models to involve the population in resolving health issues are tested in pilot regions. With the
support from international donor organizations 250 village health committees, 1,609 initiative groups and
9 community-based organizations have been established in Naryn, Talas and Issyk-Kul oblasts.




                                                     58

3.6.     Component "Project Monitoring and Evaluation"

Monitoring and evaluation of the project "Health Reform-2" was carried out with the support of the
Health Policy Review Project (HPRP) financed by the WHO/DFID. The Ministry of Health approved the
"Set of Indicators to Monitor Activities of the Health System and Efficiency of the Reforms" (22.04.03).
The set of indicators consists of three categories: sector output indicators, impact indicators and outcome
indicators.

The majority of indicators can be obtained from the usual information systems of the Government of the
KR (the Ministry of Health, data from surveys conducted by the National Statistical Committee).
Obtaining of some indicators require conducing special evaluation surveys.

The set of indicators has been prepared in such a way in order to make it possible to trace a link among all
three categories of indicators and evaluate them with a subsequent introduction of adjustments into the
process of reforms introduced.

Under the project the reports on the Project Monitoring and Evaluation component have been provided
two times a year: based on the year results (April) and semi-annual results (October). This is linked to the
system of information collection existing in the country. Seven reports have been prepared during the
project implementation period.

With the participation of international consultants the Health Policy Review Project (WHO/ DFID) has
prepared 3 Papers, which were the results of the study on assessment of the achievements of the program
of the first phase of the KR health sector reform coming to the completion (1996-2005):

1. Restructuring of the system of health care provision.

The paper places a special focus on the impact of restructuring on the efficiency of provision of medical
services.

2. Healthcare financing.

The goal of the study is to draw lessons when introducing the new methods of financing, as well as
identification of the challenges, which shall be tackled in the nearest years to strengthen the positive
results.

3. Service of primary medical-sanitary care.

The PMSC reform has been evaluated, and, when possible, identified the impact of these reforms on
output indicators of the health system.

The above mentioned reports are posted on the web-site www/hpap.med.kg/study documents.

At present the republic has a systematized structure of monitoring and evaluation of the health system
based on best international practices and integrated into overall activities of the Ministry of Health.

                    4. Role of International Donor Organizations in Project Support

The project "Health Reform-2" worked in close cooperation and coordination of planned activities with
other international donor organizations. The major partner of the project Health Reform-on introduction
of new financing arrangements is the Program "ZdravPlus"/USAID. With the help of its direct a number
of major statutory and legal documents have been developed, which enabled a phased introduction of the
Single Payer System. The USAID supported activities of the Association of FGPs, the Association of




                                                     59

Hospitals and the Medical Accreditation Commission; it also provided technical assistance in developing
the Concept for Improving the Quality of Medical Services.

A significant role in development of family medicine and pre- and post-diploma training of specialists is
still played by the charity organization ­ the Institute of Scientific Studies and Languages (ISSL), USA
and the American International Health Union.

The DFID provided assistance in developing and implementing the sub-component on human resources
planning. The republic also implements the project Rural Sanitation and Hygiene financed by the DFID,
which assisted in building the capacity of the Republican Health Promotion Center, improves sanitary
conditions in villages and assisted the SES in establishing the system of monitoring and evaluation of the
drinking water quality.

The Swiss Government finances the project supporting health reforms in several regions of the republic.

The national guidelines on hospital hygiene have been developed in cooperation with the World Health
Organization (WHO). With the support of the WHO and jointly with the Health Policy Review Project a
set of indicators has been developed, which enables to monitor not only the introduction of the project
"Health Reform-2", but to trace the efficiency of the health reform as a whole.

Through the project "Improvement of Nutrition of Poor Mothers and Children in Central Asian Countries
in Transition Economy" the ADB conducted the work on prophylaxis of iodine- and iron-deficiencies
among the population of the republic. The UNFPA, under the project "Improvement of Quality of
Provision of Services on Sexual and Reproductive Health by Empowering and Expanding Opportunities
for Service users", trains the population, teachers and school children in issues of a healthy lifestyle. The
pilot project "Healthy Schools" planned under the project has been implemented with the support of the
USAID. Thanks to the WHO the Kyrgyz Republic has been included into the program of the European
School Network assisting in health promotion. The WHO is providing technical assistance in
implementing the Concept for Promoting Health of the Population of the Kyrgyz Republic, as well as
activities planned for introduction and monitoring of the State Drugs Policy.


                                             5. Sustainability

From the very beginning the implementation of the project "Health Reform-2", which is a logic
continuation of the first project financed by the World Bank, the issue of a sustainable continuation of the
introduced reforms has been one of key objectives of the Ministry of Health.

The new National program of health reforms called "Manas Taalimi" is a successor of the National
Reform Program "Manas" (1996-2005) and is aimed at ensuring the provision of qualitative health care
satisfying the needs of the society. The Program "Manas Taalimi" has been based on an in-depth analysis
of outcomes, problems and experience accumulated during the previous years.

Further reforms in the health sector, to ensure its sustainability, are planned to be carried out on a basis of
a sector-wide approach (SWA), which is the first project of such a kind for the countries of the post-
Soviet space. When implementing the SWAp the Ministry of Health jointly with the Ministry of Finance
will play a more active role in coordinating donors' contributions into the sector's strategy. At the same
time donors will use state structures and procedures, including the procedures/ arrangements of planning,
budget procurement, payments, audit, reporting, monitoring and evaluation.




                                                      60

In November of 2005, The Ministry of Health, in order to further institutionalize the results achieved
under the implementation of projects Health Reform-1, 2 financed by the World Bank, established the
Healthcare Development Center. Starting from 2006 the Center is financed from the budget.

The Healthcare Development Center has been entrusted with the tasks planned under the project in health
and social protection.

                                            6. Lessons Learned

Ensuring the consistency in the design of the project "Health Reform-2"and the first project financed by
the World Bank, enabled to implement not fragmented, but comprehensive and systemic reforms in the
sector.

The fulfillment of the commitments undertaken under the project by the Kyrgyz side and the support of
the policy of the conducted reforms by the Government and the Parliament ensure the stability in
achieving the project goals. During 2000-2005 due to the changes in the political situation in the country
the health reform faced the critical situation several times, which in turn had an impact on the rate of the
conducted reforms.

The balance between the state commitments and their financial support is of a great importance. When
introducing the Program of State Guarantees it was difficult to attain the balance between the level of
health financing and a large number of privileges declared by the state. There was a great pressure on the
part of politicians requiring increased privileges for the population without providing adequate financing
for that, which resulted in undermining of the reforms implemented.

It is necessary to take serious efforts to explain the goals and objectives of health reforms conducted in
the context of overall governance reforms, alongside with adopting the weighted decisions based on
evidence. Ensuring of transparency in the use of credit resources, a broad involvement of medical society
in reforms, regular use of mass media for awareness campaigns for the population are important factors in
achieving the project goals. A great assistance in this area has been provided by studies and monitoring
conducted by the Health Policy Review Project (WHO/DFID).

It requires the support, ownership and commitment to the reform goals on the part of medical staff - direct
executors and the presence of a positive critical mass, which has been forming in the process of
continuous training in new management methods, informing about changes taking place in the health
sector.

An active involvement of non-governmental and public organizations, local communities, mass media,
their understanding and support for the developing processes in the health sector to a major extent
improve the legal awareness of the population, requirements to the staff of the health sector, help to take
correct decisions focused on the needs of the population.

The coordination of donors' assistance to avoid the duplication of activities of various projects in the
health sector increases the efficiency and excludes contradictory directions of the sector policy.

The accumulated experience of work with the World Bank, undoubtedly, can be referred to as successful.
Supervisory missions enable to strike a good balance between the reporting and planning of further steps.
Adjustments in the project design to adopt the activities to changing circumstances, has always been
accompanied by qualified consultations on the part of World Bank experts.

Agreed actions and recommendations formulated in aide memoirs of the World Bank supervisory
missions promoted a well-defined project management. Interventions of the World Bank have always had
a positive impact on solution of strategic issues assisting in achieving the project goals.




                                                      61

Annex 11. List of Supporting Documents

Bank mission Back to office reports and Aide Memoires 2001-2006
Mid-Term Review Aide-Memoire, September 2003
Project Status Reports 2001-2006
Project Appraisal Document (PAD)
Project Implementation Plan
Project Audit Reports
Millennium Development Goals in Central Asia, Operationalizing the Health and Education,
Review of Experience of Family Medicine in Europe and Central Asia (Vol 4)
Policy Papers, HPAP, 2005
HPAP, Annual Package of Monitoring Indicators, 2005




                                                62

