Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3506 KG
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Health Sector Reform Project)
between
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated  July 17, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3506 KG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 17, 2001, between the KYRGYZ REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) by an agreement dated June 13, 1996, between the Borrower and the 
Association (the Health Sector Reform Project), the Association agreed to make a 
credit to the Borrower in a principal amount of eleven million and seven hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 11,700,000). 
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and
(C)
the Department for International Development in the United Kingdom (DFID) 
and World Health Organization (WHO) agreed to make available a grant to the Borrower 
in an amount of approximately $3,000,000 equivalent (the Grant) to assist in financing 
Parts A.1 (v), A.1 (vi), C.1 (iii), and E of the Project on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Grant Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 
194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries."; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Eligible Categories" means categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) set 
forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for works, goods and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(c)
"FMCs" means family medicine centers in the form of state health 
institutions established as legal entities and that deliver health care to the 
population;
(d)
"FGPs" means family group practices in the form of a team of nurses, 
midwives, family physicians, and managers that provide primary health care to family 
members;
(e)
"FGP/FMC Development Fund" means the fund to provide grants to FGPs and 
FMCs engaged in community based public health activities;
(f)
"FGP/FMC Grants" means the grants awarded under the FGP/FMC Development 
Fund to FGPs or FMCs engaged in community based public health activities in accordance 
to the FGP/FMC Development Fund Manual (as defined hereinafter);
(g)
"FGP/FMC Development Fund Manual" means the manual dated October 1, 2000, 
and satisfactory to MoF (as defined hereinafter) and the Association setting forth the 
procedures and guidelines related to the awarding of grants under the FGP/FMC 
Development Fund as set forth in paragraph 5 of Schedule 4;
(h)
"IT Plan" means the Borrower’s plan to further develop an integrated 
information network for health policy purposes; 
(i)
"Mandatory Health Insurance Fund" means the Borrower’s health insurance 
fund established under MoH pursuant to Law No.112 on Health Insurance of Citizens in 
the Kyrgyz Republic, dated October 18, 1999;
(j)
"MoF" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance; 
(k)
"MoH" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health;
(l)
"Oblast Rationalization Plans" means the Borrower’s plan for each oblast 
to rationalize health service delivery on secondary and tertiary levels;
(m)
"Operational Manual" means the manual dated October 1, 2000, and 
satisfactory to the Association, adopted by MoH, setting forth the procedures and 
Page  3
rules related to the implementation of the Project as set forth in paragraph 4 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(n)
"Project Account" means the account opened by the Borrower, for purposes 
of making available its counterpart contribution to the financing of the Project, in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement;
(o)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(p)
"PIP" means Project implementation plan dated October 1, 2000, and 
satisfactory to the Association, the Borrower’s overall plan for the implementation of 
the Project;
(q)
"PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit established by MoH, within 
MOH,  for purposes of Project management and referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 
of this Agreement;
(r)
"Rationalization Plan for the city of Bishkek" means the Borrower’s plan 
for the city of Bishkek to rationalize health service delivery on secondary and 
tertiary levels;
(s)
"SES" means the Borrower’s sanitary and epidemiological services;
(t)
"SES Plan" means the Borrower’s plan for the comprehensive reform of 
sanitary and epidemiological services;
(u)
"Som" means the lawful currency of the Borrower;
(v)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;
(w)
"Supplemental Letter" means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Association which sets forth the monitoring and evaluation indicators 
for the Project referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 of this Agreement; and
(x)
"TCU" means the Technical Coordination Unit established by MoH, within 
MoH, for purposes of Project technical coordination and referred to in paragraph 3 of 
Schedule 4 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eleven million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 11,700,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of works, goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
Page  4
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each March 15 and September 15 commencing September 15, 2011, and ending March 15, 
2041. Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 2021, 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of Dollars is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, through MoH, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, and health practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon any of its obligations set forth in paragraph (a) 
above, the Borrower shall: (i) maintain the Project Account, and replenish said 
Account promptly before the beginning of each calendar quarter with funds sufficient 
to enable the Borrower to meet its obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement 
for such period; (ii) use the amount in the Project Account exclusively for financing 
the Borrower’s contribution to Project expenditures; and (iii) ensure that sufficient 
annual allocations will be made in the Borrower’s budget for the Borrower’s 
Page  5
counterpart contribution to the costs of the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Page  6
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
June 30, 2002, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly 
Project management reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii) sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Decree No. 793 of October 4, 1998 on Reinvestment of Saved Funds to the 
Health Care Sector of the Borrower shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the 
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
(b)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Borrower to use the proceeds of the Grant to be made to the 
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to 
the terms of the Grant Agreement providing therefor; or
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, or termination is not caused by the 
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under 
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a) 
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur; and
(b) 
that the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
Page  7
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has provided evidence satisfactory to the Association that 
the Borrower has opened in Som the Project Account in a commercial bank acceptable to 
the Association; and
(b)
the Borrower has provided evidence satisfactory to the Association that 
the PIU and TCU have been established and are operational;  
(c)
the Borrower has provided evidence satisfactory to the Association that 
the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement have been selected; 
(d)
the Borrower has provided evidence satisfactory to the Association that 
the procurement and engineering designs for the first year of Project implementation, 
have been prepared in a manner satisfactory to the Association; and
(e)
the Borrower has provided evidence satisfactory to the Association that 
the Rationalization Plan for the city of Bishkek, referred to in paragraph 6 of 
Schedule 4 of this Agreement, has been issued in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association.
Section 6.02. The date of ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Erkindik Boulevard, 58
Bishkek 720874
Kyrgyz Republic
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
245156 NUR  KH
(996-312)66-16-45 
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  8
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC 
By /s/ Baktybek Abdrisaev
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Kadir T. Yurukoglu
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works 
   2,500,000
90% 
(2)
Goods and related
   6,800,000
100% of foreign
technical services
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 90% of local 
expenditures for other
items procured locally
(3)
Consultants’
   2,100,000
100% 
services, including 
training
(4)
Incremental operating costs 
77,000 90%
of the PIU and TCU
(5)
FGP/FMC Development
77,000 100%
Fund
(6)
Unallocated
     146,000
TOTAL
  11,700,000 
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for works, goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for works, goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term "training" means expenditures incurred by the Borrower in 
connection with carrying out training activities under the Project, including travel 
costs and per diem of trainers and trainees, study tours, rental of facilities and 
Page  9
equipment, training materials and related supplies, and organizational fees; and 
(d)
the terms "incremental operating costs of the PIU and TCU" means 
expenditures incurred by the PIU and TCU on account of management of Project 
implementation in connection with the carrying out of coordination, administration, 
and implementation of the Project, including: office supplies, vehicle maintenance, 
and communication costs.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; (b) works under contracts costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent each; (c) consulting services for firms contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each; (d) consulting services for individuals under contracts 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; (e) services provided under the FGP/FMC 
Development Fund; and (f) training (other than study tours) and incremental operating 
costs, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a 
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
Page  10
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
Annex A to  SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $400,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that, unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$200,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account, plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the 
equivalent of  SDR 2,300,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On 
the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
Page  11
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after 
and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the 
Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited 
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $400,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to continue to improve performance and long 
term financial viability of the health system in the Borrower’s territory.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Health Services Delivery Restructuring 
Improving management in the delivery of secondary and primary health care 
services, including: (i) supporting family group practices to offer effective primary 
health care; (ii) rationalizing and upgrading hospitals (in- and out-patients) at the 
rayon and oblast level; (iii) restructuring hospitals in the area of Bishkek; (iv) 
improving human resources policy and planning in the health sector; (v) supporting 
MOH’s strategy for mental health services reform by shifting gradually to community 
care, and (vi) strengthening capacity building for a sustainable management of health 
service institutions, through the provision of technical assistance, training, goods 
and related technical assistance, and the carrying out of civil works.
Part B:
Health Care Financing
Page  12
1.
Continuing to develop an efficient and sustainable health care financing system 
with funding equitably distributed among oblasts, through the provision of technical 
assistance, training, and goods and related assistance.
2.
Strengthening the accounting and financial management capacity of MoH and 
Mandatory Health Insurance Fund, through the provision of technical assistance, 
training, and goods and related assistance. 
3.
Continuing to develop the health information system to manage finance flows and 
monitor and improve health care performance, through the provision of technical 
assistance, training, and goods and related assistance. 
Part C: Quality Improvement 
Improving quality of health services through the creation of appropriate 
infrastructures and support, such as: (i) strengthening medical education, research 
and management; provision of continuing education and (re)training for health 
professionals and; provision of training for staff entering new medical primary care 
functions in FGPs; (ii) reinforcement of professional development of health 
professionals; and (iii) improving pharmaceutical products management through quality 
assurance in admittance to the market, distribution, prescription and consumption of 
effective drugs, through the provision of technical assistance, training, goods and 
related technical assistance, and the carrying out of civil works.
Part D:
Public Health 
1.
Establishing a Republican Center for Health Promotion which focuses on health 
promotion activities for the population aimed at the local level, through the 
provision of technical assistance, training, goods and related technical assistance, 
and the carrying out of civil works.
2.
Developing health promotion activities of proven effectiveness and aiming at the 
main health risks and diseases in the Borrower’s population, through the provision of 
technical assistance, training, goods and related technical assistance, and the 
carrying out of civil works.
3.
Reforming the SES system to focus on the major health threats for the Borrower’s 
population and be more cost-effective system through the provision of modern equipment 
for the system and related technical assistance, training of staff, technical 
assistance, and the carrying out of civil works.
Part E: Project Administration and Evaluation 
Provision of support for the administration, monitoring and evaluation of the 
Project through the provision of technical assistance, training, goods and related 
technical assistance, and financing of the operating costs of the PIU and the TCU.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
Page  13
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods estimated to cost 
$100,000 equivalent or more may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a) Supplies and goods to prepare and print public health materials estimated to 
cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $650,000 equivalent; (b) technical services related to software development and 
application for national health financing and reporting estimated to cost less than 
$200,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $470,000 equivalent; and 
(c) works estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract up to an 
aggregate amount of $2,770,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Health facilities medical equipment, training equipment, medical equipment for 
FGPs, laboratory equipment and vehicles estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $610,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
(a) Furniture, consumables and supplies estimated to cost less than $25,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $260,000 equivalent; 
and (b) technical services related to goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount of $80,000 may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Direct Contracting
Medical spare parts and its technical service, software, up-grades and products 
for computer networks, and technical services for internet and communications services 
and costing $620,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Association’s 
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
5.
Procurement of Small Works
Works for hospital rehabilitation, FGP/FMC facilities, Medical Academy and 
mental health facilities estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each up to an 
aggregate amount of $440,000 may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts 
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Page  14
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
Procurement for: (a) civil works and equipment for hospitals shall not be 
carried out until the Oblast Rationalization Plans have been approved by the 
Association; (b)  SES equipment shall not be carried out until the SES Plan has been 
approved by the Association; and (c) IT equipment shall not be carried out until the 
IT Plan has been approved by the Association. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)   With respect to each contract procured under Parts B and C.4 above; the 
first two contracts for goods procured under Parts C.1 above; the first contract for 
works procured under Part C.1 above; the first two contracts for goods procured under 
Part C.2 above; and the first contract procured under Part C.5 above, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract procured under Part C.3 above, the 
following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier/execution of any contract 
under shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Association a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy 
of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Page  15
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for project auditing service estimated to cost less than $90,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount of $960,000 and for tasks 
that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines 
shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(c)
With respect to each contract procured under Part C.2 above, all 
documents and recommendations the consultants shall be furnished to the Association 
for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said 
approval shall have been given.
(d)
With respect to each contract for study tours up to an aggregate amount 
of $160,000, proposed candidates, curriculum, costs and selection of adequate study 
tour facilities shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and 
approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.
3.         Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall:
Page  16
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in a 
Supplemental Letter to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about May 31 of each year of Project implementation, 
starting as of May 31, 2002, or such later date as the Association shall request, a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out 
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by June 30 of each year of Project 
implementation, starting on June 30, 2002, or such later date as the Association shall 
request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
(d)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about December 1, 2002, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, a mid-term report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project and of measures included in the 
Program  during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
Program and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; 
(e)
review with the Association, by January 15, 2003, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (d) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project, Program and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s 
views on the matter; and
(f)
as part of the mid-term review mentioned in paragraph (d) above, the 
Association may require the Borrower to prepare an action plan satisfactory to the 
Association, with the adjustments necessary for the efficient carrying out of the 
Project, the Program and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date.  In such event, the Borrower shall not later than thirty (30) 
days after the conclusion of each such review, or such later date as the Association 
shall request, furnish to the Association said action plan, and shall thereafter carry 
out or cause to be carried out, such action plan in accordance with its terms.
2.
The Borrower, through MoH, shall maintain the PIU with responsibilities for the 
management, coordination, and monitoring of the Project, with a structure and 
functions satisfactory to the Association, and staff with qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Association.
3.
The Borrower, through MoH, shall maintain the TCU with responsibilities for the 
coordination of the technical aspects of Project implementation, with a structure and 
functions satisfactory to the Association, and staff with qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Association.
4.
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Operational Manual, said manual to provide key instruments for the execution and 
coordination of the Project, including: (a) procurement and financial management 
procedures; (b) the PIP; (c) instructions on dealing with safety and environmental 
hazards in civil works; and (d) the FGP/FMC Development Fund Manual.
5.
The Borrower, through MoH, shall carry out Part D.2 of the Project under terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association and shall award part of the proceeds of 
the credit on a grant basis to selected FGPs and FMCs in accordance with the FGP/FMC 
Development Fund Manual, such manual to provide for the terms and conditions for the 
awarding of the grants, procurement guidelines, eligibility criteria of the FGPs and 
Page  17
FMCs that may benefit from such grants, and model contracts.
6.
The Borrower, through MoH, shall: 
(i)
gradually start to implement a Rationalization Plan for the city 
of Bishkek, such plan to include a strategy for pooling funds from 
the republican and city of Bishkek budgets, respectively, to 
facilitate the merging of facilities and redistribution of funds 
from the city of Bishkek to the Oblast; and demonstrate the long 
term viability of the restructured health system and a separation 
program for the hospital staff made redundant as a result of  
hospital restructuring; 
(ii) 
issue and gradually start to implement by no later than January 
31, 2002 the Oblast Rationalization Plans, such plans to include a 
strategy for pooling funds from the oblast level, raion level, and 
Mandatory Health Insurance Fund budgets, respectively, which is 
satisfactory to the Association, to facilitate the merging of 
facilities and redistribution of funds for all in-patient and 
out-patient facilities on secondary and tertiary levels to reduce 
the number of buildings and beds within the Oblast; and
(iii)
 ensure that no new hospitals under MoH management are established 
and/or constructed without prior approval and consent of the 
Association.
7.
The Borrower shall enact by no later than January 31, 2002, a regulation 
allowing MoH to authorize hospitals manage their budget and incentives for medical 
staff.
8.
For the purposes of Part D.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall provide the 
Association, by not later than October 30, 2001, an SES plan for review and approval 
by the Association.
9.
For the purposes of Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Association, by not later than October 30, 2001, an IT Plan for review and approval by 
the Association.
10.
The Borrower shall not extend health insurance coverage and/or introduce new 
co-payments without prior review and approval of the Association during implementation 
of the Project.
11.
The Borrower shall take all possible measures to ensure better access of the 
poor to essential pharmaceutical products in the Borrower’s territory and prepare by 
not later than  January 1, 2003, a report on the effect of VAT on procurement of 
pharmaceuticals.
12.
The Borrower has provided evidence satisfactory to the Association that it has 
deposited by not later than October 30, 2001, an amount of $30,000 equivalent in 
counterpart funds for 2001 and by not later than December 31, 2001, an amount of 
$30,000 equivalent in counterpart funds for 2001.
