Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23277
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-42550)
ON A TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
BANKING REFORM ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Vcv.     .2       Z621
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
US$1 = 10,350 Rupiah
FISCAL YEAR
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Vice President: Cesare Calari
Country Manager/Director: Mark Baird
Sector Manager/Director: Margery Waxman
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Michael Edwards



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
BANKING REFORM ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1.        Project Data                                                             1
2.        Principal Performance Ratings                                            1
3.        Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry  1
4.        Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                     8
5.        Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                       18
6.        Sustainability                                                           22
7.        Bank and Borrower Performance                                            23
8.        Lessons Leamed                                                           27
9.        Partner Comments                                                         30
10.       Additional Information                                                   31
Annex 1.  Key Perfornance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              32
Annex 2.  Project Costs and Financing                                              34
Annex 3.  Economic Costs and Benefits                                              36
Annex 4.  Bank Inputs                                                              37
Annex 5.  Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              38
Annex 6.  Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 39
Annex 7.  List of Supporting Documents                                             40
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P055755                                       Project Name: BANKING REFORM ASST.
Team Leader: Michael Edwards-SFO                          TL Unit: BFR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: November 28, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: BANKING REFORM ASST.                           L/C/TF Number: SCL-42550
Country/Department: INDONESIA                                            Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: FY - Other Finance
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   10/20/1997                             Effective: 06/13/1998         04/08/1998
Appraisal:  11/10/1997                                MTR:
Approval:  12/04/1997                              Closing: 09/30/2000          07/31/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA/GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                       Jean-Michel Severino
Country Manager:     Mark Baird                                Dennis de Tray
Sector Manager:      Margery Waxman                            Jonathan Fiechter
Team Leader at ICR:  Michael Edwards                           Vickram Nehru
ICR Primary Author:  Miguel Navarro-Martin; Paula
Perttunen
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
CONTEXT:
The Indonesia CAS, submitted to the Board on July 10, 1997, identified the
financial sector as a focal area for Bank Group Operations arguing that a strong
financial sector was essential to increase economic efficiency and maintain



macroeconomic stability. What the CAS did not foresee however, was the Asian
Crisis. While the contagion affect of the Thai Baht's collapse was a contributing
factor to the crisis in Indonesia, there were far more significant internal and
external factors that both caused and exacerbated the sudden financial crisis. The
credit allocation practices of the Indonesian banks de-emphasized the borrowers'
capacity to repay; there were high concentrations to vulnerable economic sectors
and to individual borrowers; the banks ran extreme duration mismatches on their
balance sheets; and lending was, in large part, foreign currency denominated to
borrowers with no forex revenues. With the high interest rate difference between
Rupiah and the foreign currency funding the true cost of lending was not
transparent. The negative impact of the weak or even corrupt lending practices
was further exacerbated by rapid credit expansion, liberal intra-group lending
practices, and political interference in lending decisions. The result was a large
build-up in non-performing assets as a share of the total portfolio and a failure to
provide appropriate provisions for loss or otherwise to recognize the true financial
picture of the banks. The weak banking supervision failed to detect and address
the structural weaknesses in the individual institutions and system-wide.
The BRAP was initiated and designed in the context of the World Bank's early
response to the Indonesian and more broadly the East Asian financial crises. It was
thus only one element in a larger package of external finance and technical
assistance put together as a joint effort by the World Bank, the International
Monetary Fund and the Asian Development Bank. Together with the other Bank
instruments, including two structural adjustment loans and a series of grants, the
BRAP was designed to complement the 36 month stand-by arrangement approved
by the IMF on November 5, 1997. It was understood early on into the rapidly
widening regional crisis that each crisis-struck country would require a vehicle to
fund the extensive and highly-specialized technical assistance needed for a prompt
response. In particular, a need for a flexible source of funding for thorough
portfolio reviews in troubled institutions was recognized based on the preceding
Thailand experience.   The lessons learned  from  the design and   early
implementation of the Thailand FSIAL that preceded BRAP, suggested a need for
unusual flexibility in the program design given the abrupt nature of the crisis and
the tremendous economic cost caused by any delays of the portfolio reviews and
other technical assistance that required specific crisis-expertise.
The World Bank's Financial Sector Development Program (FSDP) that had
preceded BRAP in Indonesia was not effective as it provided a line of credit to each
State Commercial Bank (SCB) for on-lending purposes and money for their
recapitalization without addressing the obvious and deeply rooted bad practices and
systemic issues. In fact, the FSDP seriously exacerbated the problem through
recapitalizing the SCB's and providing for increased lending.  The systemic
problems in the banking sector were left unaddressed until the crisis started to
unfold and threatened the collapse of the entire financial sector. The initial
government responses came in August of 1997 when the Rupiah was allowed to
- 2 -



float and in November 1997 when the emergency financial reform program was
drafted. At the same time, intense negotiations between the Bank and the
Government of Indonesia (GOI) had been taking place in an effort to cancel the
FSDP loan See ICR dated June 3, 1999 and numerous BTOs and memos from
Supervision missions in 1996 and 1997.. Effectively, the cancellation of the FSDP
became a precondition for any agreement to provide subsequent assistance in the
financial sector. Based on the Indonesian request to cancel the FSDP, the Bank
agreed to provide new technical assistance funding for Bank Indonesia (BI). The
new lending facility would be on a much smaller scale and would provide for
specific targets and conditions in an attempt to avoid repeating the problems and
mistakes of the FSDP.
The rapidly evolving crisis allowed the Bank team little time for research,
discussions or analysis before drafting the proposal. The drafting of a proposal
started in November 1997 and in less than thirty days (on December 4 1997), the
Banking Reform Assistance Project (BRAP) was presented to and approved by the
Board. At the time of Board approval, the project components were relatively open
and had not been fully discussed with or agreed upon by Indonesian counterparts.
The intentional openness of the components allowed for the flexibility needed to
provide the prompt technical assistance required during the crisis. In fact, due to
the unusual circumstances, it was not firmly determined at the time of the Board
approval who the primary government counterparts would be - nor was it clear how
the Bank's support would fit with support that the IMF and ADB were concurrently
discussing. It was clear, however, that the loan could and should be approved
rapidly knowing that there would be challenges before effectiveness or
disbursement could be possible. The Bank's approach to approving the loan was
simply that it was important to move rapidly. Not only to have a relatively flexible
vehicle in place for provision of emergency technical assistance, but, also, for the
team to have a loan, already approved, to provide them with more substantial
leverage in the discussions with the Indonesians when seeking jointly with the
government and other IFI's to design a financial sector reform program. The BRAP
finally became effective on April 8, 1998.
As the crisis deepened in early 1998 there were frequent changes of government
officials and counterparts, particularly in MOF. The creation of IBRA and the
subsequent transfer of key resolution functions from the central bank to the newly
established restructuring agency initially caused some confusion as to the
respective roles of - and thus even some tensions between - the two agencies,
which delayed the transition of the BRAP counterpart responsibility from BI to
IBRA hence affecting the effectiveness.
Between loan approval and effectiveness, the crisis continued to deepen causing the
Rupiah's drop from 3,600 in November 1997 to 12,000 in January 1998. Riots
erupted in Jakarta and on May 21, 1998 President Soeharto was forced to resign. A
new government was established but failed to bring the stability and credibility
- 3 -



that were basic prerequisites for dealing with the mounting crisis. Agreement on a
financial sector reform strategy, design of the BRAP and more specific selection of
project components were largely precluded by frequent changes of key government
officials, particularly the Minister of Finance (MOF), the Chairman of the
Indonesian Bank Restructuring Agency (IBRA) and key members of Board of
Governors in Bank Indonesia (BI). With little continuity among the counterparts,
the Bank's team found it necessary to frequently revisit various issues previously
thought to have been resolved. The discussions returned again and again to the
causes and scope of the crisis and were rarely able to move on to debate strategies
and solutions. While this phenomena is typical in the early stages of any financial
crisis, its disrupting effect was severely exacerbated by the arrival of new
counterparts with new perspectives and opinions. The design of a resolution
strategy and the focus on specific project components were also affected by the
diversity of opinions on the approach among the IFI's involved, the Bank, the IMF
and the ADB.
The Bank adapted the various components of the BRAP to accommodate the
frequent changes and urgent needs that could not be financed through the
government's budget due to unavailability of funds.  It was under these
extraordinary circumstances - the mounting crisis, riots on the streets, the deep
political and policy changes, the lack of budgetary resources for urgent technical
assistance, and the coordination challenges within and among the IFI's that the
objectives and components of the BRAP were designed and implemented; and under
which their outcome should be assessed.
ORIGINAL OBJECTIVES:
The objectives of the BRAP were to assist the Indonesian Government in the
resolution of the financial crisis and thereby build foundations for improving the
structure, resilience, soundness, and efficiency of the banking system so as to
eventually resume the path towards rapid growth and sustainable development.
The project was designed to support key elements of the financial crisis resolution
program, to restructure private and state banks, to upgrade Bank Indonesia's (BI)
capacity to monitor and supervise the banking system, and to improve the overall
legal and institutional environment for the financial sector.
ASSESSMENT OF OBJECTIVES:
The objectives of the project were broad and, as such, quite appropriate for
supporting the early reforms needed at the outset of the crisis.  They were
deliberately left quite general and allowed the flexibility required for timely
provision of needed technical assistance for the government's financial crisis
resolution program. As the political situation evolved and the reform program and
the institutional arrangements were modified due of the severity of the crisis, some
re-prioritization of the objectives and division of the responsibilities became
necessary. For example, upgrading the Central Bank's supervisory capacity to
monitor and supervise the banking system, became a long term objective as the
- 4 -



authorities concentrated their initial efforts in creating and building IBRA's
capacity to deal with the troubled banks and act as the Asset Management
Company (AMC), among its other key responsibilities.  IBRA became an
independent entity from Bank Indonesia (BI) and, as such, the Bank's efforts and
the BRAP were geared more towards providing support to IBRA to deal with the
frozen or closed and nationalized banks and the transferred assets, while the IMF
took the lead in areas such as strengthening BI and improving the legal and
institutional environment for the financial sector.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable as the project objectives were not formally revised due to continued
need for flexibility. While it can be argued that formal revisions could have been
warranted once the key components were finally agreed upon, the team decided not
to take this route. First of all, due to the evolving nature of the crisis and the
changes in the counterpart institutional arrangements for the crisis resolution
program, revisions would have been required at several stages. Second, as financial
crises typically come in several phases it was perceived that locking in the uses of
the funds after the first round of portfolio reviews and bank recapitalizations would
not have been prudent.
3.3 Original Components:
The project was broadly defined around the following key components:
(i)  the evaluation of the rehabilitation plans of financially troubled private
banks;
(ii) the implementation of a program to restructure the state banks;
(iii) the strengthening of the examination, supervision and regulatory functions
of BI; and
(iv)  the  diagnostic review of the legal and institutional infrastructure for
financial sector development.
The first two components - evaluation of the rehabilitation plans of financially
troubled private banks, and the implementation of a program to restructure the
state banks - effectively comprise very similar processes. These were to include a
review of the existing portfolios by credible auditors to assess the amount of
recapitalization required for each bank to meet the required Capital Adequacy
Ratio (CAR); an evaluation, in particular, of the credit and risk management
practices, and design the plan to improve these practices to meet the international
minimum standards. For private banks, the burden of putting in place the plan
and implementing   the improvements was left primarily with the existing
shareholders with the BI monitoring the progress. As the shareholder of the state
banks, the government was to take the responsibility for ensuring design of a
business plan and supporting operational restructuring measures to bring the state
banks bank to operational viability. The third component, strengthening the
banking supervision function in the BI, was envisioned to be undertaken as a joint
effort with the IMF. Finally, a comprehensive diagnostic of required improvements
- 5 -



in the legal and institutional infrastructure for financial sector development was
intended to provide the necessary foundations for longer term improvement of the
operating environment of the financial system.
Component 1: Evaluation of rehabilitation plans of financially troubled
private banks.
The objective of this component was to provide technical assistance to carry out the
evaluations of the rehabilitation plans that were required by BI in November 1997
for troubled, but viable, private banks. It was envisioned that this component
would provide support to BI, primarily in its role as the bank supervisory authority,
by (i) identifying the minimum requirements for re-establishing the viability of
each institution; (ii) indicating the scope and proposed content of the rehabilitation
plan; (iii) reviewing and refining BI's existing approach towards the preparation of
rehabilitation plans; and (iv) in some cases, designing a rehabilitation plan
specifically tailored to the particular circumstances of the individual troubled
banks. It was further anticipated that, at a subsequent stage, consultants would
assist BI in establishing a system for monitoring and evaluating continued
compliance with the approved rehabilitation plans.
The original design of the component was appropriate in the operating environment
and in the context of the overall institutional arrangements that prevailed at that
time. BI had only a few weeks, prior to the BRAP appraisal, to announce the
closure of 16 private banks deemed unviable. It then was challenged to deal with
the closure process of these institutions as it had not closed a bank for quite some
time. The unexpected need to close so many banks simultaneously caused concerns
as to the continued viability of other banks in the system, so the component was
re-designed to assist BI in ensuring that the remaining private banks in the system
would be able to survive as viable institutions. The design could, however, be
somewhat criticized for not sufficiently anticipating the complications subsequently
encountered from BI's limited institutional capacity. Admittedly, the institutional
arrangements for resolution and the capacity issues were beyond the Bank team's
control, particularly as the pressures for quick response under the stand-by
arrangement did not allow for exploration of alternative approaches.
Component 2: Implementation of a program to restructure the state banks
The objective of this component was, in many ways, similar to that of the first
component: to rehabilitate the public banks that were experiencing difficulties by
increasing the efficiency and financial stability of the institutions. Besides the
required diagnostics of the loan portfolios, risk management practices and business
strategies, the state banks component was to design, a plan from a shareholder
perspective, to restructure the state banking system through management
performance contracts, and possible mergers and/or privatizations. To ensure the
credibility of the process and the quality of the outcome, an audit of all the state
- 6 -



banks was to be conducted by an internationally recognized accounting firm, a
requisite that was not performed in the context of Bank's preceding FSDP project.
Given that the Bank's team had some insights into the potential problems that
could be detected in the audit process, the component included a provision for
assistance in the resolution of the bad debts of merged banks.
As regards to this component, given the prevailing crisis conditions both
region-wide and in the Indonesian domestic financial system, and the Bank's team
anticipation of problems in the state banks' portfolios the design of the component
was prudent and appropriate.
Component 3: Strengthening of the examination, supervision and
regulatory functions of Bank Indonesia.
The objective of this component was to move beyond classroom training and advice
provided in the Financial Sector Development Project (FSDP) and to fund
international experts with experience in conducting bank examinations to be
incorporated in BI examination teams both on-site and off-site, in part to verify the
conclusions of BI examiners. Particular emphasis was to be placed on improving
enforcement of loan classification, provisioning rules, liquidity management and
foreign exchange position control (including off-balance sheet items). Further
objectives included providing BI with technical assistance to build the central
bank's capacity in drafting, implementing and monitoring 'cease and desist' orders
and other imposed regulatory rehabilitation programs. Finally, the component was
to support a review and recommendations process for the organizational structure
of BI and improvement of the controls and effectiveness of the supervisory
functions.
As the FSDP fall short of its objective to the strengthen the banking supervision
function of BI, it was appropriate to continue to pursue this goal. It was also
pragmatic to assume that the work would need to be done in collaboration with the
IMF, given their keen interest in this area and their strong relationship with the
central bank.  It would have been preferable to have had the scope of the
collaborative effort and the division of labor with the IMF determined and agreed
upon at the time of the project approval. However, this was not realistic due to the
crisis situation at hand and the understandable uncertainties over the extent of
true need for capacity for the 'cease and desist' type enforcement. In that sense,
though unusual, at least some part of this component should be seen as a
contingency for funding of specific expertise the nature and extent of which could
not have been known at the time of the project design.
Component 4:      Diagnostic review   of the legal and    institutional
infrastructure for financial sector development.
The objective of this component was to perform a diagnostic assessment of the key
legal and implementation impediments for the proposed banking sector reforms.
- 7 -



This assessment was to draw on previous assessments of the overall legal
development in Indonesia (including those financed under the FSDP and under the
auspices of other donors) and the experience of key stake-holders in the banking
sector (banks, regulators, corporations, lawyers, judges and relevant government
officials). The assessment was to include an action plan for making the necessary
legislative, regulatory and institutional changes in the areas of bankruptcy,
banking disclosure, collateral securities interest, company law implementation,
shareholder rights and governance, financial instruments, business practices and
insurance.
The component can be deemed to have been important for both the needed
immediate term legislative and regulatory changes to deal with the crisis and for
strategic decisions on how to ensure the medium- to longer term viability of the
financial system as a whole and banking system, in particular. However, the
obvious weakness in the design of this component lies in its dual time horizon
perspective. At the early stages of an acute financial crisis it is impossible for the
relevant authorities to focus beyond the immediate fire-fighting tasks. Therefore, it
would probably have been beneficial to divide the component into two separate
parts: one addressing the immediate requirements for legal and regulatory
adjustments needed for crisis resolution, and the second into a project to provide
support for the design of a medium to longer term strategic vision and its
implementation.
3.4 Revised Components:
N/A
3.5 Quality at Entry:
N/A
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The unusual crisis context of the operation and its implications to both the project
design and implementation make the evaluation of the outcome somewhat
problematical. The basic objective of the project was to provide a reasonably
flexible funding source for sudden and extensive needs for very specialized
technical assistance that could be described as critical to the immediate financial
crisis resolution. During the course of the operation the choice to opt for a flexible
project design was proven to have been appropriate. Early on in the project the
financial sector calamity deepened rapidly and soon became the most extensive
banking sector crisis in the recent history worldwide. The sheer number of troubled
banks and the very high percentage of bad banking assets posed such extraordinary
demands on the resolution process and the available capacity that the Indonesian
government opted to create a separate resolution agency to lead the efforts in bank
restructuring and bad asset resolution. The establishment of IBRA in January
1998, required the BRAP resources be redirected from supporting BI to providing
-8-



extensive technical assistance to IBRA, both in bank restructuring/rehabilitation as
well as in building the new agency's institutional capacity. Thus IBRA became the
key counterpart for the entire BRAP operation.
The project was critical to the Government's efforts to assess and contain the crisis
thereby avoiding the collapse of the entire banking system. Without GOI budgetary
resources readily available at the time of the crisis, the BRAP served as the source
of funding for the urgently needed technical assistance. The BRAP financed the
creation and establishment of IBRA, the development of the Agreed upon due
diligence procedures ("ADDP's") and other key, related activities. The ADDPs and
evaluations of banks' business plans funded by BRAP became the basis for
restructuring, recapitalization and rehabilitation of the entire domestic commercial
banking system. While the bank restructuring program is still ongoing and the
ultimate outcome will not be known for some years to come, the BRAP funded
activities were indispensable for the post 1997 troubled bank resolution process.
Hence the sector impact can be described as having been substantial. Due to the
critical contribution of the most significant components (1 and 2 that accounted for
89% of the total disbursed amount) to avoiding a banking sector meltdown the
development objectives can be assessed to have been satisfactory. The project was
also extremely important to the GOI in making available the required assistance at
a time when it needed it the most.
Both the economic, and the political situation in Indonesia continued to be very
fluid throughout the BRAP operation. The BRAP was regularly adapted to keep
pace with the constant changes of institutional arrangements, the key counterparts
and their urgent needs for technical assistance. Components were modified on an
as-needed basis and resources reallocated reflecting the need for flexibility as
envisioned in the original project design. The project, however, remained focused
on achieving the key objectives of the financial sector component of the IFIs'
stand-by arrangement to: (i) assist the government in coping with the financial
crisis and (ii) implement the bank restructuring program.
While the adaptability of the BRAP to meet imminent needs can be deemed to have
been warranted in the crisis situation and the approach worked to the client's
benefit, admittedly, the circumstances were unusual for a Bank technical
assistance lending project. Hence, repeating the flexible project design should not
become a common practice and should be considered only in extreme crisis
situations where rapid response is required and the precise nature of the technical
assistance cannot be reasonably anticipated.
It should be noted that only 57.7% of the original loan amount of USD 20 million
was ultimately utilized. Components 1 and 2 accounted for over 89% of the amount
disbursed or some 52% of the original loan amount. Component 3, modified to
support institutional build-up and capacity building of IBRA (who assumed some of
BI's activities originally planned to receive technical assistance) accounted for 11%
-9-



of disbursed and about 6% of the original loan amount.
This under-utilization reflects, for a large part, the subsequent government's
explicit decision in late 1999 to limit all further external borrowing in an effort to
ensure continued fiscal sustainability due to its high debt burden. At the request of
the government USD $900,000 of the BRAP was cancelled on March 31, 2000. The
remaining portion, USD $6,416,821, was cancelled on March 27, 2001, upon the
government's request for early closure. The government also chose to directly fund
one key subcomponent - the Operational and Governance Review Project -
originally prepared under component number 3 in the spring of 2000.
The still continuing restructuring work that, in the early stage of the crisis, relied
on the BRAP for funding is now carried out drawing from a variety of sources: the
government's budget, and grant funds from other IFI's, agencies and bilateral
donors. Hence, the cancellation of the remaining balance of BRAP is not expected
to cause disruption in the provision of technical assistance in this field, and can be
deemed, particularly in light of the heavy debt burden, to be a prudent measure by
the government.
1.   Evaluation of rehabilitation plans of financially troubled private
banks.
The objective of this component was to provide technical assistance to carry out the
evaluations of the rehabilitation plans required by BI in November 1997 of
troubled, but viable, private banks. The clean-up of the private banking sector was
deemed a necessary part of the entire bank restructuring program, and BRAP
funding was used to assess the size of the hole in the troubled private banks, and
for the evaluation of the subsequent rehabilitation plans of those banks. The
outcome of the component is rated highly satisfactory.
Although the project originally envisaged that BI would be the agency in charge of
the bank restructuring program, the responsibility was shifted to IBRA in early
1998 and the implementation of this component was carried out under these new
institutional arrangements. While the transfer of these responsibilities from BI to
IBRA caused some institutional tensions that were reflected in the early
restructuring process, the BRAP was used to deliver high quality, targeted
technical assistance in a number of critical areas including ADDPs on almost 40
banks. The findings of the ADDPs, particularly the level of insolvency of each bank
and the nature of past lending practices, were used by the authorities as the basis
for recapitalization or closure, realized in 5/1999, and for the preparation of
investment and management contracts for the recapitalized banks.   The
recapitalization process was driven by a multilevel, inter-ministerial committee
process using transparent and consistent measures on medium term viability.
Frequent changes of key officials, the change in the underlying institutional
arrangements and the simultaneously on-going political developments both delayed
the process and caused changes in the implementation of the original
- 10 -



recapitalization design. Regardless, consensus was ultimately reached between BI,
MOF and IBRA on the closure or merger of more than fifty banks and effective
nationalization of at least a dozen others.
To date, the recapitalized banks continue to be highly dependent for their financial
performance on the interest income earned from the recapitalized bonds, while
intermediation through new lending remains stalled. Due to the extended period of
high interest rates and the weak Rupiah, the banks that received large fixed rate
bonds suffer from narrow, even negative, margins thus weakening their fragile
capital base even further. And now some banks are not likely meet BI's year end
2001 CAR requirement of 8 percent. The government is thus facing a need to
contract the commercial banking system under its direct control even further.
Additionally, the government has stated its intention to divest a majority stake in
two banks, BCA and Niaga, during this year. BCA's divestment process has been
officially launched and should, according to the stand-by agreement commitment,
close by year end 2001.
2.   Implementation of a program to restructure the state banks.
The objective of this component was, in many ways, similar to that of the first
component: to rehabilitate state owned banks that were experiencing difficulties by
increasing the efficiency and financial stability of the institutions in preparation for
privatization. The outcome of this component is rated satisfactory.
As a result of the portfolio reviews the state banking sector was consolidated
significantly. Bank Mandiri was created through a merger of four state-owned
banks, and interim measures were put in place to strengthen the management and
reduce incurring losses in the remaining public banks (Mandiri, BNI, BTN and
BRI). The four state banks were fully recapitalized, and the final management
performance contracts were signed late spring 2001. The performance contracts
established a core strategy for each bank and charted an extensive operational
restructuring program, in particular defining ways to improve their credit practices,
risk management, and internal controls. The Ministry of Finance has established a
Monitoring and Governance Unit to monitor, from the shareholder perspective,
bank management's compliance with the set targets for financial performance and
operational restructuring.  The Unit's operations are supported by bilateral
technical assistance, and it produces monthly and quarterly reports on the banks
for the MOF.
While some important progress has been accomplished in the state bank
restructuring efforts, its pace and nature varies by bank. The depth of the
problems in these banks was quite significant as state banks represented over 60%
of the cost of the bank recapitalization in Indonesia. They were also the last banks
to be recapitalized and they received, to a large extent, fixed-rate bonds. The delay
in the recapitalization and the extended period of high interest rates exacerbating
the poor net interest income issue, together with serious funding structure
- 1 1 -



problems (except for BRI), has caused the rehabilitation process of the state banks
to be much slower than initially hoped. As the four state banks represent over 50%
of banking assets in the system, further decisive measures will be needed to bring
them to full operational and financial viability.
3.   Strengthening of the examination, supervision and regulatory
functions of Bank Indonesia.
The outcome of this component can be deemed to be mixed. While, the BRAP
provided no support for the review of the organizational structure of BI or for the
improvement of the central bank's supervisory functions, both these issues have
received extensive technical assistance in the context of the stand-by arrangement
program. The IMF took the lead in this work, to which the Bank staff have actively
contributed. This arrangement was based on the agreed upon division and
coordination of labor between the IFI's, put in place subsequent to BRAP
effectiveness to avoid duplication and ensure a collaboration when resources of the
Bank and the Fund were extremely stretched due to the East Asian crisis.
BI continued to be the bank supervisory authority while IBRA was the
restructuring agency.  Restructuring and bank closure functions were thus
transferred to IBRA. Under the distribution of responsibilities between the IFI's
(after the BRAP became effective), the IMF agreed to provide Technical Assistance
support to strengthen BI supervisory functions while the WB took lead in
supporting build-up and operations of IBRA.
4.   Diagnostic review of the legal and institutional infrastructure for
financial sector development.
The objective of this component was to make a diagnostic assessment of the key
legal and implementation impediments to the proposed banking sector reforms. As
part of the division of labor agreement, the Fund took the lead in this component
and, while no funds from the BRAP were used for this particular component, the
Bank financial sector team took an active role in the immediate efforts to remove
the legal and regulatory impediments to crisis resolution. Due to the constant
pressures for immediate crisis fire-fighting actions the legal, regulatory and
institutional reforms affecting the medium to longer term financial sector
development agenda have only now caught the interest of the Government. The
Bank has now taken the lead in supporting the Government's efforts to formulate
its medium to longer term financial sector strategy is supported through bilateral
grant funding.
4.2 Outputs by components:
1.   Evaluation of rehabilitation plans of financially troubled private
banks:
Diagnostic Planning. The component assisted IBRA in: (i) finalizing a terms of
reference for diagnostic reviews ( ADDPs) conducted by international audit firms;
(ii) drafted the request for proposals (RFP) for the diagnostic reviews; (iii) and
- 12 -



reviewed and evaluated proposals. The ADDPs assisted IBRA in the evaluation of
37 banks and provided IBRA with an independent report, by international auditing
firms, on the asset quality capital position and recapitalization needs of each bank.
The ADDPs comprised: (i) a loan portfolio review covering at least 75% in value of
the total loan portfolio; (ii) a review and revaluation of off balance sheet items,
including commitments, contingencies, currency exposures and derivatives; (iii) a
financial position review (Net Assets and Balance Sheet) based on both Indonesian
GAAP and IAS; (iv) assessment of the bank's past credit, risk management and
accounting practices; and (v) consideration of the recapitalization options and
operational restructuring needs of the bank.
Forensic investigation of suspected illegal activities and asset tracing involving
BDNI.   In coordination with IBRA banking and legal staff, the consultant
conducted corporate and personal asset tracing, gathered evidence and compiled
recommendations for possible civil and criminal legal action against former or
current BDNI bank officers, directors, borrowers and employees who were
suspected of having willfully violated regulations or laws for personal gain.
Financial Analysis & Bank Evaluation. The consultant assisted IBRA by: (i)
assessing the ADDP reports' completeness, internal referencing and adherence to
the TORs; (ii) liaised with Reporting Accounts as to clarifications or amplifications
of tables or data provided in the ADDP reports; and (iii) created a summary report
template to support the decision-making process for determining and implementing
resolution options.
2. Implementation of a program to restructure the state banks.
Diagnostic Planning. The component assisted IBRA in: (i) finalizing a terms of
reference for diagnostic reviews ( ADDPs) conducted by international audit firms;
(ii) drafted the request for proposals (RFP) for the diagnostic reviews; (iii) reviewed
and evaluated proposals.
Agreed upon Due Diligence Procedures (ADDP). The ADDPs assisted IBRA with an
independent report by international auditing firms on the capital position and
recapitalization needs of the state owned banks. The ADDPs comprised: (i) a loan
portfolio review covering at least 75% in value of the total loan portfolio; (ii) a
review, including a revaluation of its securities and investments, earning and
non-earning assets, liabilities and affiliated party transactions and a review of off
balance sheet items such as commitments, contingencies, currency exposures and
derivatives; (iii) a financial position review (Net Assets and Balance Sheet) based
on both Indonesian GAAP and IAS; (iv) ) assessment of the bank's past credit, risk
management and accounting practices; and (v) consideration of the recapitalization
options available to the banks and to IBRA.
Financial Analysis & Bank Evaluation. The component assisted IBRA by: (i)
assessing the ADDP reports' completeness, internal referencing and adhering to the
- 13 -



TORs; (ii) liaised with Reporting Accounts as to clarifications or amplifications of
tables or data provided in the ADDP reports; and (iii) created a summary report
template to support decision-making process for determining and implementing
resolution options.
IT Consulting Services for Bank Mandiri. The government established a new bank
named Bank Mandiri by the merger (amalgamation) of the four existing
government banks (BBD, Bapindo, BDN, and EXIM). The task team (i) conducted
a review of the existing IT resources and infrastructure of the four existing banks
and, (ii) recommended an IT integration strategy, and (iii) produced a high-level IT
strategy and plan for Bank Mandiri.
3. Strengthening of the examination, supervision and regulatory functions
of Bank Indonesia.
Technical assistance for establishment of IBRA.  This technical assistance
supported the immediate short-term requirements of the Indonesian authorities in
the establishment of IBRA, including the need to: (i) prepare an action plan in
conjunction with the relevant Indonesian authorities (MOF and BI) for the
establishment of a restructuring agency; (ii) design and develop IBRA's
organizational structure, human resources requirements, job descriptions, and
recruitment of employees and consultants; (iii) design regulatory contracts for
banks placed under IBRA; (iv) develop methodology and financial model templates
to design and evaluate rehabilitation plans and diagnostic reviews.
Risk classification and pre-diagnostic training. Provided IBRA and IBRA banks
with training on sound loan review, classification and provision criteria as well as
diagnostic review procedures and requirements for the formulation of the
rehabilitation plans.
Intervention support and coordination.  (i) Assisted IBRA in building up a
monitoring system for the banks that were transferred to IBRA; (ii) supported the
coordination of the intervention process and strengthened communication between
monitoring teams; (iii) gathered information about each bank's activities and scope
of business to improve the focus of examination teams and help prepare and plan
the proposed portfolio reviews.
Legal Advisory Services to IBRA. Provided financial crisis related legal advice to
the GOI on laws covering bank regulation, supervision and enforcement
capabilities, including the laws governing IBRA and the Asset Management
Company (AMC).
Legal Counsel Services to Assist IBRA. Under the direction of IBRA's in-house
counsel and in close consultation with IBRA's local counsel and financial advisors,
(i) prepared recommendations for the most effective and efficient method to
document the recapitalization transaction based on the Joint Decree; (ii) drafted
- 14 -



Investment Agreements; (iii) provided support to IBRA for the negotiations and the
execution of the Agreements.
Components that were prepared - though not fully implemented - under the
auspices of BRAP:
Operational and Governance Review and Reform Program (OGRRP) - The
component was designed to improve IBRA's governance and human resource
management and to realign its operational structure and processes to speed up and
enhance IBRA's asset restructurings and sales. The component was designed to
provide a significant realignment of IBRA's external and internal governance
structure and improve the operational efficiency of the agency. IBRA awarded the
contract to a consultant after an accelerated process from the Terms of Reference
(TOR) to consultant selection. However, the selected primary provider was found to
have, according to Bank's procurement rules, a conflict of interest and,
consequently, the Bank could not award a "no-objection" to the selection. IBRA
decided to fund the project through its own budget, and - although the scope of the
final TOR was significantly reduced from the original RFP - the Bank's staff were
invited, by IBRA, to participate in the process throughout its implementation. The
human resources development sub-component of the OGRRP that was delivered by
a sub-contracting consultant was funded through the BRAP.
Forensics and Asset Tracing (FORSAT) the component was originally planned to
support IBRA's establishment of a forensics investigations capacity through
engaging a firm which has successfully provided forensic investigations and asset
tracing and recovery services to provide on-the-job training to enhance IBRA's
leverage in negotiations with recalcitrant debtors. The component was terminated
after the completion of a draft TOR when the government and IBRA decided to
transfer this FORSAT function to the Attorney General's Office (AGO), so as to
build the AGO's capacity to trace hidden assets both domestically and
internationally. The transfer of its responsibilities changed the nature and the
magnitude of the assignment significantly. As the Bank's lawyers were sensitive to
the potential risks involved in forensics investigations and asset tracing activities,
it was decided not to pursue the component outside IBRA.
4. Diagnostic review of the legal and institutional infrastructure for
financial sector development.
Since no funds from the BRAP were used for this particular component, no specific
outputs are identified.
Other outputs not related to any specific component but rather enhanced
the overall project implementation:
Coordination and Diagnostic Planning - Under this component IBRA received
assistance for an international consulting firm for the coordination of the 37 ADDP
processes. The consulting firm: (i) extensively assisted private and state-owned
banks in preparing for their diagnostic reviews, (ii) actively participated in finding
- 15 -



solutions to and resolving contractual issues arising from the ADDPs, and (iv) acted
as the contact for external consultants and as a liaison with the World Bank and
third parties.
Procurement Assistance - The component assisted IBRA in the process of contract
procurement to ensure the transparency and independence of the contracts entered
into with various parties.  Specific tasks included: soliciting interest from
contractors, establishing RFP procedures, drafting appropriate TORs, evaluating
submitted proposals and undertaking contract negotiations for the benefit of IBRA,
and capacity building in IBRA in these procedures.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The key institutional development goal of BRAP has been the rapid bank build up
of capacity within the Government of Indonesia of financial crisis resolution and
restructuring. Originally, it was envisioned that BI would be the focal point for
these activities through its regulatory role as the bank supervisor. However, the
magnitude and the nature of the crisis prompted the government to establish a
separate restructuring agency with a very wide mandate to deal with these tasks in
the context of the crisis. Hence, since IBRA's establishment in early 1998, the
BRAP was utilized to build IBRA's institutional capacity and undertake the ADDPs
which led to the March 1999 bank resolutions and the subsequent preparation of
investment, management and performance agreements with the recapitalized
banks.
Despite IBRA's slow start-up and the several changes in its leadership (during
spring 1998), the resources provided through BRAP played a major role in the
build-up of IBRA's basic institutional capacity and the design, management and
utilization of ADDP processes in bank resolution. For a restructuring agency, IBRA
has an unusually wide mandate, including introducing bank restructuring, asset
management and disposition of loans and equity stakes in nationalized banks,
overseeing the disposition of pledged shareholder assets, and management of the
government blanket guarantee; and all this in the deepest financial crisis of modern
history.  From  its creation IBRA  has struggled with balancing extensive
outsourcing and building in-house capacity for the multitude of its tasks. While
IBRA was granted extraordinary powers to carry out its tasks, it has been limited
in its use of those powers as their legality has been challenged by a variety of
stakeholders. IBRA's ability to perform its tasks has also been hampered by its
weak corporate governance structure and the frequent changes of its leadership; its
present Chairman is the sixth in the agency's three and a half year existence.
- 16 -



Although IBRA's external governance was improved through the establishment of
an Oversight Committee during the summer of 2000 and the development of a
robust Corrective Action Plan (CAP) to address numerous internal control
weaknesses identified in its FY98-99 external audit findings, its internal control
procedures and its independence from external interference remains a serious
concern.
While the start-up of IBRA's operations has proceeded somewhat in fits and starts,
it still represents a unique and remarkable concentration of bank seizure and
closure, bank restructuring, debt restructuring, and asset management and
disposal capacity. This formerly nonexistent capacity has been built up in the
course of three and a half years, and the technical assistance provided through
BRAP and in the context of its supervision by Bank staff have significantly
contributed to this outcome. While IBRA, by the nature of its mandate and design,
is an interim agency and thus has a predetermined sunset date, the skills built
through the agency will not go wasted in the future. Former IBRA staff are already
partaking in the rebuilding of Indonesia's financial system in significant positions
throughout the financial sector, and it is anticipated that upon the gradual winding
up and closure of the agency its uniquely experienced staff will be in high demand
by various financial institutions in Indonesia.
The BRAP also contributed to the strengthening of IBRA's corporate governance,
although the OGRRP component was only partially funded through the loan. The
key outcome of the initiated OGRRP process was realized in July 2000 through the
establishment of an Oversight Committee (OC). The OC is specifically tasked with
the following: (i) upholding corporate governance and transparency at IBRA,
including monitoring policy compliance; (ii) monitoring IBRA's performance,
particularly with regards to strategic issues; and, (iii) providing recommendations,
solicited or otherwise, to IBRA and the Financial Sector Policy Committee (FSPC)
comprising of key economic ministers. The OC members include the IBRA
Chairman, Secretary of the FSPC, both serving as ex-officio members, along with
seven other independent members. The OC, assisted by a full-time secretariat,
encompasses two bodies, the Audit Committee and Ombudsman. To date, the OC
has rigorously pursued its mandate, offering its views (sometimes publicly) on a
number of important IBRA-related issues. According to the establishing regulation
the work of the OC is to be funded by the government through IBRA's budget.
To date IBRA controls approximately USD 60 billion of assets (in book value)
consisting of non-performing loans, equity investments in recapitalized banks and
enterprises pledged by former bank owners to cover their liabilities to the
government. IBRA's asset recoveries are a significant source of fiscal income and
thus remain to be one of the key focuses in the financial sector reform program.
During the fiscal year of 2000, IBRA collected net recoveries of IDR 18.1 trillion, or
96 percent of its target, of which IDR 14.4 trillion was raised by the Asset
Management Credit (AMC), IDR 2.4 trillion by the Asset Management Investment
- 17-



(AMI), IDR 1 trillion by the Bank Restructuring Unit (BRU) and IDR 1.6 trillion
from other nonoperating income. While this is a significant achievement, the fact
that much of the recoveries were derived from the AMC's loan collections of
principal and interest payments is worrisome. For FY 2001, IBRA's recovery target
totals IDR 37 trillion, including IDR 10 trillion of bonds swapped from recapitalized
banks. Through the first quarter, IBRA has raised about IDR 4.8 trillion cash,
which was still largely derived from the loan collections. It remains crucial for
IBRA to accelerate the disposal of its assets, especially unrestructured loans, back
to the private sector not only to provide for a portion of the fiscal cost of the bank
recapitalization program, but to ensure the restructuring of the economy, which is
now  largely controlled by the government.    This will require government
willingness (not yet seen) to accept the realization of losses already inherent in the
assets.
In a deep financial crisis national centralized restructuring agencies can be
effective only if strong and consistent political support exists for the
implementation of its mandate. It can be argued that the disappointingly slow
progress in asset disposition by IBRA is more a reflection of the difficult political
environment the agency has operated under, rather than the recently achieved
relative political stability which provides hope for improved performance in this
regard. IBRA will continue to play an important role in Indonesia's economic
recovery program, with its specific mandate to restructure 11 banks (4 nationalized
+ 7 recapitalized) wherein it acts as stakeholder (the Ministry of Finance assumes
direct authority for the 4 state-owned banks) to accelerate asset recoveries and
expedite debt restructuring. Considering the complexity of its task and the huge
stock of assets still under its control, it is crucial that IBRA maintains its strong
internal controls, transparently and independence from external interference.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The BRAP was put in place in a short period of time in the early stages of an acute
and severe financial crisis that threatened to collapse Indonesia's financial system.
Government officials were overwhelmed with trying to contain the crisis that was
rapidly spreading throughout East Asia and had a devastating impact on
Indonesia's economy. At the same time, the political situation in Indonesia was
quickly deteriorating. Calls for the resignation of President Soeharto were followed
by violent riots in the capital leading ultimately to his resignation and the
appointment of an interim President. Cabinet changes followed and became
frequent as Indonesia adjusted to a new reality of democratic order. Since the
beginning of the crisis almost four years ago the country now has its fourth
president and the changes in the cabinet (and, as such, key economic team)
positions have been nearly twice as frequent. This political adjustment process
commencing simultaneously with the deepest financial sector crisis in the modern
history put the key government officials under tremendous strain when trying to
- 18-



deal with difficult and immediate crisis resolution related issues.
Although the Bank initially responded to the crisis situation with speed by
preparing and approving the BRAP to provide funding for essential technical
assistance, few procurement and financial management reviews of the
implementing agency were conducted. While this omission in part reflected the
government being unable to decide how the crisis management responsibilities
should be allocated, a typical reaction in an acute financial crisis, it was also due to
Bank internal issues. The Bank fell short in providing the implementing agency
(ultimately IBRA) with sufficient direct support in procurement and financial
management related issues. Although this omission was partly compensated for by
the procurement and project management assistance and capacity building
component funded through BRAP, these short-comings complicated the
implementation process throughout the operation.
Qualified technical assistance providers with experience in financial crisis
resolution are scarce and hence, very expensive. There are only a handful of
consultant, legal and auditing firms in the world market that have the qualified
resources to provide professional advice in an acute systemic financial crisis. The
East Asian 'flu' spreading rapidly throughout the region stretched these resources
extremely thin. Internationally credible providers with relevant experience faced
excessive simultaneous demands from other countries in crisis such as Thailand,
Malaysia and Korea. To demonstrate this difficulty, prior to the implementation of
ADDPs, the Bank received an informal request from a group of international
auditing firms seeking to sequence the portfolio audits for the Korean and
Indonesian banks as all the qualified providers were running out of capacity to
deliver the audits simultaneously.
Even under normal circumstances hiring this type of highly specialized TA under
loans or, for that matter, trust funds subject to Bank's procurement rules is very
challenging.  While the Bank's procurement rules and procedures are well
established and suited for investment lending processes, they are not as conducive
for this type of rapid procurement for highly qualified intellectual property. Issues
continually arise in the areas of fees, conflict of interest rules, and down stream
work. Due to the highly specialized nature of this work, financial consultants
demand and receive from the private sector and even from governments fees well in
excess of the Bank's daily reference rates. The Bank's 'conflict of interest' rules
treat these firms as one global entity irrespective of their corporate structure or
partnership agreements. The rules do not recognize any possibility for a 'Chinese'
(or fire) wall arrangement within these global corporates. Additional issues have
also arisen on the interpretation of the down-stream work clause, with many firms
unwilling to accept a design or assessment assignment for fear of being barred from
implementation. And finally, the providers have at times been requesting that the
Bank enter into an indemnification and/or confidentiality clause for proprietary
knowledge. In financial crisis situation these challenges are exacerbated due to the
- 19-



imminent need for massive amount of highly specialized technical assistance.
Given the limited number of providers available and the global nature of these
firms, the clients therefore quickly run out of alternatives who are not conflicted out
from the projects. Consequently, procurement processes under BRAP tended to
drag on (slowing down the utilization) and thus was not always conducted in the
proper sequence and increased the cost of supervision. Particularly in the early
acute stages of the crisis, the Bank team, under great pressure to provide the
support badly needed by the client, may have pushed the envelope on the spirit
(though not the letter) of the procurement rules.
The need to undertake too many activities at the same time required the
participation of other agencies such as the IMF, ADB and several bilateral donors.
To accelerate the assistance to the GOI, responsibilities over certain aspects of the
financial reform program were divided among the different IFI's diluting the use of
BRAP resources over time.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
(b) Factors generally subject to govemment control, such as macroeconomic policies and
conditions, sector policies, government commitment, govemance and corruption, appointment of
key staff, provision of counterpart funds and administrative procedures.
While the initial financial sector reform program, designed in November 1997, had
the key elements required for financial crisis resolution and restructuring, the
subsequent implementation periodically faltered. Given that bank restructuring
and asset disposition remain amongst the most politically sensitive issues in any
society, slow implementation is not unexpected. But, the political uncertainties
surrounding the transition to democracy in the face of a serious financial crisis have
resulted in an inordinate number of delays and revisions. Frequent changes in
Government from early 1999 (4 Presidents, 6 Ministers of Finance, and 6 heads of
IBRA) and a Parliament that is struggling to define its proper role have made the
implementation of the reform program even more difficult. The process has been
further hampered by the well documented deficiencies in the Indonesian legal and
judicial systems.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The Indonesian Bank Restructuring Agency (IBRA) was established in January
1998, with responsibility for the restructuring of Indonesia's banking sector and
resolution of its non-performing loans and other transferred assets. IBRA operates
as an agency under the MOF and has a finite life span of five years from February
1999. IBRA started with a base of approximately 30 staff members, organized in
four principal divisions (Investments, Asset Management, Operations and Risk
Management). Shortly after its establishment, IBRA was designated as the agency
responsible for the implementation of the BRAP but early on had no clear definition
of responsibilities, dedicated staff nor the budget to establish a formal project
management. For a period of time project management and procurement support
was provided by a consultant firm hired through BRAP to compensate for the lack
of internal resources. Even when IBRA ultimately had staff assigned to assist in
- 20 -



the management of the BRAP, they did so only on a part-time basis and had little
or no knowledge about government procurement and financial management
regulations or World Bank operations and procedures. The staff within IBRA
responsible for BRAP and other procurement ( which was quite extensive due to
IBRA relying initially heavily on outsourcing) was changed several times and, by
the time the staff were up to speed, new people were brought in, leading to a new
learning curve and, thus, further delays in implementation. With time IBRA's
internal procedures became more established and routines were developed for all
outsourcing and procurement processes. This allowed procurement rules to be
followed more closely and commitments such as implementation summary reports
and audits to be prepared and delivered on a timely basis. Still, largely due to the
frequent rotation, the staff overall lacked the capacity to monitor and evaluate the
results of the procurement processes and assess the results of the work performed.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Discrepancies between original appraisal estimates and actual project costs by
component are due to the flexibility deliberately introduced to the operation design.
BRAP was used as a flexible vehicle to fund the extensive and highly-specialized
technical assistance imminently required for a prompt crisis containment and
resolution response. The exact cost of each component was impossible to estimate
in advance as the depth of the problems and the number of troubled institutions
could not be estimated prior to the diagnostics that were, in fact, funded through
the BRAP. The depth and the nature of the problem also affected the required
resolution structures and, hence, the funding requirements for resolution capacity
building components could be only crude estimates in the original design.
Resources were reallocated on an ongoing basis between various components but,
due to the upfront decision for design flexibility, no changes to the procurement
arrangements were deemed necessary. The BRAP provided technical assistance
under the consultant services category, as originally intended, and no goods or
equipment were financed.
The total amount of the loan was USD 20 million. Total funds withdrawn from the
loan account mounted to USD 11 million. At the request of the Government, USD
900,000 was canceled in October 1999 as the GOI pledged to reduce borrowing in
light of the sizable fiscal burden resulting form the bank recapitalization program.
Shortly thereafter the Government requested the extension of the closing date of
the project from December 1999 to June 30, 2001 in order to complete the OGRRP
and the Forensic Investigations (FORSAT). In the spring of 2000, OGRRP was
partially canceled from BRAP funding (though its key components were undertaken
outside the Bank loan) and the FORSAT project was dropped altogether prior to
completion of RFP stage.  These developments, coupled with the perceived
difficulties in procurement processes, led to the early closure of the BRAP on May 8,
2001 with USD 6.4 million unused funds.
6. Sustainability
- 21 -



6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The initial commitment to the financial sector reform program defined by the
Soeharto administration in response to the crisis was short lived. Subsequent
administrations were equally challenged in the implementation of the program as
the country was adjusting to its new democratic rule and the turnover of key
economic ministers and other key officials, such as the Chairman of IBRA. Despite
these challenges, the establishment of IBRA, the start-up of the consolidation in the
banking sector, and the introduction of policies and procedures to close and
restructure banks were all significant steps in the right direction. By funding these
key activities, BRAP contributed to lay the foundation for the financial sector
restructuring process. Without these key actions, funded through the BRAP, the
Indonesian financial system could have faced a meltdown in 1998 and again in
1999 when the banks were closed and 12 others nationalized. The government
simply did not have the institutional capacity or the skill base to deal with the
continued restructuring and rebuilding of the banking system required to stabilize
the economy. It could be argued that these key activities in fact should be
considered remarkable achievements within the Indonesian context.
At this point in time, the reform process is only half finished; hence, it is difficult to
categorically say how likely or unlikely its sustainability will be. The political will
of the new administration, (installed in July 2001) the market conditions and the
weakening of BI as regulator and supervisor will all determine the success or
failure of the process. To date, the banking sector is still fragile but in far better
shape than it was when the BRAP project was launched at the early stages of the
crisis (e.g. the CAR at most banks is at 4% or higher compared to significant
negative CAR that most banks were found to have in 1997 and 1998). IBRA's
performance has been varied - successful in some aspects and very slow in others
- and, even if it is wound down as anticipated, the processes and capacity to
restructure banks and manage assets are expected to remain although in different
entities. The expedient early response by IBRA in taking over banks and
overseeing their recapitalization, closure or mergers was a remarkable achievement
given that the agency was created from scratch. But strong and consistent resolve
will be needed to ensure that the financial sector reform program is fully
implemented.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The BRAP was designed as a one-time operation to provided essential technical
assistance to the GOI in financial crisis resolution and restructuring. Its objectives
and components are not expected to directly lead to regular Bank operations. The
bank restructuring program - both for state banks and in the context of IBRA - and
the asset disposition program of IBRA are still currently supported by direct
technical assistance provided by Bank staff.  The Bank's future support to
Indonesia's financial sector program is defined in the Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) approved in early 2001 and will be further determined in the financial sector
strategy, currently being prepared as a joint effort between the government and the
- 22 -



IFI's.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The project was designed in the early stages of the East Asia financial crisis. The
loan was designed as a part of an overall emergency package put together jointly by
the Bank, the Fund and the ADB, and its purpose was to fund urgently needed
highly specialized technical assistance to support Indonesian government in its
crisis containment and resolution efforts . In that context, the BRAP was an
effective and timely response to Indonesia's needs. The Task Manager at that time,
did an excellent job of preparing the project under severe time constraints and
rapidly shifting conditions in Indonesia. The project was designed in four weeks
including the appraisal mission and was prepared in close consultation with BI,
MOF and the Coordinating Ministry for Economic, Finance and Development
Supervision.
In light of the rapidly widening crisis, the government had no alternative but to
commit to the project with BI and MOF taking the lead. Given the urgency of the
program no appraisal of borrower/implementing agency preparedness and capacity,
including procurement and financial management capacity, was undertaken. The
project design called for a project management unit to be established under the
Secretariat of the Monetary Board; instead, with the establishment of IBRA in early
1998, responsibility for the implementation of the project was assigned to IBRA.
The broad design of the project allowed for the much needed flexibility the crisis
required. The technical assistance package was appropriate and was considered to
be the first component in the Bank's sizable financial contribution to the 36 month
stand-by arrangement agreed with the IMF on November 5, 1997. The ADB joined
the stand-by arrangement later in the program.
Lessons learned from previous projects, particularly the failed Financial Sector
Development Project (FSDP), were incorporated into the design of the project
allowing it to focus immediate attention on critical areas of financial sector
development that were left unaddressed by the FSDP and that were urgent under
the crisis situation (e.g. financial audits and portfolio reviews took center stage
followed by restructuring of the state and private banks). The project design
further benefited from the FSIAL experience in Thailand that preceded BRAP by a
couple of months and from the practical hands-on financial crisis experience of
Bank staff in Financial Sector Development Department. These staff subsequently
formed the core of the Special Financial Operations unit established by the Board
as response to the East Asian crisis.
Initial implementation plans were agreed before the loan effectiveness in April
1998 and responsibilities over the entire financial sector reform were divided
- 23 -



among the Bank, the Fund and other multilateral and bilateral institutions. As
such, the Bank undertook the responsibility of providing support for IBRA and the
state banks. The IMF took the lead in areas such as the legal and institutional
environment of the financial sector.
7.2 Supervision:
As of July 1998, supervision of the BRAP was conducted in the field by the
designated TM who was stationed in Jakarta. The TM of the project, as well as the
rest of the SFO Indonesia Team, collectively had no previous experience in
supervising Bank operations and had modest knowledge of internal Bank
procedures. Consequently, the team struggled with internal Bank procurement
procedures and initial recording of Project Supervision Reports (PSRs) and other
project cycle documents which were somewhat omitted. Over time, supervision and
implementation procedures improved and, to avoid duplication, the technical
supervision efforts were recorded in the joint IMFIWB MAE mission Aide Memoir
and in the PSRs which were now entered on a regular basis. Formal supervision
mission TORs and BTOs were not required as supervision was carried out in the
field, and the technical assistance documentation was reflected as part of the
regular joint IMF/WB mission records.
The performance ratings given in PSRISupervision (Form 590) were realistic and
reviewed on an on-going basis to reflect the constant changes in the economic and
political situation that prevailed in Indonesia and affected the implementation of
the project. Of particular interest are the ratings given to the implementation
progress. Initially, implementation was slow due to the lengthy negotiation process
that took place between the approval of the loan and the date the project became
effective and the negotiations needed to define the specific components of the
project in the absence of a Project Implementation Plan. As such, implementation
was initially rated "unsatisfactory". With the urgency of the ADDPs and the
establishment of IBRA, implementation accelerated very quickly and, by the end of
the first year, the project was rated "satisfactory".  Unfortunately, with the
cancellation of IBRA's OGRRP (due to a conflict of interest issue) and the Forensic
Investigations (due to the change in institutional arrangements and the scope of the
function), implementation once again was rated "unsatisfactory" and remained
unsatisfactory until the project was closed.
The Bank team reviewed the components continuously and problems, such as the
availability of consultants, delays in delivering outputs, conflicts of interest, etc.
were addressed  pro-actively by the team.    Throughout implementation,
procurement or legal issues were raised with and brought to the attention of the
respective Bank departments. The task management periodically fell short in
enforcing the legal covenants and ensuring government counterpart financing.
However, the latter omission reflects the Indonesian government's budget
procedures at the time rather than the Bank team having failed in the task. The
team did demonstrate great flexibility in suggesting or approving needed
- 24 -



modifications to the components in order to accommodate the ever-changing
priorities driven by the evolving crisis. Overall, while the supervision of the BRAP
fell somewhat short in meeting the procedural requirements for such operation, this
shortcoming has been outweighed by the extent and quality of technical assistance
supervision support provided.
The implementing agency, IBRA, received extensive support from the TM and the
entire Bank team staff who frequently visited Indonesia. This supervision support
can be deemed to have been crucial in providing IBRA with practical hands-on
restructuring and resolution experience; particularly important in assisting them in
drafting the Terms of References, determining the requirements for consultant
qualifications and assessing the outcomes and developing follow-on actions, all
areas in which there was little existing capacity amongst our counterparties.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
While it can be argued that the Bank should have anticipated the crisis and had
appropriate procedures in place, the extraordinary velocity and depth of the Asian
crisis caught the institution by surprise and changed the entire nature of the
Bank's program in the region. In Indonesia, the Bank put forth an extraordinary
effort by preparing the package for participating in the standby arrangement and,
in particular, this project in record time. The BRAP project was designed as an
emergency operation with broad components to assist Indonesia, in the shortest
possible time, to sort out its growing banking problems. The implementation of the
project was overtaken by events as the crisis swung from economic to political, and
the Rupiah rapidly collapsed to unprecedented levels that came close to destroying
Indonesia's banking system. During much of 1998 institutional capacity building
took a backseat to fire-fighting. As such, the bulk of the resources were not used as
originally planned but their availability did help to implement the rapidly changing
recovery program which proved invaluable.
As an institutional response, the Bank Board made a decision to provide the special
funding allocation ("New Spending Authority" ) of USD 30 million and establish
Special Financial Operations (SFO) in January 1998, to take responsibility over the
financial sector programs in crisis ridden countries. The decision to establish SFO
was controversial and created some tension with other units, particularly in the
East Asia region.
SFO was organized into country teams, each with a country program manager and
several full-time staff based both at headquarters and in the field. SFO was formed
around a small core group of Bank staff with experience in financial crisis
resolution and/or bank restructuring primarily from their careers prior to joining
the Bank. The team was further built up through the external recruitment of
specialists with substantial hands-on technical crisis management, bank
restructuring and asset management experience. For example, the Indonesia team
consisted of two bank restructuring experts, one banking sector expert and one
- 25 -



asset management specialist - none of whom had any task management experience
in Bank operations.
While the support provided by the SFO team to governments facing crisis,
Indonesia included, was highly experienced and can be argued to have contributed
to the speed and quality of restructuring efforts undertaken, this type of financial
crisis operation was clearly unsustainable within the Bank's organizational
structure and procedures. Subsequently, the New Spending Authority expired and
SFO, as a unit, has been integrated back to Bank's Financial Sector Vice
Presidency's Banking and Restructuring Operations unit.     Present ongoing
financial crisis operations, with the exception of Indonesia program, are currently
managed in the Regional Vice Presidencies by regional staff. It is anticipated that
the Indonesian program will be fully returned to the East Asia Region by the end of
FY02.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The project was conceived over a very short period of time in the early stages of a
severe financial crisis that threatened to collapse of the entire Indonesia's banking
system . Government officials had no experience in dealing with an erupting
financial crisis. Thus they could not fully participate in the preparation of this
operation. At the same time, the political situation was quickly deteriorating. The
government entered into a standby agreement with the Fund, and the Bank
program was an integral part of this arrangement. Hence, the government officials
expressed their commitment to the project despite being stretched beyond their
limits due to the mounting crisis and therefore not being fully engaged in the
preparation of the project.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The discussion of the govemment's implementation performance includes such factors as
macroeconomic policies, sector policies, government commitment, appointment of key managers,
execution of any Trust Funds, timely provision of adequate counterpart funds and government support to
or interference in operational decisions.
During the preparation of the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), it was
anticipated that the executing agencies under the project were to be Bank
Indonesia, the Ministry of Finance with the Secretary of the Monetary Board as the
main coordinating agency, and under whose authority the project management unit
was to be created. Instead, with the creation of IBRA in early 1998, the project
implementation was transferred to this newly established agency although
responsibilities remained split between MOF and IBRA.       This created a
coordination issue between the two agencies, particularly since IBRA was
inexperienced in Bank operations project management and requirements. The
crisis put an extraordinary burden on MOF, affecting its capacity to be effectively
engaged in the implementation of the project.     No formal contribution of
counterpart funds was recorded in the project accounts though it is obvious that,
after the initial regulatory and procedural challenges, the Government provided
- 26 -



sufficient budgetary funds for IBRA to use its own resources to engage consultant
services.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
IBRA was a newly created entity with initially no resources and with no experience
in managing Bank projects. The agency did not designate full time staff to support
the implementation of the BRAP, but rather chose to conduct BRAP
implementation activities in the context of management of its other, quite
substantial, outsourcing activities.  The lack of designated formal project
management unit and the repeated rotation of staff can be argued to have
hampered effective project management. IBRA, being a new organization, had no
staff resources available in the early stages this prompted the need to hire external
consultants to manage all aspects of the first phases of the project. Similarly, with
insufficient IBRA resources available in the early stages, the Bank staff and the
external consultants contributed disproportionately to the supervision of the work
of the technical assistance providers. Initial progress reports were not prepared but
became regular over time. Both the Bank's and IBRA's staff gained sufficient
experience over time and project implementation improved towards the end of the
project.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Throughout the operation the GOI faced an overwhelming task of dealing with the
largest financial sector crisis in the modern history while going through a period of
political turmoil and fundamental change. Under the very difficult circumstances,
the government has made some remarkable progress and important choices. It has
also, at times, made decisions that have, at best complicated, at worst undermined
the bank restructuring efforts.  All financial crisis resolution and related
restructuring efforts proceed in fits and starts; the Indonesian government is no
exception to that rule of thumb. The government had no experience in dealing with
the type of issues that typically arise in the context of a systemic financial sector
crisis. Simultaneously they were further challenged in dealing with the severe
social and the macroeconomic impact of the crisis. Hence, it is not surprising that
both the design of the loan and the technical supervision of the implementation of
BRAP may have disproportionately, compared to normal Bank operations, been
influenced by the Bank. Even other IFI staff provided direct technical assistance in
the context of the stand-by arrangement the BRAP was part of. One may debate
whether this is an appropriate role for the Bank and the IFI teams in the context of
a systemic financial sector crisis, but one has to also ask what is the alternative to
this type of technical assistance in a program when the government is largely
incapacitated due to the multitude and complexity of the challenges it faces, and
has no skill- and capacity-base to deal with the problems which can and often do
arise in such a situation.
8. Lessons Learned
Crisis Response and Instruments - Defining the Crisis in the Context of
- 27 -



the Banks Operations:
Overall, BRAP was instrumental in the design and implementation of essential
elements of financial sector reform, thus preventing the imminent collapse of the
banking system in Indonesia in 1998. The program provided the flexibility
required by the crisis and, having the facility available early in the crisis, gave the
Bank a "seat at the table" to assist and provide support to the GOI as they sought to
resolve the crisis.
* Currently the Bank's instruments are designed to support investment
operations and all projects are measured against the policies and procedures
established for these types of activities.  Provision of complex technical
assistance is difficult within the framework of policies and procedures that were
originally created for large investment operations, such as building a bridge or a
dam. And the issues encountered in a crisis related technical assistance project
are different from those encountered when dealing with the more traditional
long-tern sustainable economic development issues. This overly complicates the
provision of funding for technical assistance needs. The BRAP was designed to
be a flexible technical assistance facility due to the abrupt nature of the crisis
and the tremendous economic cost that would have resulted from delays of the
portfolio  reviews  and  other  technical  assistance  requiring  specific
crisis-expertise. Components were modified on an as-needed basis and resources
reallocated reflecting the recognition for need of flexibility in a crisis situation,
as was envisioned in the original project design. While the adaptability of the
BRAP to meet the imminent needs may have been warranted in the crisis
situation and the approach worked to the client's benefit, admittedly, the
circumstances were unusual for a Bank technical assistance lending project. For
crisis response lending flexible design and rapid or timely delivery are critical,
different options may be required with a different set of policies and procedures
(particularly with respect to procurement issues - see below)
* At the eruption of East Asian crisis the Bank was ill-equipped to anticipate and
deal with the crisis, and the SFO unit was created by the Board as a
fire-fighting team specialized in financial crisis management. While it can be
argued the high level of support provided by the experienced SFO team to the
governments facing crisis, Indonesia included, contributed to the speed and
quality of the restructuring efforts undertaken, this type of operation has proven
to be unsustainable within the Bank's organizational structure and procedures.
* At the time of loan preparation the Indonesian government had announced
closure of sixteen banks. Based on lessons from FSDP there was reason to
suspect that the banking system's problems were very pervasive. However, it
was difficult to anticipate how many more banks would need to be resolved,
requiring costly portfolio audits and restructuring programs . Given the GOI
budgetary process, which did not allow transfer of resources between line items
and had no contingencies that could have been utilized, it would have been
- 28 -



impossible to undertake the needed portfolio audits without external resources.
Further, as confidentiality is pertinent to the audits of the banks' portfolios, the
GOI needed to take full control over the process in order to safeguard the
information. Information derived through conduct of audits of individual banks
and their portfolios should always be treated as strictly confidential; in the
process the contracting auditor is obliged to do this through Bank's procurement
rules and their own professional code of conduct, and the Bank staff are guided
through the Staff Employment rules. Using grant funds instead of a lending
instrument could potentially have caused issues in reporting to the respective
donors on the use of funds. Hence, grant funding was not pursued. The
budgetary constraints eased when IBRA received its own budget and the GOI
began changing its budgetary process. IBRA received adequate funding and
activities that could not be undertaken under the auspices of the Bank loan were
eventually funded by IBRA's own resources. The Indonesian banking system
continued to be very fragile and, as financial crises often entail two or more
waves, the Bank team did not wish to initiate canceling the remaining loan
funds early on. Therefore, despite the increased GOI self-financing of activities,
it was deemed prudent to initiate early closure of BRAP in case a second wave of
the crisis were to evolve.
* While SFO brought a fully funded team of experienced hands-on professionals to
provide critical technical assistance to the government and key agencies at the
time of the crisis, it fell short in getting sufficiently integrated into the rest of
the Bank's organization and operations and in meeting the many of the Bank's
established procedural requirements. The Unit failed to attract staff with
operational experience (i.e. Task Managers) to supervise the lending projects
and, consequently, the operations sometimes fell short in following all Bank
procedures and requirements. The Task Manager of the project, as well as the
rest of the SFO Indonesia Team collectively, had no previous experience in
supervising Bank operations and had modest knowledge of internal Bank
procedures. The excess challenges in operations of this type suggest that an
experienced Task Manager should be assigned from the beginning or, if it is
necessary to use a new Task Manager, he/she should be provided with a ongoing
mentoring throughout the operation by staff more experienced in Bank
operations.
Procurement issues
There are only a handful of consultant, legal and auditing firms in the world
market that have the qualified resources to provide professional advice on complex
financial sector development issues and, in particular, in an acute systemic
financial crisis. Even under normal circumstances hiring these highly specialized
TA providers under loans or, for that matter, trust funds, subject to Bank's
procurement rules is very challenging. It is complicated by the very high cost of
these consultants compared to the Bank's daily reference rates, by down-stream
work restrictions and, in particular, by the interpretation of the Bank's 'conflict of
- 29 -



interest' rules on the global firms treating them as one global entity irrespective of
their corporate structure or partnership agreements. The Bank's conflict of interest
of rules further do not recognize any possibility for a 'Chinese wall' arrangement
within these global corporates.  Given the very limited number of qualified
providers available and the global nature of these firms, the clients therefore
quickly run out of alternative providers who are not conflicted out from the projects.
While the Bank's procurement rules and procedures are well established and suited
for investment lending processes, they are not conducive for procurement of this
type of highly qualified intellectual property. In financial crisis situation these
challenges are exacerbated due to the imminent need for massive amount of highly
specialized technical assistance. Although the Bank's technical assistance loans
(particularly when designed as flexible TA facilities) were indispensable for the
completion of essential portfolio reviews and provision of critical TA on asset
resolution structures in the three East Asian crisis countries the Bank was involved
in, procedurally all three TA loans faced insurmountable challenges and corners
may have occasionally been cut with regard to the spirit - albeit not the letter -- of
the Bank's procurement rules.
* The prevailing interpretation of the Bank rules on areas related to level of fees,
conflict of interest, confidentiality, and downstream work, lengthened the
procurement process and delayed the timely provision of assistance.
* Provision of technical assistance in a crisis situation must be flexible and timely.
The consultants are needed "yesterday" and there is no time for a lengthy
procurement process. This type of operations would require that different,
expedited procedures, with appropriate safeguards, be put in place to ensure
'just in time' delivery of critical assistance.
* Under Bank's present procurement rules, consultants are excluded from down
stream work other than such specifically provisioned for in the RFP. With the
specialized practice units of the big five accounting firms engaged in many of the
areas that require immediate assistance during the crisis, it has become difficult
to find consultants that are willing to undertake some assignments in
anticipation that the rules prohibiting any downstream work could prevent their
other practices or units from engaging in work in implementation related areas
later. Consequently, under Bank funding it is at the moment very difficult to
find qualified TA providers for establishment of national asset management
companies or for conducting portfolio reviews in troubled institutions - both
crucial undertakings in crisis resolution.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
(b) Cofinanciers.
- 30 -



(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector).
10. Additional Information
- 31 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome ( Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Reestablished capital adequacy and  12/98                               3/99
portfolio quality of private banks at
appropriate prudential and sustainable levels
1. - ->Clarifications to financially-troubled  12/98                       6/99
private banks on the proposed content of
rehabilitation plans and the Umetable for their
submission
1. ->Clear evaluation of rehabilitation plans  12/98                       3/99
with recommended decisions to Bank
Indonesia
1. ->Establishment of systems, processes,  12/98                           9/99
and structures in Bank Indonesia to monitor
implementation of rehabilitation plans
2. Slimmer, more efficient and financially  9/00                            07/01
sound state banks with appropriate capital
adequacy and portfolio quality and
substantially increased private ownership
-> Initiation of merger of problem banks
2. -> Completion of portfolio reviews
-> Completion of special financial audits
-> Completion of systems audits
2. -> Use of strategic tools to improve
efficiency and soundness of remaining state
banks, including mergers, privatzation, and
performance and/or regulatory contracts.
2. -> Completion, negotiaton,
implementation, and monitorng of contracts
2. -> Privatization of at least one state bank
by sale of 49 percent of the equity or more in
accordance with prevailing law and sale of a
at least 20 percent equity in at least one other
state bank;
3. Improved supervision capacity of BI
--> Supervision reports of banks at
intemational standards
4. Strengthened legal and institutional
environment and improved bankruptcy,
valuabon of collateral, and foreclosure
processes
4. -> Review of all laws and regulations
relating to the financial sector, including but
not restricted to the Central Bank Law, the
Commercial Bank Law, prudential
regulations, and other laws and regulations
related to banking operations
4. --> Draft amendments to legislation and
regulations to permit privatiation of state
banks beyond 50 percent
-> Review of how existing laws and
regulations are implemented
2. -> Recommendations on improvements in
the design and implementabon of laws and
regulations
-> Preparation of action plans for
implementation                        _
- 32 -



Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
- End of project
- 33 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ million   US$ million
Evaluation of rehabilitation plans for private banks  0.50
Implementation of state bank restructuring         13.00
Strengthening the examination, supervision, and regulatory  3.00
function of BI
Diagnostic review of the legal and institutional    0.50
infrastructure for financial sector development
Total Baseline Cost                                17.00           0.00
Physical Contingencies                             3.00
Total Project Costs            20.00           0.00
Total Financing Required            20.00           0.00
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB          NCB          Other2       N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)  _
2. Goods                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         17.50        0.00        17.50
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Equipment                    0.00         0.00         0.10         0.00        0.10
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Unallocated                  0.00         0.00         2.40         0.00        2.40
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                     0.00         0.00         20.00        0.00        20.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)  _
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB          NCB         Other
1. Works                     0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00        17.50        0.00        17.50
(0.00)       (0.00)      (10.91)       (0.00)     (10.91)
- 34 -



Equipment                        0.00          0.00           0.10          0.00          0.10
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Unallocated                      0.00           0.00          2.40          0.00          2.40
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.09)         (0.00)        (0.09)
Total                         0.00           0.00          20.00          0.00         20.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (11.00)        (0.00)       (11.00)
'Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
l                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Esrimate           Acmua/Latest Estimate
Bank      GoiI.     CoF.       Bank      Govt.     CoF.     Bank   Go%l.  CoF.
20.00      0.00      0.00      11.00                        55.0    0.0    0.0
0.00      0.50      0.00                 0.00               0.0    0.0    0.0
- 35 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable
- 36 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions.
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year     Count           Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
10/13/97                     2   Financial Sector Specialists
I    Economist
Appraisal/Negotiation
11/11/97                     2   Financial Sector Specialists
11/13/97                     1   Economist
Supervision
6/13/98                      6    Financial Sector Specialists
I   Legal specialist
ICR
September 2001
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                  4
Appraisal/Negotiation
Supervision
ICR
Total
- 37 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
El Macro policies                     O H OSUOM       O N   * NA
J Sector Policies                     O H *SUOM       O N   O NA
E Physical                            O H OSUOM       O N   * NA
O Financial                           O H OSUOM       O N   * NA
Z Institutional Development           0 H O SU *M     0 N   0 NA
El Environmental                      O H   OSUOM     O N   * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction             O H   OSUOM     O N   * NA
O Gender                        O H OSUOM       O N   * NA
D Other (Please specify)        O H OSUOM       O N   * NA
O Private sector development          0 H O SU * M    0 N   0 NA
O Public sector management            0 H O SU O M    0 N   * NA
CJ Other (Please specify)             O H   OSUOM     O N   * NA
- 38 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
Z Lending                                           OHS*S OU OHU
E Supervision                                       OHS OS       *U     OHU
Z Overall                                           OHS Os       * u    O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
* Preparation                                       OHS OS       * U    O HU
* Government implementation performance             O HS O S     0 U    0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                 O HS O s     0 U    0 HU
Z Overall                                           OHS Os       * u    O HU
- 39 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
ANNEX 7a.
* PROJECT STATUS REPORTS
06/29/98
06/30/99
12/29/99
04/26/00
06/26/00
01/04/01
* MAE REPORTS/BACK TO OFFICE REPORTS
02/98 -- present



ANNEX-7b.
* BORROWER'S EVALUATION REPORT
BPPN IBADANS PENYEKATlAN PERSANKAN-NASIONAL
BPPN     I~|THC INOONISIArm BANK RrsTRuCTUR1Hrp AGCFNCY tIBRAI
No.            PROG-1997/BPPN/0701                     Jakarta, July 18, 2001
Attachmenit    3 (threc) pages
To:
Mr. NMiguel Navarro-NMartla
Financial Sector Specialist
East Asia and Pacific Region
THE WORLD BANK
1818 H Street. NW
Washington, DC 20433, USA
Dear Miguel.
U1anking Iteform Assistance Project (BRAp)
llBRI) Loan No. 4255-IND:
FEvaluat?ion Renort
As tollow-up to our meceiing in carly June 2001 regarding the completio  ofl art
Implementation Completion Rcport (ICR'). please kindly find attached IBRA's perspective to
enable you cstablish the Evaluation Rleport on the above Loan. If you still have any queries
pleasc do not hesitate to contact me at your convenience.
T hank you for your kind atlention.
Widi kind regards.
Yours sincerely,
I,(
vice Chairman
Cc:
Mr. Chanidra Pu:nama. Deputy Chairman, [BRA
Mr. Harry A.S. Sukadis. Plroject Man;aner
Msr. Mvlichael Edwards. Principal Financial Advisor. World Bank
Ms. Paula Perttunen. Adisor. World Bank



EvALUATnON REPORT ON\
B.ANKING REFORM AssisrTNCE PROJECr
IBRD LoAN No. 4255.IND
'lle Ba;nking Reform Assistance Project (BRAP) Loan in the amouint of UlS 23
million was designed to assist Governrment of Indonesia in nuintaining rmcroecoriort.c
stability and strengthening its financial sector through implementation of banking sector
reforms.
It was one element in larger package of external fin3ncial assistance to kelp tie
Government implemrent a comprehiensive policy package comprising three parts: fisSt a
strong macroeconornic framework designed to achieve an orderly adjutstment to tie
suilstanltial depreciation in the exxhange rate; second, a strategy to reform the financi.l
sector wirh special emphasis on the banking system; and third, a broad range of snLictural
mleasures to sharpen competitiveness and inmrove govemance.
Uicke round
In Ilte 1997, Indonesia was confronted with the worst economic crisis in living
ineioxry. The steep depreciation of the rupiah triggered a loss of confidence n rlie banking
sYstenL Massive deposit withdrawals and capital flight by panicked investor in the face of a
currency in free fall had a devastating effcct on bank liquidity and, evenually; solvency.
Bank indonesia had extended lage amnounts of liquidity support (AInist 23
percent of GDI') to keep banks from default and the payment system functioning. WilUe
bank restructuring would take tisne to implement, depositor and creditor coinfidelce lhid
to be secured inimediatei; tierefore the blanket guarantee of third party depositors and
creditor 'v-as introduced injJanuary 1998. Even then, liquidlitysupport was further exnenided
during periods le.tding imto successive bank closures and at time of bank-specific
instabilin; as well as for the payment of extmal arrears.
The problem was there even before the currency crisis. TIhere were senrous
concerms from several bank reporTs about the efficiency and soundness of Indonesia's
financial sector, the financial condition of the banks, and the sector's vulnerability to Lirge
rmacroeconormic disturbances. Weak supervision of the banking systenm. rapid growdt in
loan portfolios, liberal intra-group lending practices, political interference in lending
decision, excessive exposure to the property sector, and large and rising non-performiig
assets as a shaire of the total portfolio-all made tde bankingt sstem vulnerable tt) exterri.al
shocks.
Tle funds provided tuwier BRAP loan, will support implenentation of the
Govremment's financial sector reform program as discussed wvith the IMF and the Bank.
1'he objectives of the reform program - to improve the structure, mrsiience, soutndness,
and efficiency of the banking system - will require the best possible expertise available. The
Project will help moblize that expertise and apply it in the most judicious and effective
tianner, supplementing and complementing the capacities of the Central Bank and thie
Ministry of Finance.



Measures Supported b_v te Loa
Specificany, the measures uken under the BRAP Loan focused on the fotlowing
outcomes:
I  Reestablished capiral adequacy and portfolio quality of prvate banks at
appropriate prudential and sustainable level;
2. Slimmer, more efficient and financially sound state banks with appropriate
capital adequacy and portfolio quality and substantially increased private
ownership;
3. Improved supervision capacity of Bl;
4. Strengthened legal and institutional environment and improved bankruptcy,
atnd valuation of coUateral, and foreclosure processes.
S.cvr S  pcw x OiU,W
When first initialy designed, the executing agencies under the project would be lI
and MfOF with the Secretariat of the Monietary Board as the rrnin coordination agency.
Tnhe Secretariit of the Monetary Board would then establish a Project NLIIagetment Unit
(PMU) headed by a Project Coordinator that would be responsible for day-to-day
nutiagermtt of the project, enage local and intermatiotnal consultants, and procure
equipment. Meanwhie, a Project lvnager with the Directorate General of Financial
Institution in the MOF would be responsible for aunaging the finances the project
Actually; there were some significant changes when Project first conmiznced in
early 1998 rcgardcig (1) the role of the iinetary board; (2) focus of assisuance on [BRA;
(3) expanded focis from 7 state banks to 54 IBRA banks; (4) individual banki a- bilitarion
reviewvs versus sNstemnic bank restructuring. (5) need to establish AMU; and (6) thc nieed
for intervention assistance.
All of these changes lead to sone naior adjustments in Priect siti regard tu
executing agency, Project Management Unit (EPML, and project's implementation.
Execuring agency vas redircted to IBRA, and PMU was headed by Project Manager
which was appointed directly by Minister of Fmnance from IBRA itself. Evei thien,
project's implementation was focused on IBRA.
BRAP Loan was designed to assist govemnment to (1) evaluate the rehabilitation
plans of financially uroubled private banks; (2) impleime  a prognm to restructume the
state banks with the eventual ain of prvatizing tkem  (3) strengthen die exarrinaion,
supervision and regulatory functior. of BI; and (4) conduct a diagnostic review of legal aud
institutional infrastructure for financial sector development



Sinice there was an adjustment in the beginning on executing agency from Bl and
MOF to IBRA, not all of project's objectives, especially point (3), were appropriate for
IBRA. However, IBRA kept focused on related project's objective such as on technikal
assistance on IBRA., risk classification and pre diagnostic training, coordination and
diagnostic plainning, banks due diligence, and legal counsel service.
L vitaiern
When Proiect first commenced, IBRA with only 20 staffs did not have enough
hunan resoures to deal w'ith the bankdng refonn program. With egaid to this kirkation,
the Bank should first prioritize on strengthening IBRA as rhe executing agency, rather than
stressing on auditing tlhe Private and State Banks.
Other obstacle was that the Project Manager and ream (PMI. could rot considier
their job as a full time job and fully dedicared themselves in the Project, since they were
also registered as IBRA's employees Jnd had other responsibiliies within lB RA
organization. There was also a lack of knowledge among PMU staff regarding Bank's and
govemnmenit's procedumes. On the other hand, there was not quite enough directions a.nd
assistance from MfOF and Bank rmgaiing die Project.
Goacluioz
Notwithstanding the remarks nude above, the BRAP Loan was a good beginning
of the current pliase of Indonesia-World Bank partnership. liTe authorities are
appreciative of the hArd work that has gone into banking reform progranL 'Te lenefits
can be seent clearly in the outcomes related to IBRA which is the completion of B. nlks'
restructuring (merger) and Banks recapiLalization.



ANNEX 7c.
* BORROWER'S COMMENTS ON ICR
B PPN X I              YTPERBN                NAL
BPPNIM, | THC INOOP4w,MBkNNBWFt NIU  _nit~ AMwCY (811
OurRef       : PROG-2837/1BPPN/Il t               Jkanta, 14 November2001
AttacGiemnent : 2 (tvo) pages
'Io:
Air. iMichael Edwards
T"ask Team Leader BRAP
IS 18 l'ower 120 Floor
JI. Jend. Sudirman Kav 52-53
lakarta 12190
Dear Msir. Edwards,
Re    : Opinion on the Implementation Cwnpktioa Report of Loan 425-!;ND
As per your request please fid attach our opinion on the impleuntation Completion
Report of Loan 425-4ND. We thank you for your atltion and cooperation.
Sinmcrely,
TIIE LNDONIL4AN DhNK RESTRUCTRING ACENCY
Suniaatri Slamet I.S.
Vic Chainuan
WSmta OwiwinAau L.h, LaM 15
A JeOc. $Lfrmw Ka. 4S4, Jokafh 1290
ra (62-2    N 57?277t?. n 5r1=U Fv (Uo J V? 2545
hGAW-bppn gold



Page 1- Princinl1e Perfornunce Raliocs:
ilorrower Perrormance: Unsatistactoaj
&I
Page 26 - 27 - Borrover Performance
In page 26 - 27, it is described that although in the prepamtion and imnplementation stages of this
loan there cre some deficiencies due to unqualified human resources at the Borrowcrs side,
improvements continue to take place till the end of the project. It would be better if the cause of
the borrnwer's "ltiasatisfiiciory" performance is described.
Pace 15 - Operational & Govermance Review and Reform Proramt (O _RRPI
Last line:
"Thte humnian resonrces development sub-conipoent of the OGRRP tlnt vas delivered bY a
stib-contracting consultant was funded through the BRAP".
It seems that this paragraph is refemng to IBRA's engagement witl Hewitt Consultant "Hunman
Resources Consulancy for IBRA (HR for IBRA)". In .relation to the engpgement, there are
several things that are not accurately describe in the sentences:
*   For IMRA, HR is not part of OGRRP. HR for IBRA has been started long titme before the
initiation of OGRRP. In fact, at the time OGRRP was prepared, the realization offteIC
engagenient was almost finisbed.
*  HR for IBRA, lke any other engagements, was resulted from a procurement process that is in
accordance with World Bank standard. Therefore, it woold be more precise if HR for IBRA is
discussed separately.
Pane 15 - Forensic and Asset Tracing (PORSAT). In the middle of the Daranran
The comuonent was terminated after the openletlon of a draft TOR when the government
and the director of thS FORSAT in ThRA declded to transfer this function to the Attornev
General Office......
ansi
Pace 24 - 7.2 Supervision
Secand gnracraph. the-last sentence
Unfortunatclv .      ..... -and the Foremsic Investifations (due to the chance in
Institutional arrancements and the scone of the functlon'
As far as we know, t chronology of FORSAT pcocwamt is as follow;
IBRA proposed NOL on FORSArs TOR. For more ftan 2 months, the proposal was not
responded by the World Bank. 'Then, IBRA received some infonnation orally fiom the World
Bank, explining that FORSAT procurement was considered to be a high risk activity by Legal
Division of the World Bank. Thereforc, IBRA started to develop FORSAT's standard opratiuig
procedures intcrnally and followed scvWral training and courscs abroad, Finally, IBRA stated to
cancel the procuremcnt for FORSAT.
Page 21 - top paragraph. bAst sentence:
"Still. lareeiv due to the freguent rotgdon, the staff overall lacked the caXaZdtv to monitor
and evaluate the results of the procarempet uroceaSes Ind assess the results of the work
Dperformed"



We propose to cancel this scltence since as far we knew, the result of the work performed by
ccnsultatit was always deeply reviewed by the assigned PIC. If there were delays in the review, it
would be because there were many ADDP that shou!d be done at the same time.



