Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17165-IND
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
BANKING REFORM ASSISTANCE PROJECT
November 20, 1997
Indonesia Country Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Rupiah
1 Rupiah = US$0.000303
US$1 = 3300
FISCAL YEAR: April 1 to March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB            Asian Development Bank
BI             Bank Indonesia
BRAP           Banking Reform Assistance Project
GOI            Government of Indonesia
3BRD           International Bank for the Reconstruction and
Development
IMF            International Monetary Fund
MOF            Ministry of Finance
SAL            Structural Adjustment Loan
SOE            Statement of Expenditures
TOR            Terms of Reference
WB             World Bank
Vice President:    Mr. Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:   Mr. Dennis de Tray
Sector Director:   Mr. Jonathan Fiechter
Task Team Leader:  Mr. Vikram Nehru



Indonesia: Banking Reform Assistance Project
Contents
Page
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective ......................................................2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project ..............................................2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ......................................................2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .....................4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components ......................................................5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ...........................6
3. Benefits and target population ......................................................6
4. Institutional and implementation  arrangements ..................................................6
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ...................................8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development
agencies ......................................................9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design ..................................9
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .........................................9
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ..................................................... 10
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic .....................................................                                                 10
2. Financial .....................................................                                                10
3. Technical .....................................................                                                 10
4. Institutional .....................................................                                             10
5. Social .....................................................                                                   11
6. Environmental assessment .....................................................                                  11
7. Participatory approach .....................................................                                    11



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability ......................                                     11
2. Critical risks ......................                                     12
3. Possible controversial aspects ......................                     12
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions ......................                           13
2. Other ......................                                              13
H. Readiness for Implementation ...........................                         13
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ...........................                        13
Annexes
Annex 1.      Financial sector reform and the three multilateral institutions:
respective areas of emphasis for provision of technical assistance .  14
Annex 2.  Project design summary .16
Annex 3.  Detailed project description .18
Annex 4.  Estimated project costs .22
Annex 5.  Cost-benefit analysis summary .23
Annex 6.  Financial summary .24
Annex 7.      Procurement and disbursement arrangements
Table a.      Project costs by procurement arrangements .25
Table b.      Thresholds for procurement methods and prior review .26
Table c.   Allocation of loan proceeds .27
Annex 8.      Project processing budget and schedule .28
Annex 9.  Documents in project file .29
Annex 10.    Status of Bank group operations in Indonesia .30
Annex 11. Indonesia at a glance .31



East Asia and Pacific Region
Indonesia: Banking Reform Assistance Project
Project Appraisal Document
Date: November 20, 1997                            Task Team Leader: Vikram Nehru
Country Director: Mr. Dennis de Tray               Sector Director: Jonathan Fiechter
Project ID: 17165-IND   Sector: Financial Sector   Program Objective Category: Financial Sector
Management                                            Management
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan      Program of Targeted        [I Yes [XI No
Intervention:
Project Financing Data         [xI       Loan  [I   Credit  [ I   Guarantee  [] Other
[Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: US$20 million
Proposed terms:                   [I        Multi-currency  [x] Single currency
Grace period (years):   3 years   [xI       Standard       [x] Fixed         [I LIBOR-based
Variable
Years to maturity:   15
Commitment fee:      0.75  %
Financing plan: US$ 20.5 million
Source                                           Local            Foreign         Total
Government                                         0.5             0.0             0.5
IBRD                                               0.0            20.0            20.0
Total                                              0.5            20.0            20.5
Borrower: Republic of Indonesia
Responsible agency: Secretariat of the Monetary Board
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYlUS$m):   1998    1999
Annual                                  10.0     10.0
Cumulative                              10.0     20.0
Project implementation period: December 4, 1997 to March 31, 2000
Expected effectiveness date: December 4, 1997          Expected closing date: September 30, 2000



2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective (see Annex 2for key performance indicators):
The project is designed to assist the Indonesian Government in improving the structure,
resilience, soundness, and efficiency of the banking system. It is one element in a larger package
of external financial assistance to help the Government implement a comprehensive policy
package comprising three parts: first a strong macroeconomic framework designed to achieve an
orderly adjustment to the substantial depreciation in the exchange rate; second, a strategy to
reform the financial sector with special emphasis on the banking system; and third, a broad range
of structural measures to sharpen competitiveness and improve governance. Together with
forthcoming loans and grants from other bilateral and multilateral sources, the proposed technical
assistance project is designed to complement the 36 month stand-by arrangement approved by the
IMF on November 5, 1997. The project is the initial component of the Bank's contribution to
this effort which proposes an expanded lending program centered on two parallel adjustment
loans, the first of which would focus on the financial sector, and the second on broader structural
measures designed to sharpen the competitiveness of the Indonesian economy.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project:
CAS Report Number. 16691-IND Date of latest CAS discussion: July 10, 1997
The last CAS prepared for Indonesia was discussed by the Board on July 10, 1997. The CAS
identified the financial sector as a new focal area for Bank Group operations, arguing that a
strong financial sector was essential to increasing economic efficiency and maintaining
macroeconomic stability. The focus on financial sector issues stemmed from a concern about the
misallocation of financial resources, weaknesses in the portfolios of several banks, and the
banking system's ability to withstand large negative shocks to the economy.' Nevertheless, the
CAS did not foresee the currency crisis that has gripped the Indonesian economy over the past
three months and the immediate and profound implications it holds for the financial sector and
for the future growth of the economy. This has forced a reassessment of the Bank's assistance
strategy, especially in light of the need for technical assistance in the financial sector as well as
immediate, fast-disbursing adjustment lending to support financial sector and structural reforms.
The proposed project is an integral part of this revised strategy which itself is part of a broader
package of assistance that includes the IMF and the Asian Development Bank.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The main sector issue is the need to improve the structure, resilience, soundness, and efficiency
of the banking system, and thus to help Indonesia resume rapid, sustainable growth as quickly as
possible. This requires: (i) strengthening the financial sector, especially through the resolution of
closed banks; (ii) intensive supervision of state and private banks with doubtful portfolio quality;
(iii) improved efficiency in the operations of state banks through systemic and structural changes
with the eventual goal of privatization; (iv) strengthened capacity in the Central Bank to design
and implement prudential regulations and provide supervisory oversight; and (v) the
establishment of a regulatory and legal environment supportive of a modern, efficient, and secure
banking system.
World Bank. 1997a. Indonesia Country Assistance Strategy, Report No. 16691-IND, Page 12, para. 40,
line 6.



3
Well before the currency crisis, several Bank reports had raised serious concerns about the
efficiency and soundness of Indonesia's financial sector, the financial condition of the banks, and
2
the sector's vulnerability to large macroeconomic disturbances.   Weak supervision of the
banking system, rapid growth in loan portfolios, liberal intra-group lending practices, political
interference in lending decisions, excessive exposure to the property sector, and large and rising
non-performing assets as a share of the total portfolio-all made the banking system particularly
vulnerable to external shocks.
Financially troubled private banks. The Government has since taken several bold measures to
remedy the problem. At the outset of the financial reform program announced on November 1,
1997, Bank Indonesia closed 16 insolvent private banks. Caretaker managements were installed
which will be replaced by liquidation teams. Within two weeks of their closure, the banks were
compensating small depositors with deposits of less than Rp. 20 million and liquiAtion
proceedings were being initiated.
Other private banks with weak portfolios and insufficient capital adequacy levels are being
required to present rehabilitation plans describing their approach to achieve full capital adequacy,
changes in ownership structure, management, board of directors, and introduction of appropriate
provisioning systems. These plans would be subjected to intensive oversight and monitoring by
Bank Indonesia staff. Since the portfolios of banks are likely to worsen as the currency crisis
affects the financial position of their borrowers, Bank Indonesia will be required to conduct a
program of heightened supervision of the remaining banks that would emphasize implementation
of a new loan classification system, more stringent provisioning requirements, intensive efforts to
collect bad debts, and new internal systems for risk management, credit appraisal, and portfolio
diversification.
State-owned banks. Among Indonesia's seven state banks, the Government will initiate a
restructuring program with the eventual aim of selling at least 49 percent of the equity to the
private sector or more in accordance with prevailing law. The program will require that all state
banks conduct portfolio and systems reviews as well as special financial audits. Those with large
amounts of bad loans will be required to merge and the resulting financial institution will focus
exclusively on the collection of bad debts; "good" debts of these institutions will be sold to other
financial institutions for normal processing.   Arrangements will also be made to meet the
liabilities of these merged banks through a process of bad debt collection, downsizing, sale of
fixed assets, and compensation for the transfer of good loans to other financial institutions. As
for other state banks, the infonnation contained in the portfolio and systems reviews and special
financial audits will provide the basis for action plans to make them more efficient, improve their
capital adequacy, and strengthen their credit appraisal, risk management, and provisioning
processes. These plans would use a combination of three strategic tools: regulatory and/or
performance contracts between the banks' management and the Ministry of Finance,3 mergers
between banks, and sale of at least 49 percent of the shares to the private sector or more in
accordance with prevailing law.
2      See World Bank. 1997b. Indonesia: Sustaining High Growth with Equity, Report No. 16433-IND, Page
126, par. 5.44; World Bank. 1996. Dimensions of Growth, Report No. 15383-IND; and World Bank.
1995. Indonesia: Improving Efficiency and Equity. Changes in the Public Sector's Role, Report No.
14006-IND,
3      Performance contracts between the Ministry of Finance and a state bank will be used when the bank in
question is essentially solvent, sound, and in compliance with Bank Indonesia's prudential standards. A
regulatory contract, on the other hand, will be imposed by Bank Indonesia on the bank in question when the
bank is determined to be insolvent or seriously undercapitalized, or in violation of other prudential
requirements.



4
Bank Indonesia. To strengthen supervision and examination capabilities, the project will
finance international experts to assist Bank Indonesia on improving enforcement of loan
classification, provisioning rules, liquidity management and foreign exchange positions control.
Bank Indonesia will also need new skill-sets and enhanced enforcement capabilities to prepare
and implement regulatory contracts with state banks, which will be required if the financial or
systems reviews detect major deficiencies. To this end, the project will finance full-time
technical experts experienced in drafting, implementing and monitoring "cease and desist" orders
and other rehabilitation programs usually imposed by regulatory contracts.  Finally, the
organizational structure of Bank Indonesia will be reviewed and recommendations made on how
to improve the quality and effectiveness of its supervision and examination of state and private
banks.
Policy, regulatory and legal environment.  Finally, the policy, regulatory, and legal
environment for banking will be strengthened with the intention of incorporating international
best practice. Likely areas of focus would include bankruptcy, banking disclosure, taking and
realizing collateral security interests, company law implementation including shareholder rights
and governance, and laws and regulations on financial instruments, fair banking practices, and
insurance. Laws and regulations covering foreign ownership will be similarly assessed with the
intention of facilitating entry of international banks and investors into Indonesia. Prudential
regulations and enforcement procedures will be strengthened in line with the Basle Committee's
Core Principles of banking supervision. Cross ownership will be limited and the Central Bank's
shareholdings in private banks will be divested. Loan loss provisions are to become fully tax
deductible and Bank Indonesia supervision will be overhauled to effectively implement risk-
based oversight of the banking system.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project will support implementation of the Government's financial sector reform program as
discussed with the IMF and the Bank and supported by the IMF's three-year Stand-By
Arrangement and the Bank's proposed financial sector adjustment loan. The objectives of the
reform program-to improve the structure, resilience, soundness, and efficiency of the banking
system-will require a broad-based and technically demanding agenda of actions and enactments
that will require the best possible expertise available. The project will help mobilize that
expertise and apply it in the most judicious and effective manner, supplementing and
complementing the capacities of the Central Bank and the Ministry of Finance.
Given the comprehensive and wide-ranging reforms planned for the banking sector, the World
Bank, International Monetary Fund, and Asian Development Bank will share responsibility for
providing the Indonesian Government with technical assistance. The respective responsibilities
of the three institutions is given in Annex 1 and is based on an understanding reached between
the three agencies and the Government during a joint financial sector technical assistance mission
under the leadership of the Fund.
On the basis of this arrangement, the Bank's proposed Banking Reform Assistance Project will
focus on providing assistance in four areas: (i) restoring the financial health of undercapitalized
private banks through better credit practices, stringent supervision, improved loan classification
systems and loan provisioning, greater accounts transparency, better client information,
appropriate portfolio diversification, and changed management; (ii) preparing state banks for
eventual privatization by developing a good information database on their finances, systems, and
asset portfolio, changing their management, improving incentives and capacity to recover past
due loans, ensuring that banks are protected from undue outside influence in making r-edit
decisions or collecting loans, and improving their information disclosure; (iii) increasing the
institutional capacity of Bank Indonesia by strengthening its examination capabilities, its capacity



5
to initiate and monitor regulatory contracts, and its overall organization structure; and (iv)
conducting a review of laws and institutions in the financial sector with the aim of implementing
the necessary legislative, regulatory, and institutional changes to facilitate banking reforms.
At the same time, the International Monetary Fund will provide help with the resolution process
in private banks and assist in strengthening Bank Indonesia's institutional capacity, while the
Asian Development Bank will assist in the evaluation and implementation of private bank
rehabilitation plans, restructuring regional development banks, and in the infrastructure
development for the capital market, including institutional investors such as insurance companies
and pension funds.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 3 for a detailed description and Annex 4 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component               Cateworv          Cost    % of    Bank-         % of
(US$m)   total   (nancingJ      Bank-
__________________                       _____    ~~~~~~~(US$m)  financing
Portfolio, financial and Technical assistance   10.0    48.8%      10.0        100%
systems audits
Evaluation           of Technical assistance     0.5     2.4%       0.5        100%
rehabilitation plans
State  banks  financial Technical assistance     3.0    14.6%       3.0        100%
restructuring
Bank          Indonesia Technical assistance     3.0    14.6%       3.0        100%
supervision
Diagnostic review of the Technical assistance    0.5     2.4%       0.5        100%
legal environment
Equipment               Physical                 0.1      0.5%      0.1        100%
Project management unit  Technical assistance    0.5      2.4%      0.5        100%
Contingencies                                    2.9    14.1%       2.4        82.8%
Total                                           20.5    100%       20.0       97.6%
NOTE: Rounding affects totals



6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Given the urgent need to provide assistance in the implementation of banking system reforms,
this project would focus only on the two high priority areas of policy reform and institution
building. Specifically, policy reforms assisted by the project will include: (i) evaluation of the
rehabilitation plans of financially troubled private banks and installment of systems to assist in
their implementation and monitoring; (ii) evaluation of state banks' portfolios by internationally
recognized audit firms to provide a benchmark of portfolio quality and to identify emerging
problems; (iii) preparation and implementation of plans to merge insolvent state banks (into a
single institution which would focus its efforts on debt recovery) and transfer their good assets to
other financial institutions; (iv) implementation of special financial audits for all state banks by
internationally recognized auditors; (v) preparation and implementation of plans to prepare other
state banks for privatization; (vi) the review and revision of laws and institutions in the financial
sector that could help ease the implementation of banking reforms and a study of the desirability
and feasibility of a system of deposit insurance suitable to Indonesia's institutional environment;
and (vii) improvements in information disclosure of the financial situation of state banks that
would underpin market valuation of their equity.
Institution building will focus on strengthening Bank Indonesia, including its overall
organizational structure and its capacity to (i) evaluate and monitor rehabilitation plans; (ii)
reorganize, restructure, and downsize state banks in preparation for their eventual privatization;
(iii) carry out on-site and off-site bank examinations; and (iv) initiate and then monitor regulatory
contracts imposing requirements and prohibitions on problem institutions.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project is aimed at reducing the fiscal costs of the banking system restructuring program
through design of policies and institutional arrangements to accelerate the restructuring of state
and private banks and limit the extent of contagion to the rest of the banking system. The
benefits will include much stronger state banks, an accelerated program for their privatization,
improved market discipline, and more effective procedures for corporate bankruptcy and
foreclosure on collateral. Finally, the project supports development of policies that will place the
financial system on a sounder footing, bring more transparency to the financial system, increase
confidence, and gradually facilitate the smooth flow of credit to the real sectors of the economy.
In a narrow sense, the target population includes depositors and borrowers. With successful
banking system reforms, they could look forward to dealing with safer banks, a broader variety of
financial products to meet their growing financial needs, and higher returns on their savings. In a
broader sense, however, the target population includes all Indonesians; an efficient and stable
banking system is central to broad-based economic growth and development.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The implementation period of the loan would cover approximately two years, to complement the
proposed banking system adjustment loan (expected to be presented to the Board in January
1998). The executing agencies under the project would be Bank Indonesia (Bi) and the Ministry
of Finance with the Secretariat of the Monetary Board as the main coordination agency. Other
agencies, including the Ministry of Justice, and the Office of the Coordinating Minister for
Finance, Economy, and Development Supervision, would be called upon as necessary to provide
counterparts to consultants and cooperate in some of the activities of the project. The Secretariat
of the Monetary Board would establish a project management unit headed by a Project
Coordinator that would be responsible for the day-to-day management of the project, engage
local and international consultants, and procure equipment. The Project Coordinator would be a



7
qualified senior manager with experience in financial and banking matters and drawn from the
corporate sector. The Secretariat of the Monetary Board, consisting of representatives from MOF,
BI, and Office of the Coordinating Ministry of Economics, Finance and Development
Supervision, would convene regularly to monitor progress in project implementation. A Project
Manager with the Directorate General of Financial Institutions in the Ministry of Finance would
be responsible for managing the finances of the project. On the Bank's side, supervision would
be carried out by the Economics Unit under the Country Director based in Jakarta in coordination
with specialized staff in units at headquarters. Coordination of technical assistance provided by
the Bank, IMF, the Asian Development Bank, and bilateral donors will be coordinated through a
special coordinating committee convened for that purpose (with the Bank's initiative) in Jakarta.
Prior review would be required for all contracts for: (i) consulting firms above US$100,000
equivalent; (ii) all individual consultants above US$50,000 equivalent, and (iii) the first two
contracts for goods. Contracts below these limits would be subject to ex-post reviews during
supervision.
Disbursements based on Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) would be used for all contracts for (i)
consulting firms below US$100,000 equivalent; (ii) all individual consultants below US$50,000
and (iii) all goods. Supporting documentation for these SOEs would be maintained by the Project
Management Unit for review by the Bank and independent auditors. Contracts above these limits
would be fully documented. Retroactive financing of up to US$1,000,000 for expenditures after
November 13, 1997 will be permitted.
In order to facilitate disbursements, the GOI would establish a Special Account at Bank
Indonesia on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The authorized allocation of the
special account of US$3,750,000, representing approximately four months expenditures, would
be limited to US$1,750,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals reaches US$7,000,000.
Project records and accounts would be maintained by the Project Manager to reflect the
operations, resources and expenditures for each project activity, in accordance with sound
accounting practices. The accounts will be consolidated annually into financial statements for
the project as a whole. Appropriate project accounting and reporting systems and procedures
would be put in place as part of project preparation and the relevant implementing agency's
control environment would be reviewed by the Bank. Supporting documentation will be made
available to the Bank's Country Management Unit and independent auditors as requested. For
expenditures incurred on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), all records providing
evidence for such expenditures will be retained by the project management unit until at least one
year after the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account is made, whichever is later.
Project records and accounts, including the Special Account and SOEs, will be audited annually
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles that are consistently applied by auditors
acceptable to the Bank, with terms of reference for auditors and reports approved by the Bank.
The Bank's Financial Accounting, Reporting, and Auditing Handbook (FARAH) published in
January 1995 would be used by the auditors in accordance with Bank's auditing guidelines.
Audit reports will be furnished to the Bank within six months after the close of the Government's
fiscal year.
Monitoring of project execution will be undertaken by the Secretariat of the Monetary Board
which, together with the Project Coordinator, will provide the Bank, for its review and approval,
an annual working plan not later than December 31 of each year, starting 1997. Quarterly
progress reviews of the project will be presented to the Bank by the Secretariat of the Monetary
Board not later than February 15, May 15, August 15 and November 15 of each year, starting in
1998. A mid-term review will be conducted jointly by the Secretariat of the Monetary Board and



8
the Bank by March 1999 to assess progress in meeting agreed performance indicators and to
identify additional implementation support as needed.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
A large part of the crisis of confidence in Indonesia's currency stems from concerns about the
stability and financial health of the banking system and its implications for the Government's
fiscal position. Launching much-delayed reforms in the banking system has therefore been
accorded the highest priority by the Government. Even before the crisis, the reform agenda
would have been complicated and technically demanding, requiring the adoption of best practice
methods from other parts of the world. Implementing such reforms in the midst of a crisis makes
the reforms all the more difficult and complicated. It is in this context that the multilateral
institutions are providing the Indonesian Government with technical assistance. The rationale for
the project is therefore to: (i) assist the Indonesian Government in designing and implementing
action plans in the financial sector that incorporate international experience in phasing and
sequencing and take account of the fresh difficulties posed by the currency crisis; and (ii)
efficiently and judiciously bring to bear skills and expertise from around the world that can
supplement and complement the already considerable skills available within Bank Indonesia and
relevant Government ministries.
This technical assistance project is unusual because it precedes a proposed financial sector
adjustment loan which it is meant to accompany. The rationale for this sequencing is to provide
immediate technical assistance in the difficult first stages of the reform program, gauge the
Government's determination and ability to implement difficult measures, and only then provide
large amounts of financing through an adjustment package when both the scale of the problem
and the degree of Government's determination become clear.  Furthermore, the Bank's
involvement through this technical assistance project would put it in a good position to help
Indonesia design a more detailed banking system reform program within the parameters laid out
in the Government's letter of intent to the IMF.
The option of preparing a financial sector adjustment loan before or in conjunction with a
technical assistance loan was rejected for two reasons. First, it would not have responded to the
client's request for immediate assistance to launch banking reforms and press ahead with bank
restructuring. And second, it would have placed the Bank in the risky position of committing
itself to supporting a reform program without first confirming the Government's determination
and capacity in implementing it.



9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned):
Financing Agency    Sector issue                           Project
IBRD                  Banking system             Financial Sector Development
Project
Banking System Adjustment Loan
Poverty alleviation       Kecamatan Development Fund
Project
Structural adjustment     Structural Adjustment Loan(s)
IMF                   Macroeconomic stabilization  Standby Arrangement
ADB                   Financial system           Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
Key bilaterals        Banking system             Technical Assistance
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design:
The Bank's experience in implementing operations in Indonesia's financial sector has been less
than satisfactory. The last project in the sector-the Financial Sector Development Project-was
canceled at the Government's request before the entire loan was disbursed. The Government and
the Bank agreed that it was not the appropriate vehicle for reforming the operations of the state
banks. In particular, the project did not place sufficient emphasis on improving corporate
governance and on developing an accurate assessment of the quality of the banks' loan portfolio.
The two most important lessons learned were: (i) it is of critical importance that the executing
agency has the authority to implement difficult, often painful, reforms in the Central Bank and
the state and private banks; and (ii) portfolio and system reviews and special financial audits,
which provide the information on which subsequent financial restructuring decisions are based,
have to be of the highest quality and beyond doubt. These lessons have been incorporated in the
design of the project. The executing agency is now the Secretariat of the Monetary Board, the
institution responsible for coordinating financial sector reforms in Indonesia. Second, the
portfolio and systems reviews and special financial audits will be carried out by internationally
recognized consulting firms with high reputation, and the Secretariat of the Monetary Board will
ensure that they gain access to the information they need.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Indonesia Government at the highest levels has urged the Bank to initiate the proposed
project within a very short time frame. The Government has a strong commitment to the existing
IMF program which is supported by the objectives of this loan. There is a clear recognition on
the part of the Government that prompt action through reforms in the banking system is required
to limit the adverse impact of the currency crisis and return Indonesia to a sustainable growth
path. Evidence of Government commitment can be seen in recent actions to close banks and
implement the first agreed steps of a banking system reform program. In addition, the
Government has already designated the Secretariat of the Monetary Board as the agency
responsible for coordinating financial sector reforms and for coordinating the activities of
bilateral and multilateral institutions offering assistance.



10
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank can add value by (i) making a contribution to the restoration of international
confidence in the Government's economic policies and in its program to support banking reforms
and restructuring; (ii) drawing on its wide international experience in design of financial sector
reforms and in assisting in strategies for resolution of troubled financial institutions; (iii) drawing
on its experience in combining macrostabilization and structural adjustment programs; and (iv)
assisting in the identification of international consultants with specialized expertise in the
appropriate project component areas.
E: Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic:
Not Applicable
2. Financial:
The project is expected to augment the Indonesian Government's efforts to (i) achieve
stabilization of the economy; (ii) strengthen governance of the financial sector; (iii) resolve the
problem of insolvent and financially troubled banks; (iii) better protect shareholders, depositors
and creditors of banking and financial institutions; (iv) promote financial transparency through an
enhanced legal framework; and (v) improve the framework for allocation of investment
resources.
Fiscal impact:
The project is expected to assist in minimizing the fiscal cost of bank restructuring while
increasing the fiscal revenue base by providing support for (i) restructuring financially troubled
state banks; (ii) reducing the risk that the crisis will spread to additional financial institutions;
and (iii) enhancing the framework for corporate finance.
3. Technical:
The project will ensure that the Government of Indonesia obtains access to high quality
international expertise.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
The project is expected to help Indonesia build its institutional capacity through technical
assistance, studies and institution building. In particular, the project is targeted at improving the
Ministry of Finance's and Bank Indonesia's capability to formulate and implement policies to
deal with the financial crisis, strengthen the regulatory and supervisory environment and to face
the challenges posed by the exposure of Indonesia to increasing globalization. Other agencies,
such as the Ministry of Justice and the Coordinating Ministry for Economics, Finance, and
Development Supervision, may also be called upon to assist with some elements of the project as
and when required by the implementing and coordinating agency.



11
b. Project management:
The project will be coordinated by the Secretariat of the Monetary Board through a full time
Project Coordinator and would act as the Government's main counterpart to the project
consultants. The Project Manager in the office of the Director General of Financial Institutions
will be responsible for managing the finances of the project, including procurement and
disbursement.
5. Social: Not Applicable
6. Environmental assessment:    Environmental Category    []A   []B   [x] C
7. Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Due to the short time for project preparation, extensive consultation could not be held with a
wide range of stakeholders. However, discussions were held on a selective basis with
representatives from financial institutions, corporations, Government agencies, industrialists and
bankers. In addition, the project has been designed to build consensus with other stakeholders
(e.g. private market participants) in the process of implementing the contemplated tasks.
b. Other key stakeholders:
See above.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability is an intrinsic element of the project development objective. The technical
assistance loan aims to improve macroeconomic management leading to sustainable long-term
growth of the Indonesian economy. While the immediate focus of the assistance is to deal with
the fimancial work-out of troubled financial institutions, the program includes a more
fundamental set of measures designed to improve the supervisory, legal and enabling
environment to improve the long-term soundness and resiliency of the financial system.
Moreover, it is anticipated that a subsequent financial sector adjustment operation will provide
considerable follow-up in ensuring the policy framework is reformed in tandem with financial
work-outs at the level of banking institutions.



12
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 2):
Risk             Risk              Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
Wavering political commitment   H    Dialogue on the operation with highest levels of
Government
Further loss of public        S    Intensive planning with Government authorities to
confidence in banking system       anticipate aftermath of policy actions; adequate
dissemination of information through the media;
potential problem analysis.
Adverse social impact of      S    Measures to shorten adjustment period;
adjustment                         protection of small depositors;
intensive dialogue on public expenditure allocation for
the poor together with supportive Bank lending
Lack of interagency           M    Appointment of the Monetary Board as the main
coordination                       authority implementing and coordinating banking
reforms.
Lack of coordination among    M    Establishment of inter-agency donor committee based in
donors                             Jakarta.
Increased fiscal impact of    M    Strong counterpart team for implementing the operation
financial work-outs because of
delays in this operation
Inappropriate choice of       N    Strong leadership for operation provided by the
counterparts                       Monetary Board.
Inadequate allocation of      N    Early discussion with the Government on its financial
Government funds for               responsibilities.
operation
Overall Risk Rating           H    Intense project supervision in the field
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible controversial aspects:
Controversial aspects of the project comprise:
(i)   possible conflicts of interest in resolution of troubled financial institutions;
(iii  public resentment to economic stabilization package in general and further loss of public
confidence in Government's capacity for economic management; and



13
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions: Establishment of the Project Management Unit under the Secretariat
of the Monetary Board, including the appointment of a Project Coordinator and a Project
Manager responsible for managing the finances of the project.
2. Other:
Covenants in the Loan Agreement are: (i) oversight to be maintained by the Secretariat of the
Monetary Board; (ii) internationally recognized consultants to be appointed to implement
portfolio and systems reviews and special financial audits; (iii) a project management unit to be
maintained under the Secretariat of the Monetary Board; (iv) each component to be carried out in
accordance with a time-bound program agreed with the Bank; and (v) under the project's legal
component, a proposed action plan including recommendations for action in specific areas, to be
prepared, and thereafter carried out.
H. Readiness for Implementation
The project has been prepared in close consultation the Secretariat of the Monetary Board, which
comprises senior officials of Bank Indonesia, Ministry of Finance, and the Coordinating Ministry
for Economics, Finance, and Development Supervision. The Government is ready to implement
the project, with Bank Indonesia and the Ministry of Finance taking leadership. While
implementation is urgent, the risks in proceeding with the immediate implementation are high
because, there will remain residual dangers of loss of public confidence and wavering political
commitment.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[XI This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Team Leader: Vikram Nehru             Country Director: Dennis de Tray
Sector Director: Jonathan Fiechter



14
Annex 1
INDONESIA
FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM AND THE THREE MULTILATERAL
INSTITUTIONS:
RESPECTIVE AREAS OF EMPHASIS FOR PROVISION OF TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE
SUPERVISION AND REGULATION
Program Area                                                    Institution
Bank Indonesia
*Monetary Operations                                         IMF
*Organizational Structure/Management/Technology            IMF/WB
*Prudential Standards                                        IMF
*Examination Capabilities                                    IMF
Payment Systems                                               IMF/WB/ADB
Capital Markets Development                                      ADB/WB
STATE BANKS
Program Area                                                  Institution
Merger of problem banks to focus on debt recovery                  WB
Portfolio Reviews                                                  WB
Financial and Systems Audits                                       WB
Strategic Tools:
*    Regulatory and/or Performance Contracts              WB/IMF
*    Privatization                                          WB
*    Downsizing                                             WB
*    Mergers                                                WB
*    Liquidation                                            WB
PRIVATE BANKS
Program Area                                                  Institution
Liquidation                                                        IMF
Conservatorship                                                   IMF
Rehabilitation Plans                                            WB/ADB
Asset Resolution Agency & Process                                  IMF



15
REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANKS
Program Area                                                      Institution
Institutional Development                                           ADB
Conservatorship                                                     ADB
Rehabilitation                                                      ADB
Strategic Tools:                                                    ADB
* Regulatory and/or Performance Contracts                       ADB
* Privatization                                                 ADB
* Downsizing                                                    ADB
* Mergers                                                       ADB
* Liquidation
LEGAL INFRASTRUCTURE
Program Area                                                    Institution
Central Banking Law                                                 IMF
Deposit Insurance                                                   IMF
Commercial Banking Law                                            WB/IMF
Company Law                                                          WB
Bankruptcy Law                                                       WB
Registries for land and other asset titles and for collateral perfection  WB
Judicial and Administrative Processes and Agencies                   WB



16
Annex 2
Indonesia: Banking Reform assistance Project
Project Desi2n Summarv
Sector-related CAS Goal: Assist the Indonesian Government in improving the structure,
resilience, soundness, and efficiency of the banking system.
Project Development Objective: Assist the Government in implementing key elements of a
program to reform private and state banks, upgrade the Central Bank's capacity to monitor and
supervise the banking system, and improve the legal and institutional environment for the
financial sector.
Outputs         Key Performance Indicators       Monitoring and    Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
I   Reestablished    * Clarifications to financially-  * Onsite support;  * Adequate capacity in
capital         troubled private banks on the  * quarterly progress    private banks to
adequacy and    proposed content of             reports;           prepare rehabilitation
portfolio       rehabilitation plans and the  * regular meetings   plans;
quality of      timetable for their submission;  with consultants;   * Adequate capacity in
private banks at  * Clear evaluation of rehabilitation  * regular meetings  Bank Indonesia to
appropriate     plans with recommended          with counterparts  monitor
prudential and   decisions to Bank Indonesia;   in Bank Indonesia;  implementation of
sustainable    * Establishment of systems,    * regular meetings   rehabilitation plans;
levels.         processes, and structures in Bank   with Monetary  * No political
Indonesia to monitor           Board Secretariat.   interference in loan
implementation of rehabilitation                  allocation.
plans;
2   Slimmer, more   * Initiation of merger of problem    * Onsite support;  * Political commitment
efficient and   banks;                        * Quarterly progress   to merging problem
financially    * Completion of portfolio reviews;  reports;        banks to create one
sound state    * Completion of special financial   * Regular meetings    "bad" bank focused
banks with      audits;                         with consultants;  exclusively on
appropriate    * Completion of systems audits;    * Regular meetings    recovering bad debts;
capital        * Use of strategic tools to improve    with Bank   * Willingness of
adequacy and    efficiency and soundness of     Indonesia staff;   Government to allow
portfolio        remaining state banks, including  * Regular meetings    internationally
quality and      mergers, privatization, and    with the Monetary   recognized firms to
substantially   performance and/or regulatory   Board Secretariat.   review state banks'
increased       contracts.                                         portfolios;
private                                                           * Ability of state bank
ownership.                                                         management to
implement regulatory
contracts.



17
Outputs       Key Performance Indicators      Monitoring and    Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
2                      * Completion, negotiation,
cont.                   implementation, and monitoring
of contracts;
* Privatization of at least one state
bank by sale of 49 percent of the
equity or more in accordance
with prevailing law and sale of a
at least 20 percent equity in at
least one other state bank;
3     Improved         * Supervision reports of banks at   * On-site support by  * Commitments and
supervision      international standards.        internationally     previous training of
capacity of BI.                                  experienced         Bank Indonesia
central bank       examiners.
examiners.
4      Strengthened    * Review of all laws and        * Onsite support;    * Commitment of the
legal and        regulations relating to the   * Quarterly progress   authorities, including
institutional    financial sector, including but  reports;          the Ministry of
environment      not restricted to the Central Bank  * Regular meetings    Justice.
and improved     Law, the Commercial Bank Law,   with consultants;   * Access to records
bankruptcy,      prudential regulations, and other   * Regular meetings    relating to the
valuation of     laws and regulations related to  with Bank         implementation of
collateral, and  banking operations;            Indonesia staff;    legal processes.
foreclosure    * Draft amendments to legislation   * Regular meetings
processes.       and regulations to permit       with the Monetary
privatization of state banks    Board Secretariat.
beyond 50 percent;
* Review of how existing laws and
regulations are implemented;
* Recommendations on improv-
ements in the design and
implementation of laws and
regulations;
* Preparation of action plans for
implementation;



18
Annex 3
Indonesia: Banking Reform Assistance Project
Detailed Proiect Description
The Banking Reform Assistance Project (BRAP) is one of several proposed Bank loans to
support the Indonesian Government in dealing with the currency crisis and has been designed in
close consultations with the authorities. The overarching objective of the Government's reform
program is to restore market confidence by maintaining prudent macroeconomic policies,
addressing weaknesses in the financial sector, and undertaking wide-ranging structural reforms to
improve economic efficiency and transparency. In this context, the Government has announced a
comprehensive and ambitious program of banking reforms. These reforms, although long
overdue, nevertheless present the authorities with a complex and demanding technical agenda
that has been made doubly hard by difficult macroeconomic conditions. For this reason, staffs of
the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the Asian Development Bank are jointly
assisting the Government in implementing the program by emphasizing different components
(see Annex 1).
The Bank's proposed Banking Reform Assistance Project is to assist the Government to:
(i)   evaluate the rehabilitation plans of financially troubled private banks;
(ii)  implement a program to restructure the state banks with the eventual aim of
privatizing them;
(iii)  strengthen the examination, supervision and regulatory functions of BI; and
(iv)  conduct a diagnostic review of the legal and institutional infrastructure for
financial sector development.
The International Monetary Fund will also provide substantial support to strengthen the
supervisory functions of BI. In addition, in their technical assistance support for the financial
sector reforms, the International Monetary Fund and the Asian Development Bank will be
emphasizing the remaining components.
Proiect Component I: Evaluation of rehabilitation plans for private banks
In November 1997, Bank Indonesia required financially troubled-but viable-private banks to
submit for approval a rehabilitation plan to address their weaknesses. The plans will be
evaluated by Bank Indonesia with the technical assistance of foreign experts contracted under
this project. Project-financed technical experts will also support Bank Indonesia in establishing a
monitoring framework to help the Central Bank supervise closely the implementation of these
rehabilitation plans, once they are approved.
Some initial work has already been done by Bank Indonesia in this area. The project will finance
a team of consultants to help carry out this task to a tight time schedule. In the initial stage of the
project, the consultants will help the Government to:
(i)   identify the minimum requirements for re-establishing the viability of each
institution;



19
(ii)  indicate the scope and proposed content of the rehabilitation plans;
(iii)  review and refine Bank Indonesia's existing approach toward the preparation of
rehabilitation plans; and
(iv)  in some cases, design a rehabilitation plan from scratch, tailoring it to the
particular circumstances of individual, troubled banks.
At a subsequent stage, the consultants would help Bank Indonesia establish a system for
monitoring and evaluating compliance with the approved rehabilitation plans. Inadequate plans
will need to be returned to banks for reformulation, and judgments made in cases where evidence
is inconclusive. In many cases, performance contracts will be an integral part of the plan.
The exact number of banks to be rehabilitated is not known at this time, but there are expected to
be many over the life of the project. Moreover, implications of the exchange rate depreciation on
the balance sheets of corporates will take several months before its full effect is felt in the
portfolios of banks. It is entirely possible that deterioration in the asset portfolio of banks could
peak as late as 1999, on the assumption, of course, that no further shocks hit the economy. The
amount of technical support provided under this component of the project will therefore need to
be kept under constant review and will remain flexible to permit the application of additional
expertise as and when necessary. The list of banks subject to close supervision under the
rehabilitation program is likely to change constantly as rehabilitated banks "graduate" and as new
problem cases are added to the program. Technical support under the project will cease once the
Bank, in consultation with the project management unit and the secretariat of the Monetary
Board, is satisfied that the evaluation and monitoring system in Bank Indonesia can handle the
workload to a high technical level.
Proiect Component II: Implementation of state bank restructuring
Increasing the efficiency and financial stability of the state banks will represent the core of the
proposed project. It will comprise three activities, each closely connected to the other:
(i)   the audit of all the state banks by internationally recognized financial consultancy
firms;
(ii)  the restructuring of state banks, including mergers, regulatory/ performance
contracts and the sale of shares to private investors; and
(iii)  the resolution of the bad debts of merged banks.
Audits, to comprise the full range of diagnostics, including financial, systems, and portfolio
reviews, will provide benchmark information on the basis of which further strategic restructuring
decisions can be made. Work on the audits will be initiated as soon as possible after the project
is made effective.
Restructuring operations would use three strategic tools-mergers, regulatory/performance
contracts, and sale of shares to the private sector. In all three cases, the emphasis will be on
improving efficiency through better credit practices, lower overhead costs, streamnlined
management practices, and the resolution of bad debts.
The merging of two or more banks could provide the opportunity to separate bad debts from
good, with the bad debts transferred to a surviving institution devoted solely to their collection.
Asset resolution advisors will be financed through the project for this purpose. In addition,
advisors will be provided to define the objectives of the new institution and the constraints under
which it would operate, including a clear financial plan on how it would meet its cash flow



20
obligations. The good debts, having been valued through the portfolio audits could be sold either
to private banks or to other state banks.
For all state banks, regulatory and/or performance contracts between the Ministry of Finance and
the management of the banks will spell out clearly steps to improve efficiency and cut costs,
improve credit practices, adopt better loan classification and provisioning systems, and ensure
better dissemination of financial information to the public. Performance contracts between the
Ministry of Finance and a state bank will be used when the bank in question is essentially
solvent, sound, and in compliance with Bank Indonesia's prudential standards. A regulatory
contract, on the other hand, will be imposed by Bank Indonesia on the bank in question when the
bank is determined to be insolvent or seriously undercapitalized, or in violation of other
prudential requirements.  Initial contracts will be drawn to commit banks to portfolio and
systems audits and special financial audits. Once the results of these audits are available, more
detailed contracts will be drawn up for the rest of the financial year which will identify steps and
a timetable to correct any deficiencies identified in the audits. Subsequently, performance
contracts will be drawn up annually, not later than the beginning of each fiscal year. Finally,
advisors will be appointed to facilitate the sale of state bank shares to the private sector.
Proiect Component III: Strengthening the examination, supervision and regulatory
functions of Bank Indonesia:
Although substantial advice has previously been made available to Bank Indonesia, the modality
of assistance now to be provided would move beyond classroom training and advice. To
strengthen examination capabilities, the project will finance international experts with experience
in conducting bank examinations in both developing and developed countries. These experts
will be incorporated into Bank Indonesia's examination process both on-site and off-site and will
be available to verify conclusions by Bank Indonesia examiners. This assistance will place
strong initial emphasis on improving enforcement of loan classification, provisioning rules,
liquidity management and foreign exchange position control (including off-balance sheet items)
and will be conducted in collaboration with the IMF.
Bank Indonesia will need new skill-sets and enhanced enforcement capabilities to prepare and
implement Regulatory Contracts (which will be required if any of the state banks are found to
have major deficiencies in their financial and systems audits). The project will finance full-time
technical experts experienced in drafting, implementing and monitoring "cease and desist" orders
and other regulatory imposed rehabilitation programs.
Finally, the organizational structure of BI will be reviewed and recommendations made on how
to improve control and effectiveness in the supervisory functions.
Project Component IV: Diagnostic review of the legal and institutional infrastructure for
financial sector development
This component would commence with a consultative diagnostic assessment of the key
impediments to the proposed banking reforms which lie in the legal framework and its
implementation. This assessment would seek the views of key stakeholders in the banking sector
(banks, regulators, corporations, lawyers, judges and relevant Government officials) on the main
legal roadblocks to effective banking reform. It would also draw on previous assessments of the
overall legal development in Indonesia, including those under Bank auspices and under the
auspices of other donors. The assessment would include an action plan for making the necessary



21
legislative, regulatory and institutional changes to remove or alleviate the identified
impediments, including support for the initiation of legislation to permit state financial
institutions to issues shares to the private sector up to the same limit as non-financial institutions.
Likely areas of focus would include bankruptcy, banking disclosure, taking and realizing
collateral security interests, company law implementation including shareholder rights and
governance, and laws and regulations on financial instruments, fair business practices, and
insurance. This component would also include technical assistance for the implementation of the
action plan.



22
Annex 4
Indonesia: Banking Reform Assistance Project
Estimated Project Costs
(US$m)
Project Component                                Local  Foreign      Total
Portfolio, financial and systems audits           0.0      10.0      10.0
Rehabilitation of banks                           0.0       0.5       0.5
State banks financial restructuring               0.0       3.0       3.0
Bank Indonesia supervision                        0.0       3.0       3.0
Diagnostic reviews                                0.0       0.5       0.5
Hardware                                          0.0       0.1       0.1
Project management                                0.0       0.5       0.5
Contingencies                                     0.5       2.4       2.9
Total project costs                               0.5      20.0      20.5



23
Annex 5
Indonesia: Banking Reform Assistance Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Not Applicable



24
Annex 6
Indonesia: Banking Reform Assistance Project
Financial Summary
(US$m)
Institution      Foreign   Share    Local      Share       Total   Share (%)
(%)                 (%)
IBRD             20.0    100%       0         0%         20.0      97.6%
GOI             0.0      0%        0.5       100%         0        2.4%
Total           20.0    100%       0.5       100%        20.5      100%



25
Annex 7, Table A
Indonesia: Banking Reform Assistance Project
Proiect costs by Procurement arrangements
(US$m)
Expenditure    International    National    Other  Government  Total
Category      Competitive   Competitive             Financed     Cost
Biding (ICB) Biding (NCB)
Consultants'                                    17.5                  17.5
services a/
Equipment                                       0.1                   0.1
Unallocated                                     2.4        0.5        2.9
Total                                           20.0       0.5        20.5
a/ Includes services for Project Management Unit.



26
Annex 7, Table B
Indonesia: Banking Reform Assistance Project
Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure    Contract value    Procurement method                Contracts subject to prior
category         (Threshold)                                                review
(US$ thousands)
Eouinment               <50            National shopping         Prior review for first two
contracts for goods
>50           International shopping  Prior review for first two
contracts for goods
Services
- Firms                >100           Quality Based             All. Shortlist and request for
Selection (QBS),          proposals only below $200.000.
except in services
identified below.
>100          Single source             All. Shortlist and request for
selection for project    proposals only below $200.000.
services identified in
Schedule 4, Section II,
Part C, paragraph 1 a/
<100          Single source             TORs only.
selection or
Consultant
Qualification (CQ)
- Individuals          >50            Section V, Consultant  TORs, qualifications,
Guidelines                employment terms.
al Where rapid selection is essential, as this is an emergency operation. See para. 3.9 of the Consultant
Guidelines. The services for which single source selection will be used are: (i) evaluation, implementation,
and monitoring of private bank rehabilitation plans; (ii) audit and review of state banks, preparation and
implementation of state bank restructuring plans, and asset resolution for merged state banks; (iii) services
for enhancement and support of the system for bank examination and supervision; (iv) conduct of diagnostic
assessment, and preparation and implementation of the action plans prepared under Part D of the project.



27
Annex 7, Table C
Indonesia: Banking Reform Assistance Project
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Amount          Financing percentage
(in US$m)
Consultants' services                         17.5       100% of all expenditures
Equipment                                     0.1        100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 65% of
local expenditures for other
items procured locally
Unallocated                                   2.4



28
Annex 8
Indonesia: Banking Reform Assistance Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Planned               Actual
A. Project Budget (US$000)        (At final Project Completion
Document stage)
Not Applicable
B. Project Schedule                   (At final PCD stage)
Not Applicable
Time taken to prepare project (weeks)                              4
First Bank Mission (identification)                              10/13/97
Appraisal Mission                                                11/13/97
Negotiations                                                     11/13/97
Planned Date of Effectiveness                                    12/4/97
Prepared by: Secretariat of the Monetary Board, Ministry of Finance, Bank Indonesia
Preparation assistance: None
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Vikram Nehru                     Task Leader, Lead Economist
Jonathan Fiechter                Financial Sector Director
Richard Roulier                  Manager
Lloyd Kenward                    Financial Sector Coordinator, Indonesia
Florence Cazenave                Financial Specialist
Charles Woodruff                 Financial Specialist
Clifford Garstang                Senior Counsel



29
Annex 9
Indonesia: Banking Reform Assistance Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Proiect ImDlementation Plan
A project implementation plan with detailed breakdowns for each component.
B. Bank staff Assessments
Notes from the joint IMF-WB-ADB team mission in Jakarta last October.
C. Other
None
* including electronic files



30
Annex 10
Status of Bank Group Operations in Indonesia
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
between expected
in US$ Millions                          and actual
Loan or    Fiscal                                                       Original Amount                                     disbursenments /a
Project ID   Credit No.   Year  Borrower                  Purpose                    IBRD          IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed   Orig       Frm' Rev
Number of Closed Loans: 156/Credits: 48
Active Loans
ID-PE-3873    IBRD  31580  1990    GOI   Second Secondary Education                       154.20         0.00         0.00        15.25        15.25           0
ID-PE-3960    IBRD  32090  1990    GOI   Gas Utilization                                   86.00         0.00         0.00        27.17        27.17         27.2
ID-PE-3868    IBRD  32190  1990    GOI   Second Jabotabek Urban Development               190.00         0.00         0.00        21.66        21.66           0
ID-PE-3977    IBRD  32460  1991    GOI   Third Jabotabek Urban Development                 61.00         0.00         0.00        14.24        14.24           0
ID-PE-3959    IBRD  32820  1991    GOI   Fertlizer Restructuring                          221.70         0.00         0.24         6.95         7.20         6.96
ID-PE-3981    iBRD  33020  1991    GOI   Provincial Irrigated Agriculture Dev.            125.00         0.00        21.50        12.78        34.28        12.78
ID-PE-3912    IBRD  33050  1991    GOI   Yogyakarta Upland Area Development                15.50         0.00         1.30         0.62         1.92         0.62
ID-PE-3928    lBRD  34020  1992    GOI   Agricultural Financing                           106.10        0e00          0.0         40.59       40.59            0
ID-PEi3966   IBRD  34310  1992    GOI   Third Non-Formal Education                         69.50         0.00         0.00         6.23         6.23           0
ID-PE-3940    IBRD  34480  1992    GOI   Primaty Education Quality Improvement             37.00         0.00         0.00        13.81        13.81           0
ID-PE-3860    IBRD  34640  1992    GOI   Treecrops Smailholder                             87.60         0.00         0.00        29.39       29.39            0
ID-PE-3997    IBRD  34820  1992    GOI   Fourth Telecommunications                        375.00         0.00         0.00       154.99       154.99           0
ID-PE-3969    IBRD  34960  1992    GOI   Primary School Teacher Development                36.60         0.00         0.00         9.19         9.19           0
ID-PE-3916    IBRD  35010  1992    GOI  SuralayaThermalPower                             423.60         0.00       100.00        95.81       195.81       95.81
ID-PE-3970    IBRD  35260  1993    GOI   Financial SectorDevelopment                      307.00         0.00        39.81        41.22        81.03       41.21
ID-PE-3914    IBRD  35500  1993    GOI   Third Community Health&Nutrition                  93.50         0.00         0.00        32.43        32.43           0
ID-PE-4006    IBRD  35790  1993    GOI   E. Indonesia Kabupaten Roads                     155.00         0.00         0.00        21.60       21.60            0
ID-PE-4009    IBRD  35860  1993      301   Integrated Pest Management                      32.00         0.00         0.00        14.78        14.78           0
ID-PE-3999    IBRD  35880  1993    GOI   GroundwaterDevelopment                            54.00         0.00        18.94        12.12       31.06         12.12
ID-PE-4018    IBRD  35890  1993    GOI   Flores Earthquake Reconstruction                  42.10        0.00         0.00         2.95         2.95            0
ID-PE-4007    IBRD  36020  1993    GOI   Cirata Hydroelectric Phase 11                    104.00        0.00         0.00        62.65        62.65            0
ID-PE-3990    IBRD  36290  1993    GOI   Water Supply & Sanitaion for Low Income           80.00         0.00         0.00       45.27         45.27       45.28
ID-PE-3985    IBRD  36580  1994    GOI   National Watershed Mgmt and Conservation          56.50         0.00        0.00        44.97        44.97            0
ID-PE-3945    IBRD  37120  1994    GOI   Second Highway Sector Investment                 350,00         0.00         0.00       199.95       199.95           0
ID-PE-3952    IBRD  37210  1994    GOI   Skills Development                                27.70        0.00         4.91         10.24        15.15           0
ID-PE-3998    IBRD  37260  1994    GOI   Surabaya Urban Development                       175.00         0,00         0.00       117.26       117.26           0
ID-PE-4020   IBRD  37320  1994    GOI   Fifth Kabupaten Roads                             101,50         0,00         0.00       25.59         25.59           0
ID-PE-4010    IBRD  37420  1994    GOI   Dam Safety                                        55,00         0,00         0.00        38.25        38.25           0
ID-PE-3890    IBRD  37490  1994    GOI   Semarang-Surakarta Urban Development             174,00         0.00         0.00       113.79       113.79           0
ID-PE-4017    IBRD  37540  1994    GO(    University Research for Graduation Study         58,90         0,00         0.00        33.83        33.83           0
ID-PE-3937    IBRD  37550  1994    GO(   Integrated Swamps                                 65,00         0,00         0.00        39,14        39.14           0
ID-PE-3910   IBRD  37610  1994    GOI   Sumatera & Kalimantan Power                       260,50         0,00         0.00      223.51       223.51            0
ID-PE-3954    IBRD  37620  1994    GO(   Java lirigation Improvements and Wtr Resource    165,70         0,00         0.00       109.87       109.87           0
ID-PE-3984   IBRD  37920  1995    GOI   Land Administradon                                 80.00         0,00         0.00       57.71        57.71            0
ID-PE-4019    IBRD  38010  1995    GO(   Second Accountancy Development                    25,00         0,00         0.00        18.82        18.82           0
ID-PE-3988    IBRD  38250  1995    GOI   Second Professional Resource Development          69,00        0.00         0.00        42.18        42.18            0
ID-PE-3979    IBRD  38450  1995    GOI   Second Rural Electrification                     398,00         0,00         0.00      262.72       262.72            0
ID-PE-3951    IBRD  38540  1995    GOI   Kalimantan Urban Development                     136.00         0.00        0.00        88.65         88.65           0
ID-PE-3972   IBRD  38866  1995    GOI   Second Agriculture Research Management             63,00        0,00         0.00        56.23        58.23            0
ID-PE-3968   IBRD  38870  1995    GOI   Book & Reading Development                         2.10         0.00         0.00         0.10        130.50           0
ID-PE-3968    IBRD  38876  1995    GOI                                                    130.40         0.00        0.00        116.01       118.11           0
ID-PE-34891   IBRD  38886  1995    GOI   Village Infrastructure                            47.10         0.00        0.00         3.90        29.30            0
ID-PE-4001    IBRD  39046  1995    GOI   Telecommunicadons Sector Modemization            325.00         0,00        0.00       309.30       309.30            0
ID-PE-3965   IBRD  39050  1995    GOI   Fourth Health                                       1.00        0.00         0.00         0.00        87.00            0
ID-PE-3965   IBRD  39056  1995    GO(   Second Technical Assistance for lnfrastructure     87.00        0.00         0.00        79.98        80.98            0
ID-PE-39754  IRD  39136  1995    GOI                                                      2800         0.00         0.00        26.43        26.43            0
ID-PE-3978   IBRD  39720  1996    GO(   Industrial Technology Development                  47,00        0,00         0.00        41.00        41.00            0
ID-PE-4021    IBRD  39780  1996    GOI   Second Power Transmission and Distribution      373.00         0.00         0.00       372.21       372.21            0
ID-PE4003    IBRD  39790  1996    GOI   Second TeacherTraining                             60.40        0.00         0.00        55.11        55.11            0
ID-PE-39643   IBRD  39810  1996    GO(   STD/AIDS                                          24.80        0.00         0.00        23.73        23.73            0
ID-PE4008    IBRD  39840  1996    GOI   Nusa Tenggara Agriculture Development              27.00        0.00         0.00        24.80        24.80            0
ID-PE-401I    IBRD  40070  1996    GOI   Sulawesi Agriculture Area Development             26.80        0.00         0.00        24.45        24.45            0
ID-PE-4014   IBRD  40080  1996    GOI   Keinci SeblatICDP                                  19.10        0.00         0.00         18.50        18.50           0
ID-PE-39312  IBRD  40170  1996    GOI   Second E. Java Urban Development                  142.70        0.00         0.00        129.64       129.64           0
ID-PE-41896   IBRD  40300  1996    GOI   Human Resource Capacity Building                 20.00         0.00         0.00         19.31        19.31           0
ID-PE-37097  IBRD  40420  1996    GOI   E. Java Junior Secondary Education                99.00         0.00         0.00        96.50        96.50            0
ID-PE-4004    IBRD  40430  1996    GOI   Higher Education Support                          65.00        0.00         0.00        58.05        58.05            0
ID-PE-4016   IBRD  40540  1996    GOI   Strategic Urban Roads                              86.90        0.00         0.00        80.10        80.10            0
ID-PE-3987   IBRD  40620  1997    GOI   C. Indonesia Secondary Education                  104.00        0.00         0.00        101.38       101.38           0
ID-PE-41894   IBRD  40950  1997    GOI   Sumatra Secondary Education                       98.00        0.00         0.00        95.00        95.00            0
ID-PE-40521   IBRD  41000  1997    GOI   Second Village Infrastructure                    140.10        0.00         0.00        132.21       132.21           0
ID-PE-36053  IBRD  41050  1997    GOI   Second Sulawesi Urban Development                 155.00         0.00        0.00        150.00       150.00           0
ID-PE-4026    IBRD  41060  1997    GOI   Railway Efficiency                               105.00        0.00         0.00        105.00       105.00           0
ID-PE-42540  IBRD  41250  1997    GOI   Iodine Deficiency Control                          28.50        0.00         0.00        27.50        27.50            0
ID-PE-35544   IBRD  41320  1997    GOI   Solar Homes Systems                               20.00        0.00         0.00        20.00        20.00            0
ID-PE-36047   IBRD  41550  1997    GOI   BaliUrban Infrastructure                         110.00         0.00        0.00        110.00        0.00            0
ID-PE-40195   IBRD  41930  1997    GOI   Undergraduate Educadion                           71.20         0.00        0.00        71.20        71.20            0
ID-PE-49051   IBRD  41940  1997    GOI   BEPEKA Audit Modernization                        16.40         0.00        0.00         16.40        0.00            0
ID-PE-42882   IBRD  41980  1997    GOI   Renewable Energy Small Power                      66.40        0.00         0.00        66.40        66.40            0
ID-PE-36956  IBRD  42070   98       GOI   Safe Motherhood                                  42.50        0.00         0.00        42.50         0.00            0
1oa8                                                                                    7.684.60         0.00       186.70     4.581.12     4.846.83      241.98
Active Loans Closed Loans       Total
Toal Disbursed (IBRD and IDA)                                              2.916.74    15 416.98    18.333.72
of which has been repaid                                                 57.94     7.320.55     7.378.49
Total now beld by lBRD and IDA                                             7439.92      8.120.69    15.560.61
Amount sold                                                                    0.00        88.08        88.08
of which repaid                                                           0.00        88.08        88.08
4.58112        2431       460543



31
Annex 1 1
Indonesia at a glance                                                           8/1517
Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            E#t  middle-
Indornsia     Asia  Itncom     Doeloptt dlamond.
Population mid-1996 (millions)                     196.1     1,726    1,125
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                         1t090       890    1,750                 Ufe expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                            213.7     1,542    1,967
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                       1.6       1.3      1.4     GNP                              Gross
Labor force (%)                                      2.5       1.3      1.8     pe                              p
per              iprimary
Most recent estimate (latest year avalable since 1989)                          capta                         enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)           1 t
Urban population (% of total population)             36        31       56
Ufe expectancy at birth (years)                      64        68       67
Infant mortality (pr 1,000 live bithh)               51        40       41                Access to sae watr
Child malnutriton (% of children under 5)             11
Access to sate water (% of population)                63       49       78
Illteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                  16        17        ..               Indonesia
Gross pdrmary enrollment (% of school-age population)  115     117     t04                Lower-middle0ncome grou
Male                                              117       120      105Loe-dleicmgru
Female                                            113       116      101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
197S    1985      1995    1996
GDP (bdlions USS)                          32.1    87.2      200.6   230.8      Economrie rato'
Gross domestic investment/GDP              23.7    26.1       32A     32.7
Exports of goods and services/GDP          23.2    22.2       26.4    262               Openness o economy
Gross domestic savings/GDP                 25.9    27.8       33.5    34.0
Gross national savings/GDP                 23A      22.       28.2    28A
Current account balance/GDP                -3.4    -2.2       -3.4    -3.5         .  
Interest payments/GDP                       1.0      2.3       2.4     23 --Savrng                          Investment
Total debVGDP                              35.8    42.1       51.7    46.9
Total debt service/exports                 15.1    28.8       29.9    33.0
Present value ot debVGDP                      ..      ..      51.0
Present value ot debt/exports                ..       ..    187.7       ..                  Indebtedness
1975-35  19S6-96    1995      1996  199740
(average annual growthJ)                                                              Indonesia
GDP                                7.0      7.9      82        7.8     7.7              Lower-middle-income group
GNP per capita                     4.3      6.1      5.8       6.3     6.4
Exports of goods and services     -1.0      9.3      8.6       6.3     9.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975    19i5      1995    1996
(% of GDP)                                                                     Growth r   of output and hestm  ()
Agriculture                                30.2    23.2       17.2    16.3    20
Industry                                   33.5    35.9       41.5    42.7    15
Manufacturing                             9.8    16.0       24.2    25.2    lo
Services                                   36.3    40.9       41.4    41.0   o  .         i
Private consumption                        65.1    60.4       58.6    58.3             91   92   93   94   95   es
General govemment consumption               9.0    11.8        7.9     7.7             -     GDI   --*-GDP
Imports of goods and services              21.0    20.5       25.2    24.
1975-85  1986-96     1995    1996
(average annual growth)                                                        Growth rat of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                 4.2      3.4       42       1.9    30
Industry                                    7.0      9.9      10A     10.4
Manufacturing                             14.5    11.2      10.8    11.0    20
Services                                    9.0      8.1       7.7     7.4      0
Private consumption                         9.8      6.9       9.7     9.2         _ 
General govemrment consumption             10.5      4.8       1.3      3.8       .
Gross domestic investment                  12.1    10.7       13.0     9.1      t            se   92   94   95   96
Imports of goods and services               8.8      9.4      15.8     9.6               Expot    -      lmpora
Gross national product                      6.5      7.9       7.4     7.5
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in iialics are for years other than those specified.
- I he diamonds show tour Key dcators in the county tin bold) comparedth its mnome-grup average. It data are missmng, tne adamona Will
be incomplete.



32                                              Indonesia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975    198S       1995    1996
DNDDom prn                                                                       bvftIon (%)
(% change)                                                                       10
Consumner pices                             19.1      4.7       9.4      8.0
Implicit GDP dellator                       112       4.3       9A       7.5     s
Govwr"nent finane
(% of GDP)                                                                       01
Current revenue                               ..    192        14.7    15.4      o      9    92  -'       94   95   95
Currern budget balance                         ..     6.0       5.4      6.1                   GDP def. --0-CPI
Overall surplusldeficit                       ..    -3.2        0.8      0.9
TRADE
1975    1985       1995    1996
(niliNons USS)                                                                   Export and Import eve (rmill. USS)
Total expoils (fob)                            ..  18,823    47,754   52,192     eo,oo
Fuel                                        ..  12,804    10,616   12,594
Rubber                                      ..      714     2,330    2,388
Manufactures                                 .   2,287    29,054   31,617      40.000
Total imports (cif)                           .. 14,056    40,039   50,815
Food                                        ..      812      3,397    3,852    20,000
Fuel and energy                             .. 2,870        3,563    4,414
Capital goods                                ..   5,394    18,957   21,135         o
Exportpriceindex(1987=100)                    ..    121         137                     o 90  91  92  93  94  es  9S
Imnport price index (1987=100)                        85        127       ..                a Exports   l Import
Terms of trade (1987=100)                      ..    143        108
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975    1985       1995    1996
(M'uions USS)                                                                    Cumrent account baabne to GOP rIo t%)
Exportsofgoodsandservices                  6,981   19,371    52,938   58,017     o
Inports of goods end services              6,775   17,840    51,589   57,050      . 90   el 929  
Resource balance                            207    1,531      1,349     968         ii.
Net Income                                -1,342   -3,542    -7,832   -8,766
Net current transfers                        27       88       -504    -256      2
Current acournt balance,
before official capital transers         -1.108   -1,923    -6,987   -8,054    - . _
Fuiandng tens (net)                         257      962      9,638   11,927              _                        _
Changes in net reserves                     851      961    -2,851   -3,873    -4.
Memo:                                                                             ____
Reserves includingold (mil.US)              592   13,184    16,000   19,873
Conversion rate (lcal4USS)                 415.0  1,110.6   2,255.0  2,362.0
EXTERNAL DEBT ond RESOURCE FLOWS
1975    1985       1995    1996
(Mmns USSJ                                                                       ComposItIon of total debt, 1995 (rmiL USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      11,498   36,715   107,831  108,300                          A
IBRD                                       57    3,590    12,503   11,138             G           12503
IDA                                       318      844       756      736            22350                7
Total debt service                         1,060    5,823    16,419   18,672                                756
IBRD                                        2      384      1,875    2,249                                     0
IDA                                         2       12        26       26                                    6750
Conmosftion of net resource flows
Official grants                            69      136       249
Offial creditors                          515      980      1,101       ..                                     E
Privaecreditors                          1,749     154      2,428       ..                                   31221
Foreign drect inveslment                  476      310      4,348                    F
Portfolio eqtiy                             0        0      4,873       ..
World Bank program
Commntments                               311    1,068      1,312    1,194     A-lIBRD                     E-Biatersl
D       _burements                        164      777      1,045     905      8-IDA    D-Othermuleateral  F-Pdvaste
Pridpal repayments                          0      133       975    1,429      C-IMF                      G- Short-term
Netfi wm                                  164      644        69    -523
Iterest paymwnts                            3      262       926      846
Nettranfers                               160      382       -857   -1,370
Deverpmnt Economics. 1996 xernal debt and resource flows data are staff estimates (prdiminary).                  8115/97
Note: Uovemment bnance and trae acet year (Aprt to Marcn).



MAP SECTION



47e, -QTlAAND                                     "lirY                                              rJr i' <r                                                                                                 IBRD 26570
_Hnd Ach                I; 
it        )Q"'y                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sooth China So.eaj
14  -.                                                                               BRUN                                 */ , ScuillChinoSeu  J PHILIPPINES-~'' INDONESIABr
\ MALAYSIA                                                                                                                                                  i     PUONa ;EADQUAET
c t 4 ~~~'                                                           -           z        e  t
12    .j                                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTE!b&)ATtiL BOUNWI
12       .     k           j                                      MALAYSIA
- ~,.SINGAPORE                                                                                                                                        ____._ _ _ _7  __ _ ; L  _      _  _
o  0  X.--,                                                                                    19           NA.M.4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n                   i      m       m         
a,                                                           r Caz              1rRA.                         '1     
'~S 11M   AI    PR Aj                                        146.
::Ti7~ '                                                          Rh k A L I M A N I A N            h. /               0                2 C)C                                                  NORTH PACIFIC OCEAN
&olo~W)ii                                                                                       M I?..Iaz.**t2
JAWA 56561                         -.~~~~~~~~~AGK                                                                                         2
3 JAWATENGAH                7         kf      \\ 7    f-.)                                                                    - ;ilAWESI 7
4 D0I. YOGYAKCARTA                                                                                                  20V."-.---a-  d                                   M
i     TAWIMUR                                                                                                       20JLC  I-4~
6 L4UNG              BBkl.                           EIJ                                                                                                                                                            A Y A 2
7  *ENGIUW                    ;.            6  / 2.                                                                                            - V                                                                J A Y A
St          SUMTEtASELATAN                Rondo,
1                                          -4 JAMI                 o L eod
1 1 SRA^ATERk bARAT 'Imn  iii-ant)  tt   
12 SUMATERA UrAVA                                                                                          Uiw.gpoodoo
13 D.l ACEH                                 r>        *                                                                                                                                           rond. II
I 4I KAUMYAI'AN MAPAT
15 KALWMANTAN TENOM                                  2   -d                                                                          Fb   _
16 KALJMANTAN #LATAN                                         A     A                            CL.                           .  . O.;
17  KA WJMANTAN TIML  R                                 -                          w - 3A
la                                        5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aAr6AohS-
18 StRAWS UTENAN                                    -.       r'
20 SUAAWEE SELATAN                                                                                          74
21 SULAWES TENGGARA                                                                                        S no,Oond   o...
23 NUSATENGOARABMAAT           o    r in#onnrOo  she-n
24 NUSATENGGARA TIUR       odZnm    d.  of              INDIAN oCEAN
25 M2AW'a                                                 IDd0N O
26 IRAN JAYA              ay joonf an                                                                                                                  2      S
27 TIMOR TIMUR                        of                            Iad 0                                                                                 Tn  Ia  Ac
baundarf.-.



