                                    Documentof
                                The World Bank


                                                    ReportNo.: 27177




             PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT




                                   INDONESIA

                       BANKING REFORM ASSISTANCE
                             (LOAN NO. 4255-IND)


                      POLICY REFORM SUPPORT LOANI
                             (LOAN NO. 4368-IND)


                     POLICY REFORM SUPPORT LOANI1
                             (LOANNO. 4470-IND)




                                November4,2003




Country Evaluation and Regional Relations
Operations Evaluation Department

Currency Equivalents(annual averages)
Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp)

us$1.0=
1996                      2,342
1997                      2,909
1998                      10,013
1999                      7,855
2000                      8,422
2001                      10,26 1
2002                      9,3 11
2003 Firstquarter         8,906
Abbreviations and Acronyms

ADB              Asian DevelopmentBank
ADDP             Agreed DueDiligenceProcedures
AMC              Asset ManagementCredit
AMU              Asset ManagementUnit
ASEAN            Association of SouthEast AsianNations
BCA              Bank CentralAsia
BI               Bank Indonesia
BRAP             BankingReformAssistanceProject
BULOG            NationalLogistics Agency
CAS              CountryAssistance Strategy
GDP              Gross DomesticProduct
GNP              GrossNationalProduct
IBRA             IndonesiaBank RestructuringAgency
IBRD             InternationalBank for Reconstructionand Development
ICR              ImplementationCompletionReport
IDA              InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
IFC              International FinanceCorporation
IMF              InternationalMonetaryFund
INDRA            IndonesiaDebtRestructuringAgency
JITF             JakartaInitiativeTask Force
MIGA             MultilateralInvestmentGuaranteeAgency
MOU              Memorandumo fUnderstanding
NPLs             Non-PerformingLoans
OED              OperationsEvaluationDepartment
PPAR             ProjectPerformanceAssessment Report
PRSL             PolicyReform SupportLoan
SBA              Stand-ByArrangement
SFO              SpecialFinancialOperations
SOE              State-OwnedEnterprise



FiscalYear
Government:               January 1-December 31



Director-General,OperationsEvaluation                       : Mr.GregoryK.Ingram
Director, OperationsEvaluationDepartment                    : Mr.Ajay Chhibber
Task Manager                                                : Ms.Laurie Effion

I    OED Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.                  I
 About this Report
        The Operations Evaluation Department assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
 first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank's self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank's work is producingthe
 expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the dissemination
 of lessons drawn from experience.As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percent of the Bank's lending
 operations. In selecting operationsfor assessment, preference is given to those that are innovative, large, or complex;
 those that are relevant to upcomingstudies or country evaluations; those for which Executive Directors or Bank
 management have requested assessments; and those that are likelyto generate important lessons. The projects,
 topics, and analytical approaches selected for assessment support largerevaluation studies.
        A Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
 Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare PPARs,
 OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit the
 borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries.The PPAR thereby seeks to validate
 and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader OED
 studies.
        Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the
 PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary.The completed PPAR is then
 sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
 Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


 About the OED Rating System
        The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work. The
 methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or sectoral
 approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is the
 definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
 http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage. html).
        Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's current
 development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals
 (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
 Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
        Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
 account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
        Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
 opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
 Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
        Sustainability: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
 Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
        lnstitutionalDevelopmentImpact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region to
 make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a) better
 definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutionalarrangements and/or (b) better
 alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these institutional
 arrangements. InstitutionalDevelopment Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a project. Possible
 ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
        Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
 achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
 Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
        Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and supported
 implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements for regular
 operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
        Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
 quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the achievement
 of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory,
 Highly Unsatisfactory.


Contents

PrincipalRatings          ................................................................................................................    v

Key StaffResponsible              .....................................................................................................      vu..

Preface  ................................................................................................................................     ix

Summary     .............................................................................................................................      1

1 Introduction
 .                      ..................................................................................................................     3
        Social and Political ..................................................................................................                3
        Economic .................................................................................................................             3
        World Bank Group Relations with Indonesia and other Donors .............................                                               5
2 The Loans: Context,Objectives,and Design
 .                                                                                ...........................................................  6
        World Bank Assistance Strategy .............................................................................                           6
        Context for the Three Loans ....................................................................................                       7
        Loan Objectives and Design....................................................................................                         8
                                                                                                                                               8
                   Policy Reform Support Loans Iand I1.........................................................
                   Banking Reform Assistance Project ............................................................
                                                                                                                                               9
3.  ImplementationExperience                       ......................................................................................     12
        Banking Reform Assistance Project ......................................................................                              12
        Policy Reform Support Loans Iand I1...................................................................                                15

4 Outcome and Assessment
 .                                             ..........................................................................................     17
        Banking Reform Assistance Project ......................................................................                              17
        Policy Reform Support Loans Iand 11...................................................................                                21
5 Lessons
 .             ........................................................................................................................       27


Annex A BasicData Sheet
           .                               ..............................................................................................     29

Annex B List of People Met
           .                                  ...........................................................................................     33

Annex C ConditionsunderPRSLIand I1
           .                                                            ...................................................................   34




This reportwas preparedby Mr.Ashok Khanna(Consultant). who assessed these projects in January 2003.
under supervision of Ms Laurie Effron (Task Manager) Ms. RoziahBabaprovidedadministrative support.
                            .                                             .

4.1: Banking System..........................................................................................................
1-1: Key Economic Indicators .............................................................................................    4

4.2: Summaryratings for PRSL Iand I1............................................................................              18
                                                                                                                              26

Boxes
2.1:Anatomy of failed banking reform ...............................................................................           8
4.1: Measuresof Governance ............................................................................................ 24

                                                       V



  PrincipalRatings


                                               EAP Region                                 OED
~~
                                                   ICR**                    ES*                         PPAR


  Banking Reform Asst. Loan (Ln. 4255)        Nov. 28, 2001           Jan. 29, 2002                  Nov. 4, 2003
  Outcome                                     Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
  Sustainability                                  UnlikeIy                Unlikely                  Non-evaluable
  Institutional Development Impact                Modest                  Modest                        Modest
  Borrower Performance                        Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
  Bank Performance                            Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory


  Policy Reform Support Loan
  (Ln. 4368)                                  March 1, 2000           June 12, 2000                  Nov. 4, 2003
  Outcome                                       Satisfactory            Satisfactory          Moderately Unsatisfactory
  Sustainability                                 Uncertain               Uncertain                  Non-evaluable
  Institutional Development Impact                 Partial              Substantial                     Modest
  Borrower Performance                          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                Unsatisfactory
  Bank Performance                              Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory


  Second Policy Reform Support Loan
  (Ln. 4470)                                   July 26, 2000           Sept. 7, 2000                 Nov. 4, 2003
  Outcome                                       Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Unsatisfactory
  Sustainability                                    Likely            Non-evaluable                 Non-evaluable
  Institutional Development Impact                Modest                  Modest                        Modest
  Borrower Performance                          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
  Bank Performance                              Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 Unsatisfactory




  * The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of
  the Bank. The Evaluation Summary (ES) is an intermediate OED product that seeks to independently verify
  the findings of the ICR.
  ** ICRs do not include an option for moderate ratings (moderately satisfactory, moderately unsatisfactory) on
  outcomes, nor the non-evaluable rating for unsustainability.


                                              vii


Key Staff Responsible

                          ~
          Project             Task Manager/Leader      Sector Director/           Country
                                                       Sector Manager             Director
Banking Reform Asst. Loan
(Ln. 4255)
Appraisal                        Vikram Nehru          Jonathan Fiechter        Dennis de Tray
Completion                      Michael Edwards        Margery Waxman            Mark Baird
Policy Reform Support
Loan (Ln. 4368)
Appraisal                         Lloyd McKay        Pieter Bottelier (acting)  Dennis de Tray

Completion                     Lloyd McKay (field)       Homi Kharas             Mark Baird
                             Sudarshan Gooptu (HQ)
Second Policy Reform
Support Loan (Ln. 4470)
Appraisal                      Lloyd McKay (field)   Tamar Manuelyn Atinc        Mark Baird
                             Sudarshan Gooptu (HQ)          (acting)
Completion                     Lloyd McKay (field)
                              Sudarshan Gooptu (HQ)       Homi Kharas            Mark Baird


ICR for Banking Reform was preparedby Miguel Navarro-Martin, Paula Perttunen.
ICR for Policy Reform was preparedby Thang-Long Ton.
ICR for SecondPolicy Reform was preparedby Thang-Long Ton.


                                                 ix


Preface

          This is a Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) on the Indonesia:Banking
Assistance Reform Project (BRAP) for US$20 million and the Policy Reform Support Loans Iand
II(PRSL) forUS$1billionandUS$500million, respectively. JapanBankforInternational
Cooperation (JBIC) provided US$lOOmillion in co-financing for PRSL 11. This report is based on
the President's Reports for the projects, summaries o f Board discussions, legal documents, project
files, related economic and sector work, ImplementationCompletion Reports (ICRs) (prepared by
the East Asia Region) for the projects. Inaddition, discussions with Indonesianofficials, other
donors, other stakeholders, and World Bank Group staff were valuable inputs into the report.

          An Operations EvaluationDepartment (OED) missionvisited IndonesiainJanuary 2003 to
discuss the effectiveness o f Bank assistance with government officials, donors and other
stakeholders. Their cooperation and assistance in preparing this report is gratefully acknowledged.

          Regional comments were incorporated into a draft report, which was then sent to the
Government o f Indonesia; no comments were received from the government. A copy o f the report
was also sent to JBIC that co-financed PRSL II operation, and they had no comments.


                                                1


Summary

1.       Attached i s the Project Performance Assessment Report on the Indonesia: Banking
Reform AssistanceLoan (BRAP) for US$20 millionfor technical assistance; Policy
Reform Support Loan I(PRSL I)        for US$l billion; and Policy Reform Support Loan 11
(PRSL 11) for US$500 million. BRAP became effective inApril 1998 and closed inMay
2001, about seven months behindschedule, with some US$9 million canceled. PRSL I
became effective inJuly 1998 and closed on schedule inJune 1999. PRSL 11became
effective inJune 1999 and closed on schedule inOctober 1999. Japan Bank for
International Cooperation(JBIC) co-financed it with $100 million.

2.       BRAP s objective was to provide technical support to resolve Indonesia's banking
crisis and build a foundation for a sound, efficient banking systemthat would contribute to
sustained economic growth. PRSL I sought to restore macroeconomic stability and
facilitate structural adjustment to rebuildconfidence inIndonesia and restore economic
growth, while shieldingthe poor. PRSL II's objective was to consolidate economic
stabilization and deepenthe structural reforms initiated under PRSL I.

3.       Progress inmacroeconomic stabilizationhas been significant and modest economic
growth has beenrestored, although Indonesia's income per capita has not reached its pre-
crisis level. Fiscal risks arising from incomplete banking reforms remain substantial,
however, despite a fiscal cost o f bank bailouts o f more than 50 percent o f GDP. While the
banking systemhas stabilized, it remains largely under government ownership. Corporate
debt restructuringhas progressed slowly as has privatization of state enterprises.
Moreover, elements o f a strategy for resolving banking issues and financial sector
development have only recently begunto emerge. The main reforms remain incomplete.
Other reforms foreseen under PRSL Iand 11intrade, competition policy, forestry
management, governance, andprotection o fthe poor have beenmostly implemented,but
their outcomes are mixed.

4.       The outcome ofBRAP is rated as unsatisfactory and o fPRSL Iand I4 moderately
unsatisfactory. The sustainability rating for all three loans i s non-evaluable, mostly
because government's commitment to pursuingreforms inmost areas i s unclear and there
has been some backtracking on trade and competition reforms. The institutional
development impact o fBRAP i s rated as modest, because even though a new agency,
Indonesia Bank RestructuringAgency (IBRA), was established, it was plaguedby staff
and management turnover and serious governance problems for most o f BRAP 's
implementation; althoughthese aspects have improved inthe last few years (after BRAP
closed), IBRA i s due to be wound up in2004. The institutional development impact o f
PRSL Iand 11i s rated as modest for both. The Bank's performance for PRSL Ii s rated as
satisfactory, while under BRAP and PRSL 11it i s rated unsatisfactory, inpart because
quality at entry for these two loans was not good. The Bank lacked a strategy for dealing
withthe crisis and timely support from senior Bank management was inadequate.
Although government counterparts cooperated indesigningthe PRSLs and implementing
all three loans under difficult circumstances, ownership o f the main structural reforms has
beenlacking, as evidenced by slow progress incrucial areas.

                                             2


5.   The mainlessons from these loans are:

   0 Ina country withdeeplyrootedandwidespread govemance issues, and wherethe
     authorities are not committedto deep reforms, the Bank needs to have realistic
     expectations about the outcome o f its interventions. InIndonesia, the ability to
     affect fundamental reforms with adjustment and technical assistance support has
     beenlimited. The effort requires a more comprehensive and long-term approach,
     including diagnostic work and involvement o f civil society.

     The dilemma o f supporting a country incrisis is highlightedbyPRSL Iand, more
     especially, by PRSL II The Bank needs to provide the Board with a frank rationale
     for its intervention, evenwhere the rationale i s limitedto providing special shorter-
     term liquidity support for modest reforms.

   0 The experience inIndonesia highlightsthe importance of avoiding delays in
     banking crises: unless resolvedquickly and decisively, the fiscal costs mount and
     vestedinterests further impederesolution.

  0  Ina major crisis, Bank management andtop technical specialists should give
     priority to resolving issues that arise inthe context o f Bank assistance addressing
     the crisis, evenifthe vehicle for the assistanceis inthe form ofarelatively modest
     technical assistance loan.

   0 Coordination among donor agencies i s essential incountries incrisis and needs to
     be made explicit. InIndonesia, coordination was successful only after an initial
     period o f uncertainty, mainly because the IMFwas able to take the lead.

  0  The Bank's consultant fee structure and procurement rules caused delays and
     impededa rapidresponseto Indonesia's bankingcrisis, and excluded or
     discouraged the few service providers with appropriate technical expertise. These
     rules should be reviewedwith a view to allowing exceptions to policy under certain
     well-definedcircumstances.

  0  The Bank's central unit (Special Financial Operations (SFO)) enabled the Bank to
     respond to Indonesia's need for technical expertise, butthe unit was not well
     integrated into the Bank's organization and was unfamiliar with its operational
     procedures, causing bureaucratic andpractical problems. For future crisis
     response, the Bank should consider establishing a "virtual" crisis unito f specialists
     working inthe Regions, available to respond to a specific crisis inside the relevant
     regional management structure.




                                   Gregory K.Ingram
                                    Director-General
                                 Operations Evaluation

                                                   3

1. Introduction

Social and Political

1.1      In2001, Indonesia was the fourthmost populous country inthe world with a
populationo f 214 million and a per capita income o f US$680 (Atlas method). Between
1970 and 1996, the share o f Indonesia's populationliving below the poverty line had
declined from 60 percent to 11 percent; this translated into a drop inthe number of poor
from 70 to 22.2 millionby 1997. Poverty reduction was associated with impressive
improvements ineducation: universal primary education was achieved inthe early 1980s
and secondary school enrollment improvedalmost threefold between 1970 and 1996.
Basic social indicators for Indonesia, such as infant mortality, life expectancy at birth,
adult illiteracy and fertility also improved rapidlyand by 2002 were comparable with most
Asian countries, and better than for low-income countries. Duringthe financial crisis
(1997-1999), however, poverty rates more than doubled, to 27 percent in 1999, declining
again by 2002 to 16 percent.'

1.2      President Soeharto's regime heldpower firmly for over thirty two years, from 1965
to 1998. InJune 1999 the first open elections were heldand, since then, four cabinets and
two presidentshave heldoffice. Moderate religious leader Wahid emergedas the new
President in 1999 from a multiparty post-election negotiation process, but the backlash
against concentration o f power under Soeharto produceda weakened executive and an
increasingly assertive, but divided, Parliament. Vested interests, regional conflicts, and the
military's reluctance to disengage from politics raised the political temperature, impeded
consensus on political reforms, and created instability. President Wahid was impeachedin
July 2001 and Vice-president Sukarnoputri assumedthe Presidency; the country has been
relatively stable since then.

Economic

1.3      Indonesia's economic growth prior to the crisis was impressive, averaging 7
percent per annum for 25 years; per capita GNP reached US$l,100 (Atlas method) in
1997. Subsequent events showed that some o f the impressivegrowth was fragile,
however, because it was based inpart on an unhealthy expansion o f credit and an
unsustainable build up o f private sector debt.

1.4      Economic growth was broad based and labor intensive. Thus, income inequality
appears lower inIndonesiathan other ASEAN countries. Duringthe 1970s and 1980s, the
focus was on agricultural development, and because over half the population, and 80
percent o f the poor, dependedon agriculture duringthat period, its strong growthrate o f
over 4 percent per year, combined with expanded infrastructure and delivery of social
services, led to sustained poverty reduction.



' World Bank. 2003. Indonesia: MaintainingStability,Deepening Reforms. World Bank Brieffor the
ConsultativeGroup on Indonesia, Report no. 25330. Washington, D.C.: The World Bank. p. 44. Poverty
estimates for 1999 and 2002 made on the basis of Susenasdata.

                                                        4

1.5        Inthe mid-1980s, labor-intensive manufactures becamethe mainsource ofgrowth.
Trade and financial sector liberalization began in 1983,with a second round o f reform in
1988. The banking sector was opened to new private banks and foreignjoint venture
banks. Significantly, Indonesia deregulated foreign inflows to corporations, allowing
borrowing from abroad, sales o f securities to non-residents and foreign investment inthe
domestic stock market. Generally, growth was sustained without excessive reliance on
foreign savings. By the early 1990s, domestic investmentrates reached almost 30 percent
o f GNP. Prudent budgetary management avoided fiscal imbalances, aided by a balanced
budgetrule adopted in 1968,which precluded domestic financing. At the same time,
governance issues emerged, internal trade restrictions proliferated, and industry expanded
into heavily protected sectors.

1.6       The devaluationo fthe Thai Baht inJuly 1997 markedthe beginningo fthe Asian
Crisis, but it did not engulfIndonesia untilthe end o fthat year. Indeed, Indonesia's stock
market and non-oil exports peaked inJuly 1997. But when the crisis struck Indonesia, it
was virulent; economic and domestic political conditions combined to exacerbate its
impact. The proximate causes o f the crisis were the rapid increase prior to 1997 o f
unhedgedshort-term private external debt and shortcomings inIndonesia's banking
system, including connected lending, large exposures to single clients, significant non-
performing loans, and weak supervision. At the same time, Indonesia was hit by the worst
drought o f the century, a collapse inregional demand, and the lowest international oil
prices indecades. The country's weak institutions and endemic corruption amplified the
financial crisis becausethe government, inspite of considerable support from the
international financial institutions, proved unable inthe early months to deal decisively
withthe crisis and the external shocks. Finally, Soeharto's illness inDecember 1997
triggered long-standing concerns over political transition.


                                     Table 1.1 Key Economic Indicators

                                  1997          1998        1999          2000           2001            2002++

GDP Growth (an %)                   4.9         -13.0        0.3           4.9            3.3               3.4
Gross Dom. Sav./GDP                30.6         24.9        28.8          25.2           24.7              23.4
Gross Dom. Inv./GDP                30.9          15.5       20.8          14.6           17.0              19.0
Overall Budget Bal./GDP             0.9          -2.0        -1.5         -1.6           -2.7              -1.6
Current Act. Bal./GDP              -0.8          4.1         4.1           5.3            4.7               4.0
Cons. Prices (av % chg)*            6.6         58.5        20.5           3.7           11.5              11.9
Exchange Rate (REER)#              58.7         62.3        68.8          59.4           62.5              76.5
Real Interest Rate+                 8.7         -19.4        2.9           8.6            4.9               3.3
Source: Country Assistance Strategy Papers 1999,2001 and 2002.
*Indonesia: Central Bureauof Statistics; # Year EndReal Effective Exchange Rate (6/97=100), IMF (decrease indicates
depreciation);++Figuresare  for Jan-Sept; + Basedon consumer prices and 3 month SBI interest rate; latest estimates
from the Resident Mission.

1.7       Inless thantwo months, betweenend-November 1997 andend-January 1998,the
Rupiah depreciated by 75 percent against the dollar, far exceeding the exchange rate
depreciations inThailand and Korea. Inflation peaked at 80 percent. By May 1998, civil
unrest had ledto Soeharto's resignationand a new government. Thereafter, government
became more consistent intheir policies, secured debt relief from foreign creditors for the
corporate sector and from official creditors for the public sector, and began to take firmer
measuresto restructure the banking sector. Business confidence was not yet restored,

                                                     5

however, and so private investmentfailed to rebound; output continued to shrink, so that
instead o f a projectedincrease inGNP o f about 8 percent in 1998, it fell by 13 percent,
making the Indonesian crisis the worst among the East Asian countries. B y end-1998, the
situation beganto stabilize and economic growth gradually turnedpositive and inflation
came down rapidly. By 2000, the economy hadrebounded to a growth rate o f almost 5
percent, and has remained above 3 percent per year since then, drivenmainly by
consumption, fuelled by rapid increases inthe minimumwage and expanding consumer
credit. Although investmentincreased somewhat in 1999, it has not come close to
regaining its pre-crisis level (as a percent o f GDP) because o fpolitical uncertainty and
currency volatility.

1.8      Recent improvements inmacroeconomic management have ledto a slowdown in
private capital outflows and a recovery inprivate capital inflows, partly attracted by sales
o f intervenedbanks' assets, bank and telecommunications privatizations, and renewed
interest inthe stock market. These inflows strengthenedthe Rupiahthrough 2002.
Indonesia is, however, the only East Asian crisis country that has not yet reachedpre-crisis
levels: GDP remains about 10 percent below its 1997 level.

World Bank Group Relationswith Indonesiaand other Donors

1.9      Indonesia was among IBRD's biggest borrowers by the early 1990s- its share o f
all IBRD debt outstanding and disbursedexceeded 10 percent. Duringthe 1990s, lending
to Indonesia declined, partly because the government had access to large levels o f private
foreign capital, partly becausethe Bank was reaching its exposure limits and the Bank
shiftedits approach to smaller, diversifiedprojects. Indonesia's total debt outstanding to
IBRDandIDA was over $11billionin2002.'

1.10     The Bank has beenclosely associated with Indonesia's economic development and
chairs the Consultative Group for Indonesia, consisting o f some 20 bilateral and 10
multilateral organizations. With the onset o fthe crisis, the IMF assumed a larger, more
prominentrole and the Bank eventually developed a productive working relationship,
playing a key role inthe government's ExtendedArrangement with the IMF. The Bank
also works closely with the Asian Development Bank (ADB), which included
collaboration on the financial sector.




'IFC's  loans andequity investmentsoutstandingamountedto about $400 million in2001, The inhospitable
investmentpolicyenvironmentcauseda temporaryhaltto new IFC investments. It cautiously restarted
financing activities in2002, with a close watchon progress in contract enforcement. MIGA's guarantees
have continuedto be availableto potential investors. Its exposurein Indonesiawas about US$57 million in
2001.

                                               6

2.       The Loans: Context, Objectives,and Design

World BankAssistance Strategy

2.1      The objectives o fthe Bank's 1997 country assistance strategy remained broadly
unchanged from those o fthe previous 1995 strategy, focusing on macroeconomic stability;
increasing efficiency and productivity inthe public and private sectors; reducing poverty;
and sustainable management of natural resources. Although the 1997 country assistance
strategy recognizedthe potential risksto stability o f a fragile banking system, volatile
capital flows, and contagion from neighboring East Asian countries, and although it was
discussed at the Board inJuly 1997, one week after the float o fthe Thai baht, the Bank
management considered it unlikelythat all these factors would combine to produce a
severe economic shock. By mid-August,the Indonesian rupiah had lost 20 percent o f its
value, but even then, the Bank didnot revise its strategy or develop a contingency plan for
addressing the deteriorating situation. Infact, Bank Management informed the Board in
August 1997 that the contagionhadbeencontained and, given Indonesia's exemplary long
term record o f economic management, there was little cause for concern.

2.2     By October 1997 it was clear that the July assistancestrategy no longer applied,
and the Bank put together a technical assistance loanto the financial sector, discussed
below, to address some o fthe problems. Ittook untilmid-1998, however, whenthe first
large adjustment loan dealing with the crisis was presentedto the Board, for Bank
management to articulate a strategy which addressedthe unfolding crisis inmore specific
terms. The February 1999 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Progress Report focused on
restructuringthe financial and corporate sectors and providing direct support to reinforce
the social safety net, and intensifiedcoordinationwith IMF, ADB, and other donors. It
also sought to strengtheninstitutions to support sustainable development, including public
sector reform and anti-corruption measures. These strategic objectives remained
prominent inJanuary 2001 CAS and July 2002 CAS Progress Report, as the crisis abated
and macroeconomic performance improved.

2.3     Bank staff were aware o f the potential country risk for a few years prior to the
crisis. The Bank had beeninvolved inIndonesia's financial sector through project lending
and were familiar with the banking system's precarious state. The IMF had carried out
portfolio reviewso f 62 private banks in 1994 and concluded that 26 were insolvent and
that Bank Indonesia (BI) supervision was inadequate. Moreover, bank insolvencies had
occurred between 1993 and 1996. Thus, between 1994 and 1996,a series of Bank and
IMFmissions raised concerns over the deep structural distortions inIndonesia's banking
system.

2.4     These financial sector issues and country risk factors were mentioned inseveral
Consultative Group meetingsand Country Economic Memorandabetween 1995 and 1997.
Giventhat problems inIndonesia's financial sector were well known, the Bank was
relatively ill-preparedto respond to the crisis with any sort o f comprehensive approach to
the badly-needed financial sector restructuring. The absence o f a contingency plan prior to
the crisis and ofa strategic approach to financial sector development following its onset
were two significant weaknesses inthe Bank's assistance strategy for Indonesia over the
period 1995-2002.

                                                 7

Context for the Three Loans

2.5        Indonesia's crisis started as contagion from developments inThailand inthe
summer of 1997,but escalatedrapidly and continued well into 1999,partly because o f
large capital outflows and financial sector weakness, and partly becausethe government
failed to act decisively and consistently to reassurethe markets.

2.6        InNovember 1997,the IMF announced a $38 billionbailout package for
Indonesia, and as part o f this package, approved a three-year stand-by arrangement (SBA)
for $10 billion. The Bank committed $4.5 billionto the package, the ADB $3.5 billionand
other donors the remaining amount. The operations under review inthis assessmentwere a
part o f this large support package.

2.7        The initial IMF assistanceprogram was designedonthe assumptionthat
Indonesia's economic problems were moderate and could be addressedthrough relatively
conventional means: appropriate fiscal and monetary policy and financial sector reforms
involving closure o f the weakest banks. The expectation that growth would quickly
reboundto its pre-crisis level proved to be overly optimistic, however, because the extent
o f the underlyingproblems was vastly underestimated.

2.8        Problems o f corruption and cronyism inthe corporate sector and weak governance,
poor portfolio quality, and weak supervision inthe financial sector proved too deep-seated
to be resolved by quick reforms. InOctober 1997,the Bank, the IMF and ADB examined
banks representingsome 85 percent o fthe banking system and, on the basis o f poor data
from BI, concluded that (only) some 50 banks out o f 238 requiredinterventions. In
negotiations with the BI, however, agreement was reached to close only 16 banks. These
closures were announced inNovember 1997. Not only did this fail to stem the problems,
butwithina monthmost ofthe remainingbanks were experiencing runs, the Rupiahhad
depreciated by about 40 percent from its July 1997 level, there were no signs o f an
economic rebound, and the crisis had taken on political as well social dimensions. Inearly
December, President Soeharto became illand ethnic riots had broken out. It was clear that
the crisis haddeeper roots andwas more widespread than inother Asian countries. In
December 1997,inthe midst o f this deepeningcrisis, the Bank approved the Banking
Reform Assistance Project (BRAP).

2.9        InJanuary 1998,the IMFand government negotiated a revisedprogram, withmore
relaxed fiscal targets, more specific and time-bound conditions, and a more comprehensive
approach to the banking sector, including the creation o fthe Indonesian Bank
RestructuringAgency (IBRA). Once again, however, liquidity support for banks, tardy
structural measures, reversals o f deregulation and liberalization measuresby well-
connected individuals, and the failure to address the large external indebtednesso f private
f i r m s ledthe program off-course. Public pronouncements by President Soeharto against
the IMF conditions created uncertainty ininternational financial markets. The economic
downturn deepenedand inflation accelerated. Still another, more comprehensive program
was formulated with the IMF inApril 1998; with the economy spiraling into a cycle o f
currency depreciation and inflation, the main objective o f this IMFprogram was currency
stabilization. The program also sought to limit the decline inoutput and protect the poor
from the effects o f the crisis. Policies included tight monetary policy, higher interest rates

                                                  8

and an adjusted fiscal framework to allow for bank restructuringand social protection
costs. Itwas inthis context that the first Policy Reform Support Loan (PRSL I)         was
negotiated.


  Box2.1: Anatomy of Failed BankingReform

  The first wave of bank closureswas poorlyhandledon severalcounts. First and most important,
  there was no comprehensive and agreedstrategy for addressingsystemic weaknesses inthe
  bankingsystem. As a result, Government and well-connectedindividualswere able to reverse or
  underminethe reformefforts. The President's family immediatelychallenged the legality of
  closingone of its banks andone ofhis sons bought a small bank andtransferredthe assets ofthe
  closed bankto the newlycreatedone. Second, the absence ofreliable informationabout the true
  state ofbanks ledto an underestimateof how widespreadthe problemswere; and the extent and
  impact ofpoor governance and corruptionwere not fully appreciated. Third, communicationwith
  the publicwas poorlyhandled. The government announceda guarantee for depositsupto $6,000
  inthe 16closedbanks,butno announcementwas madeaboutthe coveragefor depositsinother
  banks. As government also initially issueda statementthat further bank closings would occur if
  andwhen other banksbecame insolvent, it was unclear whether andhow depositors would have
  access to their funds, leadingto considerable concernby the public. Then, the Government
  reversedposition,and announcedthat there would be nomorebank closures. Inaddition, as the
  process of bank closure hadbeenhandledina non-transparentway, there was understandably
  widespreadpublic concernthat the criteriafor closingbankswere unclear; other seemingly equally
  troubledbankswere allowedto stay open. Hence, the attemptedclosure of 16 banks ledto lack of
   confidence inthe bankingsystem, and, ultimately,to bank runs.


2.10    Civil unrest ledto President Soeharto's resignation on May 21, 1998. Economic
activity was disrupted, banking paralyzed, and food prices soared. By July 1998, when the
PRSL was approved by the Bank, the Rupiah had dropped to an all-time low against the
dollar, with a cumulative depreciation o f 85 percent from one year before. Restorationof
economic activity and improving the social safety net became key priorities.

2.11    InAugust 1998, the IMFnegotiated another programwiththe newgovernment
formed under President Habibie. Boththe corporate sector andpublic sector secured debt
relief and the government began to address more decisively the underlyingstructural
problems. Price stability was gradually re-established andthe Rupiah appreciated inthe
latter half o f 1998, although output continuedto decline and businessconfidence and
private investmentwere slow to recover. By mid-1999, when the second Policy Reform
Support Loan (PRSL 11) was approved, the worst o fthe economic crisis was over, but
significant structural and governance issues remained.

Loan Objectives and Design

Banking Reform AssistanceProject

2.12    The Banking Reform Assistance Project (BRAP, $20 million) was approved by the
Board inDecember 1997. It was intendedto be the first part o f the Bank's $2 billion
commitment to respond to the Indonesiancrisis, but it took longer than expected (and

                                                      9

longer than inother East Asian countries3)for the Bank and the government to agree on the
reforms to be supported with large adjustment lending and for adequateprogress to be
made to present the loan for Board approval. As a result, between October 1997 when the
depth o fthe problems inIndonesia was acknowledged and July 1998, the BRAP was the
only Bank-funded operation inIndonesiato address crisis related issues. Relative to the
scope o f support needed, it was a modest effort, prepared inthe absence o f a large
comprehensive framework (para. 2.2).

2.13     BRAP's objectives were to assist the government to resolve the financial crisis and
build a foundation for a sound, efficient banking system that would contribute to sustained
economic growth. The technical assistance financed by the project was to: (a) evaluate
financially troubled private banks' portfolios and designrehabilitationplans; (b)
restructure state-owned banks to improve their efficiency; (c) strengthenBI's regulatory
and supervision capacity; and (d) conduct a diagnostic reviewo f the legal and institutional
infrastructure for financial sector development. The Secretariat o f the Monetary Board, the
institution responsible for coordinating financial sector reforms inIndonesia, was the
executing agency for BRAP.

2.14     As the project was prepared quickly inresponse to the emerging crisis, its design
and specific components were not discussed with government counterparts, who were in
fact not yet identifiedevenby the time the project was presentedto the Board. Inaddition,
the division o f responsibilitiesbetweenthe Bank, IMF and ADB hadnot been clarified.
Thus, the design was intentionally flexible, to evolve with changing circumstances. For
example, once IBRA was created inJanuary 1998 to restructure banks and resolve bad
bank assets, the focus on building capacity under BRAP shiftedfrom BIto IBRA even
before BRAP was declared effective.

Policy Reform SupportLoans Iand 11

2.15     At the time ofthe Board discussion o fBRAP, Bank management informed the
Board that it intendedto put inplace both a financial sector operation and a Structural
Adjustment Loan.4 Inthe event, a Policy Reform Support Loan (PRSL I,$1 billion) was
approved inJuly 1998 which combined support for macroeconomic management and
reformingthe financial sector. Its main objective was to support Indonesia's efforts to
rebuildconfidence and quickly restore rapid economic growth, while shieldingthe poor.
The first tranche o f $600 millionwas to be disbursedon effectiveness immediately after
approval, and the second tranche o f $400 million, after twelve conditions were met.

2.16     The first tranche actions included:
         (a) measures to increase efficiency inthe public sector and preventan
             unsustainably large fiscal deficit, involving deferringor cancelingpublic
             investmentsand government subsidiesfor corporations;


 In Thailand and Korea, the Bank-funded technical assistance projects either followed adjustmentlending or
were followed within three months with a series o f adjustment loans.
 World Bank. 1999. Indonesia Country AssistanceNote, Report no. 19100. Washington, D.C.: The World
Bank. p. 9.

                                               10

       (b) reforms to rebuildan effective and competitive financial sector; these include
           portfolio reviews o f all banks carried out by internationally recognized firms,
           and revisedprudential norms;

       (c) actions to raise private sector efficiency and improve governance, including
           tariff reduction on 2000 items; liberalizationo f cement marketing; and
           elimination o f a wide range o f trade restrictions, including: special privileges
           for the national car program, import monopolies on key commodities such as
           wheat, sugar, and soybean, export taxes on selected items, the export cartel for
           plywood, inter and intra provincial trade restrictions, the monopoly on clove
           marketing, and restrictions on foreign investmentinoil palm plantations and in
           wholesale and retail trade; and

       (d) programs to shieldthe poor from the effects ofthe crisis, includingprice
           subsidies on selected food items and expansion o f labor intensivepublic works.

2.17   The second tranche release conditions (listed inAnnex C) focused on strengthening
the implementation ofthe measuresbegununderthe first tranche. The twelve conditions
included:

       (a) maintaining a sound macroeconomic framework;

       (b) increasing public efficiency and transparency inpublic sector management and
           maintaining discipline inpublic expenditurethrough: carrying out a public
           expenditure and investmentreviewand adopting an action plan for
           recommendations emerging from the review; adopting guidelines for private
           participation ininfrastructure; identifying seven public enterprises to be
           privatizedby March 31, 1999 and another five that will be prepared for
           privatizationby that date;

       (c) continuing to rebuildthe financial sector while containing further bank losses
           andprotecting corporate losses; this requiredthe completion o f the portfolio
           reviews ofbanks under IBRA,establishing an independentcommittee to
           oversee IBRA; and defining Government's role inrestructuringprivate
           corporate debt; and

       (d) improving governance and transparency, increasing competition, and creating a
           more market-friendlypolicy environment. Specific actions were proposed for
           the forestry sector, including a system o fresource use ofroyalties and reducing
           export taxes on forestry product exports; reducing export controls on palm oil;
           liberalizing clove marketing; assure a level playing field for private importers
           (incommodities other thanrice) andBULOG, the commodity import agency;
           and adopting an actionplan for introducing legislation on competition and
           corporate restructuring.

2.18   PRSL 11was presentedto the Board inMay 1999 as a single tranche operation for
$500 million, to be disbursedupon loan effectiveness, co-financed by Japan Bank for
International Cooperation (JBIC) for $100 million. The objectives were to consolidate
economic stabilization and protect physical and human assets duringthe crisis. It sought to

                                                11

deepenreforms initiatedunderPRSL I,particularly those focusing on the financial sector
and governance. These objectives would be achieved by eighteen conditions relating to:

        (a) good macroeconomic management to consolidate stabilization and realign
            public expendituresto fundprograms that alleviate poverty;

        (b) reformingthe banking sector and facilitating corporate and debt restructuring
            by: empowering IBRA both legally and financially; transferring bank assets to
            an Asset Management Unit;closing 38 banks; nationalizing 7 others;
            recapitalizing 9 banks; and merger o f 4 state banks; facilitating corporate
            restructuring; and establishing the Jakarta Initiative Task Force (JITF) to
            facilitate out o f court settlements o f corporate debt; and

        (c) enacting laws to prosecute corruption and exercise o f market power;
            decentralization o f administrative and fiscal powers; implementingforestry
            reforms to increase the efficiency o f private and public sector activities;
            publishing a master plan for state-owned enterprise (SOE) reform; and issuing
            environmental regulations.

2.19    Itcanbe argued, however, that PRSLIIeffectiveness conditions (Annex C for
details) were diffuse and insome areas, relatively weak. Except for the group o f eight
conditions concentrated on bank and corporate restructuring, the other ten conditions
touched on a wide range o f areas: macroeconomic stability, social safety nets, state owned
enterprise reform, corruption, forestry, energy sector, decentralization, competition law,
and the environment. O f these, social safety nets were already covered inmore detail
underthe concurrent Social Safety NetAdjustment Loan and one ofthe forestry conditions
(on export taxes) had already been a condition under PRSL Ithat had purportedly been
met. Inaddition, conditionality for state enterprise reform (a master plan), corruption,
decentralization, and oil and gas (draft laws to be submittedto Parliament) required
detailed follow through to have any impact. Inthe absence o f follow up operations, the
Bank's approach to these reforms under PRSL IIcan thus be considered somewhat
superficial.

2.20    O fthe eight conditions inPRSL IIrelatingto bank and corporate restructuring, at
least two (the establishment o fthe JITF and legal empowerment o f IBRA)had occurred by
October 1998, well before the release o f the second tranche o fPRSL I,Inaddition, by the
time PRSLIIwas negotiatedinApril 1999, itwas clear that boththe speed and
transparency o fthe bank restructuring were problematic (paras. 3.4-3.9, and by
establishing numeric targets for bank restructuring (inthree conditions), the PRSL II
conditionality addressed only the first o fthese problems. The weaknesses indesignmay
have beena consequence o fthe Bank's earlier commitment to participate ina rescue
package for Indonesia following the crisis, a commitment which reduced its leverage in
terms o f loan amount, conditionality, andtiming. This, inturn, raises the larger issue o f
the most appropriate role for the Bank intimes o f crisis.

2.21    PRSL IIprocessing had one unusual feature. To protect against the possibility that
the loanproceeds mightbe ill-usedbythe government to influence the upcoming elections
inJune 1999,the WorldBank requested andreceiveda letter from the Government,
indicating that the loan funds would not be useduntilafter end-June. The request by the

                                               12

Bank for such a letter highlightsthe pressures to make such loans incrisis situations, under
conditions o f poor governance. Had such pressures beenabsent, the Bank could have
waited another monthuntilthe elections were over to approve the loan. The request for a
comfort letter shows the extreme time pressure to lend, possibly to signal markets and
creditors, and the attempt by the Bank to seek risk mitigation o f a "second-best" kind.


3.      ImplementationExperience

BankingReformAssistance Project

3.1     BRAP became effective inApril 1998 and closed on May 9,2001, about seven
months behindschedule. At closing, about $11million or 55 percent o f the original loan
amount was disbursed,the remainder canceled at government's request.

3.2     At the outset, BRAP was beset with problems. After loan approval, government
decided to create a new agency, IBRA,to address bank restructuring, rather to rely on BI,
and thus the focus of BRAP shiftedto support for IBRA. Ittook some four months for the
government to nominate a project manager, which was a condition for loan effectiveness,
and duringthis time the economy, political situation, and social fabric continued to spiral
downward (paras. 2.8-2.   lo), deepeningthe banking   crisis which BRAP was to help
address. After effectiveness inApril 1998, implementation suffered from IBRA's lack o f
formal legal status, inadequate financial resources, unclear responsibilities, frequent
management turnover, and changing board membersand government officials.
Discussions among the Bank, IMF, and ADB on division o f responsibilitiesinthe financial
sector had implications for the focus o f the project and thus further delayed its effective
start up. By mid-1998, once it was agreed that the IMF would take the lead incapacity
development inBI and changes inbanking laws, BRAP resources were concentrated on
two o f the original four objectives, evaluating and rehabilitating private banks and
restructuring state owned banks. These two components eventually used89 percent o f
disbursedfunds, the remaining 11percent beingusedfor technical assistancedirectly to
IBRA (para. 3.9).

3.3     The first component, focusing on private banks, financed AgreedDueDiligence
Procedures (ADDP) and the evaluation o f businessplans by international audit firms in
about 40 banks. Inparallel, the ADB financed due diligence reviews on other banks so
that virtually every significant bank, over 100altogether, was subject to such a review.

3.4      The findings o fthe ADDPs were to be usedas the basis for deciding between
recapitalizationand closure. Inaddition, an inter-ministerial committee was established to
supervise the process using transparent and consistent measures for medium-termbank
viability. Nevertheless, those involved inthe process notedthat ethnicity (Chinese versus
Indonesian) and political pressures played a role inthe selection o f the eight banks to be
recapitalized. BRAP also financed technical assistance to help draw up the investmentand
management contracts which were part o f the recapitalization process.

3.5     By mid 1999, after further delays due to continued changes ingovernment officials
and IBRA management, the BI, IBRA, and the Ministryo f Finance eventually reached

                                                   13

consensus on closing 50 banks andnationalizing 12 others. As part o f this process, IBRA
acquired the non-performing loans (NPLs) and other assets o fthe closed, restructured, and
recapitalizedbanks. Giventhe substantial value o f assets that eventually came under its
control (at its peak, it controlled some $60 billion innominal value), IBRA was subject to
political pressures, other external influences, and law suits, and there were growing
concerns about its internal controls and accounting practices, particularly after the Bank
Bali scandal emerged inAugust 1999.5 As a result, and although an Oversight Committee
had beenestablished at the end o f 1998 (as a condition o fPRSL 0,an Operational
Governance Reviewand Reform Program (OGRRP) was launched inlate 1999 to
strengthenIBRA's internal and external governance, which BRAP was asked to help fund.
The program was, however, ultimately funded from IBRA's own resources.6

3.6      Once IBRA hadtaken control o f intervenedbank assets, BRAP focused on
supporting IBRA to improve its capacity for transparent asset disposition. O f the NPLs
acquired by IBRA, 96 percent was heldby 2 percent o f the debtors, the remainder being
small loans (under Rp 5 billion, or roughly $600,000). IBRA's tasks thus included
auctioning the small loans, restructuring large loans through a lengthy seven step process,
institutinglegal actions against recalcitrantdebtors, and settingup an asset investigation
and tracing unit to find and document bank fraud.'

3.7      IBRAhasbeenslow to recover loans. Although it metits debtrecoverytargets in
2000 and 2001, it did so mainly by loan collections, rather than loan and other asset
disposal. This was worrying, because the ultimate objective was to returnloans to the
private sector, and reduce the fiscal cost and govemment's role inthe banking system. In
2002 (after BRAP closed), IBRA auctioned some Rp. 80 trillion (about $8.6 billion) o f
small loans, yielding a 27 percent recovery rate. Nevertheless, some IBRA sales allegedly
allowed debtors to buy back their loans at a steep discount through thirdparties, against its
rules, raising further concerns about transparency.8 The large loans are still inthe process
o f beingrestructured, and as a result o f the complexity and time requiredto resolve these
loans (para 4.1S), IBRA remains the largest single creditor inIndonesia, with a book value
o f $16 billioninloan assets as o f end-2002, representingsome 20 percent o ftotal
corporate debt classified as non-performing.

3.8      The second component o fBRAP involved support for restructuringthe state
banking sector. BRAP financed technical assistance to draft the terms o freference for,
participate inthe selection process of, and reviewthe diagnostic process o f the banks (but


 Bank Bali was under IBRA's control when it was foundto have paidover $75 millionto an Indonesianfirm
to collect on debts heldby IBRA but guaranteedby government. The scandalcreatedmajor internalpolitical
problems,was another blow to restoringinternationalconfidence, and causedWorld Bank lendingto be
suspended for some months, untilthe end o f FYOO.
 The Bank couldnot fund the selectedconsultantbecauseofBank rules concerningconflictof interest
(consultantswere not allowedto take on assignmentswhose terms of referencethey hadhelpeddraft).
7The BRAP was askedto fund technicalassistance to this forensic unit, establishedin2000, but delays inthe
Bank inapprovingterms o freferenceand changes inIBRA senior managementdelayedthe process andthe
function was ultimatelytransferredto the Attorney General's office.
 The issuehereis not whether debtorsboughtbacktheir loans, a practicethat occurselsewhere,but that it
shouldhave beendonetransparently.

                                               14

did not finance the diagnostic work itself). Inlate 1998, Bank Mandiri was created by a
merger o f four state-owned banks (BBD, Bapindo, BDNandEXIM) and their NPLs were
transferred to IBRA's Asset Management Credit (AMC). The state-owned banks were
eventually recapitalizedwith fixed rate government bonds in2000, at a cost that accounted
for some 60 percent of total bank recapitalizationcosts. Inaddition, management
performance contracts were signed, which established a strategy for each public bank and
charted an extensive restructuringprogram to improve credit practices, risk management,
and internal controls. The Ministry o f Finance established a monitoring unit, supported by
bilateraltechnical assistance, to track compliance with the contracts. Although the unit i s
functioning and issuingmonthly reports, its mandate i s limitedto reporting, and it has no
clear responsibilities for monitoring governance, audits, or preparation for privatization.

3.9      BRAP's third and fourth components were not implemented, as noted above
(para 3.2). Inaddition to the specific activities listedabove (mainly the due diligence
reviews o f banks), BRAP also fundedlegal advice covering IBRAand its Asset
Management Unit (AMU),9recapitalizationtransactions, and draft InvestmentAgreements,
and provided support to IBRA innegotiations.

3.10     BRAP sufferedthroughout its implementationfrom frequent changes inofficials,
IBRAmanagement, and IBRA staff. Betweenthe time BRAP became effective and its
closing, Indonesia had four presidentsand almost twice as many cabinets; because o f the
deepeningcrisis, key government counterparts were undertremendous strain and not
focused on technical and detailed issues involving bank restructuring. IBRAhad seven
chairmen and the staff inIBRA responsible for BRAP changed several times and hadno
initial knowledge o f government procurement and financial management regulations or
World Bank operations and procedures. Inaddition, the BRAP task managers from the
Bank had no previous experience inmanaging Bank projects, which added to delays.

3.11     Moreover, qualified consultants with experience infinancial crisis resolution were
scarce and expensive and many were occupied with similar assignments inThailand,
Malaysia, and Korea. The Bank's and Trust Funds' compensation limits were inadequate
to attract qualified consultants and procurement rules on conflict o f interest sometimes
precluded hiringotherwise eligible consultants or resultedinfirms' unwillingnessto accept
assignments. Consequently, procurement under BRAP took a long time, especially inthe
early and most acute stage o f the crisis.

3.12     Most important, however, was the absence throughout BRAP's implementation o f a
comprehensive approach and a clear government commitment to financial sector
restructuring. BRAP was an $11million input into the efforts to resolve a crisis that
involved hundredso f billions o f dollars o f assets, about 100banks, scores o f corporations
and well-connected individuals, and touched on many legal, institutional, business, and
governance issues that could not be resolvedby BRAP alone. Had BRAP beenpart o f a
large, integrated, and sustained effort, it might have beenimplementedmore smoothly and
with greater success.



 The AMU was establishedinIBRA to manage investmentinbankstakenover; this is separatefrom the unit
establishedinIBRA (AMC) to managethe non-performingloans.

                                                       15

Policy ReformSupport Loans Iand I1

3.13     PRSLI became effective inJuly 1998 andclosed on schedule inJune 1999. The
first tranche o f US$600 millionwas released upon effectiveness and the second tranche o f
US$400 million was released inFebruary 1999, upon fulfillment o fthe agreed conditions.
The government complied with all loan covenants, although several conditions were met
somewhat later than originally expected. PRSL 11became effective inJune 1999 and
closed on schedule inDecember 1999. It was a one tranche operation and the full loan
amount ofUS$500 millionwas released upon effectiveness.

3.14     Macroeconomic Stability: The period prior to PRSL approval was characterized by
a series of IMF programs,with which the Bank had beenclosely associated, whose only
visible outcomes were worsening macroeconomic indicators, causedby inconsistent
measures, policy reversals, andpolitical upheaval (paras. 2.8 - 2.11). By the time the
PRSL was approved inmid-1998, restoringmarket confidence had become even more
difficult than six months earlier: there was a lack of public support, and the IMF and Bank
had lost credibility inthe market as well as leverage with the government.

3.15     Duringthe PRSL IandPRSLIIimplementationperiodfrom mid-1998 to end-1999,
a soundmacroeconomic framework was gradually restored. The government managedto
maintain a cautious monetary policy and a prudent fiscal balance, eventhoughthe
international economic environment was improving and the government could have been
temptedto relax these policies. Since 2000, beyondthe period of PRSL IIimplementation,
fiscal consolidation has continued, with budget deficits remaining consistently below
projections, although contingent liabilities o f the banking system may underminethis
discipline inthe future."

3.16     Increasing Public Sector Efficiency: As agreed under PRSL I,a Public Expenditure
Reviewwas completed in 1998 andthe government incorporated most of its
recommendations inits FY98/99 budget: public investmentswere deferred or canceled;
the InvestmentFundwas incorporated into the budget; and support for the airplane
manufacturer was discontinued. Further sector dialogue contributedto preparingthe
FY99/00 budget, andprocedures for biddingand project evaluation were issuedto improve
competition and transparency, especially for private sector participation ininfrastructure,
as agreed, although to date there has been little progress inattracting private investors into
infrastructure.

3.17     UnderPRSLI,government was to identify at least sevenpublic enterprises to be
privatized by March 1999 and another five to be prepared for privatization by that date;
government was also to adopt a plan to sell its shares of companies listedon the Jakarta
stock exchange. UnderPRSL II,it was to publisha master plan for SOE reforms.
Government met all o fthese conditions, inthe sense that it did identify the twelve
enterprises to be privatized or preparedfor privatization by March 1999; announced a plan
to divest shares infive listed state-owned companies, and publisheda master plan for SOE



loInPRSL ZZ, fiscal deficits were projected for FYOO, 01, and 02 at 5.8, 5.0, and 2.0 percent of GDP,
respectively; in fact, fiscal deficitswere well below, at 1.6,2.7, and 1.6 percent, respectively.

                                              16

reforms. Actual privatizationhas beenquite slow, however, because o f widespread
opposition and depressedmarket conditions (para. 4.17).

3.18    Banking Reforms and Corporate Sector Restructuring: With support from the
Bank under BRAP, and from ADB, the government completed comprehensive portfolio
reviewsofbanks under IBRA's supervision, as agreedunderPRSLI,and also carried out
due diligence reviews oftwo state banksand 15private banks not under IBRA supervision.
Government set up an independentreview committee, as agreed under PRSL I,to provide
oversight to IBRA, although within six months a major scandal emerged involving IBRA,
requiring additional measuresto strengthengovernance (para. 3.5). To enable bank
restructuringto proceed, Government set up an Asset Management Unit inIBRA, as
stipulated under PRSL 11,so that IBRA could proceed with the closure, nationalization,
recapitalization, and/or merger o f banks (paras. 3.5-3.7). Nevertheless, progress was slow
and uneven(paras. 3.7, 3.8, 3.10).

3.19    A major factor inbanking reform was, and remains, restructuringcorporate debt.
To address this critical area, PRSL Ihad stipulated that government establish an
appropriate framework for its participationinrestructuring private corporate debt, and
conditions for PRSL 11had specified further specific actions (changes inlaws, regulations,
administrative procedures, and tax treatment). The government met these conditions. To
give further impetusto the process, the Jakarta Initiative Task Force (JITF) was created
and supportedby the Bank under another technical assistance project, to mediate between
debtors and creditors and to provide incentives to reach out-of-court settlements, thereby
also limitingpublic sector cost. The process has nevertheless beencumbersome and slow
(para. 4.16). Government also established the Indonesian Debt Restructuring Agency
(INDRA)to eliminate foreign exchange risk on future debt service paymentsby
Indonesian companies. The agency had only one client, however, and closed operations in
mid-2000.

3.20    Improving Competition. A numbero f wide-ranging reforms were introduced to
increase competition among marketers, exporters, and importers. Quantitative export
controls on palm oil were eliminated and export taxes were reduced to a maximum o f 40
percent by the time o f second tranche release, as agreed underPRSL I; they were to have
come down further to 10 percent by December 1999 (after tranche release), but infact have
beenreduced further to 5 percent. The clove marketing board was abolished, as agreed,
andwith internal trade allowed at unregulated prices, the market price for cloves hadrisen
substantially by early 1999. PRSL Iconditionality concerning BULOG (the National
Logistics Agency that hadthe monopoly for importing rice and other grains, soybeans, and
sugar) was respected, and it withdrew from all commodities other than rice, laying the
foundation for competition inimports by private companies. UnderPRSL I,government
allowed foreign investors into wholesale and retail trade in 1998, and promoting further
competition under PRSL II,an anti-monopoly and competition policy was approved by
Parliament inFebruary 1999, and a Commission was establishedto implementthe law.
Since then, however, there has been some backtracking (para. 4.21).

3.21    Improving Governance, Transparency, and EfJiciency. UnderPRSL 11,draft laws
were submittedto Parliament for: the Evaluation o f Corruption Criminal Acts that would
increase penalties for those convicted; the establishment o f a commission for investigating

                                              17

alleged corruption inthe public sector; Fiscal Equalizationbetweenthe central and
regional governments (to establish decentralized service delivery); and a competition law
for Oil and Natural Gas, to attract private investmentinto exploration and production, with
the aim ofencouraging competitionandensuringopen access inkey infrastructure. All of
these laws were eventually passed, but with the exception o f decentralization, most had
limited impact (paras. 4.22-4.24).

3.22    The conditions under PRSL Ito improveforest management were substantially
complied with. A rational system o f forestry resource royalties had beenintroduced (it
was a condition o f second tranche release, but had beendone inMay 1998, prior to PRSL
approval), and export tax rates on logs, sawn timber, and rattan hadbeenreducedintwo
steps to 20 percent. Amendments to forestry regulations were made inJanuary 1999 which
went beyondPRSL's second tranche conditions (to establish a framework for sound
forestry management), such that forestry concessions could be sold andthe buyer neednot
commit to developing a processing facility. The concession periodwas lengthenedand
concession performance bonds introduced as an instrumento f compliance with regulations.
Inaddition, a consultative group was establishedto elicit public recommendations for
solving problems inforestry. The biggest single probleminthe sector, however, has been
the illegal logging, and these measuresdid not address this (para. 4. 25).

3.23    Environment: Under PRSL 11,rules to implementthe Environment Management
Law were issued for Hazardous Waste Management and Marine Pollution Control. An
Inter-AgencyCommittee o fministerswas establishedto develop an action planfor
reducing air pollution from petroleum fuels.

3.24    Social Safety Net; The PRSL 11condition covering social safety nets was detailed
more thoroughly ina concurrent social sector adjustment loan. The government doubled
the subsidy allocations (from 3.1 percent o f GDP inthe FY98 budget to 6.2 percent in
FY99, including food subsidies, grants, labor intensive public works) and expandedpublic
expendituresfor healthand education. Progress indeveloping a system for monitoring
social indicators was slow, however. The Bank, with support from UNDP and several
NGOs, launched a Social Sector Monitoring and Early Response Unit with research staff
throughout Indonesia. It produceduseful reports and newsletters.

4.      Outcome andAssessment

BankingReformAssistance Project

4.1     Relevance. BRAP objectives were consistent with the Bank's country and sector
assistance strategies and goals, and duringits implementation, the assistanceprovided by
BRAP helpedIBRA to address restructuringneeds o f the bankingsystem.

4.2     Outcome. The bankingsystem's consolidation has continued, with the number o f
banks down to 145 inMarch 2002 from 237 at the time o f the crisis. Their reported
Capital Adequacy Ratio at the end o f August 2002 was a strong 23.2 percent, although this
reflects the leading banks' low volume o f loans (risk-weightedassets under BIS rules),
rather thanthe overall health of the bankingsystem (para. 4.4). Credit outstanding has
increased recently, but from very low levels.

                                                       18



                                      Table 4.1: Banking System

                                         June 1997        March 2002            (%) Market Share

Private Banks                                160              80                      40.0
Foreign and Joint Venture Banks               43              34                       10.0
State Owned Banks                              7               4                      }47.1
IBRA
Regional Development Banks                    27              26
                                                               5                      12.9
Total                                       237               145                      100

Source: Prof. Dr.A. Nasution's presentation at NBERconference on Indonesia, August 2000; Bank Indonesia
Booklet 2002; and Resident Mission estimates.

4.3      Nevertheless, inspite of substantial technical assistance from BRAP, as well as
from other Bank operations, the IMF and ADB, Indonesia's financial sector problems
remain substantially unresolved, more than five years after the crisis began. The banking
sector remains largely ingovernment hands, with some 70 percent o f deposits under
government control. Although IBRA has recently beenmeetingits targets for sale o f
banks, asset disposal has beenslow, and large loans remain mired incomplex proceedings.
Inthe recapitalized banks, government bonds averageabout 65 percent ofassets, andthe
banks thus remain highly dependent on interest income from these bonds. Furthermore,
their tepidperformance has affected their marketability, and sellingholdings inthese banks
has beendifficult and slow. For example, as part o f the SBA with the IMF, the
government agreed to divest a majority stake inBank Central Asia (BCA) andNiaga
during2001, butthe transactions could not be completed untila year later, in2002.''

4.4      All banks suffer from narrow or evennegative margins, weakeningtheir fragile
capital base. At the end o f 2001,for example, some banks, eventhose recapitalized, could
not meet BI's capital adequacy requirements. Although the government i s committed to
designing a divestment strategy for the state banks," it may needto consolidate the
banking system still further, possibly bringing evenmore o f it under its control. Further
measures may be necessary to make the banks under government control fully viable, both
financially and operationally. Governance issues remain largely unresolvedand there
appears to be little appetite for enforcing discipline. The government recently reviewed
compliance o f former bank owners with their settlement agreements with IBRA and the
President instructed IBRAto release and discharge compliant former bank owners from
their obligations. No actionhas beentaken against recognized defaulters. As ofearly
2003, the government had only started to draft legislationfor a consolidated financial
supervisory regulator and begunbuildingthe prerequisites for a self-funding deposit
insurance scheme to substitutefor the existingblanket guarantee. Bank supervision
remains weak.



  BCA was sold to a foreign group, and IBRA retained 9 percent. A majority holding inNiaga was sold to a
Malaysian bank; IBRAretained 49 percent. Danamon, Lippo, BII and Permata, the biggest remaining banks
inIBRA's portfolio, are slated for privatization in2003. Ifthese transactions are completed on schedule,
IBRA will have divested all sizeable banks in its portfolio before its liquidation in 2004.

I'Including Bank Mandiri, Indonesia's largest bank as measured by deposits and loans, which is slated for
privatization in 2003.

                                                19

4.5     Evaluatingthe outcome o fBRAP inlight o f its originally stated objectives i s
difficult becausethe project was intentionally flexible, and the objectives shifted,
appropriately so, inlight o fthe changing circumstances and agreements on the role o f
other donors. It accomplished part o f its first objective, evaluating troubled private banks.
Itaccomplished amodified thirdobjective, strengtheningIBRA (rather thanBIas
originally included). Its fourth objective (reviewing legal infrastructure for finance) was
dropped entirely. Butthe heart o f the project became focused on helpingIBRAto
restructure public banks (second objective), and, inaddition, to rehabilitate private banks,
dispose o f assets o f these intervenedbanks, and privatize or re-privatize the banks under its
control. As described above, although IBRA has beenselling banks according to targets,
the basic objective remains largely unmet. Thus, BRAP s outcome is rated unsatisfactory,
similar to OED's Evaluation Summary rating.

4.6     Sustainability. BRAP was designedto provide technical assistance to the
Indonesiangovernment infinancial crisis resolution and restructuring. The sustainability
o f whatever benefits have emerged depends on the government's commitment and ability
to carry through the reforms. The current government appears more committedthan
previous ones to staying the course, and i s developing a strategy for the financial system,
which i s still weak and substantially government owned. Privatizationhas been slow and,
for individual banks, incomplete and governance remains problematic. IBRA i s due to be
liquidated in2004, and decisions have not yet beentaken on how assets still under its
control will be handled. It i s difficult to judge whether the government i s sufficiently
determinedand inparticular, able, to implementfurther and deeper reforms. Thus, the
sustainability of reforms supported by BRAP is non-evaluable atpresent. OED's
Evaluation Summary rated sustainability as unlikely.

4.7     Institutional development impact. Because o f the magnitude o f the crisis, a new
institution, IBRA, was established with a mandate to restructure banks, manage assets,
dispose o f loans and equity innationalizedbanks, dispose o f loan collateral, restructure
debt and manage the govemment's blanket guarantee. From its inception, IBRA struggled
to balance in-house capacity development with extensive outsourcing. Its ability to fulfill
its mandate was hampered by frequent changes in leadership and staff, and poor
governance. This was improved after 2000, following an external audit, a robust
Corrective Action Planto improve internal controls, and a more pro-active Oversight
Committee. Inthe end, IBRA managed to carry out substantial tasks, supported inpart by
BRAP's technical assistance and Bank staff supervisions which helpeddefine its mandate
and build capacity. Although it was eventually able to contribute to a gradual rebuildingo f
Indonesia's banking system, IBRA will be wound-up in2004, and whatever capacity has
beenbuilt is likely to be dispersed,ifnot lost entirely. Institutional development impact is
rated modest, consistent with OED's Evaluation Summary.

4.8     Bankperformance. BRAP was prepared ina matter o f weeks, to respond to the
unfolding crisis. BRAP's designwas based on economic and sector work and incorporated
lessons from relevant projects inIndonesia and Thailand, while allowing flexibility to
respond to the evolving situation and shifting responsibilities among donor agencies. The
rapid preparation, however, did not permit adequate institutional capacity analysis: there
were no identifiedcounterparts, or project management (the executing agency was to be
the Secretariat o fthe Monetary Board, andBIwas expected to have a keyrole, neither of

                                                    20

which happened), and no clear government ownership o f objectives or design. The project
was not ready for implementation. Bank staff accurately assessed the risk o fproject failure
as high. Thus, inspite o f the Bank's rapid preparation and flexible design, quality at entry
was unsatisfactory.

4.9     Duringimplementation, Bank staffinvolvement and coordinationefforts withthe
IMF were intense. Over aperiod of eighteenmonths, betweenFebruary 1998 andJuly
1999, ninejoint Bank-IMF missions were fielded, with cooperation improving over time.
InJuly 1998, the Bank stationed atask manager inJakartato supervise BRAP withthe
support o f the headquarter-based team, which had two bank restructuringexperts, one
banking expert and one asset management specialist. Giventhe scope o fthe crisis and its
spillover into political and social dimensions, such focused and intense effort was
appropriate. By contrast, and inspite o fthe magnitude o fthe crisis ina major Bank
borrower and the public commitment to make substantial financial assistance available to
the country, senior Bank management andtechnical advisors remained remarkably
uninvolved inthe operation that was for some time the only one directly addressing the
crisis. Inaddition, the Bank's matrix management system complicatedthe process and
made it difficult to harness appropriate staff resources q~ick1y.l~        Ina crisis of such
magnitude, Bank management should have given priority to addressing the issues in
Indonesia, even ifthey were inthe context o f a relatively small technical assistance loan.

4.10     One shortcoming o f the early supervisionefforts was that the Bank staff assigned to
the project were newto the BankI4andhadno experience withinternal Bank procedures or
the requirementsof supervisingBank operations. As aresult, the first few supervision
missions, prior to project effectiveness, were undocumented within the Bank (no project
status reports were prepared). Although Bank supervision responded flexibly to changing
circumstances and provided substantial technical guidance duringimplementation, it fell
short inresolving Bank procurement issues, which impededgettinghigh quality and timely
technical assistance. Inspite o f the substantial contribution made by staff directly involved
incrisis resolution, who worked diligently at anexacting pace for several years, given the
unsatisfactory quality at entry and the mixed quality of supervision, Bankperformance is
rated unsatisfactory inagreement with OED's Evaluation Summary.

4.11    Borrower performance at the national level was mixed, as it was at the agency
level. Government's commitment to financial sector reforms was weak for most o f the
period o f BRAP implementation, resulting ina non-transparent process o f bank
restructuringand bank asset resolution. Throughout the project's life, Indonesiawas
enmeshed inthe largest financial crisis o f its history and severe political turmoil. It hadno
experience dealing with such a systemic crisis and, inany case, lackedthe appropriate
skills. Government counterparts were over-stretched by the political changes and the
crisis, which contributed to delays inidentifying and establishing an appropriate
implementingagency andto frequent changes inits leadership. After initial delays,


l3By contrast, the IMF ManagingDirectorcommunicateddirectlywith the staffa regularbasis. With more
resources at stake and senior management involved, the IMFtook the lead inthe resolutionprocess.

l4InJanuary 1998 the Boardauthorizedspecialfunding to address financial sector issues in crisis countries,
and a SpecialFinancialOperations(SFO) unitwas set up and staffedwith specialists. SFO was not
integratedinto Regionalstrategies, and its existencecreatedtensionswith Regionalunits.

                                                   21

funding and legalpowers of IBRAwere adequate. On agency performance, IBRAdidnot
appoint full-time staff to manage BRAP resources, and frequent staff rotation exacerbated
the problem; IBRA staff were not familiar with Bank procurement procedures, resultingin
delays. For that reason, Bank staff and consultants contributed disproportionately to
selecting and supervising technical assistance providers. Over time, IBRA's management
o f BRAP improved. Although under difficult circumstances Indonesia made substantial
progress, it fell short inresolving the banking crisis. Because of its wavering commitment
and lack of follow-through, the borrower'sperformance is rated unsatisfactory, in
agreement with OED's Evaluation Summary.

Policy ReformSupport Loans Iand I1

4.12    Relevance. These loans were an integral part o fthe multi-donor assistancepackage
that supported Indonesia's foreign exchange and budgetary needs. Their policy
conditionality was consistent with Indonesia's needs andwith the Bank's country
assistance strategy. Although both were relevant for addressingstructural issues at the
heart o f Indonesia's emergence from the crisis, PRSL Iwas arguably both better focused
on priority areas and likely to have greater impact than PRSL 11,which was too diverse and
involved conditionality, such as announcing master plans (for privatization) andpassing
laws (on corruption), that requiredsubstantial follow up'' and enforcement to have impact.
Thus, the quality of entry of PRSL Iis consideredsatisfactory, while that of PRSL 11is
considered unsatisfactory.

4.13    Macroeconomic outcomes. Growth rates o f 3-5 percent have been achieved since
2000. Good progress has beenmade inmacroeconomic management, although it has been
uneven. By early 2000, the monetary and exchange rate situation was poisedto become
more supportive o f economic recovery, but instead, slippage inreforms and increasing
political uncertainty contributed to downward pressure on the Rupiah; inflation pickedup
toward the end o f 2000. Since mid-2001, however, tightenedmonetary conditions and the
change ingovernment contributed to the Rupiah's recovery and declining inflation and
interest rates. The budgethas beenwell managed, and the budget deficit has been
contained well belowtargets, and (except for 2001) below 2 percent o f GDP, although
future debt service paymentsconstitute a fiscal risk eventhough the debt/GDP ratio is
declining (from 100 percent o f GDP in 1998 to 72 percent inSeptember 2002). The
balance o f payments current account was insurplus from 1998 to 2001, but continued
capital outflows (while official net flows turned negative private inflows beganto recover)
has put reserves under pressure. Macroeconomic outcomes should be considered
satisfactory.

4.14    Macroeconomic sustainability. Despite overall progress inmacroeconomic
management, however, Indonesia's recovery is at risk,because o f slow structural reforms.
The investmentclimate remains weak; gross domestic investment is still about halfo f its


  The Regionhas notedthat there was and continues to be follow up in anumber of areas: to help meet the
privatizationtargets, the ADB providedtechnical assistance, which helped inthe recentpassageof a lawthat
providesa legalbasis for privatizationof state-ownedenterprises; and Bankwork on public expenditure
management contributed to the passage of a law on State Finances, whichthe Regionthinks maybe a major
step forward intransparency and accountabilityinthe use of public funds.

                                               22

1997 level, although in2003 it has picked up momentum. Resolving the banking crisis,
restructuring corporate debt, and bank and enterprise privatization have not made the
expected progress, and because o f a continued blanket deposit guarantee, bank liabilities
remain contingent government liabilities. Sustainability of macroeconomic outcomes is
non-evaluable at this time.

4.15    Outcome and sustainability: increasing public sector efJiciency. The main
instrumentsfor achievingthis objective were public expenditures reviewsleadingto more
streamlined public expenditures,introduction of a strategy for private participationin
infrastructure, and privatization of SOEs. Although the specific conditions were met inall
o f these areas, progress on outcomes has beenvery slow. First, decentralization o f part of
government's fiscal revenues, that took place in2001, has complicated the process o f
controlling public expenditures (para. 4.24). Second, although a strategy for private
participation ininfrastructure was announced and a law passedto allow private
investmentsinoil and natural gas, little progress has beenmade (as inmost countries
duringthis period) inattracting private investors into the long term commitments required
by these sectors. Third, the privatization of SOEs, inspite of Government's announced
programs, has beenlimitedto a few actions, including sale o f over 50 percent stake inone
o f the 12 companies on the list o f enterprises to be privatized by March 1999, and sale o f
shares o f a cement company which did not succeed inreducing Government's ownership
to below 50 percent. The privatizationprogram progressed very slowly since PRSL Iand
II. Outcomesof thisobjectiveareunsatisfactory andthesustainabilityof thelittle that
has been done is considered non-evaluable.

4.16    Outcome: facilitating corporate restructuring and building an effective and
competitive banking sector. The establishment of tax changes and other administrative
measures, combined withthe creation of the JITF (para. 3.19) did facilitate corporate
restructuring: as o f December 2002, cumulative debt restructured reaching the
Memorandum o f Understanding(MOU) signing stage amounted to $18.8 billion, with
JITF mediating active cases amounting to $10.1 billion with 40 companies. Its mandate
was extendedby one year untilthe end o f 2003 to allow completion o f its task.
Nevertheless, the process remains slow: signing an M O U does not meanthat the debt has
beenresolved; and some debtors are prolonging negotiations withthe hope that they may
settle at discounted values, similar to IBRA asset sales. Thus, although government took
the necessary steps to facilitate the process, it remains complex andtime-consuming.

4.17    Inthe banking sector, as notedabove, lowprofitability and aweak capital base
continue to affect the marketability o f banks. Inaddition, there has been little material
change inthe incentive structure for banking; wrongdoers are still not heldaccountable,
andthe banking systemcontinues to be vulnerable to unscrupulous bankers and regulators.
The bank-bailout cost the government more than 50 percent o f annual GDP and the state
still controls some 60 to 70 percent o f a weak banking system, which remains vulnerable to
further shocks, andto guarantee all bank liabilities, extendingthe periodofmoralhazard.

4.18     New lendingto businesses has beenslow to resume,partly because economic
growth andprogress indebt restructuringhas beenslow. Inany case, large companies
have access to financial resources offshore. Most new lendingover the 2000-2002 period
was for consumption, but in2003 there have been signs that investment lending,

                                                23

particularly to smaller companies, has begunto expand. While banks and branches have
beenclosed, little change has occurred inbankingpractices or businessstrategy, especially
instate ownedbanks. Manybankers that use poor loanpractices are still around, andnon-
performing loans are increasing. Thus, the banking system remains fragile and vulnerable
to shocks. While Indonesia has beenbeset by a combination o f factors, such as the
uncertainpolitical situation, weak judicial system, and regional tensions, that has impeded
reform progress, other countries inthe region facing a similar crisis have revivedtheir
financial sectors and economies faster than Indonesia, which has paid more to bail out its
banking system than any other country. The outcome of corporate restructuring and
banking sector reforms is considered unsatisfactory.

4.19     Sustainability of corporate and banking reforms: The government has not
exercised effective owner supervision of its banks through IBRA,the Ministryo f Finance,
or BI. BI's supervision capacity remains weak and its independence under threat, as the
parliamentary debate on the central bank law continues without resolution. The
government prefers a domestic banking system that functions competitively with foreign
banks and has beenreluctant to sell to foreign buyers. There are, however, few domestic
buyerswith the experience or resources (at least those they can declare) to purchase
sizeable banks. Meanwhile, highvaluations and employment, low profitability, and other
social considerations pose an impediment to foreign buyers, although three banks have
recently been sold to foreigners.

4.20     Government has only recently begunto develop a strategy, eventhough IBRA's
sunset i s approaching. Because banking contingent liabilities pose a considerable risk,
financial sector reforms are key to future fiscal stability. Developing a lender o f last resort
facility, improving bank supervision, and further consolidation o f the banking system are
essential steps inthe process. The sustainability of what has been accomplished to date is
considered non-evaluable.

4.21     Outcome and sustainability: improving competition. Government enacted a wide
range o f laws, decrees, and regulations to increase competition inmany areas, including
commodity trading, cement marketing, oil palm plantations and trade. The measures
covered reduction or elimination o f barriers to external trade and inter and intra-provincial
trade, abolishing monopolies, and allowing entry o fthe private sector and/or foreign
investors. Overall, competition has increased, prices o f certain commodities have
improved (lower for consumers; higher for producers) and domestic investors have
recently entered a numbero f markets. Since 2002, however, backtrackinghas occurred
across a numbero f commodities, with re-introduction o ftrade restrictions and increased
protection. Tariffs have beenincreased and import licenses introduced on sugar that limit
quantities; sugar prices have doubled in2002; procurement prices for rice have gone up,
with consequent increases inconsumer prices as well. A licensingsystem for clove
imports was introduced inJuly 2002; and steel andtextile imports are now subject to non-
tariff barriers. Internal trade i s also beingaffected by taxes imposed by local governments,
which are mostly against a 2000 law, but which the central government has limited
capacity to monitor. Inspite o f some backtracking, overall competition has increased and
the outcome o fthis objective is considered satisfactory. Giventhe recent moves by both
central ministriesand local governments to increase control o f trade, however,
sustainability is considered non-evaluable.

                                                      24


 4.22     Outcome: improving governance. The laws enacted by Parliament covering anti-
 corruption were steps inthe right direction, but implementationhas beenslow and their
 impact negligible to date. The Anti-Corruption Commission i s not yet operational, some
 four years after the passage o f a 1999Anti-Corruption Law. More generally, perceptions
 o f corruption have worsened inthe last several years, and most indicators o f overall
 investmentclimate have deteriorated since the crisis. Tax and customs administration,
police, andjudiciary systems are thought to be particularly problematic.'6 According to
publicly available World Bank research on governance, Indonesia continues to rank at or
near the bottom third o f all countries, and although it has improved inseveral dimensions
 (such as Voice and Accountability) since 1998,whenthe PRSL Iwas approved, it ranks
particularly poorly on Ruleo f Law and Control o f Corruption. Inthis latter dimension,
Indonesia remained in2002 among the worst countries inthe world (Box 4.1).

IBox 4.1: Measures of Governance

The World Bank has compiled data from hundreds of variables from 25 data sets gathered by 18
organizations and organized it into six dimensions o f governance. The table below shows Indonesia's
ranking relative to 199 countries from four time periods, 1996 through 2002, where one is the lowest ranking.
                                     1996---_________________ranking ________________2002
                                                       1998            2000
                                                          percentile                     _ _
Political Stability                  30                 9                3                 12
Voice and Accountability             16                 12               32                35
Rule o fLaw                         40                  14               15                23
Regulatory Quality                  66                  47              28                 26
Government Effectiveness            66                  27               33                34
Control of Corruption               35                   7               9                  7


Source: Kaufmann, David, Aari Kraay, Massimo Mastruzzi. Governance Matters III: Governance
Indicatorsfor 1996-2002. Policy ResearchWorking Paper No. 3 106. Washington, D.C.: The World Bank.

4.23     The single most significant change affecting governance inthe past few years has
beenthe radical and comprehensive decentralization, which went into effect at the
beginningo f 2001,and which involvedthe transfer o f one quarter o f central government
revenuesto some 370 sub-provincial (district and municipal) governments. Although the
process was smoother and involved less disruption inservice deliverythan expected, this
massive shift inpower has had major repercussions on governance (as well as fiscal
equity) issues. Aside from the questions o f accountability for the quality and efficiency of
service delivery, there i s unclear responsibility for decisions on investments, miningand
other land use licenses, as well as for taxation and other regulatory authority o f businesses;
these uncertainties have created an entirely new range of opportunities for corruption.
There is a commonperception inIndonesia that decentralizationhas made corruption
worse.I7 The outcome of this aspect of the reform program is considered unsatisfactory.



l6 Ibid, pp. 18-19,29-39.

l7Op cit. World Bank. pp.21-22.

                                                    25

4.24      Outcome: transparency. Indonesia has made some progress inthis area. Since
1998,democracy has beenintroducedand freedom o fthe press has expanded (Indonesia
ranks inthe upper half o f about 200 countries on this measureI8). A donor-supported
NGO, Partnership for Governance Reform, has become active and visible insurveys,
diagnostic work, supporting anti-corruption commissions, and facilitating dialogue among
government agencies; and overall perceptions o f Voice and Accountability have improved
dramatically (Box 4.1). Although transparency has increased, it cannot be attributedto any
actions or reforms supported by PRSL Iand II,

4.25      Outcome and sustainability: forestry sector. Underthe general heading o f
governance, the conditionality specific to the forestry sector inPRSL Iwas met.
Nevertheless, the objective o f improving forest management and making it more market
oriented continues to be underminedby illegal logging and inadequate supervision. In
2000, the rate o f deforestation was estimated to have increased to an alarmingly high 1.7
million hectares per year, or 1.8 percent o f the forest cover," and the export ban recently
imposed on logs is likely to have limitedimpact on this problem. Decentralization o f
responsibility for forestry increases the potential for further degradation. The outcome of
theforestry aspect is considered moderately unsatisfactory and unless effective measures
can be put inplace to stop the illegal logging, what has been accomplished to date is
considered to be unlikely to be sustainable.

4.26      Outcome and sustainability: improving the social safety net andprotecting the
poor. UnderPRSL Iand 11,the measures to assist the poor consisted o f agreeing on
budgetary expenditures for sectoral allocations and social safety net programs, such as
subsidized rice programs and education grants and subsidies. These programs were also
supported by a $600 million Social Safety Net Adjustment Loan (SSNAL), co-financedby
the JapaneseBank for InternationalCooperationfor another $600 million. Although the
second tranche o fthe SSNAL was canceled because o f lack o f progress on governance
issues, data from that loan's completion report indicate that, overall, specific programs did
have an impact: school enrollments and use o f health services have recovered post-crisis,
and malnutrition has not increased. Poverty rates have declined substantially since their
peak in 1999, and by more than would be expected based on GDP growth rates alone. This
i s largely attributed to a decrease inthe relative food prices since 1999, and inparticular to
the decreaseinthe relative price ofrice. The poor are particularlyvulnerable to changes in
relative food and rice prices; infact, the slight increase inpoverty in2002 i s thought to be
due to the increasedrice price, and measures to increase rice protectioncould serve mainly
to increase poverty.2oInaddition, although the recent decentralization starting in2001has
not had a visible adverse impact on the delivery o f health and education services, there are
some signs that health charges may have increased, which would also harm the poor. The
objective of protecting thepoor, through subsidizedprograms and measures that have
increased competition in commodities and thus lowered their relativeprices, has been
substantially met, and the outcome is considered satisfactory. Sustainability is non-



   Ibid.

l9 Comparedto about 1.5 millionhectaresper year between 1985 and 1997. Source: CAS, 2002, p. 12.

2o Op. cit. Indonesia: Maintaining Stabiliq, Deepening Reforms. p. 44-45.

                                               26

evaluable, however, given decentralization, recent moves to increase protection levels on
basicfood commodities, and low growth.

4.27     Overall outcome and sustainability ratingsfor PRSL Iand II. While Indonesia has
made considerable progress inmacroeconomic management to stabilize the economy,
restore modest growth and reduce poverty, key structural reforms (resolving the banking
crisis, privatization, improving governance) have not progressed and outcomes are
considered generally unsatisfactory (Table 4.2 for a summary o fpreceding discussion).
Because these aspects remain substantially unresolved, the overall outcomesfor PRSL I
and PRSL 11are both rated moderately unsatisfactory, compared with OED's Evaluation
Summary rating o fsatisfactory for PRSL Iand moderately satisfactory for PRSL II.

4.28     Sustainability. Indonesia implementedimportant elements o f a demanding reform
program during a period o f political transition, and recent macroeconomic indicators are
encouraging. The recovery i s fragile, however. Fiscalpressure, slow progress inresolving
the bankingcrisis, corporate debtrestructuring, privatization, and governance reforms
                                                         remain significant risks that could
 Table 4.2 Summary ratings for PRSL Iand I1              underminethe program's
                            Outcome      Sustainability  sustainability. Inspite o f certain
 Macroeconomic             Satisfactory  Non-evaluable   elements inthe reform program,
 Public sector efficiency Unsatisfactory Non-evaluable   such as increased competition, that
 Banking reform           Unsatisfactory Non-evaluable   are considered sustainable,
 Increasing competition    Satisfactory  Non-evaluable   sustainability of PRSL Iand 11is
 Improving governance     Unsatisfactory Non-evaluable   non-evaluable at this time, in
 Forestry sector           Moderately      Unlikely      agreement with OED's Evaluation
 improvements             Unsatisfactory
 Social safety nets        Satisfactory  Non-evaluable   Summary ratings.

                                                         4.29   Institutional Development
                                                         Impact presents a mixedpicture.
Onthe one hand, institutions such as IBRA and the Anti Corruption Commissionwere
created and procedures were put inplace to empower them to address a wide arrange o f
issues. Bank consolidation has occurred. Laws, regulations, decrees were passedto
abolishprotection, special privileges, and market power; competition has increased ina
numberof areas. Decentralizationwas effected and is now functioning. Onthe other
hand, little progress was made on privatization. Few changes have occurred inthe critical
infrastructure sectors. Financial sector reform remains a significant challenge, inspite o f
progress to date inbanking consolidation. And the process o f improving governance i s
still at a very early stage, with uncertain government commitment. Moreover, the problem
remains o fthe willingness o f thejudiciary to enforce the laws and regulations, which
underminesthe impact o fthe newinstitutions and laws. Thus, institutional development
impact of both PRSL Iand 11are rated modest. OED's Evaluation Summary ratedPRSL I
as making a substantial contribution and PRSL IIa modest contribution to institutional
development.

4.30     Bankperformance. Followingthe onset o f the financial crisis, the Bank eventually
adjusted its country assistance strategy for Indonesia. Staff prepared both PRSL Iand
PRSL 11expeditiously, as part o f a larger rescue package, and incoordinationwith other
multilateral agencies and bilateral donors, and with government involvement and

                                              27

consultation with civil society. Risks were appropriately identifiedby staff, with
monitoring and evaluation indicators adequately specified. Nevertheless, there were
important differences inthe focus and nature o fthe conditionality inthe two loans, and as
noted above @ara 4.12), the quality at entry o fPRSL Ii s considered satisfactory, while
that o fPRSL 11i s considered unsatisfactory. PRSL Iand PRSL 11were supervisedby field
staff, who identifiedproblems, provided advice and responded flexibly inapproving
modifications, but could not ensure adequate progress inkey reforms inthe financial
sector, corporate restructuring, privatization, or govemance. Overall, Bankperformance
for PRSL I is rated as satisfactory, while thatfor PRSL 11is rated unsatisfactory, mainly
because of the absence of signijkant conditionality that would move the reform program
forward. These ratings compare to OED's Evaluation Summary ratings o f satisfactory
Bank Performance for both PRSL Iand II. OED'sjndings on Bankperformance,
particularlyfor PRSL II,raise the issue of the extent to which the Bank's commitment to
participate in a rescuepackage can reduce its leverage in terms of conditionality and
timing of loans.

4.3 1   Borrower performance. Government officials played an active role inpreparing
PRSL Iand 11,which involved many ministries. Despite several cabinet level political
changes, the government's ownership o fthe program remained initially secure. It
benefitedfrom extensive consultation withthe public while preparingthe reform program.
Government officials responded well to the pressure o f meetingthe conditionality under
PRSL I,although there were delays inmeetingseveral o fthem and inproviding adequate
fundingto agencies established as part ofthe reform program. Progress has beenslow,
however, inkey areas such as banking crisis resolution, corporate debt restructuring, and
enterprise privatization, indicating tepid government ownership, and/or political
opposition. Inaddition, there has beensome backtracking on competition policies and
forestry policies, andvery limitedcommitment to addressing fundamental reforms needed
to improve governance. For these reasons, Borrowerperformance under both PRSL Iand
11is rated unsatisfactory. OED's EvaluationSummary ratedBorrowerperformance as
 satisfactory inboth o f these loans.


 5.     Lessons

     0  Inacountry with deeplyrootedandwidespread govemance issues, wherethe
        authorities are not committed to deep reforms, the Bank needs to have realistic
        expectations about the outcome o f its interventions. InIndonesia, the ability to
        affect fundamental reforms with adjustment and technical assistance support has
        beenlimited. The effort requires a more comprehensive and long-term approach,
        including diagnostic work and involvement o f civil society.

     0  The dilemma o f supporting a country incrisis i s highlightedby PRSL Iand, more
        especially, by PRSL II. The Bank needs to provide the Boardwith a frank rationale
        for its intervention, even where the rationale i s limitedto providing special shorter-
        term liquidity support for modest reforms.

                                         28


0 The experience inIndonesiahighlightsthe importance of avoiding delays in
  banking crisis: unless resolved quickly and decisively, the fiscal costs mount and
 vestedinterests further impederesolution.

0 Inamajor crisis, Bankmanagement andtop technical specialists should give
  priority to resolving issues that arise inthe context o f Bank assistance addressing
  the crisis, evenifthe vehicle for the assistance is inthe form ofa relatively modest
  technical assistance loan.

0 Coordination among donor agencies i s essential incountries incrisis and needs to
  bemade explicit. InIndonesia, coordinationwas successful only after an initial
  period of uncertainty, mainly becausethe IMFwas able to take the lead.

0 The Bank's'consultant fee structure and procurement rules caused delays and
  impededa rapid responseto Indonesia's bankingcrisis, and excludedor
  discouraged the few service providers with appropriate technical expertise. These
  rules should be reviewedwith a view to allowing exceptions to policy under certain
  well-definedcircumstances.

0 The Bank's central unit (SFO) enabled the Bank to respond to Indonesia's needfor
  technical expertise, butthe unitwas not well integrated into the Bank's
  organization and was unfamiliar with its operational procedures, causing
  bureaucratic and practical problems. For future crisis response, the Bank should
  consider establishing a "virtual" crisis unit o f specialists working inthe Regions,
  available to respond to a specific crisis inside the relevant regional management
  structure.

                                                      29                                            Annex A
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

BANKINGREFORM                 ASSISTANCE(LOAN 4255-IND)    No.

Key ProjectData (amounts in US$million)
                                       Appraisal              Actual or                  Actual as % of
                                       estimate           current estimate             appraisal estimate
Total Droiect costs                     20.00                   11.01                        55.05
Loan ambunt                             20.00                   11.01                        55.05
Cofinancing
Cancellation                                                    8.99                         44.95

CumulativeEstimatedand Actual Disbursements
                                               FY98               FY99                 FYOO             FYOl
ADDraisal estimate (US$M)                      1.75               20.00               20.00             20.00
Actual (US$M)       '                          1.75                9.99                11.10              .oo
Actual as % of appraisal                        100               49.95                55.5             1155
Date of final disbursement: May 9, 2001

ProjectDates
                                                            Original                         Actual
Identification
Appraisal                                                                                  11/10/1997
Negotiations
Board approval                                                                             12/04/1997
Signing                                                                                     12/15/1997
Effectiveness                                                                              04/08/1998
Closing date                                              09/30/2000                       05/09/2001

StaffInputs(inUS$ '000)
                                                                         Actual
                                            FY98        FY99          FYOO         FYOl             Total
Lending                                       50                                                     50
SupervisionlCompletion                        136        133            189         82               540
Total                                         186        133            189         82               590

MissionData
                     Date       No. of  Staff days  Specializations                Performance Rating
                 (month/year) persons     in field   represented

                                                                       Implementation Development Type of
                                                                           status       Objectives   Problems
Identification/  10/13/1997        2               Fin. Sector Spec.
Preparation                        1               Economist
Appraisal        11111/1997        2               Fin. Sector Spec.
                 11/13/1997                        Economist
Supervision      06/13/1998        61              Fin. Sector Spec.         U              S
                                   1               Legal Specialist
Completion       09/2001                                                     U              S

Other Project Data
Borrower/Executing Agency:
FOLLOW-ON OPERATlONS
Operation                                                Loan no.           Amount              Board date
                                                                          (US$ million)

Policy Reform Support Loan                              Ln. 4368-IND          1,000             July 2, 1998
Second Policy Reform Support Loan                       Ln. 4470-IND           500             May 20, 1999

                                                        30                                            Annex A
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

POLICY REFORM                SUPPORT LOAN          (LOAN 4368-IND)
                                                               No.

KeyProjectData (amounts in US$million)
                                                     Appraisal            Actual or            Actual as % of
                                                      estimate        current estimate      appraisal estimate
Total project costs                                    1,000                1,000                   100%
Loan amount                                            1,000                1,000                   100%
Cofinancing
Cancellation

Cumulative Estimatedand Actual Disbursements
                                                                                                  FY99
Appraisal estimate (US$M)                                                                         1,000
Actual (US$M)                                                                                     1,000
Actual as % of appraisal                                                                           100
Date of final disbursement: February 8, 1999

ProjectDates
                                                              Original                         Actual
Identification                                                1011997                          1211997
Appraisal                                                     11/1997                         021998
Negotiations                                                  12/1997                         0411998
Board approval                                                0411998                        07/02/1998
Signing                                                     07/02/1998                       07/02/1998
Effectiveness                                               07/02/1998                       07/02/1998
Closing date                                                  091999                         06/01/1999

Staff Inputs(staff weeks)
                                                                                     Actual
                                                                  Staff Weeks                  $(`OOO)
Preappraisal                                                         48.0                         197.8
Appraisal                                                             4.8                          13.0
Negotiations                                                          0.5                           6.6
Supervision                                                           70.0                        121.5
Completion                                                            4.4
Total                                                               127.7                         338.9

Mission Data
                     Date        No. of    Staff  Specializations                Performance Rating
                 (monthlyear) persons     days in    represented
                                           field          /a
                                                                    Implementation Development Type of
                                                                        status /b     Objectives    Problems/c

Supervision           Id            8       /d        EC, FA, LC           S              S

/a DO: DisbursementOfficer; EC:Economist; EN: Engineer; FA: FinancialAnalyst; LC: LegalCounsel; 00:
OperationsOfficer; RA:ResearchAnalyst; RS:ResettlementSpecialist; TE: Transport Economist; TS: Transport
Specialist
/b 1: Highly satisfactory; 2: Satisfactory
/c Typical problems included:implementationdelays in technicalassistanceand studies.
/d Supervision is done by staffof the World Bank Office Jakarta,Indonesia. There were no supervision missionsfrom
headquarters.
Other ProjectData
Borrower/Executing Agency:
FOLLOW-ON    OPERATIONS
Operation                                                  Credit no.          Amount              Board date
                                                                            (US$ million)

Second Policy Reform Support Loan                         Ln. 4470-IND           500              May 20, 1999

                                                      31                                             Annex A
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

SECOND POLICYREFORM                      SUPPORT LOAN(LOAN 4470-IND)        No.
Key ProjectData (amounts in US$million)
                                       Appraisal               Actual or                 Actual as % of
                                        estimate            current estimate            appraisal estimate
Total Droiect costs                       500                    500                          100
Loan amount                               500                    500                          100
Cofinancing


Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                                                                                               FY99
Appraisal estimate (US$M)                                                                      500
Actual (US$M)                                                                                  500
Actual as % of appraisal                                                                       100
Date of final disbursement: June 18, 1999

ProiectDates
                                                             Original                        Actual
Identification
Appraisal
Negotiations
Board approval                                                                             05/20/1999
Signing                                                                                    05/28/1999
Effectiveness                                                                              06118/1999
Closing date                                                                               12/31/1999

StaffInputs(staff weeks)


AppraisaVNegotiations                                                  4.1                      35.1
Supervision                                                            3.7                       15.1
Completion                                                             7.5                      36.6
Total                                                               100.7                      376.9

MissionData
                     Date       No. of   Staff    Specializations                    Performance Rating
                (monthlyear) persons days in       represented
                                         field
                                                                             Implementation Development Type of
                                                                                 status       Objectives   Problems
Identification/ 09/1998         25               Econ: 5: Fin: 3:                     S               S
Preparation      12/1998                         Corporate
                                                 restructuring/PSD: 4;
                                                 Energy: 2; Env: 1;
                                                 Forestry: 2; Lawyer: 1;
                                                 Social Sector: 1;
                                                 Governance: 1; FMS: 1;
                                                 Econ. Data: 2; ACS: 2

Appraisal        12/1998        8                Econ: 2; Lawyer: 1; Social           S               S
                                                 Safety Nets: 1; Banking: 1;
                                                 Governance: 1; Forestry: 1;
                                                 FMS: 1

Supervision      Done in the    9                Econ: 3; Lawyer: 1; Social           S               S
                 field by Staff                  Safety Nets: 1; Banking: 1;
                 in the                          Governance: 1; Forestry: 1;
                 Country                         PSD: 1
                 Office

Completion       03/2000        3                Econ: 3                              S               S
                 06/2000

                                     32                                Annex A


Other Project Data
Borrower/Executing Agency:
FOLLOW-ONOPERATIONS
Operation                             Credit no.     Amount         Board date
                                                   (US$ million)

Social Safety Net Adjustment Loan      Ln. 4471     600 million    May 20, 1999

                                        33


Annex B. List of PeopleM e t

BankGroup Staff
Vikram Nehru
Michael Edwards
RuthNeyens
RichardRoulier
Lily Chu
Vince Polizatto
Florence Cazenave
IjazNabi
MillardLong
Bert Hofman
Bernard Drum
Anthony Toft
David Hawes
Sarwar Lateef
German Vegarra

InternationalMonetaryFund
Charles Enoch
Sunderajan
Ashoka Mody

Other Donors
BillHeidt, USEmbassy
Michael Wash, Australian Embassy
Karen Whitham, Australian Embassy
MikeRyan, Asian Development Bank

IndonesianOfficials
Dr.S. Sabirin, Governor, Bank Indonesia
Mr.Sumintro, Head, INDR
Mr.B.Ruru,Chairman, JakartaInitiative Task Force
Mr.Bambang Subianto, Ex-MinisterofFinance
Mr.Sumantri Slamet, Vice Chairman ofIBRA
Mr.JonathonZax, Bank Mandiri
Mr.Glenn Yusuf, ex-Chairman IBRA

Private Sector
Jack Garrity, Tang-Ling Holdings
Catharina Widjaja, Gajah Tunggal Group
Irwan Habsjah, MDING Barings
Pramukti Surjaudaja, President BankNISP
MichaelZink, Head Indonesia, Citibank
Jonathon Cheng, JP Morgan
Eugene Galbraith, PresidentBCA
Suhail Chander, VP ABN-AMRO Bank
Jim Castle, PresidentAMCHAM

d
M




  U
  U
  a E


  m Er:
  a

IA
M

c
0




3

b
m


