CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1482 EGT
Guarantee Agreement
(Suez Canal Expansion Project)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 28, 1977


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1482 EGT
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 28, 1977, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF
EGYPT (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRI7TION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Suez Canal Authority (hereinafter called the Bor-
rower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan in
various currencies equivalent to one hundred million dollars
($100,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree
to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such
loan as hereinafter provided; a6d,
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the
Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor
and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the
premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual
performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as
set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to
believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be inade-
quate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying
out of the Project (including working capital requirements) to
make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide
the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds
as are needed to meet such expenditures.
Section 2.03. The Guarantor shall permit the Borrower to
retain such a portion of its net earnings as shall be sufficient
to enable the Borrower to meet the foreign and local currency
capital required for the proper and timely execution of the
Project.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost


﻿- 3 -
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall ensure that the Borrower
carries out its operations and conducts its business without
any diminution of the autonomy granted the Borrower under the laws
of the Guarantor for the efficient carrying out of the Borrower's
operations and the conduct of its business.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall ensure that any further
expansion beyond that necessary to permit vessels of a draft
of not more than 16.1 meters (53 feet) to pass through the Suez
Canal, shall be undertaken only after: (a) the Guarantor shall
have decided, after due consideration of other works including
those necessary to satisfy the expected traffic demand at 16.1
meters, that such expansion is economically justified in the
context of the Guarantor's priorities for national economic
development; and (b) the Guarantor shall have given the Bank
adequate opportunity to exchange views with the Guarantor on the
proposals for such expansion.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor;
Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of Economy and Economic Coopera-
tion of the Guarantor is designated as representative of the
Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministry of Economy and
Economic Cooperation
8 Adly Street
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:                      Telex:
Ministry of Economy and             348 GAFEC-UN
Economic Cooperation
Cairo
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-5-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By /sf Abdel-Moneim El Kaissouni
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Robert S. McNamara
President


