OFFICIAIl        CREDIT NUMBER 1086 MAG
DOCUMEntr
Development Credit Agreement
(Study of the Plain of Antananarivo Technical
Assistance Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated   TcorouOAA                    1981


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                          3oWA")LM  3a 1981, between
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR (hereinafter called the Bor-
rower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following terms have the following meanings:
(a) "General Directorate" means the General Directorate of
Planning of the Borrower's Ministgre aupras de la Pr6sidence
de la R6publique chargg des Finances et du Plan; and
(b) "Technical Committee" means the Comitf Technique
Interministdriel charge de la coordination de 1'Etude de la
Plaine d'Antananarivo ainsi que l'ex6cution des travaux et activi-
t6s y afffrents, created by the Borrower's Arr@tg No. 3807/80
of September 20, 1980, as such Arr6t6 may be amended from time
to time.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to one million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 1,800,000).


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Association shall other-
wise agree, vehicles and scientific equipment required for
Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be procured on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally, in accordance with the Borrower's normal
procedures.
(b) With respect to each contract for vehicles or scienti-
fic equipment, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the respec-
tive bids, recommendations for award and such other information
relating to each such contract as the Association shall reasonably
request.  The Association shall, if it determines that the award
of the contract was not consistent with the provisions of para-
graph (a) of this Section, promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for such determination.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1983, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 1
and December 1 commencing June 1, 1991, and ending December 1,
2030, each installment to and including the installment payable


﻿-3-
on December 1, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through the General Directorate with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative and financial
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   In order to assist the General Directorate in the
carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain the
Technical Committee with such responsibilities and composition as
shall enable the Technical Committee at all times to carry out its
functions as presently defined in the Borrower's Arretg No.
3807/80 of September 20, 1980.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower: (i)
in carrying out the studies included in Part A of the Project,
and (ii) in supervising said studies and in preparing the quar-
terly progress reports mentioned in Section 3.06 (b) of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall employ engineering, management and
financial consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Associa-
tion.
(b) The Borrower shall take all reasonable measures to
facilitate the work of the consultants in the performance of their
services for the Project and make available to them all informa-
tion relevant to the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association
for its review and comments interim reports for the studies
included in Part A of the Project, and, before the preparation of
the final reports, drafts thereof.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall select, in consultation with
the Association, not more than five coherent technical schemes for


﻿-4-
the economic analysis to be included in the studies to be carried
out under Part A of the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be pay.ble in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
*proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records
and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project (including. its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
visit the facilities and work sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(b) For the purpose of monitoring the progress of the Pro-
ject, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association quarterly
progress reports.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices, the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for the
carrying out of the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association
such information concerning said records as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date                 30)91       is hereby
specified for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister responsible for Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere aupras de la Pr6sidence
de la R6publique chargg des Finances et du Plan
Antananarivo
Madagascar
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINFINPLAN                          22339
Antananarivo


﻿-6-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
.Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿-7-
.SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table 'below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Am6unt of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in     Expenditures
Category                    SDR Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Studies under
Part A of the-
Project,
including:
(a) consultants'     .        1,280,000     80%
services referred
to under Section
3.02.(a) (i) of
the Development.
Credit Agreement
(b) consultants'                80,000      80%
services referred
to under Section
3.02 (a) (ii) of
the Development
Credit Agreement
(2) Scientific equip-                50,000      100% of foreign
ment for Part B (1)                         expenditures
(a) and (b)                                 and 95% of
of the Project                              local expendi-
tures
(3) Vehicles for                     25,000      100% of foreign
Part B (2) of                               expenditures and
the Project                                 95% of local
expenditures
(4) Unallocated    .                365,000
TOTAL               1,800,000


﻿-8-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
SDR 50,000 may be made on account of payments made for expendi-
tures before that date but after November 1, 1980.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.


﻿-9-
6.   If the Association shall have zeasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way re-
stricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Pre-investment studies to be conducted at a pre-
feasibility stage with the objective of defining (i) a
technically coherent, economically justified and finan-
cially feasible investment program to protect the Plain
of Antananarivo area against floods, to improve drainage
and to expand economic activity in the region, and
(ii) appropriate arrangements for the carrying out of
said investment program.
Part B:   (1) (a) Improvement of the network of research sta-
tions on erosion and soil protection on the
upper catchment areas of the Plain of Anta-
nanarivo;
(b) Improvement of the hydrological and flood
alarm network in the Plain of Antananarivo;
and
(2) Strengthening of th, capabilities of the General
Directorate to supervise the carrying out of the
Project, and the provision, for its use, of two
vehicles.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1983.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198J.
FOR SECRETARY


