FILE COPY
DCOCUMENT OF iNTERNATIA    G.`L BAN.YK FOR RECONSTRUCTt.'N AND DEVEL0P.MENT
Nt f'or Pubiic U,_-
pETURNT TO'
r1.- J        A   dKUSe.                                          Report No. P-1541a-IVC
Bwi No1 937= 6               -.
REPORT AND RECOHLKENDATION
OF THE-
PRES LDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LCAN
TO ThE
REPUBLIC OF THE IVO)RY COAST
FOR A
SECM:D EDUCATION PROJECT
April 30, 1975
This repurt -wa3 jrepa;ed fo. ojfij:ial use onily by the 'ark Grouo. It may not be p  Si,sshed, quo .ed
* or oited withc!t Bank Grout authritzation. The Barnk Groop does oot aceepr responsibi.ity fnr ihe
I accuracy or conipletene-1t sii zj,e report.



CURRENCY EQUITVALENTS
Currency Unit                    CFA Franc (CFAF)-
Present Rate
US$      1           =           CFAF 225
CFAF     I           =           US$ .00444
CFAF     1,000       =           uss 4.44
CFAF     1,000,000   =           USr 4a4,4400
FISCAL YEAR
The BorrowierIs fiscal year is January 1 to December 31
1/The CFA franc is tied to the French franc in a ratio of I French
franc to 50 CFA francs.  The French franc is currentlv floating.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FCO RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
T0 THE REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
FOR A SECQOZ EDUCATION PROJECT
i.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Loan
to the Republic of the Tvory Coast for the equivalent of US $5.0 million to
help finance a Second Education project. The loan would have a term of 25
years, including five years of grace, with interest at 8.5 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report on the Ivory Coast, Report No. 296 -
IVC "Current Economic Situation and Prospects of the Ivory Coast", April 11,
1974 which is based on an economic mission in April of 1973, confirmed the
country's favorable growth prospects and its creditworthiness.   It concluded
also that the Government's development efforts required and deserved continued
external support. While recent developments in export and import prices led
to substantial quantitative changes in the balance of payments' estimates
from those made in the report, our revised calculations still support these
conclusions.  Annex 1 contains basic country data.
3.        Throughout the 1960's the Ivory Coast's economic growth was rapid.
GDP grew at an annual rate of 7.5 percent in real terms,and in 1972 per capita
income reached US$,40. Although this growth rate could not be fully sustained
in the early 1970's because of deteriorating terms of trade and adverse
weather conditions, growth in 1971-73 still averaged 6.5 percent a year, in
real terms. Factors contributing to rapid growth were the Government's liberal
and pragmatic economic policies rvhich have made the country attractive to
foreign investors, the availability of ample land and timber resources, the
existence of a large pool of labor including immigrants from sahelian countries
and, during the late sixties, rising commodity export prices. Recognizing the
country's vulnerability in its dependence on three export commodities (cocoa,
coffee and wood constitute 80 percent of total exportswhile exports are some
32 percent of GDP), the Government began after 1965 to diversify agriculture
by introducing or expanding oil palm, coconut, pineapple, rice, rubber, cotton
and sugar cultivation-- and by placing more emphasis on other economic sectors
such as industry, mining and tourism.   Although the full benefits of these
diversification efforts are still some years off, the prospects are that the
Ivory Coast will gradually become less dependent on its traditional exports.
4.        The Government's development objectives include, in addition to
broadening the production base, the extension of economic infrastructure in
such fields as transport and power, the improvement of urban facilities,



-2-
regional diversification, the development of secondary industrial centers, the
development of education and the Ivorianization of the economy. These
objectives correspond well to the needs and the possibilities of the country.
Past and ongoing development has laid a solid foundation for further growth.
Moreover, Government and private investment activities indicate that'the
country's growth possibilities are being recognized and exploited.
5.        The Government's awareness of social problems is reflected in the
current (1971-1975) Plan's emphasis on the income effects of development,
regional balance and education. Thus, to reduce inequalities, recent salary
raises have been graded down from 26 percent for the lowest to 5 percent for
the higher paid workers. A number of projects, for instance, cocoa, rice, oil
palm, rubber, sugar and cotton are designed to narrow the gap between urban
and rural incomes and to reduce regional income disparities. In the same vein,
over the past five years, the Government has increased producer prices for
cocoa by 120 percent, for coffee by 60 percent and for cotton by 35 percent.
6.        However, the next Plan (1976-80) will need to focus more sharply
still on problems of urbanization, prospects of employment in both rural and
urban areas and income distribution. To assist the Government in these
directions a special Bank employment mission, which included ILO staff, visited
the Ivory Coast. The mission's report "Ivory Coast: Special Report on
Employment" (Report No. 279-IVC) was issued in July 1974, after detailed
discussions with the Government. The mission identified the employment
problem as one of growing imbalances: while projected demand for labor appears
to be matched by manpower supply (including immigration) shortages in rural
areas and a surplus in urban labor markets will develop in the absence of
corrective action. The mission also singled out a number of issues for further
study, including the costs and benefits of creating a better economic and
social infrastructure in secondary centers combined with a certain degree of
industrialization and suggested changes in educational and training systems.
7.        Our forecasts show that after the recent changes in the commodity
price structure successful implementation of the Government's development
program will more than in the past depend on the availability of foreign funds.
Current Bank commodity price forecasts point to a gradual deterioration of the
Ivory Coast's terms of trade for the remainder of the 1970's. Until recently,
most Ivorian export products have been in strong demand. However, revised
growth forecasts for Western Europe, the Ivory Coast's main export market,
suggest that the decline in economic activity may be deeper and longer lasting
than anticipated earlier. In 1974, already, timber exports have dropped
markedly as a direct consequence of a slump in the European construction
industry. Yet, the import bill will continue to rise rapidly because of high
inflation rates in supplier countries, especially for food, fertilizers and oil.
The net oil import bill went up from US $15 million in 1972 to US $70 million in
1974 and is expected to reach US $NO million in 1975, an increase from 3 percent
of 1972 commodity imports to 7 percent in 1975. The Government has taken vigorous
action to limit the impact of higher imports on the country's balance of payments.
For instance retail prices of petroleum products, electricity, rice, sugar and
other consumer products have been increased sharply, while the producer price



-3-
for rice has been doubled to encourage local production. The countryts
first sugar mill started operating in April 1975. Its production will
replace 60,000 tons of sugar imports and meet approximate current domestic demand.
Plans for an extension are in an advanced stage of preparation. These and
similar efforts in other lines of production will permit a reduction in the
share of food imports from its present level of about 20 percent of total
commodity imports.
8.        Despite all this, the trade surplus is expected to dwindle and it
will no longer compensate for the deficit in non-factor services, as it did
in the past. Consequently, and in contrast to the 1965-1970 period when the
Ivory Coast enjoyed a resource surplus of US$35 million per year on average,
a resource gap of US$80-100 million per year in the second half of the 1970's
appears inevitable. This is equivalent to about 2.5 percent of projected GDP
or about 5.5 percent of projected exports and non-factor services in 1975. As
in the past, with interest payments, transfers of profits and workers' remit-
tances abroad, the factor services account will continue to be in deficit as
well. Therefore, to maintain balance of payments equilibrium there will have
to be a substantial compensatory inflow of capital from abroad. Net reserves
at mid-1974 stood at about US$80 million, which is equivalent to 4 weeks of
1974 commodity imports.
9.        Based on past experience and assuming an adequate inflow of capital,
Ivory Coast's economy may be expected to adjust to changing world economic
conditions. Early in 1974, the Government established a task force to advise
on short term adjustments; the need for structural changes is being given
particular attention in the preparation of the new Five-Year Plan. Good growth
prospects in several sectors should facilitate the adoption of corrective meas-
ures. For example, Ivory Coast has substantial potential to increase elec-
tricity generation from hydro-sources. Sites in addition to the three now
in operation were already being studied before the "oil crisis" and the pro-
gram for hydro-electric development will be speeded up. According to the
Government's program, an estimated 85 percent of Ivorian demand for electricity
would be met from hydro-electric plants by the early eighties against 40 per-
cent at present. The possibility of increased domestic energy production at
reasonable cost may accelerate the implementation of the Government's policy
to process raw materials locally rather than exporting them in unprocessed
form as is generally still the case.
10.       Structural changes will take time and imply the continuation of a sizeable
investment effort. In recent years gross investment averaged about 21 percent
of GDP, and the proportion of the public sector in total investments increased
from an average of 50 percent in 1965-70 to 60 percent in 1970-73. Public
investments for 1975 are estimated at about US$470 million. This amount would have
to double in current prices between 1975 and 1980 in order to maintain the investment
rate necessary to achieve a growth of GDP by 6 percent per year in real terms.
11.       Domestic public savings in the .-uture are likely to cover a smaller
part of capital outlays than they did in the past, even assuming continued
good fiscal performance. With budget revenues already exceeding 20 percent of



-4-
GDP, future Government resources cannot reasonably be expected to increase much
faster than the economy as a whole. The Government has been quite successful in
generating budgetary savings but with rapidly increasing social expenditures,
for instance for housing and education, these savings will be under heavy
pressure. To some extent savings from public enterprises will provide some
relief to the budgetary constraint. Also, higher world prices for agricultural
exports will boost revenues of the Stabilisation Fund. However, as indicated
before, the Governments producer price policy is to pass more of these benefits
to farmers, and as a result this source of public savings is unlikely to expand.
Furthermore, debt service charges will increase rapidly. As a consequence,
public savings after debt service, which in the past financed 40 to 50 percent
of public investments, will on average represent no more than 25 to 30 percent
of public investments in the next five years. Thus at least 70 percent of
public investments will have to be financed from other sources.
12.       The chances that additional domestic private funds could be raised to
finance public investments remain low for two main reasons. First, traditionally
part of the profits made by foreign investors has been transferred abroad and
this willcontinue in the future. Second, non-Ivorian labor--it is estimated
that between 15 and 20 percent of the Ivory Coast population is non-Ivorian--
transferred about US$100 million to their home countries as workers, remittances
in 1973. Direct controls to limit private transfers are not permitted within
the Franc zone of which the Ivory Coast is the most important member in Africa;
such controls would probably be counter-productive by deterring foreign private
capital, and they would represent a serious blow to the Ivory Coast's much
poorer neighbors, especially Upper Volta which receives 50 percent of immigrant
workers' remittances. But those transfers, of course, mean a substantial drain
of domestic savings for the Ivory Coast. To encourage keeping funds in the
country the Government has proposed to the Central Bank of the West African
Monetary Union to raise the base interest rate from 5.5 to 7.5 percent. How-
ever, other members of the Union have opposed this move as they fear an
adverse effect on their investments. Steps by the Government to raise interest
rates, establish a local stock market and place more emphasis on Ivorianization
of the economy are not likely to alter these flows substantially in the medium
term. Government bonds issued with a tax-free return of 7 to 10 percent have so
far been moderately successful.
13.       Absorptive capacity in terms of projects to be financed in the
public sector is substantial. The inflow of foreign capital into the public
sector in 1973 was US$235 million; in 1975 it may need to.be as high as US$330
million. Assuming that 40 to 60 percent of future foreign capital requirements
will continue to be provided by international organizations and foreign govern-
ments and the rest by more expensive sources like suppliers credit and private
banks, the debt service ratio would rise from its rather low level of 6.6
percent in 1973 to around 15 percent in the early 1980's. We consider this
level to be manageable. If the capital required cannot be obtained on appro-
priate terms, the investment program would have to be cut back and overall
growth would drop below 6 percent. The projected average contribution of net
public savings to the financing of public investments (para. 11), will in many cases be



- 5 -
less than the local cost component of projects. Therefore foreign donors should
be willing to finance not only the foreign cost component of projects but also
some local costs in those projects where the foreign exchange component is low.
14.       A basic economic mission scheduled for 1975 will evaluate the country's
long-term prospects in the context of the draft 1976 to 1950 development plan, and
will undertake a thorough reexamination of our proJections, the underlying
assumptions and especially the consequences for Ivory Coast's external borrowing
and debt service. However, there is little reason to believe that there will
be much if any reduction in the higher level of capital requirements now fore-
seen. The terms of borrowing therefore become a more important consideration.
If, for instance, the supplementary needs of future capital were to be met on
terms offered in the Eurodollar market--to which the Ivory Coast has access--
the debt service could substantially surpass the level of 15 percent projected
for the 1980's. To keep the debt service within manageable limits and to enable
the Government to implement its development policy, it is desirable that foreign
capital be made available on as concessionary terms as possible, including long
repayment and grace periods. However, in view of the still low debt service
ratio, the good future growth potential of the economy and the expected increase
in export earnings, the Ivory Coast remairs creditworthy for substantial addi-
tional borrowing from the Bank.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ThE IVORY COAST
15.       Since 1968, the Bank's lending to the Ivory Coast has expanded
rapidly and now includes seventeen loans totalling US$182.4 million and an IDA
credit of US$7.5 million. Four of these eighteen operations have been for
roads; six were to the member companies of the SODEPALM Group for the develop-
ment of oil palm and coconut plantations and the construction of two oil mills.
The remaining eight loans were for projects of education, telecommunications,
rubber, cocoa and cotton plantations and the Abidjan sewerage and drainage
system. The loans for the cocoa, cotton and Abidjan sewerage and drainage projects
as well as for supplementary financing for the first education project were
presented to the Executive Directors during this fiscal year. The IFC also has a
small (US$204,000) participation in the Banque Iviorienne de Developpement
Industriel. Annex 2 contains a sununary statement of Bank Group operations
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects with particular reference to
those which are encountering problems in execution and giving rise to delays
in disbursements.
16.       The agricultural sector is the principal foreign exchange earner
and domestic employer. It provides close to 90 percent of exports, employs
a majority of the population, helps stabilize an increasingly mobile popu-
lation, and brings development to remote areas of the country. Our princi-
pal efforts have, therefore, been in this sector.   We have just apDraised
together with the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) a rice
project in the forest zone of the Ivory Coast. In addition we are considering
preparing a livestock development project 'or FY78. The Government has also
requested our assistance in financing additional oil palm, coconut and rubber
development in the Ivory Coast's South-West.



-6-
17.       In order to strengthen the country's major transport axis and link
the agricultural areas to its urban centers and ports, we have placed con-
siderable emphasis on transportation and have become the principal lender for
road construction and maintenance. The Bank was closely associated, as executing
agency, with the 1969 UNDP Transport Survey of the Ivory Coast. The Government
and the Bank are currently discussing the possibility of financing the updating
of the Survey as a basis for determining priority transport investments for the
1976-80 National Development Plan now under preparation. A Fifth Highway Pro-
ject was appraised in 1974 and includes a second phase of the pavement strengthen-
ing program (about 200 km), construction of the Anyama-Agboville road and a section
of the Abidjan-Adzope road. The Government has requested our assistance in finan-
cing the improvement of a section of the Abidjan-Ouagadougou rail line. Other
sections of the rail line are being financed by EDF and BIB.
18.       Urban infrastructure and education are tw6 important social sectors
in which the Bank is involved. A sewerage and drainage project covering the
first phase of a ten-year government program to improve the sanitation sector
of Abidjan has been approved by the Executive Directors in January 1975. A
study of the development of a new quarter of Abidjan is being financed with
Bank funds. We are also preparing a water supply project for secondary towns.
With regard to education the Bank is closely asscciated with the Government's
efforts to modernize its educational system principally at the secondary and
vocational levels. The present Second Education Project is essentially an
interim operation aimed at complementing the objectives of the Bank's First
Education Project and at laying the ground for a third project.
19.       Three small projects in tourism and industrial development were
appraised last fall including a small enterprise project which will carry
forward the special effort inaugurated in Western Africa through a Bank study
of African private enterprise. Substantial investments are also foreseen,
in later years, for industry and power, areas in which we have not previously
been involved but in which the Government- is likely to reauest Bank
Group assistance.
20.       Of the total external public debt outstanding at the end of 1973,
30 percent was provided by Governments, 20 percent by international organiza-
tions (of which 60 percent by the Bank Group), 20 percent came from private
banks and through bond issues while 30 percent came in the form of suppliers'
credits. The capital not supplied by international organizations came mainly
from four countries, France (35 percent), USA (27 percent), Italy (15 percent)
and Germany (8 percent). France and the European Economic Community remain
the principal source of development assistance in grant form, accounting for
about 15 percent of the total flow of foreign assistance to the public sector.



-7-
21.       The Bank Group's share of the Ivory Coast's external debt, which is
now approximately 12 percent (including undisbursed), is likely to increase in
the next five-year period to about 18 percent. The Bank Group's share of debt
service is at present 3.4 percent and is expected to go up to about 7 percent
by 1980.
PART III - THE EDUCATTON SECTOR
Evolution of the Education System: 1960 to the Present
22.       The Ivorian system of general education follows the French pattern,
consisting of six years of primary school, a secondary program divided into
a four-year lower cycle and a three-year upper cycle, and a tertiary level
of university and other post-secondary study. Responsibility for education and
training is shared between the Ministries of Education and Technical Education
and various other ministries such as Agriculture. With the limited education
infrastructure and shortage of skilled manpower at the time of independence,
expansion of the education system has been a major policy objective. Rapid
growth of primary enrollments remains a principal goal; at present only 52%
of primary school-age children receive schooling, but the Government hopes to
achieve enrollments of 100% by 1985. Although the Government has,to date,
adhered to its timetable for expanding primary enrollments, its ability to
achieve the 100 percent goal will depend in large part upon expanded training
of primary teachers and,ultimately, upon resource availability. At the secondary
and higher education levels, enrollments have surpassed official projections; secondary
enrollments have increased sixfold since 1960 and the University of Abidjan,
created in 1959, is today attended by 4,000 students.   With the rapid increases in
enrollments, current education expenditures (including those for training programs
in ministries other than Education and Techiical Education) have grown arnually by
19 perqent over the past decade and now account for 34 percent of the Government's
current budget, up from 24 percent ten years ago.
23.       The orientation of both primary and secondary school has been to
prepare students for the succeeding educational cycle. However, only four
percent of children entering primary school ultimately receive a secondary
school diploma. The heavy odds against completing primary and secondary school
do not, however, act as a deterrent to demand for education since the formal
education system is viewed by Ivorian society as the primary vehicle to move
to more remunerative occupations in Government, commerce and industry. As a result,
the Ivory Coast, like many African countries, is faced with a large and groiring
number of school leavers who are neither prepared nor motivated to remain in
the rural sector. The extended family structure and the prestige of education
allow many young people to live with urban relatives and to remain unemployed
rather than take jobs they consider below thieir educational attainment.
24.       By introducing a revised, more practical curriculum, most notably at the
primary level, the Government has taken steos to better adapt education to the
Ivorian setting. Innovative teaching methods, including the use of television,
supported by frequently updated printed materials, are used in almost all of the
country's primary schools.



-8-
Initial organizational problems of the television scheme have now been largely
resolved and an evaluation unit established under the first Bank education
project is assessing the technical, managerial and pedagogical aspects of the
scheme. The Government has also established a variety of pre-employment
vocational and technical education programs to meet the economy's requirements
at the skilled worker level, but few graduates of these programs seem to seek
or find jobs in the formal sector, namely industry, commerce and adninistration.
One survey showed that only 30 percent of industrial graduates and 35 percent of
commercial graduates were employed in the formal sector in 1971. This low pro-
portion reflects the number of (a) graduates who are not willing to accept the
jobs for which their training has prepared them, and (b) employers who are not
sufficiently satisfied with the training provided to actively recruit recent
graduates. With the low return to vocational education, coupled with its high
unit costs (2 to 3 times the unit cost of general secondary education), more
specific training programs for people already employed--designed and p,rti;lly
financed by industry--are needed to meet skilled manpower requirements and to
provide Ivorians already in employment with the complementary skills for internal
promotion to middle management and technician positions.
25.       Although a number of ministries and regional development authorities
have instituted nonformal programs for out-of-school youth, they reach only about
one percent of the estimated 900,000 people in the 6 to 19 year age bracket who
are outside the formal education system. Moreover, the multiplicity of techni-
cal ministries involved in the rural sector, the lack of a coordinated policy
for nonformal education and the absence of linkages between training programs
and regional development prospects have resulted in ill-adapted, overlapping
and even contradictory efforts in this area.
26.       Most foreign investment in education has been in the formal system,
primarily for instructional television, higher education and vocational and
technical training. In terms of disbursements, France and the Fonds Europeen
de Developpement (FED) are the sources of roughly half of external assistance
for the period 1971-1975; the Bank's first loan provided approximately another
25 percent.
27.       The First Education Project (Ln. 667-IVC) aims at (i) implementing
primary education reform through financing of three primary teacher training
colleges and one instructional television production center; (ii) expanding
technical and agricultural education by construction of three technical and
one agricultural institution at secondary and post-secondary levels; (iii)
initiating employer-linked vocational training programs; and (iv) introducing
curriculum and planning improvements in general secondary education. This
project has been amended twice. In the fall of 1971 it was reduced to its
present scope (R71-246), and in January 1975, due to currency realignments,
the Board agreed to increase the amount of the loan from US $11.0 million to
to US $13.2 million (R75-10). Annex 2 provides information on these amend-
ments and project execution.



-9-
Prospects for the Education Systei.,i
2W-       In addition to having to better adapt the education system to the
Ivory Coast's real needs - a problam the Government is -well aware of and is
ah'eady taking steps to solve - the two main issues in education with which
the Government will have to deal in the future are:
(i)  providing learning opportunities to a larger proportion of the
school-age population in the face of growing claims of education
expenditure on the currerb budget; and
(ii)  the social pressures for increasing enrollments at the
upper levels of the system versus the economy's employment
requirements.
29.       Finance.  Public costs per student year are high:   $82 at the primary
and $435 at secondary levels.      One reason for the high cost is the system's
heavy reliance on foreign personnel and imported equipment. Roughly 85% of
secondary teachers are expatriate, and with the meager output of local second-
ary teachers the situation is unlikely to change rapidly. If solutions are
not found to reduce unit costs, projected enrollment growth, unless it is
controlled, will push education expenditure to almost 40 percent of the govern-
ment's current budget by 1980 which could then seriously hamper econGmic
growth.
30.-      Employment.  Projected enrollmenit growth mav also have negative
implications for the employment prospects of graduates at some levels. If
enrollments continue to grow at roughly thieir present rates, and if school
leavers continue to indicate a preference for formal sector jobs, the Ivory
Coast will face a growing problem of unemployed and ill-adapted educated
manpower by the end of the decade; the possibility of unemployment among
certain categories of university graduates by the early 1980's cannot be
excluded.  Total growth of employment requirement ,iuring the 1970's is estimated
to be about 800,000, of which 215,000 jobs will be in the formal sector.. Adding
another 35,000 jobs through labor force attrition, job openings in the formal
sector will total about 250,000 during the decade, or 25,000 per year. Probably
1/   Unit costs in primary education amount to $66 in Senegal, $25 in Mali and
$22 in Sierra Leone; at the secondary level, they average $378, $320, and
$83 respectively (all figures in 1971-72 Lerms),



- 10 -
half of these would require specific skills, and the balance would enter jobs
for which no prior specific training is needed. The following table compares
for the 1970-80 period:
(1) estimated average annual job openings by skill level
(skilled worker level and above);
(2) those job openings which will become available annually
to recent graduates or school leavers (a proportion of
new job openings require on-the-job experience and will
therefore be filled by upgrading of persons already on the
job); and
(3) annual output from the corresponding levels of the education
system, adjusted for probable participation rates (proportion
of output likely to enter the labor force):
Annual Modern Sector           Jobs Available to       Annual Output from
Job Openings              New Graduates/School    Education System to
(1)                       Leavers (2)          Labor Market (3)
Professionals/
upper-level managers        400              350             350 University
graduates
Technicians/
middle-level managers      2,000           1,500             950 Graduates from
other post-
secondary study
and equivalent
Skilled labor-clerical
and industrial/primary
teachers                  9,900            3,500           3,300 Graduates from
primary teacher
training colleges
and upper secon-
dary school
leavers
Total                  12,300           5,350*          4,600
*Difference between (1) and (2) represents the upgrading requirements.



31.       The table shows that at the professional level, output of university
graduates will roughly match requirements. Nevertheless, there may still occur
shortagas in some fields due to the difficulty in achieving a perfect balance
between enrollments and output of individual faculties and changes in labor.
market requirements. Conversely, growth of new university enrollments in the
last few years of the 1970's may produce a total of about 4,500 university
graduates entering the job market during the first half of the 1980.'s, which
probably would be more than the economy could absorb,.even assuming an increase
in the rate of replacement of expatriates. At the technician/middle management
level, output will fall short of requirements, and 40 percent of the output will
consist, unless special programs are organized for them,.,of universi.ty.dropouts
without specific training for middle-level occupations. The. shortfall would be
met initially by expatriates and later by university graduates unable to find
other employment--which is not economically sound. The proj.ected equilibrium
at the skilled manpower level between required supply and anticipated output
from the education system is due to the fact that only a relatively small
percentage of skilled jobs, mainly primary teachers and some clerical workers,
can be filled direct'y from the output of the education system. In other
words. the projections reflect the fact that indusrJrial skilled workers are
recruited largely from promising semiskilled workers, trained on or alongside
the job.. This training method, however, should be strengthened -
through systematic skill upgrading prograns orga-nized by Government and the
private sector for workers already employed. KEholoyment opportunities at the
semi- and unskilled level at present participate on rates amount to about
Lour school lesvers from primary and lower secondary or vocational.school
for every formal sector job cpening.  The roughly 30,(00 school leavers each
year who will.not find jobs, in the formal sector, plus those 25,000 yoLng
people without any formal education who will come CI age to join the labor
force each year, will need to seek employment in the rural or urbar informal
sector.        .
Future Education Strategy
32.       The future structure of the education system is likely to be based
on the recommendations of a National Education Reform Commission set up in
1973. Although only the broad lines of its proposals have been published,
its recommendations to Government are to-include:
(i) A nine-year educational base, eventually to become compulsory,
with a curriculum heavily biased toward practical instruction;-
(ii)  An employment-preparatory cycle, similar to the present upper
secondary cycle,. but with greater emphasis on curricula which
prepare students better for direct employment; and
(iii)  Post-secondary.s.tudy at the University, with programs more
oriented toward manpower requirements.
Vocational training programs are to be developed in closer collaboration with
industry than in the past, and greater emphasis is to be placed on skill



- 12 -
upgrading of persons already employed. The University would become more
selective in recruitment and require graduating students to serve one year
teaching in a national civil service.
33.       This structure would broadly correspond to one of the alternatives
studied in the Unesco Sector Survey (August 1973) and allow the required
linkages between education and employment. There is, however, no indication
as yet of the Government strategy for its implementation. But given the high
percentage of the Government's current budget already devoted to education,
costing and phasing of the reform proposals are crucial; in fact, it would not
appear financially feasible to achieve a 100 percent primary enrollment ratio
and at the same time extend the educational base from six to a compulsory
nine years. Instead, it would seem more appropriate for the latter objective
to be phased as a long-term goal, thus also allowing enough time to:
(i) develop and implement curricula at grades 7 through 12 with
sufficient technological and practical content to make
school leavers more readily trainable on the job;
(ii) develop specialized (modular) vocational training opportunities
(of the type financed under the first project and to be proposed
under the second one) to upgrade skills of persons already
employed, plus in-plant training schemes to meet skilled manpower
needs.
(iii) adapt the education system to regional and primarily rural
employment opportunities, including preparation for self-employment;
(iv) introduce incentives into the university scholarship system to
encourage students to enter manpower-short occupations; and
(v) improve budgeting and cost accounting methods to introduce more
effective cost control practices.
3h.      Whatever the final decisions or. the future structure of the education
system, a major objective of the reform measures will need to be the reduction
of costs per student year. The Commission is expected to propose a low-cost
program for training lower secondary teachers that will require more detailed
study before investment can be contemplated in this area. This measure alone,
however, will be insufficient to achieve much impact on overall education costs.
Even with some reduction in unit costs in primary and secondary education,
these two levels will still constitute 65 to 75 percent of the Ministry of
Education's current budget by 1980, leaving little for other sub-sectors
such as out-of-school education which still requires deva'opment.    Additional
desirable measures to reduce the claims on the Government budget should,there-
fore,include:
(i) At the primary level: continual assistance to improve management
components of the instructional television scheme for primary
school;



- 13 -
(ii) At the secondary level: training the required number of
Ivorian teachers to meet growth requirements and replace
the more expensive expatriate teachers; modifying school
location policy to minimize boarding and staff housing;
improving space and teacher utilizatilon; locally producing
pedagogical materials where more economical; and
(iii) In general, improving education planning and administration
and investigating the possibility of tapping new non-government
sources for the financing of current educational expenditures.
35.       In view of the uncertainties surrounding the details of the Reform
Commission recommendiations, Government reaction to them, their educational
and financial soundness, and the feasibility of their phasing, the Second
Bank Education Project is conceived as an interim operation, focusing on
meeting non-controversial but essential needs. It provides opportunities
for a continuing dialogue with the Government on the development and reform
of the education system in preDaration for a third education project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       History of the Project:   The proposed project is based on the find-
ings of a UNESCO Sector Survey Report published in August 1973 and a UNESCO/
Bank reconnaissance mission in November/December 1973. Appraisal of this
project took place in June 1974.   Since the proposed project - essentially
a modest interim operation - aims at consolidating the progress realized under
the First Education Project and at laying the groundwork for a follow-up third
project, no separate appraisal report has been prepared, and this project is
presented in an expanded President's Report.   A loan and project summary is
included in Annex 3, and additional information concerning the project is given
in Annexes 4 through 9. Negotiations for the loan took place from January 13
to January 17, 1975; the Ivorian delegation was headed by Mr. Hovine (Director
General of the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement) and included Messrs. Kpatchibo
(Director of the Budget for Investment and Equipment), Ackra Yao Ble (Project
Director) and Platz (Ministry of Planning).
37.       Description of the Project:   The project would be carried out over
three years from mid-1975 to mid-197E and would consist of the following com-
ponents:
(i) Construction and eauipping of two primary teacher training
colleges at Abengourou and Gagnoa to provide one-year courses
to 300 students at each college;
(ii) Conversion and equipping of four urban vocational training
centers in Abidjan, plus technical assistance to upgrade the
skills of at least 750 workers per year for industry;



- 1-
(iii) Supplementary technical assistance for (a) continuing the
secondary school inventory begun under the first project
and carrying out an inventory of technical schools, and (b )
managing and operating the instructional television scheme;
(iv) Pre-inveatment studies, including detailed preparation (up to
the preliminary design stage), for a third project focusing
on (a) the education/training needs of regional development
schemes in rural areas; and (b ) the introduction of more
practical instruction in secondary education; and
(v) 0rovision of three man-years of technical assistance and equip-
ment for project admdnistration.
Primary Teacher Training Colleges
38.       The proposed project would finance construction and equipping of two
additional teacher training colleges, increasing the annual output of primary
teachers from 1,230 to about 1,750. This should meet projected requirements
by 198O. The two cclleges would be located in Abengourou and Gagnoa and
follow the same curricula as those in the First Project.
39.       The Government has agreed to ensure that at least 60 television-
equipped primary classes would be available in the vicinity of the
teacher training colleges (Section 3.06 of the Loan Agreement). This is
required to ensure that teacher trainees receive adequate teaching practice
in schools implementing the new ITV curricula. The Government also agreed
to evaluate the effectiveness of graduates from the colleges and, to the
extent possible, give them preference for assignment to primary schools with
an ITV-based curriculum (Section 3.07 of the Loan Agreement).
Vocational Upgrading Centers
40.      Under the proposed project, four existing urban vocational training
centers located in the Abidjan area (Centres Techniques Urbains - CTU's)
would be converted into skill upgrading centers by the National Office for
Vocational Training (ONFP) in collaboration with industry. The loan would
finance additional equipment for and conversion works of the four centers.
Minor design work would be carried out by ONFP's technical design unit. An
ILO expert financed by UNDP has already prepared detailed plans for organiza-
tion of the centers. In addition, the project includes eight man-months of
ILO technical assistance to prepare the necessary administrative and legal
arrangements. When operating at full capacity, the CTU's are expected to
produce or upgrade a minimum of 750 skilled workers annually in the areas of
mechanics, electricity, heavy equipment, building and timber industry.
41.       Pre-employment vocational education is an expensive and inefficient
approach to meeting industry's skilled worker requirements. Industry, there-
fore, has to become an active participant in the training of its workers.



- 15 -
ONFP has created a team of specialists made up of representatives of industry
who would be responsible for course design and trainee selection and evaluation.
The team would organize work groups with the specific tasks of (i) following up
on qualified graduates from the upgrading programs and provi.ding additional
pedagogical support for apprentices within industry and (ii) planning new
courses for upgrading the skills of employees in the public and private sectors
to complement the in-service training schemes that already exist in some areas.
A further important function of the newly organized CTU's would be to provide
practical courses for employed graduates of the technical high schools to help
ease adjustment to their jobs and eventually to middle level technical and/or
junior managerial posts (Sections 3.08 and 3.09 of the Loan Agreement).
Inventory of Secondary and Technical School Facilities
42.       Before planning the implementation of the Reform Commission's pro-
posals, a complete inventory of secondary school facilities is necessary. The
inventory, begun under the First Project, will be expanded to include all avail-
able technical educational facilities and equipment at the secondary level. The
proposed project would provide funds for technical assistance to carry out this
inventory.
Instructional Television (ITV) Management and Operation
43.       The First Education Project provided about US $1.5 million for con-
struction of an ITV production center, management consulting services and the
post of the principal technical adviser for the ITV evaluation unit. The
initial lack of leadership and organizational problems in the introduction of
the primary school ITV scheme have been largely overcome by the creation of a
Secretariat for Primary Education and ITV. The evaluation urit has made pro-
gress in diagnosing management problems, and new personnel training courses
will begin this year. During the past year a data processing unit was created
which analyzes cost and inventory figures necessary for evaluation. This unit
has already provided monthly expenditure analyses of overall operating costs
that were not previously available. The work of these two units is of great
importance.  Not only can they improve the effectiveness of the ongoilng project,
but their experience with ITV can be useful for othler developing countries.
44.       There are still some problems to be resolved, however. For example,
the organization of program production and the training of Ivorian personnel
needs to be improved. Also, in areas not yet supplied with electricity, TV
sets should be powered by more economical sources than batteries. Solar energy
is currently being tested as an alternative. The proposed project would
finance the foreign exchange cost of about 39 man-months of highly specialized
consultants, mostly short-term, to reinforce the two units. The specialists!
work would focus on cost accounting, personnel management, national staff
training, and technical problems of ITV program production and reception and
primary school design.



- 16 -
Pre-Investment Studies for Educational and Training Needs in Rural Development
Zones
45.       The project would finance the foreign exchange cost of 78 man-months
of specialist services and equipment to analyze and prepare rural education and
training programs for regional development. The pre-investment studies would be
implemented under the Ministry of Planning, which is also responsible for the
coordination of training, education and mass communication in rural areas. A
specialist from the Ministry of Health would advise on matters of public health.
46.       The study would be carried out by a team of consultants with exper-
tise in rural development training techniques. The team would make field sur-
veys of training and education requirements at the community level in areas
such as agricultural extension, cooperatives, basic preventive medical care,
and education of farmers and their families. The consultants would also review
the work of IRTESCO in the use of television for the non-formal education of the
rural population in health, nutrition, family planning and basic literacy.
UNESCO's experimental work in the use of television-equipped primary schools
located in rural areas is implemented by the Secretariat of Primary Education
and the Ministry of Information.
Pre-Investment Study for the Introduction of More Practical Instruction in
Secondary Education
47.       The Education Reform Commission has recommended increased emphasis on
practical scientific and technological studies at the lower secondary- level to
improve students' performance at the higher levels and to prepare them better
for the job market.  At present, science instruction is largely theoretical and
few schools have the specific facilities, equipment or staff needed to imple-
ment practical programs. If the Government adopts the Commission's recommenda-
tions, as is likely, then a study would be carried out by working groups under
the guidance of the Directors of Pedagogy, Teacher Training and Secondary nau-
cation, all within the iMinistry of Education.
4&.       The proposed loan would finance the foreign exchange costs of special-
ists for the study (60 man-months) who would advise the working groups on the
design and preparation of (i) the curricula and teacher training programs and
(ii) the physical facilities (laboratories, workshops, repair and fabrication
facilities).
Project Cost
49.       The total cost of the project net of taxes and duties is estimated
at US $6.9 million (or US $8.7 million including taxes).   The proposed loan
of US $5.0 million would finance 73 percent of the project cost net of taxes
and duties, representing the foreign exchange component. The estimated pro-
ject cost makes allowance for price and quantity- contingencies amounting to
24 percent and 5 percent respectively of the base line cost estimates as of
negotiations in January 1975.   Price escalation has been estimated at 26



- 17 -
percent for civil works and 22 percent for equipment on both local and for-
eign cost items over the 22-month implementation period Annexes 5 and 6
provide details of costJ estimates and contingencies.
Implementation of the Project
50.       The project administrative unit, established within the Ministry of
Education under our First Education Project, would be responsible for the
overall administration cf the proposed second proJect.   It would be reinforced
by an administrative officer specialized in procurement who would be financed
from project funds.   The ministries involved in the project would appoint
senior officials to be responsible for coordination with the project unit and
for the implementation of their respective project components. Appointment
of the administrative officer and appointment of the senior officials are
conditions of effectiverness of the proposed loan (Sections 3.03 ard 3.C4 of
the Loan Agreement).
Professional Services and Construction
51.       To supervise construction and assist the Government in carrying out
the pre-investment studies, the director of the project unit and the desig-
nated official of each ministry would have the services of consulting archi-
tects and specialized consulting firms. The consulting firm appointed under
the first project has been retained for the design, planning and construction
supervision of Item (i) of the project (paragraph 37). The design of the
schools would be based on the findings of the study of economical construction
standards financed under the first project.   The construction cost is expected
to average US $200 per square meter, which is reasonable. Sltes for the two
new primary teacher training colleges in Abengourou and Gagnoa still need to
be acquired.
Procurement
52.       Civil works contracts for the two teacher training colleges and four
vocational upgrading centers, estimated to cost US $3.0 million, would be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accord-
ance with local procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank. These con-
tracts would be too small to attract overseas bidders. Equipment and furni-
ture would be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding and
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. Local manufacturers of equipment
and materials would be given a preferential margin of up to 15 percent of the
c.i.f. costs of competing imports or the currently applicable import duty,
whichever is lover. Numerous small itenms that cannot be satisfactorily
grouped into lots would be purchased locall'r on the basis of quotations fol-
lowing local procedures which are satisfactory; the total amount would not
exceed US $100,000.



Disbursements
53.       Disbursements of the proposed loan would cover:
(i)  44 percent of the total cost of civil works;
(ii)  59 percent of the total cost of furniture, equioment and material;
(iii)  75 percent of the total cost of professional fees; and
(iv)  100 percent of the foreign currency expenditures for technical
assistance.
All these percentages correspond to the estimated foreign exchange cost of
each component.
54.       Retroactive financing of up to US $160,000 is proposed to cover pro-
fessional fees and technical assistance as of October 1, 1974. This amount
would cover (i) about 10 percent of the consulting architects' fees for
Item (i) of the project, and (ii) about 10 percent of technical assistance
expenditures for the other components of the project. The prompt start-up
of these techxical assistance elements was required for two reasons:
(i)  To facilitate the timely construction of two teacher training
colleges, thus permitting the Government to meet its schedule
for the preparation of the primary teachers required to imple-
ment the reform, and
(ii) To enable the pre-investment studies' findings to be available
in time to have an impact on the overall development program
under preparation by the Ministry of Planning. Contracts have
been let in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines on procurement.
Justification
55.       The proposed project would help to expand and improve the country's
primary education system by adding two primary teacher training colleges to
those built under the first project, thereby enabling the Government to meet
its annual requirements for primary teachers by 1980. In addition, the four
skills upgrading centers provided for under the project would helD to meet
the Ivory Coast's skilled manpower needs by annually upgrading the skills of
at least 750 workers while also improving their job opportunities.   The pro-
posed loan would also help the Government to better adapt its education sys-
tem to the Ivory Coast's real needs by financing the foreign exchange cost of
studies - expected to lead to a third education project - which would (i)
analyze and prepare rural education and training programs and (ii) focus on
the design and preparation of practical scientific and technological studies
at the lower secondary level.



- 19 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.       The draft Loan Agreement (Second Education Project) between the
Republic of the Ivory Coast and the Bank, the Report of the Committee pro-
vided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement, and
the text of a draft Resolution approving the proposed loan are being dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors separately.
57.       In addition to the features of the Loan Agreement that are referred
to in paragraphs 39 and 41 of this report, paragraph 50 refers to a condition
of effectiveness (Section 5.01 of the Loan Agreement). The Loan Agreement
provides further covenants to the effect (i) that the staffing of the school
building units in the Ministries of Education and Technical Education will be
strengthened (Sec. 3.10); (ii) that the terms of reference of the pre-investment
studies provided for under this project would be approved by the Bank and the
studies' findings reviewed with the Bank (Sec. 3.11); and (iii) that the Bor-
rower shall take all necessary action to ensure maximum participation of its
nationals in the studies (Sec. 3.12).
58.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RICIOMENDATION
59.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Washington
April 30, 1975






ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 3 pgage
DUNM! DATA - riORY COAST
APIA                                                POPULATION                                    ON8ITT
323,750 he2                                        5.10 millio.i (m~Id-1972)                     26 /s      Per heZof arable land
SOCIAL IhfICATOPRS
Reference Countries
OW P1   CAPITA U.% (AtLAS RAsIS)                                   150          340 Ia            310 /a       130 Ia        190 Ia
DEKM2PAP41C
_roJ_W_hrate (Per t1heasand)                                 50           46 /1             32           3i I         2
Crude death rate(per thousand)                                    28           23 7o             11            77c d 
Won%a cortality rate (Per thausan    U,. bir~ths)                 ..          110 77            125 If        ci. 1t;,      la If
Life 4spectanc7 at birth (yeers)                                  35           127               52           59           689
Ores. repoduction rate /..                                                    3.1 /b            3.1          2.7           2.2 lb
Populatioo growto rate                                            ..          3.L 7-            2.1I         2 ~ 9'L       3.0c 7-;
Pevalation greetSi rate - urban                                  9.*                              3    / k,ur
Age atruct-re (perceot)
0-11                                                           L3/c        1-2/e               6/0        13/c          40
15-61                                                           51 7n_       557;              51 7 i36    53 77         s7
65 and ovr                                                             37-t 3;                     a        17             3
Denendenc7 ratio/I A.                                                         1.0 7             1.7 Iu.o    1.2 7,j       I.3
Urban Population an Percent of total                              27 Z1        28 /i             I.. /k,s    -2At          6    f
FamilY Planning~ I N  of acce ptors ecamul.tiva (thouc.           . .                           17           220_          7
No. of users (% of carried waon,)               .                             12'          15 i/c 
Yt -Lrforce (thousands)                                     .         ,0                ,3    a     320/           ,0
P.ro..t.. ges.ployed io agriou2ture                             ..           76                   /a~   3,2C/c        -,0
Percentage oneeploy.d                                            .9L/s                                   -   57
t"COOEDSRITO
Perentfut..uincose received oy highest 5%                    29 /v       30 Ic              .           22 /I
percent of natichal Inoose received by highest 20%                55 77       57 7               ..-
percent of eation.,. i-noc  received by lowest 20%                 7 7-         477              .__
PO'roet ofnational incone received by lowa.t 10%                  11 s7        10 7;             .           12
DISTRCSUTMN OF LAND CWERSNTh
S cowed by top 10% of owners                                      .                              53/OS
%Owned by asolla.t 10% of owners                                 0...O5 77
ALRAANTRTION
M;W     UMaIoNpe  physician                                    22,000 /ao  12,1~10            5,50G        3,360 /c so    ,170 If
Popelation per nuraing person                                  2,250 7aT   2,110 /cd            730 /od   1,0180 ~~_   10,230 7r
fPoplation per hoepital bad                                    1,250 7.c     660 7a-7          61 077       330   '    _2,9nS0 ~
Per capita calorie supply as % of requiresants 140ioo                             If,           9!. 1af     /-      a      nI
Per -aPita Protin ouppIY, total (gane per dayi                                z .  ? 77)'       63 7;?                        7!'
Of o5ich,  iant.] and Pulse                                      .          17!'177                         "   *'          7'
Death rate 1-4 years /7                                           ..          . 7.s i~7'7!'
RDUCATI0R
Adjsted /8 primary school snrol1,eent ratio                       16          77               !O- Is. 
Ad juted    semcondary school enroll,eent ratio                    2          il                20 772.         77         5
Tear, Of schooling provided, first and second level               13          131                                7         '
Vocational enrollmet as % of sac. ochool enroflaont               -131                                        37           i
Adult literary retu %                                             -3                             3.c /ce      2c
9 Irah      20 /,.            551 77,111                7 '-u  3 .AhAda
Average No. of Persona Per Tooe (urban)                          2.5 'I       .                2.6     ~     -             76
Percenst of ocropied unito without piped water                                                               .             5/
Acces  to electricity (as 6 of total popuclation)                  1'ko        .7c.,o                  ,
Percent of tural populatimn connected to electricity                          2.
i-sper 100  population-                                             ,.13/
Passenger cars per 100   popu.lation,                                         /. 
Klact.ri- power conummption (keh p.c.)                             3          1   71                          6/,c             !
Newspint consumption p.c. kg per year                          0.1           20.               01    ~      3.5 77. 3c1.      7;
Notes:  Figures rsf, ceither to the 1atest Periods or t              account of avrnnt           -pl . tsprtau, noyoed ta  n
the l-tates  years.  lAtest Periods -foer in principle to             itiuinb         g    n   eao    ainlppltos
the F.aro 1956-60 or 1966-70; tbs 1atest 7ears in prin-          16  Protein ian-dardo (req.1recants) for all countrieo as eatab-
ciple to 1960 and 1970.                                              liahed by USDA Lecon..ic Reseach Service pr-vide for a iiSc
/I  The Per Capita. GNP .stio.ato is at nak.t prtc-  for             allowance of 60 grans of total protein per day, a.eS 20 grans of
Y-r   other then 1960, clcal.t.d by the aane converinio          animal, and pulse protein, of ohich 10 grams should be ani-a
technique as the 1972 Wor-ld Banik Atlas.                        protein.  Than. standard,s are eoehat lowe    than th8., of 75
Lj Akoerage ruaeb- of daughters per ooa    of reproductive           grams of total protein and 23 gram   of anima protein as an
age.                                                             average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Pbpu.atinn grtrh mates are for the decades ending in              Survy.
1960 and 1970.                                               /7  Ssee atodies have suggested that crade death r-tee of childrso
~,Ratio of under 15 and 65 and over age brakets to                 ages 1 throagh 4 ma be usd as a first approclotion index, of
those in labor fore  bracket of ages 15 through 61.              salntrition.
Z3  7A0 reference 3tand.ad   represent physiological re-         IS  Peroantage enroils   of corrS.pecing population of school age
quAreeenta for nomal activity and nenlib, tkincg                 as defi~ned for each country.
/a   17;      b   19-020etmt;             /   VetPlya;          /d  Registered only;    /s   Datioata;   If   1969; ~4    1960-72;
7;  l65-0;7  Ove 1,00  opultIo;  ~1950nd;lb  ver10,iOO population; /I 1960-69; Is Citien & towns; /c ifrjcac copula-
On. cy 771-59  ears;~  60  ears& ove; /~7iio  f population urnder f5' & 05  . over to total labor force; In 19tc5;
Is  1966;  r Gazettd areas o  10,200  r core llhabitant; O/u  alIes only;  /v  1959 population;  /w  C0cone-
rccipeoE7 Ix  Dta rfer i  houing  nits  /y  oush  lW;  In ',owns; '7a      Covering 1.5  d.1llIon hctares of
private land,znluding 0.8silllon hectree in ~b1icownershlp a  mi2. lio110  cetares of collective lana;  /ab  1963;
/ac  Nueber on the register, mot all warnlng in the country;      lad  Governnant only;     l.as  1968;  laf   196L-66;     -
77j Inc3udo    overage otudents;    lab  Dafloitior uniccown;.  /ari95 years andr over;     77,  teed and   rite; ;l/ab   1956-57;
7i1  Urba.n and mr.ra;   /a    pr-e7tge of dwellings with sle7rica. lighting;        /a m  Percentage of honing;    '7ao   197i;
7/ap  Inside or outside.
aThe Republic of Chloe (Taivan) h.e been, 3eleonad as ob3eceti,e country because of its high rate of g,-owth coupled ulti
an imp,rovnent of the income distribution, its succaoo in the     ivricaonof Production and exports, the dosirant
role of xprta in its scononic developeent, the high le~vl of doesotic eavings and the Low rate of urban unapi.y-
setdeepite a rra   :oodus.
Rh Sept-bor 1-3, 19Th



ANNEX 1.
Page 2 of 3 Pages
ECONOMIC 0EIDp?M2M D&TA
(Amounta in milIlions of U.S. dofllars)
Actual                         Proje-ted             195 5    1970 -    1970 -    1975 -   1965     1975     1960
1-965 I./  1970    197          l73        739               1970    1972      1975      1960
NATIONAL ACCO1ZFI
5.-Year Avre*re at 197    496     .ces &  xchage Rates         Average Anul     rwth Rates          As Percent of ODY
Gross Domestic Product              1,4        ,9       ,s5        180       202       ,1          .      6.        6.3       6.0      108.3   100.6    103.8
Gains from Terms of Trade ()         -80      -19       - 57        - 39      - 12     -98          .      .                   .       - 8.3     -0.6   - 3.8
Gross Domestic Income               __       r T7T74   TrT T7T15            270,T7   7            8.8     5.5       6.5       5.3     l.0u-0   TU" fl     T 0
Import (incl. NF'S)                  331       572       656         717      846    1,134       11.6     7.1       8.1      6.0      -34.1    -42.0    -43.3
Exnorts   ". (import capacity)        350      597       644         701       814   1,088       11.3     3.9       6.4       6.0       36.Z    40.4     41.6
Resource Gap                        --        *75      =T2         --T6      -32                                                      -7. .  71  =T.6    = . 
Consumption EXpenditures              753    1.138     1,309       1,429     1,664   2,147        8.6     7.2       7.9       5.2       7 7 .7  82.5     82.0
Investment    .(incl. stocks)        196       311       341         349       385     515        9.7     4.7       4.3      6.0       20.2     19.1     19.7
Domestic Savings                     216       336       329         332       353     470        9.3    -1.0       1.0      5.9       22.3     17.5     18.0
National Savings                      169      266       244         248       269     350        9.5    -4.2       0.2       5.4       17.4    13.3     13.4
MERCHANDISE TRADE                            Annual Data at Current Prices                                                            Aa Percent of Total
Lmnports
Fuels and related materials          13       18        29          40       132    230         6.7     27.0     49.0      11.8        5.1      11.4    10.7
Other goods                         242      414       470         741     1,021  1.911        11.3      6.6     19.9      11.4       94.9     88.6     89.3
Total Merchi. Imports (cif)         255      432       499         781     1,153  2,141        11.1      7.5     21.5      13.2      100.0     100.0   100.0
Exports
maie agricultural products
(excl. fuels)2/                210       333       359         581      745   1,108         9.7      3.8    17.5       8.3       73.7      57.3     46.0
Ocher agricultural products
(excl. fuels)                   18        28        8          82      140     225         9.2     31.0    38.0      10.0        6.3      10.8      9.4
Fuels and related materials          -          3       14          19        51     64           -    115.0     78.0       4.6         -        3.9     2.7
Manufactu-ed goods                   25        63       77         121       241     628       20.0     10.5     31.0      21.1        8.8      18.5    26.1
Other goo-d                          32        69       88          88       124     381        16.6    12.9     12.4      25.2       11.2       9.5     15.8
Total   erh   Exports Uob)          285      49 6      586         891     1,301  2,406        11.7      8.7     21.3      13.1      1 00. 0   1300.0  100.0
Merchandise Trade indiccz                      !7RIC1~.96 7-69 - 10
Export Price Iex7                         0     7      102.        155.7     '97T.T 71.8~       5.8     -10       3.      66
Tmport Price Index                 100.2     108.7     129.6       155.6     205.6  292.6       1.6      3.6    13.6      7.3
Terms of Trade index                 78.1     95.4      79.3       100.0      96.1   92.9       4.1     -8.8      0.2    - 0. 7
Ex-ports Voluzme index               86.3    113.4     135.2       170.9     196.6  267.0       5.6      9.2     11.6     6.3
VALUE ADDED BzY SECTOR              Annual Data at 1967- 69 Prices and Exchange Rates             Average Annual Growth Rates          As Percent of Total
Agriculture                         375      410       457         467       519    651         1.8      5.6      4.8     4.6         35.8     25.6    24.0
Industry and Mining                 179      323       421         466       542    868        12.5     14.1     10.9     9.8         17.1     26.7    32.0
Service                            494       7 73      816         862       966  1.193         9.4      2.8      4.6     4.3        47.1     .47.7    44,0
Total GDP                        1.048     1,506     1,694       1,795    2,027   2,712         7.5      6.0     6.1      6.0       100.0     100.0   100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                                                          As Percent of GDP
(Cenrtral Government)
Current Receipts                   213       301       363         386      .36     624         7.2      9.8     8.2      7.0         20.3    21.5     23.0
Current Expendituz-es               155      233       269         300       355    488         8.5      7.5      8.5     7.0          14.8   17.5     18.0
Budgetary Savin.gs                  58        6          48                   1     136         3.2     176      6.9      705.5                4.0      5.0
Other Public Sector                  24       56        45          48        50    108        18.5    -10.5    -2.2     16.8           2.3    2.4      4.0
PulcSector Investment            90      11        24          29        23     361        13.7      9.2      9.0     6.6           8.5   13.0     13.3
US $ mill.ion
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                     Actual        Prelim.    Est.    Proj1.       DETAI'L ON                               At end 19 68   P and ER
As 0. Total Current E:xpend.)            19 5     29 72      19 73     19 74   19 80        PUBLIC SECTOR                               'lan 1971-75
Education                                 17.5   2F5.7      -27.2      280      2.0         IVSTNMJ     PROGRAM8%o                                             oa
Other Social. Services                    10.2     10.5      10.3      10.5     10.5                                                      561utra  eeopn  4  50
Public works, Urbanization, etc.          12.8      7.0       12.0     12.0     12.0         Economic infrastructure                      515
Other Economic Services                    8.5     12.4       11.8     12.0     12.0           - Powr                        134                     12
Administration and Defense                36.7     24.6       22.9     24.0     25.0           - Industry and Mining          69                      6
Other                                     14.3     19.8       15.8      13.5    15.5           - Transport and Telecom.      221                     20
Total. Current Expenditures              100.0    100.0      100.0    100.0    100.0           - Urban Development           137                     12
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ EE d u c atio n aan d CC ultu re   1019
Health and Social Develop.                    53                  5
SEL.ECTED INDICATORS                                1960-      1966      1970-   1975 -        Administration infrastructure                 46                  4
(Calculated from '-year averaged data)              1965       1971      1975    1960          Studies and Research                          13 
Average ICOR                                         ,         24-5     3.1-7    3.1_6                                                    1,123                100-
Imrport E-lasticity                                 ..        1.33      1.33     1.00          FINANCING
Marginal Domestic Savings Rtate                     ..        0.23      0.037    0.20               Public Sector Savings                   557                49.6
Marginial National Savings Rate                      ..       0.21      0.01     0.14               Program aid counterpart
Foreign Project Aid                     566                50.4
Total Financing                      1.123                100.0
IAWR FORCE AGO                                   Total Labor F'orce                                 Value Added Per Worker (1196 67-9      rIces &, !xc. Rates)
GUPTPNWRKZR                 In Thousands        4C of Total          19)     2          in U.S.Dollars      Prcen    ofAerg              95   7
19_65   ~    27     120        17        Growth. Rate         111        1 2972      1965                  Growth Rate
Agriculture                     1,623      1,797      85.7       82.4         1.5              231        254        41.7       32.7            1.4
Industry                         143         213       7.6        9.8         5.9            1,252      1,977       226.0      254.4           6.8
Service                           127        171       6.7        7.8         4.4            3,890      4,772       702.2      614.2           3.0
Total                          1           2-TTT,=TD~                         271              554                             :o
not applIcable         -nil1 or negligible                      1/ actual values instead of 3-year averages
nct available         --less than half the                      2/ cocoa, coffee, wood.
smallest unit shown



DkANAEE 0          EXTERNA, FIW4L ASSIErANCE AMM DMN
(-.neto in~ miiin  of U.S. dolar atcurnpies
A'. .ua.1  Lutloatod                  projected                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Avg. Annuaol
leot  5070 -  1971  5~~~172     1973          1974      1975,        19h        1377        1975        4379      1"70o      19,74-1980
21UKARA7 BALANCE OF PAYMENITS
Pup.rto (imi. NM3         ;1,.1   .40. o      .I   741l,       1,192.7       1,427.     1 c5.o1     1 929).8   2,176.4      ,3-        20744 2   3,252i.
T-t,oirtcl.                           2    "'L.,___            L,167.0        1474      1,97434                2 2,4 6   ___3__L4.
R--e.R.I.-- (-M)    7T"       F                            - 32.3        4:-22                              7t        L3.
Icterest (net)  52 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~169              -29.7         '0         4 3.0       -62.4      -42.s      -1992       -140.7    -1,9.0 
Direct 1-vem-et Inoove    -it).                                  -Y..9          90 7.0                           -65.0       _7           7.0       37O.
Wrboka' twaittanc        41 ,*                                   -77.0                     oO 1       100.1     -iic.o      ii" .0       -t'70     125. 
Correct ?rsoefere (net)  4.  ________  1 2  jj ~~~133  16.1j                 -00          -3.0       05.0       29____
Private Direct E-nveezmt    -       6                             1:2).         7".O   0 9               .0       32.0        37.0        I).9 0       '.' 4
O "     Capital Grl .. L. 0              i7 1. 3  9 3         27.3                                            'Oi.9 3.9   "? 9        34. 0     4.
Publ-ic MhZLT Loans.                                                                                                          459        65        643t'
liuhursrsrentu    4"~~~~W.3,                              211.3 4  Ids.9           26.4        ' 4       435.9       59           S
Not Dhscuroeceotc   .~~~-  7  77       2.       0          177-9         159.9     247.0                  330250.5                            ,I92
Othor -hLT Icon
Bicchue- - t.o..                    ...      ...      .            .             .r......                                                           ....
-Oeca.e...t............
Capital T-uaatioco c.o.i. -41.7      -7.6    -19,.9   -33.0                                                                        Ac. 17i Tt 1,             1stlate
Coein Bt Re--         -'5.1    -913.9    11.4     77.7         51:                     'EN Ann                    10;ER'  RE                  9          9
IcIer-to        ~~~~~~~.4i.  104.9  39.1   37.2         044                     Pub-lc Debt Ou.0 & 12bursd  755.2    344       95      56Y          70
GRn 100 10025 LOAN sIm-
Off1:aJ Grto4GatlT nternet on PblIc Debt                                                                                115      1,O      1'i      ;7'2       i'
RepaYen.ts on Pubhlic Debt  s7.0      -       'it      ,.9       "')
Pubic MALT? nan                                                                             Total Public Debt 3ervIce  '3.~5    474       7.      795       2i
rBRD                     17.1     t9.5      77.5     17.5         3.4                     Other 1)oot ServIce (net)   .         .       .     
rDA               -       ~~~-      -        -           7.5                     Ttotl.Debt Service (net)    .        .
Otlur Multflatvral       11.9      '.*a                                                  lioden onR.,       -i
G-vorrets                14.8      52.3      5.6     t6.'3       79,5                     Subl.       rt 3brri.. (5
Suppliers                 .9.6     12.0     26.9    233.~        595PulcDetSvo                                         6.9      6.7       7.1      9.
Finanial Ic-tltatiocs    1,         7.7     43.1     62.]        L6 8                      Total Debt S-rice...
Pcod.                      -        5:4       -                   B. 6                     TDScDifret Z.-rvet. Tn...    
Tota.i Puotc n?   -oan     66.9      69.     120.0   7i5.0         '2n                     Average Te.e. of Public Debt
botual Debt Out.tr igcvDc 3.5,'Ct. as5Prior Tear DflAD                            -.6      6.3      5.4      6."
ED~~~?flflA3. DEBT  ~~~~~~~~~~~~&ist-d.jly              Percent                     A-ort. as  Pri.r Year IliD  13.0     115      14.3     13.3        .'
Wbrid BaRt                                 24.'95.
rDA                                                                                        CBIlD Debt Cut. & Disbur-ed
Oth-r Siatilat-ra                          300                     5.3                         0    Public Debt 0&Dl     2.7      7.0      1.5       55       1.
lonococcento                    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_ .                                   % Public Debt Serice   3.        .       2.4 
- icuncial Ithsituti-r                    167.7                   29.6                      DDb        t&Dib-d
Ecr4ds                                     25.9                    1.6                    CIADeb Putl.& DObtirseD
Public Debto n.v.                                                                             os % Public Debt Service 
Total Pobillc MALT Debt                   76.410.
Other MALT Debto
Short-ta., Debt (dish. 0012y)
Mat applicable                                          a eta!! estlonte
not aai lable                                            -al or negligible
.available eep.rately                                     --Ieee thac half the
bat. irleider ir tota                                      ecaiet writ eh-e



A1NEX 2
Page 1 of 5 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN IVORY COAST
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
(as of March 31, 1975)
US $ million - Amount
Loan or                                                 (less cancellations)
Credit No.   Year      Borrower          Purpose        Bank   IDA   Undiisbursed
542-yVC      1968   Ivory Coast        Roads             5.8             0.0
611-IVC      1969   SODEPALM-          Oil Palm          3.3             0.2
PAIMIVOIRE
612-IVC             PAL'4INDUSTRIE-    Palm Oil Mill     4.8             0.0
PALMIVOIRE
613-IVC      1969   SODEPA1II          Oil Palm &        9.0             0.6
Coconut
667-IVC      1970   Ivory Coast        Education        11.0             8.1
1/
667-2-IVC    1975   Ivory Coast        Education SuD.    2.2             2.2
686-IVC      1970   Ivory Coast        Cocoa             5.3             2.5
759-IVC      1971   PALMINDUSTRIE-     Palm Oil Mill     1.9             0.0
PALHIVOIRE
760-IVC      1971   SODEPATI4          Oil Palm &;       5.1             2.1
Coconut
761-IVC      1971   Ivory Coast        Roads            20.5             6.2
337-IVC      1972   Ivory Coast        Hoads            17.5            14.5
938-IVC      1973   SOCATCI            Rubber            8.4             7.4
406-IVC      1973   Ivory Coast        Roads                   7.5       7.3
1/
981-IVC      1974   Ivory Coast        Teleconmmuni-    25.0            25.0
l/                             cations
1036-IVC     1974   Ivory Coast        Oil Palm III      2.6             2.6
1/
1069-IVC     1975   Ivory Coast        Cocoa II         20.0            20.0
1/
1076-IVC     1975   Ivory Coast        Abidjan Sewer-    9.0             9.0
l/                             age
1077-IVC     1975   Ivory Coast        Cotton           31.0            31.0
TOTAL                                          182.4   7.5     138.7
of which has been repaid                    0.8   0.0
TOTAL now outstanding                          181.6   7.5
Amount sold                              0.2
of which has been repaid            0.2
TOTAL Now held by Bank & IDA                   181.6   7.5
TOTAL Undisbursed                              131.4   703     138.7
1/ Not yet effective



AINEX 2
Page 2of 5 pages
i3. STATSMENT OF IFC INVESTIPENTS
(as of March 31, 1975)
ear     Obligor                      Type of             US Dollars
Business     Loan    cuity      Total
1965     Banque Ivoirienne            Industrial     -     204,000     204,000
de Developpement           Development
Industriel                  Bank
Total gross commitments                     -     204,000     204,000
Less cancellation, sold
or repaid                                           -           _
Total comnitments now
held by IFC                                -     204,000     204,000



*TNEX 2
Page 3 of 5 pages
C. Projects in Execution 1/
In. No. 611, 612    First Oil Palm and-Coconut Projects:   Three loans for a total
613, 759 and 760    of US  17.1 million of June 13, 1969; Closing Date: December 31.
1975. Second Oil Palm and Coconut Projects: Two loans for a
total of US $7.0 million of June 22, 1971; Closing Dates:
June 30, 1975 and November 30, 1977.
These projects are being implemented satisfactorily, and disbursement is
proceeding normally. The oil mills financed in these projects processed about 220,000
tons of fruits in 1974. The planting programs are proceeding well.
Ln. No. 667         First Education Project:   US $11.0 million Loan of April 27, 1970;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
Implementation of this project was slow, especially in the initial years.
This resulted from (i) delays in the decision making process, especially for the
selection and appointment of consulting architects; (ii) the complexity of consul-
tations between international and bilateral donors on the specifications of the
Instructional Television Production Center; and (iii) uncertainties about the pro-
ject description which culminated in its renegotiation and amendment in 1971. The
amencdnent consisted of (a) the reduction from 11 to 10 of the number of educational
institutions to be constructed under the project; (b) the deletion of Bank financing
of capitalized interest except for the amount already disbursed; and (c) realloca-
tion of the proceeds of the loan to take account of modified architectural standards.
The Executive Directors were notified of these changes.(See Memorandum to the
Executive Directors R71-246 of November 3, 1971.) Since then, the project implementa-
tion has substantially improved, construction works for two schools have already been
completed, seven institutions are expected to be built by June 1975, and the remain-
ing institution should be finished by January 1976. The Closing Date has been ex-
tended to June 30, 1977.
Ln. No. 667-2       Supplementary Financing for the First Education Project:
US $2.2 million Loan of January 17, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1977.
At appraisal of the First Education Project, the US dollar was worth 247 CFA
francs. When the project cost was recalculated in October 1971, the exchange rate was
US $1 = CFAF 277. Since then the dollar dropped substantially to about 225 CFA francs
in January 1975. In the fall of 1974 the Government requested supplementary financing
to offset the increase in the project's dollar cost due to currency realignments. This
loan is not yet effective.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the progress
of the projects in execution and, in particular, to report any problems which are
being encountered and the action being taken to remedy them. They should be read in
this sense and with the understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced
evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



AI'REX 2
Page 4 of 5 pages
Ln. No. 686         Cocoa Project:   US $7.5 million Lcan of June 5, 1970; Closing
Date: September 30, 1977.
The Cocoa Loan has been amended to reduce the number of hectares to be
rehabilitated. Difficulties arose in supervising large numbers of farmers who used
project inputs to treat non-project cocoa. The Government agreed to substantially
reduce the size of the rehabilitation program. (See Memorandum to the Executive
Directors R73-74 of April 13, 1973.) The project is proceeding satisfactorily except
for administrative problems which have delayed the submission of requests for reim-
bursement. However, administration of this and the second project (Ln. 1069-IVc) will
be combined,and an estimated 3,200 ha of cocoa plantings will be transferred from the
first to the second project. Savings of US $2.2 million resulting from the amendment
(R73-74) and the merging of the two projects were cancelled at the date of signature
of the second project.
Ln. No. 761    Second Highway Project:   US $20,5 million Loan of June 22, 1971;
Closing Date:  November 30,   '7`5.
A section of the Yabayo-Man Road will be re-routed due to present uncertain-
ties concerning the construction of a dam in the area of the road. (See Memorandum
to the Executive Directors R73-170 of July 6, 1973.)   Construction on the Man-Duekoue
and Bouake-Katiola Roads is making good progress. At the Government's request, Bank
financing of the detailed engineering of the Katiola-Ferkessedougou Road was abandoned.
The road will be constructed under Government financing.
In. No. 837    Third Highway Project:   US $17.5 million Loan of June 23, 1972;
Closing Date: Septemoer 30, 1977.
The road maintenance and betterment program has started. A second call for
bids for the reinforcement works had to be made, however, due to inadequate submis-
sions. The project incurred substantial cost overruns due to currency realignments
and abnormal price escalation.   The Government is currentily considering ways to solve
these problems.
Cr. No. L06    Fourth Highway Project:   US $7.5 million Credit of June 28, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
Construction of the N'zi bridge has started. Bids on the Yabayo-Gagnoa
Road have been received and contracts awarded. This project is experiencing cost
overruns similar to those of the third project.
Ln. No. 938    Rubber Plantation Loan:   US $8.L million Loan of October 23, 1973:
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Land clearing and planting has started. The project is experiencing man-
agement problems, but the co-lenders and Michelin, the company responsible for the
project's execution through a local subsidiary, SATAC, are working on resolving these.
Ln. No. 981    Telecommmnications Project:   US $25.0 zillion Loan of May 3. 197L:
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Consultants have been selected and bidding documents are being prepared.



ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 5 pages
In. No. 1036   Third Oil Palm Project:  US $2.6 million Loan of July 31, 197a;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1979).
This Loan is not yet effective.
Ln. No. 1069   Second Cocoa Project:  US $20.0 millon Loan of January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1950.
This Loan is not yet effective.
Ln. No. 1076   Abidjan Sewerage and Drainage Project:  US $9.0 million Loan of
January 17, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
This Loan is not yet effective.
Ln. No. 1077   Cotton Areas Rural Development Project:  US $31.0 million Loan of
January 17, 1975; Closing Date: March 31, 1962.
This Loan is not yet effective.



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3 pages
IVORY COAST - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUNMARY
Borrower:             The Republic of the Ivory Coast
Amount:               US $5.0 million
Terms:                Repayment in 25 years, including 5 years' grace,, with an
interest rate of 8 1/2 percent per annum.
Project Description:  The project would be carried out over a three-year period
(1975-78) and consists of:
a.  Construction and equipping of two primary teacher training colleges
at Abengourou and Gagnoa to provide one-year courses to 300 students
at each college;
b.  Conversion and equipping of four urban vocational training centers
in Abidjan, plus technical assistance to upgrade at least 750
skilled workers per year for industry;
c.  Supplementary technical assistance for (i) continuing the second-
ary school inventory,begun under the first project, and carrying
out an inventory of technical schools and (ii) managing and
operating the instructional television scheme;
d.  Pre-investment studies for a third project focusing on (i) the
education/training needs of regional development schemes Ln rural
areas and (ii) the introduction of more practical instruction in
secondary education;
e.  Provision of three man-years of technical assistance and eauipment
for project administration.



MINEX 3
Page 2 of 3 pages
Estimated Cost (in US $ thousands)
Project items                         Local      Foreign      Total
Teacher training colleges                1,958         l,887nl    3,845
Urban vocational upgrading centers         409           531        940
Secondary school inventory                  24            66         90
ITV                                        40            120        160
Regional studies                           223           597        820
Introduction of practical education.in     185           540        725
secondary education
Project administration                      39           115        154
Sub-total                    2,878         3,856      6,734
Contingencies                              869         1,115      1,984
Grand Total                  3,747         4,971      8,718
Total net of taxes           1,902         4,971      6,873
Financial Plan (in US $ millions)
IERD contribution                                          5;o00 
Government contribution                                    3.72
Total                                          8.72
1/  Includes retroactive financing of up to US $160,000 for professional
fees and technical assistance as of October 1, 1974.
2/ Includes $1.85 million in taxes.



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3 pages
Procurement
For the procurement of civil works (for the two teacher training colleges
and four vocational training centers estimated to cost US $3.0 million), contracts
would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in ac-
cordance with local procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank. Equipment and
furniture would be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding and
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. Local manufacturerers of equipment and
materials would be given a preferential margin of up to 15 percent of the c.i.f.
costs of competing imports or the currently applicable import duty, whichever is
lower. Numerous small items which cannot be satisfactorily grouped into lots
would be purchased locally on the basis of quotations following local procedures
which are satisfactory; the total amount would not exceed US $100,000.
Consultants
The proposed project would finance the foreign exchange cost of (i) 78
man-months of consultant services to analyze and prepare rural education and train-
ing programs for regional development, (ii) 60 man-months of consultant services
to assist the Government in carrying out a study for the introduction of more prac-
tical instruction in secondary education, and (iii) 39 man-months of consultant
services to assist the Government in the organization of the management and the
operation of the ITV scheme. These consultants would be selected in accordance
with Bank procedures. In addition, architects have already been selected (SOCOTE-C)
to design and supervise construction of two primary teacher training colleges and
to design selected items in preparation of a possible third project.
Estimated Disbursements
The proposed project would be executed over a three-year period. The
following are the Loan's estimated disbursements in US $ millions:
IBRD FY
1976     1977     197-
Yearly            2.45     2.25     0.30
Cumulative        2.45     4.70     5.00



ANNEX 4
PRE-INVESTiMENT STUDIES
1.         Pre-Investment Study for Educational and Training Needs in Rural
Development Zones:
The study would be carried out in three phases. The first phase
would consist of identiAication and conceptuaL design of potential need for
investment programs. The Government and the Bank would then consult to deter-
mine priorities. Besides formal education, most likely areas would be exten-
sion training, farmer ana rural youth training, and paramedical and associated
health training at the community level. In the second phase the specialists
would prepare the details of the selected education and training programs and
the specifications for facilities and equipment. In the latter Dart of the
study, an architect would be available to develop norms related to materials,
techniques of construction and procedures for supervision. In the third phase
of the study, the project would finance the professional fees for the prepar-
ation of the designs of selected education and training facilities, which the
Government and the Bank will have agreed would be part of a third education
project.
2.         Pre-Investment Study for the Introduction of More Practical
Instruction in Secondary Education:
The study, carried out in three phases, would be coordinated by an
officer of the Ministry of Education. The first phase would consist of analysis
of various curricula in light of expected enrollments ana budgetary allocations.
The analysis would focus in particular on the possible pedagogical, administra-
tive, and financial implications of a nationwide extension of the program.
Based on the inventory of secondary school facilities, this phase would also
make recommenuations on the organization of the program and location of new
facilities to be financed. These recommendations would be studied by the Gov-
ernment and the Bank to determine the elements to be included in a possible
third education project. Most likely items would oe lower secondary teacher
training, laboratory anc workshop groups and support facilities related to
equipment anc printed materials.
During the second phase these new project items would be prepared
in detail. In addition, the organization of a new lower secondary teacher
training college anc guidelines for the overall operation of the program would
be designed. The consultants would further explore the feasibility of producing
and repairing teaching materials within the country.   In the third phase, con-
sulting architects would prepare designs of the specific facilities which the
Government anc the Bank will have agreed to include in a possible third project.



IVORY COAST - PROPOSED EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
US$ thousand (US$1 = CFAF 225)
Civil    Furniture &     Professional     Technical       Total
Works    Equipment       Services         Assistance
1.  2 teacher training colleges (CAFOP)   2,850         710              285                         3,845
2. Urban vocational centers (CTU)           195         710                                35          940
3.  Secondary schools inventory                          10                                80           90
4.  ITV                                                                                   160          160
5.  Regional studies                                    110              200              510          820
6.  Introduction of practical                            25              300              400          725
education in
secondary level
7.  Project administration                                4                               150          154
Sub-Total          3,045       1,569             785             1,335        6,734
Contingencies for price escalation and      944          502             298              240        1,984
physical unforeseen
Grand Total        3,989       2,071           1,083             1,575        8,718
Total net of taxes 3,072       1,305              921            1,575        6,873
Foreign exchange ) as of % of Total          44%"         59 %            75%*             75%          57%
) Total                  1,755       1,223             812            1,181         4,971
or
5,000
*Average percentage
**Estimated foreign exchange                              January 27, 1975



IVORY COAST - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
CONTINGENCY ALLOWANCES (US$ 000)
Civil Works       Equipment & Furniture    Professional Fees    Technical Assistance                     TIfl7AL
l.ocal     Foreign    Local          Foreign   Local      Foreign   local         Foreign         Local     Forei gn    Gr. Total
Diatribution of costs:             56%          44%      41%             59%      25%         75%      25%            75%
Contingency percentages,
- plhysical unforeseen           5%          5%       10%             10%       5%          5%
- price escalatlon              26%         26%       22%             22%      33%         33%      18%            18%
Sub-Total              31%          31%       32%            32%       38%         38%      18%            18%
Cost before contingencies
(as for Oct. 74)            1.705       1,340       643             926      196         589 -    334          1,001          2,878      3,856       6,734
Physical unforeseeni               85           67       64              93        10         29                                    159         189        348
Price escalation                  444          348      141             204        65        194        60           180            710         926      1,636
Total Contingencies   529          415       205             297       75         223       60            180           869       1.115       1,984
Total Cost          2,234        1,755       848           1,233      271         812      394          1,181         3,747       4,971       8,718
Assumptions:
Price increase
First year           18%          18%       20%            20%       18%        18%       10%            10%
Second year          12%          12%       14%            14%       12%         12%      10%            10%
Tlhird year                                                          12%         12%      10             10%
January 27, 1975



IVORY COAST SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Implementation
1971h              1975               1976                 1977              1978
1      2      3   h   1    2    3   4     1    2      3  h    1     2    3   h     1   23 
1.  Civil Works
a) Teacher Training                          s  ***  ***   +$=      xxx  xxx  xxx   vvv  vvv  v-vv  vvv
Colleges
b) Urban vocational                          *  ***  *+$  -xx  xxx xxx    vvv vvv vvv    vvv  vvv
Training Centers
2. Furniture and Equipment
a) Teacher Training                             ***  *a$  $=                   xxx v      VwVwV
Colleges
b) Urban Vocational                             ***   +$$  =         xxx  vvv  vvv
Training Centers
c) Secondary School                             **+ $-    xx
Inventory
d) Regional Study                               **+   A=  xx
e) Introduction of                                 *  *+$  =xx  x
Practical Education
f) Project Administration                       **+  $=   x
3. Professional Fees
a) Teacher Training                             000   000  0 0  000  000  000  000  00               0
Colleges .
b) Regional Study                                                00. 0         000  000
c) Introduction of                                                0 00         000  000
Practical Education
4. Technical Assistance
a) Urban Vocational                                   00   000  000
Centers
b) Secondary School                               ss       000  000  000  000
Inventory .
c) ITV                                                     000  000  000  000 000   000  000  000  000  000
d) Regional Study                                sss   00  000  000  000  000
e) Introduction of                               sss       000  000  000  000
Practical Education
d) Project Administration                        sss       000  000  000  000  000  000  000  000  000  000
Legend:
o implementation phase         + review of bidding documents               x construction (or delivery phase)
survey of sites             $ tendering of bids                          v guarantee phase
* design period                - review of bids and award of contracts     s selection of consultant



IVORY COAST-SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
1975                      1976                   1977                     1978
1    2     3    h     1       2     3    4     1     2     3      4     1      2    3    4
I  Civil Works                3.05                  0.36  0.76  0.83  o.75  0.35
II  Equipment and Furniture    1.42                  0.O4        O.45         0.57
Part A of the Project
III  Equipment and Furniture    0.15            0.05  0.10
Parts D and E of the
Project
IV  Professional Fees          0.78      o.o4  0.01  0.02  0.05  0.o4   0.05  0.18  0.15  o.15
V  Technical Assistance       1.34            o.a4  0.32  0.32  0.26   0.13  0.04  0.03  0.04  0.03  0.01  0.02
VI  Contingencies              1.98                                     0.10  1.01  0.10  0.30  0.10  0.36   0.01
Total          8.72       0.04  0429  1.20  1.13  1.58  1.03  2.15  0.28   0.19  0.13  0.37  0.03
Local          3.72      0.01   0.07  0.48  0.51  0.72  0.49  0.98  0.07  0.16   0.02  0.20  0.01
Foreign        5.00      0.03   0.22  0.72  0.62  o.86  0.54  1.17  0.21  0.33   0.11  0.17  0.02
07J



ANNEX 9
IVORY COAST - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS ON THE LOAN
(US$ millions)
*
Quarters            Disbursement          Accumulated         Undisbursed
alsbursements         Balance
1                     0.25*                0.25                4.75
2                     0.72                 0.97                4.03
3                     0.62                 1.59                3.41
4                    0.86                  2.45                2.55
5                    0.54                  2.99                2.01
6                    1.17                  4.16                0.84
7                    0.21                  4.37                0.63
8                    0.33                  4.70                0.30
9                    0.11                  4.81                0.19
10                    0.17                  4.98                 0.02
11                    0.02                  5.00                0.00
*
Starting from the effective date of the Loan Agreement.
** Including up to 0.16 retroactive financing.






A}NNS 1c
-age o1ctf 3;Jages
STRUCTURE DU SYST EME D'EDUCATION . STMUCTIZRS OF THE SfL'CATZN s5157
AGE: 7   8   9  10  I I  12    13 14   15  16       17  I3 19        20 21   22 23   24  25  20
S-p.                                                                  E  -3 ,'- -,- ,
-nt.qnhrr*6t ;r,rhsre  I   :qnerr,.nr       Ixc9smr       iLEet,wrarnr,t IAoiEAt
.nsrci -. 15' EsA:.  sstEnfA^re  E 2eW {:t    nE CrE Iu-An.uS
N,US
) INJ;                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ENsEEGIJeIAENT NaOPMA.L
valtt., o.c'.uorrs n:oorenerE' Teacher Training
CAFOP       EN:
I   i  ., ht,U.'
ENS
I I                          C-P?olnsunoL  lt cyole cconrer. ICW.CSil
P,wTU0 LV a            SECOHlART _V  ENSEIGNEMENT GENERAL                           UPreznertr  i  -  UNEVERASrE
ICPl - (CPI  tCE,)  CE,I tCMII %CMs ,j )  IS'I  WI  13'1  I it 1 :r,7  dlI'12F  3jC4j|  !-  .   Cn]:
Ci&.,  ntOde'r --
CS~~~~~~~~~~~~~SI ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    C
A  EAEI:   CEGa                        ;      1Q,I        11'    '.L      nenr;
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'     32~ 1 rt. xc r. 
j   clcariit 3l It=A.NtArey tr
I T  II
I  s        }S.EeP-CwR
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SSIUMN AGCT ;rC SCLEl
*  -              TECIENIC2ECT  :J~~~~~T-u[r  -=-   7
0   CAP
I       !-i  !-- --
j~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~I *-ncc ScNE Coles  eciEcrE.
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-i . 0  1 ,.1 J: E
3 2?;.
| r   O-          ltane>:let
SE' r+     !ve, d, JEEC                         EESEIGNEUJEET AGRECCLE
z.glih G-lossary! - .-age 2 enod 2             09Herndt taE .crWi@ceosott        ACR2ICJL>RAL EZ'cAtrZ N
LEASES                                                                 Er.cen.ost-t-mrs  CA  {A Irunt  lurS Erotlegosrorls  nma
incc  o:..1-cCleorl  St
Cs  ESce  3_t**C-ls.otesuet,n       c-sc  Cenr-8 
CAP  CaruErca Cet. m*e,-o1.e'sr.n    flflasrv   CZgets rCEdtnr.e.
Er. SAIACEMESCC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E"S
INS3  ICtett!tlE.ECctO*l.ewlelcellASrT  --al|M          nlQn!    ES
I'S  2ESEPC                                                 E..                     ENSECyI  si IB tO   E G I_ENT
,NS.
A5,nLILt.lS                          J'E   TIE
1NsI5tD me D_z                                                                  s _  _  __ 
AAtS  Et  norCC.etEEEe,c               3EC                       :hnivd{knUoecrvEwIVB!N
-ETS  E_toeN sr.'en S  r,noen ue1               -;   A;e I                                ,M.,t,tEcEsst.uc',o...s,spe-AL1
ENS r,ncra-es erfjb.o.0-a,n4                                                              5 ?EUALZ iMmtrsSDt;
Ci A  GauslQdo^                                 L...mnst-tC                               AW LS 725
Cu CentSres coenancqu;rs oror-a      -sccaCu,M'ernt-ceiv*set                    SICAL :,O'CA-
F            E-cCI rKese., EucSrIEt,rI C 7 .?   C
0D                                                       R-LTw-T           Trc nnicJ.en uoecrscnd T.S.
4    vw_ ej,
-&  Cro-WG ICoA Aw'ast                                            -   L_ -tJJL_






ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 3 pages
GLOSSARY
CEPE     Certificat d'studes primaires elementaires
Primary certificate
BEPC     Brevet dt'etudes du premier cycle
Lower secondary school leaving certificate
Bac.     Baccalaureat
Baccalaureate
BEP      Brevet d'6tudes professionnelles
Vocational diblcma
BEM      Brevet d'ensaignement menager
Domestic science dizloma
CAP      Certificat d'aptitude professionnelle
Lower Vocati=1l diploma
CAPCG    C6rtificat diaptitude psdagogique pour les Colleges du premier cycle
Lcwer seco.dary teacher certificate
CAPES    Certificat d'aptitude pedagogique pour l'enseignement secondaire
Upper secon'lJ-i teacher certificate
BEI      Brevet dlsnsaignement industriel
Industrial vocational diploma
DEAT     Dipl6me dlitudes dtagriculture tropicale
Diploma i' tropical agriculture
CAFOP    Centres d7animation et de formation pedagogique
Prima-y teacher training college (lst qualification)
INJS     Institut national de la Jeunesse et des Sports
Youth/Sports training institution
ENI      Ecole normale d'instituteurs
Primary teacher training college (2nd qualification)
ENS      Ecole normale superieure
Secondary teacher training college
ENA      Ecole nationale d'administration
National Administration School
CET      College d'enseignement technique
Technical education center
ENSA     Ecole nationale superieure d'agronomie
Higher National School of Agriculture



ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 3 pagez
GLOSSARY
TP       Travaux publics
Public Works
GTA      Groupe technique d'accueil
CTR      Centres techniques r6gionaux
Regional vocational training centers
CTU      Centres techniques urbains
Urban technical/vocational centers
Z\>1      Formation par stages
Field training
0        Examen
Examination
Concours
Competitive entrance examination
0        Baccalaureat
Baccalaureate
Commission nationale d'orientation
National Commission for School guidance and Selection



r!z            ppn        _.X".. 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . .                              .  .  .  .  .. .. . 
!X!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .                              S.  .S .t .n ~ .-4-w-n--w B .^  .-.a._.-. e - - - .n.  .  .  . n.  .-. f .  .'  P"^ ...
C;   ,           _             _       _        _        _         ,                    *               _      ._            _  __     _   __       .___S~ . .  . .  . . .
*fi3 ,0, .2, ,^ ,-* - ^P-R.0s-+^R-* n - en!!4.w3 -_m-7^S r:=n377wa-- .... e--th . ~~~~ t^- _
-it -     - -  -  -  - -  -  -E we
i7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .                         .  .  .  .t  .  .  . .  .  .  . ..._t






,SRO  1 '77
I'VORY  COAST                                                              T-    - '-,--.ii s:: -jca pa,>,Tro-N
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT                                     .. .........~ yevawcnwuJz    T_       <
f<-~~~~ra9_t4-. g 0<or >~~~~~~~~~ff..        r _ _1lga Q _0o. ..
,S. -  %   \ j       /'        \          <    w<~~~~~~~~~~~j~ PER  VOLTA> la ,i 
G U N E A                                                  70- 0,4Ar
i,                                         t; \ tjb V _ s 9 _ ~~~~~~-e= itl\ 
*} TfJ~ANKUMA s__  ;rcL 
f  osodo  , _  s s   ,      o        ; ,       S ^ovs 2 g     g ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G iAN A
13 E R I A >\.cosg9  4IXIr_o 
4 w   S X  __t  LDSapE ~0|w      _---:&@OVa c>Yx `         X , 
OG-~ Biv       A  >r  A /Vrr    }        



