Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4616
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
IVORY COAST SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1125-IVC)
June 30, 1983
FILE COPY
Operations Evaluation Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
CAFOP     Centre d'Animation et de Formation         Primary Teacher Training
Pedagogique                               College
CTU       Centre Technique Urbain                   Urban Vocational Training
Center
MEN       Ministere de l'Education Nationale         Ministry of Education
MEPTE     Ministere de l'Enseignement Primaire       Ministry of Primary Education
et de la Television Educative             and Educational Television
METFP     Ministere de l'Enseignement Technique    Ministry of Technical Education
et de la Formation Professionnelle        and Vocational Training
ONFP      Office National de la Formation            National Office for Vocational
Professionnelle                           Training
SDRAP     Sous-Direction de la Recherche et          Department of Education
de l'Animation P6dagogique                Research and Training
LP        Lycees Professionnels                     Vocational Secondary Schools
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
IVORY COAST SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1125-IVC)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface  .                ...........................................................
Basic  Data  Sheet   ...................................................                                                            ii
Highlights                  ........................................ .................                                                v
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
I.  PROJECT BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY ...............................                                                                1
II. PRINCIPAL ISSUES ..........................                                                                                     3
The  Number,   Design  and  Conduct   of  Studies   ..................                                                 3
The Need for Additional Primary Teacher Training Colleges ..                                                           4
Percentages  of  Expenditures   to  be  Financed   .................                                                   4
Physical  Implementation   ....................................                                                        5
Buildings  and  Equipment   ....................................                                                       5
Costs  and  Disbursements   ....................................                                                       5
III.      EDUCATIONAL  IMPACT   ...........................................                                                           6
IV.    CONCLUSIONS   ..................................................                                                             6
Attachment  I  -  Comments  from  the  Borrower   ...........                                   ..         .............            9-24
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I.    Summary  and  Recommendations   ..................................                                                        27
II.    Introduction   .................................................                                                           30
III.    Project   Background   ...........................................                                                          31
IV.    Physical   Implementation   ......................................                                                         36
V.    Project   Costs  and  Financing   ..................................                                                      42
VI.    The  Bank's  Performance   .......................................                                                         45
VII.    Conclusions   ..................................................                                                            46



Table of Contents (Con't)
Page No.
Annexes
I.  Implementation Schedule, Forecast and Actual      .................   47
II. Comparison of Originally Estimated and Actually Provided
Gross  Construction  Areas   ....  ...................   ....  ...........  .  48
III.  Comparison of Originally Estimated Costs and Actual Costs ....   49
IV. Comparison of Originally Estimated and Actual Unit Areas
and Unit Costs for New Institutions ........................   50
V.  Estimated and Actual Disbursement Schedule ..      .................   51
VI.  Structure of the Education System ............................   52



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
IVORY COAST SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1125-IVC)
PREFACE
This is a performance audit of the Second Education Project in the
Ivory Coast, for which a loan of US$5 million was approved in May 1975.  The
Loan Account was closed in June 1981, when an undisbursed amount of US$42,000
was cancelled.
The audit report comprises (a) a Project Performance Audit Memoran-
dum prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED), and (b) a Project
Completion Report (PCR) dated September 28, 1981 and revised June 13, 1983,
prepared by the Bank's Western Africa Regional Office following a visit to the
Ivory Coast in March 1981.  The audit is based on a review of the PCR, the
President's Report (No. P-1541a-IVC) dated April 30, 1975 which also served as
appraisal report, the minutes of the May 13, 1975 meeting of the Bank's Board
of Executive Directors at which the Loan was approved, the Loan Agreement
dated June 11, 1975, and material in the Bank's files in Washington relating
to this project.
The project experience has been discussed with Bank staff connected
with the project and reference has been made to the Appraisal Report on
the Third Education Project. OED undertook a field visit in connection with
the audit of the First Education Project in the Ivory Coast; no field visit
was made in respect of the present audit.,
The PCR has been revised in some respects following OED comment, and
generally gives a well-balanced account of the project experience, in which
the audit concurs.   Substantial critical comments have however been made by
the Government officials, to whom the draft report was sent on February 3,
1983; these comments are reflected in this report and are completely repro-
duced on pages 9-24.



I



- ii -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT BASIC DATA SHEET
IVORY COAST SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1125-IVC)
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal          Actual or
Estimate        Current Estimate
Total Project Cost (US$ million)                       8.7                 8.80 /a
Overrun (%)                                           -                   1   /a
Loan Amount (US$ million)                              5.0                 5.00
Disbursed                                             -                  4.9 6
Cancelled                                             -                  0.04
Repaid       )                                                           0.27
Outstanding   to February 28, 1983                                       4.69
Date Physical Components Completed                     11/76               2/78
in M4onths Since Loan Signature                      17                  32
Proportion Completed by above Date (%)                  -                  95
Proportion of Time Overrun (%)                                             88
Institutional Performance                             Good                Fair
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
CY                1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980
i. Appraisal Estimate    0.25    2.99    4.81    5.00    5.00    5.00
ii. Actual                  0.00    0.55    2.28    4.03    4.62    4.86
iii. Actual as % of
Appraisal                0       18       47       81      92       97
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original                                        Actual or
Item                      Plan               Revisions              Estimated Actual
First Mention in Files            -                     -                        01/03/72
Government's Application          -                     -                           --
Negotiations                                 -                                  01/15-17/75/b
Board Approval                    -                     -                        05/13/75
Date of Loan Agreement            -                     -                        06/11/75
Effectiveness Date             09/10/75                 -                        09/09/75
Closing Date                   06/30/79        12/31/79; 12/31/80                06/29/81
Borrower                       Republic of Ivory Coast
Executing Agency               Project Unit, Ministry of Education
Fiscal Year of Borrower        January 1 - December 31
Follow-on Project Name         Third Education Project
Loan No.                       1777-IVC
Amount (US$ million)           24.0
Date of Loan Agreement        December 28, 1979
/a   In respect of the amended project.  The PCR indicates that if the project
had been implemented as appraised the cost overrun would have been of the
order of 40%.
/b   From the Minutes of Negotiations.  The President's Report states that
negotiations were held from January 13-17.






- iii -
MISSION DATA
Sent     Month/    No. of    No. of         Staff-    Date of
Mission           by       Year       Weeks      Persons*    Weeks**   Report
Reconnaissance       UNESCO/ 11-12/72         4.0   6 (B,2C,D,E;G) 12.0         8/73
IBRD
Strategy Review      IBRD/   11-12/73         3.0   4 (2B,C,D)      12.0      02/29/74
UNESCO
Operational           IBRD      04/74         2.0   1 (B)             0.5     04/30/74 BTO
Preparation/
Appraisal          IBRD       06/74        3.6   6 (2A,2B,C,D)  15.0          none
Post-appraisal        IBRD/     04/75         1.0   2 (B,D)           2.0     05/02/75
UNESCO
Total                                                            41.5
Supervision I        IBRD       07/75        0.5    1 (F)            0.2      07/08/75
Supervision II       IBRD       07/75        1.0    1 (A)            0.5      08/14/75
Supervision III      IBRD       09/75        1.0    1 (E)             0.5     09/29/75
Supervision IV       IBRD       10/75         0.5    1 (C)            0.3     10/27/75
Supervision V        UNESCO    11/75          1.0    1 (B)           1.0      12/02/75
Supervision VI       IBRD       02/76        1.0    3 (A,B,D)        1.5      04/23/76
Supervision VII      UNESCO    03/76         1.0    1 (B)            1.0    none on file
Supervision VIII    IBRD        03/76         0.3    1 (E)            0.2     04/09/76
Supervision IX       IBRD       07/76         0.5    1 (G)           0.2      07/26/76
Supervision X        IBRD       09/76        1.0    3 (A,B,D)        1.5      11/10/76
Supervision XI       UNESCO   9-10/76        2.0    2 (A,B)          2.0    none on file
Supervision XII      IBRD       09/76         2.0    1 (B)           -1.0    none on file
Supervision XIII    IBRD        12/76        1.0    2 (A,E)          0.5      01/17/77 BTO
Supervision XIV      IBRD       05/77        1.5    2 (A,D)          1.5      06/30/77
Supervision XV       IBRD       11/77        1.0    1 (F)            0.3    none on file
Supervision XVI      IBRD      2-3/79         2.0    3 (A,D,E)       1.0      04/16/79
Supervision XVII    IBRD        11/79        1.0    2 (E,F)          1.0    none on file
Supervision XVIII   IBRD        01/80         3.0    1 (A)           1.0      02/13/80 BTO
Supervision XIX      IBRD       03/80         1.0    1 (A)           0.5      03/27/80 BTO
Supervision XX        IBRD      07/80         1.0    2 (A,C)          1.0     07/22/80 BTO
Supervision XXI      IBRD       11/80        1.0    3 (A,C,E)        1.5      01/16/81
Supervision XXII    IBRD        02/81        1.0    1 (A)             0.5     02/24/81 BTO
Completion            IBRD       03/81        2.0    2 (A,B)          4.0     09/28/81
Post-Completion I   IBRD        07/81         1.0    1 (C)            0.3     08/20/81 BTO
Post-Completion II  IBRD        10/81         2.0    2 (B,C)          0.3     10/28/81 BTO
Post-Completion III IBRD       11-12/81       1.0    1 (C)            0.3     12/24/81 BTO
Total                                                            23.6
*   A = Architect;  B = Economist;  C   General Educator;  D = Agricultural Educator
E = Technical Educator; F = Division Chief; G = ETV Specialist
**   Number of staff-weeks attributable to this project.






- iv -
COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency (Abbreviation)   -  CFA   Franc (CFAF)
Exchange Rates:
Appraisal Year      --   US$1  =  CFAF 225
Intervening Years  --   US$1  =  CFAF 226
Completion Year    --   US$1  =  CFAF 249
ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS (US$)
Original               Actual
Category                            Allocation            Disbursement
I.  Civil Works - CAFOPs and CTUs            $ 1,400,000         $ 1,993,228.39
II. Equipment and furniture
(a) CAFOPs                                  400,000             553,916.85
(b) CTUs                                    400,000             493,053.52
III.  Other equipment and furniture                100,000              99,973.30
IV. Consultants' and architect's
services, CAFOPs and pre-
investment studies                          600,000             371,955.72
V. Other consultants' and
architects' services                      1,000,000           1,445,794.69
VI.  Unallocated                                1,100,000                   --
Total Disbursed                                                4,957,922.47
Cancelled                                                         42,077.53
Total                                $5,000,000          $5,000,000.00
UNIT AREAS AND COSTS, CAFOPs /a.
Appraisal Estimate       Actual
Areas (m2):    Academic and Communal          9.35                10.24
Boarding                      7.34                  6.59
Staff Housing               145.00               166.00
Costs (US$):   Academic and Communal         3,055                7,143
Boarding                     1,458                2,520
Staff Housing               31,100               63,300
/a From the PCR, Annex IV.






v
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
IVORY COAST SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1125-IVC)
HIGHLIGHTS
A Loan Agreement in the sum of US$5.0 million equivalent, represent-
ing the foreign exchange costs of a project whose total costs were estimated
at US$8.7 million equivalent, was signed on June 11, 1975.  The project had
its origin in a request for supplementary financing for the first education
project.   Following appraisal a separate project emerged.   It financed two
primary teacher training colleges, and the conversion of four existing
institutions in Abidjan to vocational centers, together with technical assis-
tance and pre-investment studies. The project has been completed and the Loan
was closed on June 29, 1981, when the sum of US$42,077.53 remaining in the
Loan Account was cancelled.   The final project cost was US$8.8 million.  The
cost overrun had been minimized by eliminating some staff housing, site works
and sports facilities.   Had the project been implemented as appraised, the
cost overrun would have been of the order of 40%.
Experience with the project has been mixed:   the teacher training
colleges and the vocational centers are fully enrolled and adequately funded
(PPAM, para. 15; PCR, paras. 4.07 and 4.10) and the buildings and equipment
are generally appropriate (PPAM, para. 12; PCR, paras. 3.01-3.10).  However,
some of the vocational training center equipment is not entirely suitable
(PCR, para. 3.07), and, in certain cases, buildings have been wastefully
spread over a large area (PCR, para. 3.06).  In general, it appears that the
components involving the physical provision of buildings, furniture and
equipment are proving successful.   However, the pre-investment studies were
not followed up by the authorities and it seems that little use will be made
of them (PPAM, paras. 7, 8 and 20; PCR, para. 4.11). This arose because there
was insufficient involvement of the Borrower during the implementation of the
studies.  While the project teacher training colleges appear to be operating
satisfactorily, the audit points out that there is need to ensure that all
such facilities are properly used before further capacities are financed by
the Bank (PPAM, para. 19). The audit also notes that disbursement percentages
for consultant services should be formulated so as to permit recruitment of
qualified consultants, whether foreign or local (PPAM, para. 10).






PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
IVORY COAST SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1125-IVC)
I. PROJECT BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
1.       In early 1972 the Bank was interested  in identifying  a second
education project but the Government considered an identification mission
would be premature.   In late 1972 UNESCO mounted a reconnaissance mission
with a Bank staff member from RMWA participating; this was followed in
November-December 1973 by a Bank Strategy Review mission with UNESCO partici-
pation. An interim project, mainly involving supplementary financing for the
first project together with studies, evolved; however, during preparation/
appraisal by a Bank mission in June 1974, some capital works were added.
During discussion in the Bank following the return of the appraisal team, the
supplementary financing for the first project was dropped from the second
project, being dealt with separately. Because the second project continued to
be regarded as an interim project no appraisal report was written and the
project was considered by the Board based on an expanded President-s Report.l/
A loan of US$5 million equivalent, representing the foreign exchange costs of
a project whose total costs were estimated at US$8.7 million equivalent, was
negotiated in January 1975, approved in June 1975, and became effective as
scheduled on September 9, 1975.
2.       The project was an interim operation and was not based on specific
long-range plans; indeed, at the time of its approval, only the broad lines
of the proposals of a National Education Reform Commission, set up in 1973,
had been published. The project comprised:
(a) Construction and equipment of two primary teacher training colleges
at Abengourou and Gagnoa to provide one-year courses to 300 students
at each college;
(b) conversion and equipping of four urban vocational centers in
Abidjan, together with technical assistance, to upgrade at least 750
industrial skilled workers a year;
(c) supplementary technical assistance for (i) continuing the inventory
of secondary schools begun under the first project and carrying out
an inventory of technical schools, and (ii) managing and operating
the instructional television scheme, also begun under the first
project;
1/   The Government considers that the lack of an appraisal report contributed
to the relative failure of the project. See page 18.



- 2 -
(d)  pre-investment  studies  for a third project focussing on (i) the
education/training needs of regional development schemes in rural
areas, and (ii) the introduction of more practical instruction in
secondary education; and
(e)  the provision of technical assistance  and equipment  for project
administration.
3.       Under the terms of the Loan Agreement the Borrower agreed to employ
consultants and specialists, whose qualifications, experience, terms of
reference, and terms and conditions of employment would be satisfactory to
the Bank. The specialists were to be employed for specified periods of
time unless the Bank agreed otherwise. Other provisions in the Loan Agreement
obliged the Borrower to employ a qualified and experienced administrative
officer in the Project Unit, qualified and experienced project managers,
and contractors acceptable to the Bank.   The Borrower was also to evaluate
the effectiveness of CAFOP graduates and to give preference to such graduates
in assigning teachers to those primary schools following the curricula based
on instructional television. Tracer studies were to be carried out of
graduates of the vocational upgrading centers, and employers were to partici-
pate in their operation, including participation in course design, organiza-
tion of follow-up courses, and financing of recurrent costs.   The terms of
reference for the pre-investment studies were to be furnished to the Bank for
its approval, and, in the case of the regional development schemes, a Bank
review of the first phase of the relevant study was envisaged, based on which
the items to be prepared in the second phase were to be selected.
4.       The project has been implemented substantially as agreed, although
there have been changes in the direction and thrust of the studies (PCR, para.
3.11 (d)).   There was some delay in the implementation of the project; how-
ever, the physical facilities had been completed within three years of the
Loan Agreement date, a much shorter period than in most education projects.
The original Closing Date was June 30, 1979. This was amended twice; the last
disbursement was made on May 8, 1981, and on June 29, 1981 the balance of the
funds, US$42,077.53, was cancelled and the Loan Account closed.   Total
project costs were US$8.8 million compared with the appraisal estimate of
US$8.7 million; the cost overrun had been minimized during implementation by
eliminating some staff housing, site works, and sports facilities.
5.       All the project institutions are operating at full capacity (PCR,
paras. 4.07 and 4.10) but the completion mission did not receive the results
of evaluation studies on the output of the project schools (PCR, para. 4.10)
and hence could not judge their educational effectiveness.  In regard to the
preinvestment studies, the major project objectives were not achieved in that
the studies did not provide a substantial basis for the identification and
preparation of future education projects (PCR, paras. vii and 4.11).



- 3 -
II. PRINCIPAL ISSUES
The Number, Design and Conduct of Studies
6.       As the PCR says  (para. x[a]),  the project was enormously complex
and ambitious in terms of the number of activities and the objectives of the
software components, most of which were directed towards the identification
and preparation of future projects.l/  Indeed, the project may have been too
complex in this regard, posing substantial problems during implementation.
The PCR also states quite correctly (para. 6.02) that studies must be given
the same scrutiny as hardware components in terms of design and assessment of
benefits and risks--indeed the audit would go further and say that they need
even greater scrutiny because they are inherently more difficult, less tan-
gible, and more dependent on individual personalities.
7.       The Bank,  for most of the implementation period of this project,
maintained two staff members working on education projects in its regional
office in Abidjan.   Such an arrangement permitted close contact on a regular
and frequent basis between Borrower and Bank staff without there necessarily
being written records made of the discussions.  Nevertheless, the impression
remains, and the final outcome shows, that the Bank underestimated the
difficulties in implementing, these studies and above all ensuring that they
were of use in the actual design of projects. The final report of the coor-
dinator of the studies indicated that the main studies had been well received
except by the Ministries of Education--that is, by the very Ministries which
would be most affected by the studies' recommendations.
8.       The  PCR makes  valuable  recommendations  regarding  the conduct  of
studies in its para. 4.11, which states:
(a) the Bank should be satisfied that the 'Government is sufficiently
committed to general courses of action likely to result from the
studies; and
(b) the design of studies and their conduct should assure that organiza-
tions and units which are affected or might be required to implement
study proposals should participate fully in the studies and the
formulation of proposals.
While the coordinator of the studies in his report mentioned above stated
that the RMWA and Borrower staff had been consulted during the conduct of the
studies, it appears that these consultations were not sufficient.   What is
needed in the conduct of studies such as this is continuous involvement of
Borrower staff at a sufficiently high level of responsibility to make sure
that the proposals being made are tested along the way and are not completely
unacceptable to the operating Ministries when they are published.
1/   The'Government agrees  that the project's scope was too ambitious,
especially granted the interim nature of the project.   See page 18.



- 4 -
The Need for Additional Primary Teacher Training Colleges
9.       The PCR states  that,  except  for  the pre-investment  studies,  all
elements in this project were justified in the appraisal of the first project
(PCR, para. 2.13).   This appears to be only partly correct as the appraisal
report on the first education project (para. 2.14) calculated the annual
trained teacher requirements for growth and replacement only till 1977/78,
i.e., two years short of the original completion date for the second education
project.  However, by the time the second project was appraised it had become
evident that the growth in primary school enrollments far exceeded the projec-
tions available for the first project. The need for adding two teacher
training colleges to the second education project therefore seemed to be well
established .l/
Percentages of Expenditures to be Financed
10.      These percentages were set down in the Loan Agreement, Schedule 1.
Categories 1 through 4 specified that the Loan would finance certain percent-
ages, representing the estimated respective foreign exchange components of the
expenditures. However, Category 5, relating to consultants- services, speci-
fied that the Loan would finance 100% of foreign expenditures.  During project
implementation the Government pointed out that it was essential to be able to
pay certain experts in local currency and that the existing formulation
precluded this.   It was suggested that for this Category the percentage of
expenditures to be financed under the Loan would be 75% of total expenditures.
This was accepted by the Bank.  Under the third education project, therefore,
the disbursement percentages read 100% of foreign or 75% of local expendi-
tures. The essential point is that disbursement percentages need to be
formulated so as to permit full reimbursement of foreign costs while at the
same time not prejudicing the employment of qualified local consultants.2/
1/   Additional  primary teacher training capacity is being provided under
the third education project in the context of a new'Government policy of
providing universal primary education.  It is not known whether all the
facilities provided for primary teacher training under the First Project
are now being used for the purposes for which they were originally
intended.   The Appraisal Report for the Third Project did not refer
specifically to the contribution Bank-financed teacher training colleges
are making towards meeting the country's needs for trained teachers.
Before financing any further primary teacher training facilities in the
Ivory Coast, the Bank may want to satisfy itself that the existing
facilities, in particular those the Bank helped finance, are being
properly used.   (The 'Government, commenting on this project, has indi-
cated that the project financing of an increase in teacher training
capacity was well justified despite the lack of data on the appropriate
utilization of the facilities. See page 21, I.4.)
2/   This comment is supported by the Government.  See page 21, I.2.



-5-
Physical Implementation
11.     Although the audit estimates the time overrun on the physical imple-
mentation of this project at about 90%, the performance of the project unit
in regard to the physical implementation of the project was good.  This time
overrun was caused by Bank staff estimating only 17 months to complete the
physical facilities of the project--an inadequate time allowance even allow-
ing for the fact that management consultants had been engaged prior to loan
signing. The physical facilities took 32 months to complete, a credit-
able achievement.
Buildings and Equipment
12.      The PCR deals well with these aspects of the project experience in
its paras. 3.01 through 3.10.  It records that the buildings are well dimen-
sioned and functional, and adds the important comment that as in many other
similar institutions in Africa, and without much concern for site development
costs, the facilities for the teacher training colleges have been spread over
a large area (PCR, para.3.06). The PCR mentions (para. 3.07) that the amount
of equipment for the teacher training colleges was reduced to compensate for
civil works cost increases--a common feature in education projects.   The
equipment is being used and maintained adequately, and the furniture, designed
by the consultant architects, is functional and sturdy. The PCR (paras. 3.07,
4.09) states that in regard to the vocational training centers employers were
not consulted on equipment lists and as a result some of the equipment is not
entirely suitable. The Government however has indicated that employers were
consulted about the technical and teaching equipment planned (see page 13,
para. 2).  The PCR also records that there were instances of the Government
having awarded contracts for furniture and equipment before having received
the Bank's comments (para. 3.08), contrary to the provisions of the Loan
Agreement.
Costs and Disbursements
13.      Final project costs of US$8.8 million equivalent were only 1% over
the appraisal estimates of US$8.7 million. This small cost overrun was
achieved by reducing the scope of the project, eliminating some staff housing,
site works, sports facilities, furniture and equipment.   The PCR indicates
(para. iv) that had the project been implemented as appraised, then the cost
overrun would have been of the order of 40%, a lower cost overrun than has
been experienced in other education projects.   This comparatively low cost
overrun was largely due to the much more rapid implementation of this project
than most education projects. The main issue concerning costs appears to have
been the high remuneration of consultants, as much as US$100,000 equivalent
per expert-year in 1978.1/  The Bank asked for justification of these salary
levels as the experts in question seemed to be regular personnel on second-
ment; however the Bank ultimately approved these appointments.
1/   The Borrower has drawn attention to the high costs of the studies - and
other problems with the studies.   See page 17 for these very important
comments.



- 6 -
14.      There appear to have been no special problems with disbursements,
which lagged somewhat as implementation was delayed.   Towards the end of the
project the Bank exerted some pressure to close the project; the last dis-
bursement was made on May 8, 1981 and the loan account was closed on June 29,
1981, when the sum of US$42,077.53 remaining in the account was cancelled.
III. EDUCATIONAL IMPACT
15.       While it is too early to assess the impact of the teacher training
colleges  and the vocational  training centers  included  in the project,  at
the time of Completion reporting these institutions were operating effec-
tively: all are fully staffed, adequately funded and operating at capacity
(PCR, paras. 4.07 and 4.10).  According to the PCR (paras. 3.07, 4.09), some
inappropriate equipment has, however, been procured for the vocational
training centers because of a lack of consultation with employers and there
has been some reluctance to use the centers for skill upgrading purposes; the
Borrower has however indicated that employers were consulted (see page 13).
16.       Tracer studies of graduates have been carried out; the completion
mission was promised but not given the results of these studies (PCR, para.
4.10).  Furthermore, since the completion mission, it has been reported that
the Government has abandoned or at any rate severely curtailed its educational
television (ETV)  programs  (see PCR,  para.  4.14 in this connection).   The
primary teacher training colleges were designed specifically to train teachers
in the use of ETV.  For these reasons it is suggested that an impact evalu-
ation of this project be undertaken in about five years time. Such an evalu-
ation could also look into the First and Third Project components having a
bearing on this project.
17.       With regard  to the studies,  the educational impact seems likely
to be minimal. The PCR deals well with this component (paras. vii, 4.11-4.15)
pointing out that the studies did not provide a substantial basis for future
projects; the regional studies were conducted without adequate consultation
with institutions which might be affected by the studies' results, and the
studies' proposals were not accepted by the Government.   The PCR mentions
the high quality of the technical assistance inputs and the general high
quality of the studies; however even the highest quality work is of little
value if it does not lead to action.
IV. CONCLUSIONS
18.       As with the First Education Project in the Ivory Coast, experience
with this project has been mixed.  Physical implementation of the project was
generally good, with the buildings being completed less than three years after
loan signature. The 88% time overrun was due to an unrealistic implementation
schedule (PPAM, para. 11). Equipment and furniture are generally appropriate,



-7
although some unsuitable equipment has apparently been procured for the
vocational training centers, perhaps because of a lack of consultation with
employers on equipment lists (PPAM, para.  12; PCR, para.  3.07).   The PCR
(para. 3.06) makes the important point that the teacher training facilities
have been spread over a large area.  This defect is to be observed in several
Bank-financed education projects.
19.       While both the vocational training centers and the project teacher
training centers were fully staffed, adequately funded, and operating at
capacity at the time of the completion mission (PPAM, para. 15; PCR, paras.
4.07 and 4.10), the audit points out that there is need to ensure that all
such facilities, in particular those supported by the Bank, are properly
used before further capacities are financed by the Bank (PPAM, footnote to
Para. 9).
20.       The  pre-investment  studies  financed  under  the project  have had
little impact, as the operating Ministries did not follow up the recommen-
dations.  The PCR makes useful recommendations regarding the conduct of such
studies, stressing the need for Government commitment to general courses of
action likely to result from such studies, and the need to involve operating
departments in such studies on a continuing basis (PPAM, para. 8; PCR, para.
4.11).   Experience with this project has also shown that disbursement per-
centages for consultant services should be so expressed as to permit the
employment of qualified local and foreign consultants (PPAM, para. 10).






ATTACHMENT I
COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER                            E-966/83         (page 1 of 16)
April 29, 1983
French (Ivory Coast)
OED
TS:cc
REPUBLIC OF IVORY COAST                                  No. 38 MEN/CAB 1
MINISTRY OF NATIONAL EDUCATION                           Abidjan, April 7, 1983
The Minister of National Education
To: Chief, World Bank Regional Mission
in Western Africa
Stamp:    CONFIDENTIAL
Subject: Project Performance Audit Report
Second Education Project
Sir:
The Operations Evaluation Department has submitted to us before
publication the draft Project Performance Audit Report on the Second Education
Project in Ivory Coast. The Completion Report on that project, a copy of
which we had already received last year was also attached.
My colleagues responsible respectively for Primary Education and
Technical Education and I have made some comments on these two documents,
which comments we are sending to you for onward transmittal to the competent
department of the World Bank in Washington.
I would be most obliged if you would repeat to your organization how
much we appreciate its valuable assistance.
Yours faithfully,
/s/ P. Y. Akoto
Stamp: Republic of Ivory Coast
Ministry of National Education
THE MINISTER



- 10 -                         ATTACHMENT I
(Page 2 of 16)
REPUBLIC OF IVORY COAST                                  No. 36 MEN/CAB 1
MINISTRY OF NATIONAL EDUCATION                           Abidjan, April 7, 1983
Stamp: CONFIDENTIAL
F O R T R A N S M I T T A L
to the Director of the Operations Evaluation Department
of the World Bank
Letter No. 1460 from the Minister of the Economy and Finance relating
to the Project Performance Audit Report on the Second Education Project in
Ivory Coast.
COMMENTS: For distribution
For the Minister and by delegation
/s/ A. Mandelli
Technical Adviser
Stamp: Republic of Ivory Coast
Ministry of National Education
THE MINISTER



- 11 -
ATTACHMENT I
(page 3 of 16)
Ministry of the Economy                                 Republic of Ivory Coast
and Finance                                          Union - Discipline - Work
No. 1460 MEF-DI/LD/MR
Abidjan, March 21, 1983
The Minister
To: The Director,
Operations Evaluation Department,
The World Bank
Subject:   Project Performance Audit Report
on the Second Education Project
in Ivory Coast (Loan 1125-IVC)
Reference:  Letter of January 3, 1983
Sir:
In reply to your abQve-referenced letter, I wish to inform you that
the report in question does not give rise to any comments on my part.
However, as your main criticisms relate to the technical side of the
project and not the financial, I think it is up to the technical ministries
concerned to make any comments they may feel appropriate.
Yours faithfully,
/s/ Abdoulaye Kon6
Stamp: Republic of Ivory Coast
Ministry of the Economy and Finance
THE MINISTER



- 12 -
ATTACHMENT I
(page 4 of 16)
Republic of Ivory Coast
Ministry of Technical Education                          Union - Discipline - Work
and Vocational Training
Abidjan, March 25, 1983
No.        MET-FP/ONFP/CCT
Ref.:      Your letter of February 2, 1983
Subject:   Project Performance Audit Report
on Second Education Project in Ivory Coast
The Minister of Technical Education
and Vocational Training
To: The Director, Operations Evaluation Department
World Bank
Per: IBRD Education Projects Directorate
Abidjan
Sir:
Your above-referenced letter accompanying the Project Performance
Audit Report on the Second Education Project in Ivory Coast and the Completion
Report on that project has received my full attention. After reading these
reports, I have several comments to make on the components that concerned this
ministry, namely:
-    the conversion of the urban vocational training centers (CTUs)
-    the inventory of technical training schools
-    technical assistance for the preparation of legislation on
Vocational Upgrading in Ivory Coast
-    preparation for the defining of the future lycees professionnels.
1.       Conversion of the CTUs
I was surprised to note very numerous references in the reports to
employers not being consulted on equipment lists for these centers, with the
result that:
-    some equipment was unsuitable
-    employers were reluctant to use these centers.



- 13 -                       ATTACHMENT I
(page 5 of 16)
These judgments are repeated on pages v, 5 and  7  of the project
Performance Audit Report and on pages 28, 29, 37,38, 41, and 43 of the
Completion Report. Admittedly, when the object is to complete the equipment
for training establishments, especially in the context of a conversion
operation, and the more so when entire equipment lists have to be drawn up for
new establishments, certain items may well prove to be insufficient or even
unsuitable, whatever precautions are taken.
As regards the equipment for the CTUs, to my knowledge the employers Incorporated
were consulted about the technical and teaching equipment planned, while if  in PPAM paras.
certain employers are reluctant to use the centers, which needs to be                12, 15 and 18
verified, it does not seem to me that the reason for such reluctance would lie
in unsuitability of the equipment provided under the project. This is
moreover demonstrated by the additional investments that have since been made
in these centers, with funding from the Law on Vocational Skill Upgrading,
often in conjunction with if not at the request of the employers.
Another factor relating to the conversion of the CTUs is mentioned on
page  2  of the Completion Report, where it is stated that:
"In addition, in spite of full utilization of facilities, the mix in
training programs between basic skill training and worker skill
upgrading may not be as intended with too great an emphasis being
placed on former and inadequate results with respect to the latter."
I feel I must question the grounds on which these conclusions are
based and would like to have the relevant data center by center for the
centers concerned. In the meanwhile, since the entry into effect of the Law
on Vocational Skill Upgrading in 1977 I can state that the five centers --
CPMA, CPMI, CPMME, CPM Wood and CPM Building -- have been entrusted with very
many projects, both individual and sectoral, at the direct request of
enterprises or following negotiations with the unions representing the sectors
concerned. Confirmation of this is provided by the fact that the Institut
National de Perfectionnement Permanent (INPP), the body that coordinates these
centers, receives no more than 15% of the amount of its annual budgets from
public funds, while the rest is obtained in the form of remuneration for its
services to enterprises.
2.        Inventory of Technical Schools
On page 39 of the Completion Report it is stated that the inventory
of technical training institutions was undertaken and that the field work for
it was completed in 1978; however, it did not prove possible to draft a final
report or set up a system to determine the present and future equipment and
facilities requirements of these institutions.
I am aware that this study should be an important tool for my
department. While it is true that the final report could not be produced,
several studies currently under way will help to provide a better



- 14 -
ATTACHMENT I
(page 6 of 16)
understanding of these parameters. In this connection I would refer in
particular to a study on training costs that covers the investments made.
Moreover the recent reorganization and strengthening of my department ought to
provide us with better and more detailed data on all the resources of our
establishments and lead to more reliable analyses of present and future needs.
3.       Technical Assistance for the preparation of Legislation on
Vocational Upgrading in Ivory Coast
Also on page 39 of the Completion Report, there is the statement that
technical assistance from the ILO made possible the preparation of legislation
on Vocational Upgrading and that although there remain problems this system is
now is full operation. This was the case for the law providing financing for
Vocational Upgrading but at the present time, without denying that there is
room for improvement of this system, during its operation for nearly five
years now it has brought about a very considerable mobilization of
enterprises, as you can see from the attached brochure that I am enclosing for
your information.
4.       Preparation for the Defining of the Future Lyc6es Professionnels
Paragraph 1.04 of the Introduction to the Completion Report refers to
the establishment of four new vocational training centers under the Third
Education Project. These are in fact the four lycees professionnels of Man,
San Pedro, Gagnoa and Odienne; during recent visit to the sites I have been
able to observe that the construction work is progressing satisfactorily.
As the report emphasizes, the assistance provided under the Second
Project (page 40) provides some basis for the establishment of these lycees
professionnels. I would like to take the liberty of adding that for the
identification and establishment of new structures, and the more so when these
structures are defined with respect to a generation of establishments that is
itself new, the human investment is just as important if not more so than the
analysis of the physical investments required. By human investment I mean the
resources needed for identifying -- in the design stage -- all the internal
and external parameters involved, and secondly, and in parallel with the
execution of the physical investments, those required for preparing the
effective start-up of the structures, and finally, those necessary for the
operation of the system set up, in this instance the training of national
trainers. If very special attention is not given to these human investments
in each stage of such projects, full advantage may not be derived from the
physical investment from the start.
These are the comments I wish to make on the reports submitted to
me. As regards Section 308 of the Loan Agreement, called for tracer studies
of the graduates of vocational upgrading centers, in order to evaluate and
maintain the effectiveness and organization of the programs in these centers,
it must be borne in mind that as of 1978 these centers became Centres de
Perfectionnement aux M6tiers (CPMs), key establishments in the legislative
framework just created. This legislative framework has enabled the four



- 15 -
ATTACHMENT I
(page 7 of 16)
centers that benefited from World Bank financing, and through utilization of
that of that financing, to most significantly develop their vocational
training capability, as outlined in the attached brochure.
My staff are at your disposal for any further information you may
require.
Yours faithfully,
/s/ A. Barry-Battesti
Stamp: Republic of Ivory Coast
Ministry of Technical Education
and Vocational Training
THE MINISTER



- 16 -
ATTACHMENT I
(Page 8 of 16)
REPUBLIC OF IVORY COAST                                  No. 37 MEN/CAB 1
MINISTRY OF NATIONAL EDUCATION                           Abidjan, April 7, 1983
The Minister of National Education
To: Mr. Shiv S. Kapur
Director, Operations Evaluation Department
World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433, U.S.A.
Stamp: CONFIDENTIAL
Dear Mr. Kapur:
I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of the draft of the Project
Performance Audit Report dated February 2, 1983 that you were kind enough to
submit to me before publication regarding the Second Education Project
co-financed with our government by the World Bank out of Loan 1125-IVC of 1975.
This document, to which was attached the Project Completion Report
pertaining to the Education Project in question, has received my full
attention and I can assure you that its outstanding relevance, rigor and
objectivity in all points impressed me most favorably. I will not therefore
have any significant comments to make as regards the project components
concerning my department.
It seems correct to say in retrospect that the Second Education
Project, although presented at the signature of the Loan Agreement as an
interim project, was too complex and finally too ambitious, at least in its
preinvestment studies components, for a project intended to identify and
provide a basis for subsequent projects. From this viewpoint the draft
submitted for our approval apportions responsibilities fairly: just as the
execution times, and perhaps also the cost, were distinctly underestimated by
the parties at the time of signature of the Loan Agreement, so the complex and
multipolar fields to be covered by the ambitious regional education study
centered on three major regions of the country were not delineated
satisfactorily.
If it is borne in mind that there were a number of question marks
hanging over the socioeconomic climate at that time, it will be clearly
understood at present that this study -- although of a high quality -- was not
able to accomplish its purpose, the more so since the ministerial departments
primarily concerned have not received its nevertheless eagerly awaited
conclusions.
On this point, I approve the conclusions of the draft report: the
formation of an interministerial commission made up of national officials
responsible for closely following the work of the experts would have spared us
some heavy and fruitless expenditures.



- 17 -
ATTACHMENT I
(page 9 of 16)
The inventory of secondary schools has been most useful for our
knowledge of the State's resources in this area. This study, made by a firm
of private consultants, was certainly not perfect (we have in fact found some
inaccuracies and omissions together with a degree of inconsistency in the
presentation of the results), but it has nevertheless furnished us with
detailed data on the infrastructure, facilities and state of our secondary
schools. This inventory could, moreover, be used for setting up a
computerized file that would make it possible to calculate investment
requirements and maintenance costs more accurately.
All the same, it should not be admitted that an inventory of this type
could have been made using local resources (questionnaires sent to the heads of See PPAM,
establishments, then collected and processed by the regional and central             footnote to
offices, etc.); if this had been done, we could have saved ourselves about           para. 13
CFAF 17 million. Recourse to external financing was not really vital in this
particular case.
We expected a lot of another compDnent of this Second Project, namely
the one that was to look into the feasibility of a possible small local
industry to produce teaching materials: the significance of such a study for
a developing country often obliged to import at great expense the most
elementary supplies while possessing an abundance of raw materials will be          See PPAM,
obvious.  Unfortunately, the study was unable to open up any practical              footnote to
prospects and we deplore the large amount of money (nearly CFAF 27 million)    para. 13
spent on arriving at the conclusion that the time was not right for setting up
a local teaching materials industry. However, perhaps more to be deplored
were the vagueness and over-ambitious scope of the terms of reference, i.e.
the formulation of the proposed assignment for SIGES: the terms of reference
pertaining to the contract concluded with that company began with an
exhaustive description of the "present situation" with regard to teaching
materials (production and market, procurement policy, distribution policy
nationwide, etc.), followed by a section looking ahead to the market as it
would be in 1980, with growth scenarios: the terms of reference for this
component included the following conclusion: "the conclusion of the study
must be an economic study that makes it possible to assess the possibilities
for setting up an import industry and improving the materials procurement
procedures in order to bring down the cost to the education system." The
scope of this instruction points up at the same time the limitations of such a
study.
The latter part of the study should have been left to private
enterprise: private promoters and investors desirous of entering the teaching
materials business would certainly not have failed to make a prior market
study. The first, or descriptive, part was not without value, however;
ministerial departments involved in education will still find it of use,
either as a basis for future projects, or for joints efforts with other
ministries aimed at reducing costs and prompting rationalization of
procurement, distribution and maintenance procedures for teaching materials
(already the purpose of the Centre National de Materiel Scientifique (CNMS),
which is in line reorganization).



- 18 -
ATTACHMENT I
(page 10 of 16)
Finally, as regards the study on instruction in technology that was
to make the secondary cycle more practically oriented and more consistent with
the aims of rural development, it can in fact be stated that this failed to
achieve its goal inasmuch as it sought to modify our general secondary
education at a time when the authorities had not yet adopted a position on the
major problems then troubling the sociocultural climate (educational
television, education reform, education after finishing school or other than
in school, etc.). More than divergences of views, disagreements between the
expert and the local education specialists, who for ten or so years already
had been focusing their efforts on an introduction to technology understood as
an introductory year leading into study of the physical sciences, an
introduction that was rounded out, moreover, in 1979 by a manual and technical
education section, whereas the expert stuck closely to the terms of reference
of his contract, which had for that matter been accepted by the two
contracting parties, namely the setting up of primarily craft and
rural-oriented education in technology.
This component was undoubtedly seen as a logical follow-on from the
regional preinvestment study that was to lead to definition of and the
methodology for integrated rural development, but it is now apparent that it
would have been more judicious to base the expert in the Ministry of Primary
Education's "Direction de l'Extra-Scholaire" or in an appropriate division of
the Ministry of Agriculture, rather than in the Ministry of National Education
which is responsible for overseeing general education. In this spirit, one
may suggest to those two ministries that they make use of this study, which
will have cost CFAF 14 million, without counting the recurrent costs arising
from the hiring and activities of an expert.
In conclusion, we given our overall' approval to the draft Project
Performance Audit Report and the Completion Report submitted to us. The brief
comments made above are intended solely to explain, from the Ivorian
viewpoint, and purely as regards my department, the reasons for the relative
failure of this Second Project.
These appear to fall under four headings:
Reflected in
(1)  Too ambitious a scope for a project classed as an interim one;  ppAM, footnote
Ito para. 6
(2)  Lack of an initial appraisal report (cf. page 1 of the Project  Reflected in
Performance Audit Report and pages 27,29 and 33 of the Completionito para. f
Report);
(3) A certain inconsistency in the logical sequence of the studies,
the aims of which were not based and could not at that time have
based on clearcut directives (cf. page 2 of the Project
Performance Audit Report);
(4) Some weakness in liaison and coordination between the different
ministries.
Need it also be noted that the very purpose of this project lent
itself to such avatars, since it is stated explicitly in the two reports that



- 19 -
ATTACHMENT I
(page 11 of 16)
most of the components of the project are angled toward identifying and
preparing future projects?
The fact remains that these design defects are only apparent in
retrospect and that it is perhaps too easy to criticize several years after
the event a program that the two parties voluntarily accepted at the time.
Experience, most fortunately not repeated during the preparation of the Third
Project, shows that we should avoid recourse to this sort of financing for
studies whose purpose is to prepare for other studies, and that it is by far
preferable not to turn to IBRD until ideas have matured and can lead more or
less soon to specific programs, the more so as it is almost impossible for the
government of a developing country -- i.e. one in a state of constant and
rapid evolution -- to make a "commitment to general courses of action likely
to result from such studies" (page 7 of Project Performance Audit Report).
I am attaching the reports of the Ministers of Technical Education
and Vocational Training and of Primary Education and Educational Television,
regarding their respective fields.
Yours faithfully,
/s/ P. Y. Akoto
Stamp:  Republic of Ivory Coast
Ministry of National Education
THE MINISTER



- 20 -
ATTACHMENT I
(page 12 of 16)
MINISTRY OF PRIMARY EDUCATION
AND EDUCATIONAL TELEVISION
M E M O R A N D U M
COMMENTS ON THE DRAFT VERSION OF THE PROJECT PERFORMANCE
AUDIT REPORT ON THE SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT - WORLD BANK
(LOAN 1125-IVC)
Ref.: IBRD letter of February 3, 1983
from Mr. Shiv S. Kapur
March 1983



- 21 -
ATTACHMENT I
(page 13 of 16)
The field covered by the Ministry of Primary Education and
Educational Television (MEPET) was touched upon by two operations partially
funded by Loan 1125-IVC:
1.   the construction and equipping of two Primary Teacher Training
Colleges (CAFOPs) with a capacity of 570 places;
2.   technical assistance for the running of educational television.
The comments below, requested by the Director of the Bank's
Operations Evaluation Department, were formulated after examination of the
following documents supplied by the Bank to MEPET:
-    Completion Report on Project 1125-IVC of September 28, 1981
(revised July 21, 1982);
-    Confidential Project Performance Audit of February 2, 1983.
Aside from the exceptions noted, MEPET considers the draft Project
Performance Audit Report of February 2, 1983 to be accurate and appropriate
and will limit itself to throwing further light on certain points, reinforcing
some others, and suggesting more precise workings or corrections in a few
instances.
I.       GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS REGARDING THE PREPARATION
OF THE PROJECT AND THE PROJECT STUDIES
1.       While some misunderstandings have persisted (which the Third Project
will show to have been unfounded), they may be due to the fact that the
Borrower, in the person of the representatives of the sectors concerned, was
not sufficiently involved during the implementation of the studies.
2.       It was indeed desirable to formulate disbursement percentages such as See PPAM,
to permit recruitment of qualified consultants, whether foreign or local.           footnote 1
to para. 10
3.       It is true that the deletion of certain staff housing, site works and
sports facilities made it possible to hold cost overruns down. The fact
remains that to accomplish its purpose, a primary teacher training college
ought to have sports facilities and be adequately equipped, in view of the
role and importance of physical education activities in primary education.
4.       A lack of data on appropriate utilization of the CAFOPs' facilities  Reflected in
appears to lead the writers of the draft Project Performance Audit Report to  footnote 1
doubt the need to finance an increase in their capacity.  In this connection, to para. 9 of
MEPET wishes to point out that:                                                    PPAM
The Abengourou and Gagnoa CAFOPs have been operating since they were
opened at the start of the 1977/78 academic year. The CAFOPs are playing an
increasingly significant role in the training of primary teachers. Thus the
CAFOP staff are participating in an increasingly systematic and programmed
fashion in the refresher training and upgrading of primary teachers by giving
these courses in the rooms made available when the student teachers go out on
teaching practice.



- 22 -
ATTACHMENT I
(page 14 of 16)
In addition, the CAFOPs are used during the vacations as training
centers for teachers who have not received basic primary training (temporary
assistants).
5.       As regards the competence of CAFOP graduates, the draft Project
Performance Audit Report repeats what was said in the Project Completion
Report to the effect that no evaluation is made of CAFOP graduates.
It should be noted that CAFOP graduates are evaluated on two
occasions:
(a)  after their period of in-college training, student-teachers are
required to sit the examination for the trainee assistant teacher
diploma (DIAS) after which, if they pass, they are placed at the
disposal of the education districts that come under the Inspectors of
Primary Education.
(b)  Final appointment and confirmation in the assistant teacher starting
grade is subject to satisfactory performance in a practical teaching
examination known as the Elementary Certificate of Aptitude for
Teaching (CEAP) in which they are evaluated by a panel consisting of
the Inspector for the District, a Teaching Counselor and an
experienced teacher. During the time they are preparing for this
examination, trainee assistant teachers receive advice and support
from a Teaching Counselor (one counselor to fifty trainees).
It should be borne in mind that:
-    the overwhelming majority of assistant teachers are assigned to
posts in the field where their initial training is validated by
the CEAP;
-    all primary teaching personnel required to sit examinations or
competitions are trained in the renewed curricula and teaching
methods introduced in the elementary system with the Educational
Television Program.
II.      IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT
1.       The CAFOPs built in the context of Loan 1125-IVC have been operating
at full capacity ever since they opened.
2.       The technical assistance for educational television has focused on:
(a) the programming and management, analysis and control of finances
and procurement;
(b) the study of personnel management;



- 23 -
ATTACHMENT I
(page 15 of 16)
(c) the devising of a method for inventory and study of maintenance
for primary schools.
As regards (a), MEPET wishes to emphasize that the structures
responsible for management, programming and analysis are continuing to perform
their task in a dynamic manner in order to ensure, by means of data-processing
equipment:
-    the functioning of the Ministry's internal information system
and its ongoing adaptation to the development of the education
and administration structures:
-    the processing of the data gathered or generated by this
information system and the search in conjunction with the
different departments of the Ministry for means to improve the
management of human, physical and financial resources;
-    the devising and control of the application of various
administrative and financial procedures designed to ensure the
efficiency of this system;
-    the management of the entire range of data-processing facilities
available to it for the performance of its specific tasks and
for those of other user departments.
Regarding (b), it is a fact that the results have not been
satisfactory and the consultants' reports do not seem to lend themselves to
implementation.
The position is different with (c). The EDUCON report has opened the
way for systematic approach that will be pursued well beyond 1983. The
inventory and sampling models have been modified in the light of the present
economic circumstances; MEPET will nevertheless have data that are
sufficiently credible and structured to permit programmable and budgetarily
pertinent management of the nation's school buildings. This will have a
lasting impact on education and is an example of success that is worthy of
special note.
3.       As for the special covenants which required the borrower to carry out
socio-vocational tracer studies of teachers trained in the CAFOPs, the
following should be pointed out, for the information of IBRD:
In view of the concerns expressed by the Bank and UNESCO, the
borrower undertook to use the CAFOP graduates in schools following the
education television curriculum (PETV). The beneficiary of the loan used for
primary teacher training colleges understands IBRD's concern that the newly
trained teachers should be assigned to schools following the television-based
curriculum. This is effectively what is happening. While in the Ivory Coast
of 1977 there were two tendencies in primary education, the one being the
renewed or television-based curriculum and the other the "tradition" form,
today, thanks to the extension of the renewed curriculum to the entire primary
system, this dualism no longer exists.



- 24 -
ATTACHMENT I
(page 16 of 16)
The fact is that all teachers in the Ivorian primary system are using
the same curricula and methods, based essentially on the innovations brought
in by educational television.
The textbooks presently used by students and teachers nationwide bear
witness to this.
The dropping of educational television was certainly a reason for
concern, but in the end it did not cause more than some minor modifications
which have not been such as to cancel out the essential benefits derived from
the innovation.
Paradoxically, the renewed curricula and methods prompted by
television have as a result been extended to the entire country, including the
parts not reached by television.
The need for teachers able to transmit the knowledge and inculcate
the behavior expected of the Ivorians of the future will continue to grow over
the period 1983-85.



- 25 -
WA-427
IVORY COAST
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
LOAN 1125-IVC
COMPLETION REPORT
September 28, 1981
(Revised June 13, 1983)
Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
Education Division






- 27 -
IVORY COAST
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT - LOAN 1125-IVC
COMIPLETION REPORT
SUIRIIARY ANTD RECOMMIENDATIONS
Project Objectives
i.        This project was identified in 1974 when the Government was con-
sidering far-reaching proposals from the Education Reform Commission which
would restructure and reorient the education and training systems in the
couuntry. The major thrust of the project, the preinvestment studies,
were therefore aimed at assisting the Government to identify and prepare
projects which would implement desired reforms, components of which would
be included in a proposed third education project. At appraisal, the Govern-
ment requested, and the Bank later agreed, that the project should also
contain components which would further contribute to the achievement of the
objectives of the First Education Project (Loan 667-IVC). The project,
therefore, included components for primary teacher training, vocational
training and further support for educational television. Since the project
was regarded as interim and because the components added at appraisal had
been essentially evaluated during the appraisal of the First Project, an
appraisal report was not written for this project.
Project Content
ii.       The project comprised the following:
(a) construction and equiping of two primary teacher training colleges;
.(b)  conversion, furnishing and equipping of four vocational train-
ing centers in Abidjan;
(c) technical assistance and specialist services for completion of a
secondary school inventory started in the first project and an
extension of the inventory to include technical training insti-
tutions;
(d) a continuation of technical assistance in support of the management
of the educational television scheme;
(e) technical assistance and specialist services for the studies,
the first of which would identify and prepare education and training
components for a regional development scheme and the latter of which
would provide a basis for the introduction of more practical instruc-
tion in grades 6-9;
(f) technical assistance and equipment for project administration.



- 28 -
iii.      Some changes were made in the project during the implementation
period.  Nlamely, because the Government was unwilling to proceed with a reform
of secondary level education, the study for the introduction of more practical
instruction in grades 6-9 was replaced by a series of smaller studies which,
it was thought, would lead to the identification of possible components in a
future project. Also, because of cost overruns, some site works, sports
facilities, two staff houses and some furniture and eauipment were deleted
from the project.
Costs
iv.       The total estimated cost of the project at appraisal was US$8.7
million with a 57 percent foreign exchange component amounting to US$5.0
million comprising the amount of the loan. As implemented, final expendi-
tures exceeded appraisal estimates by only US$100,000 or 1 percent. If
the project had been implemented as appraised, cost overruns would have
been about 40 percent of appraisal estimates because of an underestimation
of the project's base costs at appraisal. The cost overruns were compen-
sated for by a reduction in the scope of the project, eliminating some
staff housing, site works, sports facilities, furniture and equipment.
Project Results
v.        As intended, the project achieved its objectives of increasing
the country's training capacity in primary teacher training colleges
(CAFOPs) by over 570 student places. The curricula offered in the two
new institutions created under the project in support of the educational
television program are as intended at appraisal. The objectives of this
component were apparently achieved without difficulties, except for sub-
stantial cost overruns which were compensated for by eliminating elements
as outlined above (para. iv). However, a final evaluation of results must
await the completion of tracer studies which the Government was obligated
to undertake under a covenant in the Loan Agreement (Section 3.07).
vi.       Th-ie assistance provided to the four vocational training centers
(CTUs) had mixed results. On the one hand, the technical assistance
provided under the project was very successful in drafting and gaining the
adoption of legislation which provided for greater employer participation in
the design of programs and the financing of training activities. On the other
hand, some of the equipment provided under the project proved to be inappro-
priate. In addition, in spite of full utilization of facilities, the mix in
training programs between basic skill training and worker skill upgrading may
not be as intended with too great an emphasis being placed on the former and
inadequate results with respect to the latter. 1/ Ile are still awaiting the
results of a study on these matters which the Ministry of Technical Education
and Vocational Training (METFP) was to conduct through the National Office for
Vocational Training (OIIFP). The completion of this study is a covenant in the
Loan Agreement (Section 3.08).
1/   The Borrower expressed a different opinion (see para. 4.09).



- 29 -
vii.      The main objectives of the project were not achieved; the project
did not provide through studies a substantial basis for the identification and
preparation of future education projects. The regional studies were conducted
without adequate consultation with institutions which might be affected by the
studies' results. The need for such consultation should have been taken into
account in the design of the project, particularly in the terms of reference.
In spite of the high quality of some of the work done, the studies' proposals
were not accepted by the Government. However, the small pilot community
development project, "Promovillage", included in the Third Education Project
(Loan 1777-IVC), was partially justified on the basis of the regional study
results.
viii.     The study which would provide a basis for the introduction of more
practical work in the secondary school curriculum was dropped because of a
lack of agreement with Government on when and how to proceed with the imple-
mentation of a program to achieve this objective. Rather, the Government
proposed and the Bank accepted that a series of alternative studies should be
conducted which would contribute to the identification of a future project.
These studies were completed, but are of mixed quality, and have contributed
little to project identification. However, the study which produced an
inventory and maintenance methodology for primary schools should prove useful
for planning purposes.
ix.       The inventory of secondary and technical schools started under
the first project and continued under this project should also prove useful
for planning provided that the METFP strengthens its staff and is able to
maintain a current inventory. Although the METFP has carried out its survey
of technical and vocational schools, it has not been able to process and
publish its results because of inadequate staffing and the excessive detail in
the survey itself. Insufficient attention was given to the preparation of
this project component, particularly to the terms of reference. The survey of
secondary schools was completed and is maintained on a current basis by the
Ministry of Education.
Findings and Recommendations
x.   (a)  The project was enormously complex and ambitious in terms of the
number of activities and the objectives of the software components
most of which were directed toward the identification and prepara-
tion of future projects. By hindsight, too little attention was
given to the design of these components, particularly in terms of
their management and to an assessment of the risks associated with
them. A better appreciation of the Government's commitment to
courses of action likely to be recommended in the studies could have
resulted in a somewhat different project design.
(b) Insufficient attention was given to the procedure by which equipment
lists were drawn up by the ONFP;



- 30 -
(c) The base costs of the civil works components were grossly under-
estimated at appraisal because project preparation was not ade-
quately advanced at appraisal; sites had not been selected and even
preliminary drawings were not available.
(d) Future missions should follow up on the studies required to satisfy
the covenants in sections 3.07 and 3.08 of the Loan Agreement.
(e)  Supervision missions should follow tlp with the MIE'TFP to assure that
the inventory of technical training institutions is published and
that staff is strengthened to maintain the inventory on a current
basis.
(f) The Western Africa Project Department should follow up on the
results of the feasibility study for establishing a pedagogical
materials industry.
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Ilethodology.  This report is based upon the findings of a two-man
mission which visited Ivory Coast from February 28th to March 12th 1981. The
mission visited all six institutions assisted by the project and interviewed
the officials responsible for conducting the preinvestment studies financed
under the loan. The Project Unit provided the mission with complete data on
the physical implementation of the project, most of which had been prepared by
them beforehand. Prior to the mission, Bank staff reviewed the entire set of
files on the project.
1.02      Bank operations in sector. The project is the second of three
education projects in Ivory Coast which the Bank Group has financed with loans
totalling US$42.2 million. The First Education Project (Loan 667-IVC) was
signed on April 27, 1970 and provided US$13.2 million in support of virtually
every level of the education system. However, educationally, the most inter-
esting elements in the project were the specialist services provided for the
establishment of educational television for primary schools and for the con-
struction of three primary teacher training centers to train teachers oriented
toward the efficient use of this media. The project included the establishment
of a vocational school for adult training which was important because it led,
in the Second Education Project, to subsequent activities by the Bank and the
initiation of a reform of the vocational training system by the Government.
Other major elements of the first project were the construction of two general
secondary schools, two secondary technical schools and two post-secondary
schools. The loan was closed in September 1977, 38 months later than the
appraisal estimate and with a 73 percent cost overrun. A completion report
was issued on August 10, 1979 and a PPAR on May 8, 1980.



- 31 -
1.03      The Second Education Project (Loan 1125-IVC for US$5.0 million
signed on June 11, 1975), the subject of this report, reinforced some objec-
tives of the first project by financing the establishment of two primary
teacher training colleges, the upgrading and equipping of four adult vocational
training centers in Abidjan and the continuation of specialist services for
educational television. Studies comprised important elements in the project
and were expected to provide bases for the identification and preparation of a
Third Education Project. The project was completed by the Closing Date of
December 31, 1980, 18 months behind schedule.
1.04      In terms of project content, the Third Education Project (Loan
1777-IVC for US$24.0 million signed on December 28, 1979) reinforces the
objectives of the first two projects by financing the establishment of four
additional primary teacher training colleges and four new vocational training
institutes located in centers outside of Abidjan.  The loan provides a very
limited follow-up on the studies financed in the Second Education Project by
financing a pilot community development program.
II. PROJECT BACKGROUND
2.01      Socio-economic setting.  In terms of the growth of GDP and GDP
per capita during the 1970s, Ivory Coast was, perhaps, the outstanding success
story on the African continent. From 1967-79, GDP growth averaged over 7
percent per year and, in spite of a rapid rate of growth in population, half
of which is attributable to immigration, the growth in GDP per capita averaged
2.7 percent per year. At the time the Second Education Project was appraised,
in 1974, the country had a population of 6.7 million; by its completion in
1980, the population had grown to 8.3 million.
2.02      It is of particular interest that this performance has been a result
of the successful exploitation of the country's agricultural potential,
success in attracting foreign investment and external aid and efficient
development administration. Most of this development was concentrated in the
southern half of the country and the Government has been consciously promoting
a more balanced regional development through agricultural development programs
in the northern region and by increasing the prices paid to farmers for their
crops. However, by the time of the completion mission, in 1981, developments
both internally and in the international economy threaten the continuation of
the country's good economic performance. Rising oil prices, declines in the
prices of agricultural exports and mounting foreign indebtedness have brought
about debt servicing, balance of payments and budgetary problems. The educa-
tion system has itself contributed to the country's budgetary problems with
recurrent costs of the system rising from 34 percent of the Government's
budget (already very high) when the Second Project was appraised, to 40 per-
cent at the time the project was completed.
2.03      Since independence, the Government has given the highest priority
to the development of its system of education and, while its achievements
have been remarkable both quantitatively and qualitatively, they have been
accompanied by new problems and have exacerbated some old ones.



- 32 -
The Education Sector
2.04      The Ivorian system of education follows the French pattern, con-
sisting of six years of primary school, a secondary program divided into a
four-year lower cycle and a three-year upper cycle, and a tertiary level of
university and other post secondary education. Since independence, the major
goals of the education system have been a rapid expansion of primary education
and the maintenance of equivalency with the education system in France and the
Government has made noteworthy progress toward the achievement of these goals.
At the same time, the Government has been sensitive to criticism that the
education and training systems have not been sufficiently well adapted to
Ivorian conditions and has taken at least the preliminary steps toward reforms.
2.05      Achievements in increasing enrollments have been truly noteworthy
with actual enrollments exceeding planned enrollments during every plan period
since independence. Ovcr the implementation period of the Second Education
Project, which roughly coincided with the 1975-1980 National Plan, primary
school enrollments increased from 673,000 to 962,000, 6 percent over plan
projections. This was supported by an increase in the number of primary school
teachers from 15,000 to 25,000. Secondary school enrollments increased from
101,000 to 198,000, nearly 10 percent over plan projections. University
enrollments increased from 6,000 to 11,000, more than 100 percent over what
was envisaged during the plan period. Increases in enrollments in technical
education have been similarly phenomenal over this period, increasing from
24,000 to 47,000.
2.06      The Government has a record of boldness in its willingness to
experiment with education technologies and curricula, particularly at the
primary school level where a revised curriculum has been introduced, using
educational television and frequently updated materials and innovative teaching
methods. The first education project assisted in the establishment of an
evaluation unit which assesses the technical, managerial and pedagogical
aspects of educational television (See the PCR for this project).
2.07      However, progress in the introduction of educational reforms during
the plan period 1975-1980 has been negligible and unfortunate, for the design
of the second pr)ject was very largely influenced by anticipation of the
implementation of reforms as outlined in the Report of the National Education
Reform Commission , which was completed in late 1975. In particular, the
design of the Second Project anticipated that the Government would (a) develop
and implement curricula at grades 7-12 with sufficient technological and
practical content to make school leavers more readily trainable on the job;
(b) develop (modular) vocational training opportunities (of the type financed
under the first and second projects) to upgrade skills of persons already
employed, plus in-plant training schemes to meet skiLled manpower needs;
(c) adapt the education system to regional and primarily rural employment
opportunities, including preparation for self-employment.



- 33 -
2.08      Aside from the country's slowness in acting upon the accepted
proposals of the National Education Reform Commission, during the Plan period,
the Government did not come to grips with other long-standing issues which
have figured prominently in the Bank's ongoing dialogue with the Government
during the project implementation period. Most prominent among these issues
are the high and growing claim of recurrent expenditures for education on the
recurrent budget, the high unit costs of education and training, the excessive
costliness of the university scholarship system which, moreover, failed to
encourage students to enter manpower-short occupations and the low external
efficiency of the vocational training system. Employers have been dissatis-
fied with the graduates of vocational training institutions and the graduates
themselves have often been unwilling to accept jobs for which they have been
trained.
2.09      With the emergence of financial and balance of payments problems
in 1980-1981, the Government is just now making a serious effort to come to
grips with financial and manpower issues and a series of proposals are being
considered; some have already been acted upon. For example, in early 1981, the
scholarship system was reformed not only by reducing its overall cost, but in
providing incentives for students to undertake training in fields experiencing
manpower shortages. And a far-reaching set of proposals are being considered
to reduce the unit costs of education.
2.10      Project Formulation.  From the outset, the Second Education Project
was regarded as an interim operation pending the outcome of discussions
within government on the content and plans for implementing the recommenda-
tions of the Education Reform Commission. Following a Unesco/Bank reconnais-
sance mission in November/December 1973, the Government asked the Bank to
assist by providing supplementary financing for the First Education Project
(Loan 667-IVC) and technical assistance for preinvestment studies. During
appraisal, the Government augmented its original request by adding to it a
proposal that the Bank finance construction and equipment for vocational and
primary teacher training, essentially adding to the scope of the First Educa-
tion Project which contained similar components. During negotiations, the
request for supplementary financing of the first project was dropped. The
appraisal mission was not required to produce an Appraisal Report; formal
project documentation includes only a President's Report and the Loan Agree-
ment. The Loan Agreement for US$5.0 million at 8-1/2% rate of interest and a
Closing Date of June 30, 1979 was signed on June 11, 1975.
2.11      Project description.  As agreed in the Loan Agreement, the project
included:
(a) construction and equipping of two primary teacher training centers
at Abengourou and Gagnoa providing a total of 576 student places;
(b) conversion of and equipment for four urban vocational training
centers in Abidjan plus technical assistance to permit them to offer
upgrading programs for industry;



- 34 -
(c)  technical assistance to (i) complete an inventory of secondary and
technical schools and (ii) continue the evaluation of the instruc-
tional television scheme;
(d)  preinvestment studies leading to the detailed preparation of two
components in a third project (i) the education/training components
of a regional development scheme and (ii) the introduction of more
practical instruction in grades 6-9;
(e) three man-years of technical assistance and equipment for project
administration.
2.12      Changes in project content during course of implementation.
The Government was unable to implement the preinvestment study on means to
introduce more practical instruction into s-econdary schools as envisaged at
appraisal (Schedule 2, Part C (2) of the project) because of lack of agreement
within the Government on the desired direction of change within the secondary
education system. Rather, the Government proposed and the Bank agreed that
other preinvestment studies might be undertaken which might assist in the
identification of a proposed third project. The alternative studies were:
(a) on the introduction of a more practical form of technology
in the curriculum and the linking of technology teaching to
rural development;
(b) a definition of the structure, recruitment regulations, the
preparation of teaching programs, and the estimation of costs
for setting up "lycees professionnels";
(c) on the improvements required in the purchase, distribution
and use of teaching materials and the possible establishment
of a teaching materials industry in Ivory Coast;
(d)  on the secondary-level forestry education and its relationship
with education and training in related fields and higher level
forestry education;
(e) on the development of an inventory and maintenance methodology
for primary schools.
2.13      Project justification.  Except for the preinvestment studies, all
elements in this project were justified in the appraisal of the first project:
the primary teacher training colleges were to provide teachers to support an
expansion in primary school enrollments and to improve the quality of teaching
at this level. Assistance for the four urban vocational training centers was
to promote a greater emphasis on the skill upgrading of people who are already
employed and to develop a closer collaboration with industry than in the past.
Technical assistance for the evaluation of the Educational Television scheme
was a continuation of an ongoing effort started under the first education
project as was the inventory of technical education institutions. From the
outset, the main thrust of the project was the preinvestment studies which,



- 35 -
together with the inventory of facilities, the 'evaluation of the effectiveness
of graduates of the primary teacher colleges and tracer studies of graduates
of the vocational training institutions (Sections 3.07 and 3.08 of the Loan
Agreement), were to provide a basis for the identification of a third educa-
tion project.
2.14      The inventory of technical education facilities was to provide
technical data on buildings and equipment which would be useful in the reform
of teaching programs. The objectives of the regional studies were, firstly,
to propose a coordinated system of formal and non-formal education and train-
ing which would promote integrated rural development in three priority zones
(the North, the Kossou Lake Zone and the Southwest) and, secondly, to prepare
projects by which these proposals would be implemented. The Government felt
that the multiplicity of agencies and authorities operating in these zones
required coordination with respect to education and training activities
because of their sometimes overlapping efforts and because it was perceived
that substantial training needs were not being met. The study on means to
introduce more practical instruction in the secondary education system was to
provide a basis for implementing one of the recommendations of the Education
Reform Commission which felt that the secondary school curriculum was not
adequately suited for students who would not continue to higher levels of
education. It was envisaged that these studies would be conducted in parallel
with the preparation by Government of a financially feasible program for
implementing education reforms.
2.15      Project implementation.  Overall responsibility for implementing the
project resided with the Project Unit established in the Ministry of Education
for the implementation of the First Education Project (Loan 667-IVC). The
Unit was headed by a Project Director and a Deputy Director and was supported
by a full-time expatriate administrative officer experienced in procurement
and by an Ivorian architect. Responsibility for all aspects of civil works,
design, preparation of contract and bidding documents and site supervision
were contracted out to a consulting firm, SOCOTEC.
2.16      Specific responsibility for implementing the project resided
with ministries which had jurisdiction over particular elements. The Ministry
of Primary Education and Education Television was responsible for the evalua-
tion component for educational television; the METFP was responsible for most
aspects of the vocational training elements in the project and the Ministry
of Planning for conducting the regional studies.
2.17      The project benefited from experience in implementing the First
Education Project; continuity in staffing the Project Director's post proved
very valuable. In spite of the fact that the Project Director had much
broader responsibilities as Director of Planning and Investments, the project
was generally well-managed.
2.18      However, management of the preinvestment studies and of some
aspects of the vocational training elements was of uneven quality and this was
reflected in the results which were achieved. The major management problem



- 36 -
appears to have been that insufficient attention to the need for close coop-
eration between those responsible for the regional studies and the agencies
responsible for implementing proposals which would be contained in the studies.
The result was the formulation of proposals which were not accepted by the
Government.
III. PHYSICAL IMPLEMENTATION
Civil Works
3.01      Schedules of accommodation.  The schedules of accommodation and
areas agreed at appraisal for both primary teacher training colleges (CAFOPs)
and the four vocational training centers (CTUs) have been followed. The
increase of 9 percent in areas for academic and communal facilities for the
CAFOPs has been compensated for by a 10 percent reduction in areas for dormi-
tories and by reducing the number of staff houses from 3 to 2 per school.
3.02       Procurement.  CAFOPs:  An international prequalification exercise
for the construction of both CAFOPs was initiated in 1975 and completed in
May 1976. After deleting the costs for site works and the construction of
one house per school, a contract for both CAFOPs was awarded in October 1976
to the lowest evaluated bidder. CTIJs: Because of the nature of the work
involved and the small size of contracts, the Bank agreed that the preselec-
tion of contractors for the remodeling and additions to the four CTUs be made
in accordance with the normal procedures of the Department of Public Works.
Contracts were awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders in November 1976, 18
months behind schedule.
3.03      Implementation delays.  CAFOPs:  Both CAFOPs were completed in
September/October 1977, twelve months behind the appraisal schedule. The
major causes of delay were due to slowness in performing the topographical
surveys (5 months), delays in completing designs (3 months) and insufficient
time allowed for activities such as receiving commentary from the Bank, tender
evaluation and contracts awards. The delay in design was primarily due to
revisions to preliminary drawings and longer than scheduled reviews by the
Ministry of Education and by the Bank. CTUs: The civil works for the CTUs
were completed late in 1977, 18 months later than scheduled at appraisal. The
major causes for delays were due to slowness in preparing designs and tender
documents.
3.04      Cost overruns.  CAFOPs:  If both CAFOPs would have been built accord-
ing to appraisal specifications, the cost overrun for civil works would have
been about 65 percent or US$2.5 million. The final cost overruns have been
limited to about 20 percent or US$0.7 million by deleting site works, sports
facilities and one staff house per CAFOP. The cost overruns were partly
due to one-year delay in tendering, lack of competition between contractors
resulting from unfavorable market conditions and poor cost estimates at



- 37 -
appraisal. Government agreed to finance outstanding cost overruns.
CTUs: The cost overrun for civil works for the CTUs was only about 9 percent,
accounted for by the delays in preparing designs and tender documents. The
METFP completed designs and bid documents for the CTUs in August 1976, fourteen
months later than scheduled at appraisal. Construction took about three
months longer than anticipated.
3.05      Architectural consultants.  CAFOPs:  The SOCOTEC, a management
and control agency, was appointed in January 1975 to coordinate consultancy
services required for the designs of both CAFOPs. An agreement with SOCOTEC
was signed by the Government in April 1975 and SOCOTEC, in turn, subcontracted
the architectural, engineering and quantity survey services to three other
consulting firms. This arrangement worked efficiently and the documents were
well prepared; the technical and architectural solutions are interesting and
functional. CTUs: The METFP performed the services of consulting architects
for the civil works for the CTUs. Besides major delays in preparing designs
and bid documents, the services given by the METFP were satisfactory.
3.06      Quality and functional suitability of the facilities.  The facili-
ties for both CAFOPs and the CTUs are adequate, well dimensioned and functional.
However, as in so many other similar institutions in Africa, and without much
concern for site development costs, the facilities for the CAFOPs have been
spread over a large area. An interesting and well conceived basic structure
was developed and used for all facilities excluding the assembly hall. The
structure was prefabricated on site and consists of T-shape concrete columns
supporting arched concrete rafters. Wooden purlins support aluminum long
span sheets, thus avoiding overlap of roofing sheets and allowing good water
drainage from the roof. The walls and flooring are independent from the
structure allowing great flexibility in planning. However, as for small
future additions to the schools, this construction technioue may not be
replicable because of the costs involved in preparing the framework for the
on-site prefabricated elements. The choice of building materials for the
structure and finishes are good and suitable and will require little mainte-
nance. The Government has established an annual landscaping competition
between all schools. This competition is very successful and the students
take great pride in the landscape of their schools.
Equipment and Furniture
3.07      Lists, quantity and adequacy of the equipment and furniture.  The
equipment and furniture for both CAFOPs and the CTUs represent 90% of the
total equipment and furniture of this project. The lists of equipment for
these institutions were prepared by the staff from the Ministry of Education
and the METFP. CAFOPs: The amount of equipment procured for the CAFOPs was
reduced to compensate for cost overruns on civil works. Both schools have,
however, been equipped with audio-visual teaching equipment which is essential
for the teaching program. This equipment is being used and maintained ade-
quately. The furniture, designed by the consultant architects, is functional
and sturdy. CTUs: The amount of equipment procured for the CTUs is reasonable.



- 38 -
The type and kind supplied is, however, not always adequate. The CTUs' main
functions are to upgrade the skills of industrial employees and to train new
employees for the industrial sector. However, the equipment supplied does not
always conform with what is required to meet the specific training needs of
the industrial sector. This could have been due to inadequate consultation
with employers in drawing up equipment lists. However, it is difficult to
reconstruct the extent to which employers were consulted in 1975.
3.08      Procurement.  Furniture and equipment for both CAFOPs and the
four CTUs was procured in accordance with the Bank's ICB procurement guide-
lines. The furniture and equipment for the other components was procured
locally partially through ICB and partially through negotiated purchase after
the solicitation of quotations from at least three suppliers. The Government
has, in some minor instances, awarded contracts before having received the
Bank's comments.
3.09      Implementation.  The equipment and furniture for all institutions
were procured and delivered prior to the completion of the facilities. Con-
tracts for the CAFOPs were awarded in January 1977, 18 months behind schedule
and the contracts for the CTUs were awarded in August 1976, 12 months behind
schedule. This delay in implementation did not affect the opening of the
institutions as construction for these institutions was also delayed.
3.10      Costs.  The amount spent for furniture and equipment is six percent
less than estimated at appraisal. The cost for equipment and furniture for
the CAFOPs is 8% less and, for the CTUs, 9% higher than appraised. These
reductions in costs have been achieved by reducing the quantity of equipment
procured to compensate for cost overruns on civil works. It was decided
that Government or the institutions themselves would provide the missing
equipment as funds become available. The CAFOPs have now been in operation
for two years and no additional equipment has yet been procured. As the budget
for the schools is limited, there is little hope that the shortcoming in
equipment will be met soon. The shortcoming in equipment does not appear to
have affected, significantly, the quality of instruction.
Software Inputs
3.11 (a)  Technical assistance for educational television.  This project
component financed 25 man-months of technical assistance (39 were
envisaged at appraisal) to the Ministry of Primary Education and
Educational Television to provide (i) computer programming/systems
analysis and management support in the areas of finance and procure-
ment (12 man-months); (ii) to study personnel management issues
(1 man-month); and (iii) to develop methodology for an inventory and
maintenance survey of primary schools (12 man-months). The computer
programming/systems analyst completed his work satisfactorily.
The consultant's report on personnel management is regarded as weak
and incomplete. The primary school survey methodology was developed
by a consulting firm, EDIJCON, tested in a sample of Abidjan schools
and is being applied nationwide.



- 39 -
(b)  Preparation of legislation and programs relating to the Vocational
Upgrading Centers. Eight man-months of technical assistance from
the ILO were provided to prepare legislation wvhich would enable
employers to participate in the design of courses and follow-up
programs and in financing the recurrent costs of training through
an industrial training fund (Section 3.09 of Loan Agreement).
This work was completed in 1976 and the legislation adopted by the
Government in 1977. Although there remain problems (paras. 4.09 and
4.10), this system is now in full operation.
(c) Completion of inventory of secondary schools and the extension of the
inventory to technical training institutions. A total of eighteen
man-months of specialist services were provided to the Ministry of
Education for the inventory of secondary schools and to the METFP
for the inventory of technical training institutions. The Ministry
of Education engaged a consulting firm, SIGES, to perform the
secondary school inventory. This work was completed satisfactorily
in two phases, the first involving a sample of 80 schools to test
the methodology. The inventory of technical training institutions
was undertaken by the Office of Professional Training (ONFP) of the
METFP. While the field work for the inventory of technical training
institutions was completed in 1978, ONFP had difficulty formulating
a final report and did not, as anticipated, develop a system to
determine the present and future equipment and facilities require-
ments of institutions.  We understand that the Government is now
producing several studies which it believes will help to provide
a better understanding of the institutions' needs.
(d)  Study on the introduction of more practical instruction in the
secondary education system. The project was to finance 60 man-months
of specialist services to assist with this part of the project.
However, this project item anticipated that the National Assembly
would accept the proposals of the Education Reform Commission and
that the Ministry of Education would follow up with policy decisions
with respect to implementation. Unfortunately, while the National
Assembly accepted the proposals of the Education Reform Commission,
agreement within the Ministry of Education on implementation policy
has not been achieved. Realizing that early agreement within the
Government was not possible, the Ministry of Education proposed and
the Bank accepted that funds earmarked for this component in the
Loan Agreement be used instead for:
(i) a study of technology teaching in the curriculum and means
to link this teaching to rural development objectives. This
study was undertaken by a division of the Ministry of Education
(SDRAP; "Sous-Direction de la Recherche et de l'Animation
Pedagogique") with the assistance of a consultant. It was
completed satisfactorily in 1978 but its findings have not been
acted upon;
(ii) a study defining the structure, training programs, recruitment
regulations and costs and the provision of assistance in



- 40 -
setting up of new "lycees professionnels". Three man-years
of technical assistance were provided by the ILO; the study
was successfully completed and provided some basis for the
establishment of the "lycees professionnels" at Mlan, Gagnoa,
San Pedro and Odienne which were financed under the Third
Education Project (Loan 1777-IVC);
(iii) a study on improvements required in the purchase, distribution
and use of teaching materials and the feasibility of establish-
ing a domestic industry to satisfy the needs of the education
and training system. The Ministry of Education contracted the
consulting firm SIGES, to undertake this study. The full
study was completed in 1979 and its recommendations are being
reviewed within the Government;
(iv) a study of secondary level forestry training was conducted
satisfactorily by consultants for the Mlinistry of Agriculture
and may provide a basis for identifying an element in the
proposed fourth education project.
(e)  Regional studies.  These studies, conducted under the Ministry
of Planning, were clearly intended to be the major thrust of the
project.  The project provides for 78 man-months of technical
assistance, costing US$820,000 for this component.  The studies
were to identify major elements in a third education project.  While
the objectives of the studies were not specifically defined in the
project documents (Loan Agreement, President's Report and Working
Papers), examples of the types of training projects anticipated are
mentioned: for agricultural extension workers and health workers.
The studies were undertaken by three French consulting firms under
the Ivorian Director of Manpower Planning. The consulting firms
were: Centre d'etudes et de realisations pour l'education permanente
(CERAP); Compagnie d'etudes industrielles et d'amenagement du terri-
toire (CINAM); and Societe d'etudes pour le developpement economique
et social (SEDES). Funds were provided in the project for the
detailed preparation of a third education project including working
drawings for civil works components following consultation with the
Bank. The studies were completed in November 1977 and comprise a
truly impressive amount of work including the analysis of training
requirements by sector, regional studies and the detailed prepara-
tion, not including drawings, of possible project elements. Some
of the sector training studies, particularly those on agriculture
and technical education are good in terms of their thoroughness and
analysis. The regional studies provide useful analysis for general
economic planning. However because of inadequate interministerial
cooperation and coordination, it was obvious even before the studies
were completed that the project elements which were identified and
prepared would not be implemented. With the exception of the small
pilot rural training component (Promovillage) which was included in
the third project, the results of the studies were not implemented
and there is little likelihood that they will be. The reason why
the studies have not been fruitful in terms of yielding a "bankable"



- 41 -
project has nothing to do with the quality of technical assistance
and their work. Rather, the problem concerns the need for close
consultation and cooperation between researchers on the one hand
and organizations which are affected by research results; in the
case of the regional studies, there was very little consultation
and, as a consequence, results were not accepted.
Special Covenants
3.12    Article III of the Loan Agreement contains both standard covenants
and covenants which are "special" in the sense that they are uniquely essen-
tial for the implementation of the project or, in fact, require actions which
are essential parts of the project. These covenants include Sections 3.06
through 3.11 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 3.06. In selecting sites for primary teacher training colleges,
the borrower satisfied the requirement that not less than 60 practice
classes carrying out the education television program would be in prox-
imity to each site.
Section 3.07. The borrower did not satisfy the requirement that it
would evaluate the effectiveness of the graduates of the primary teacher
training colleges. Although the Government has undertaken tracer studies,
the results were not available to the completion mission. The borrower
has complied with the requirement of giving preference to primary teacher
training college graduates in assigning teachers to primary schools
following the television based curriculum.
Section 3.08. The borrower has carried out tracer studies of the
graduates of vocational upgrading centers, but the Ministry of
Technical Education has, so far, been unable to present the results.
Section 3.09. The borrower was provided with technical assistance
which enabled it to meet the requirement that administrative arrange-
ments be made for the participation of employers in the operation of
the vocational training centers.
Section 3.10. The Government has fully met requirements for strength-
ening the unit responsible for programming school buildings in the
Ministry of Education. However, a similar effort has not been made in
the Ministry of Technical Education with the consequence that the
Government has been unable to follow up on the inventory of technical
training institutions and is unable to specify current and projected
equipment and facilities needs as anticipated.
Section 3.11. The Government met its obligation to seek approval from
the Bank for terms of reference of preinvestment studies and reviewed
results with the Bank. However, because the Government was unable
to reach an internal agreement on the findings and recommendations of
the regional studies, full preparation of items which might be included
in a third project was not warranted. All preinvestment studies will
again be reviewed by the Government and the Bank prior to the identifi-
cation of a proposed fourth education project.



- 42 -
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
4.01      The estimated and actual total costs of the projects are summarized
below and detailed in Annex III.
APPRAISAL ESTIMATES AND FINAL EXPENDITURE BY CATEGORY
(US$'000)
Appraisal Estimate                    Final Expenditure
incl. Contingencies   Final           as % of Appraisal
Category                  and Taxes               Expenditure   Estimate
Civil works                     3,989               4,593             115
Furniture, Equipment             2,071              1,956              94
Professional Fees                1,083                421              39
Technical Assistance             1,575              1,849             117
Total                      8,718              8,819              101
4.02      The total estimated cost of the project at appraisal was US$8.7
million with a foreign exchange component of US$5.0 million, 57 percent of
total project costs. The total cost of the project exceeded the appraisal
estimates by 1%. If the project had been implemented without reductions in
scope, the final expenditures would have exceeded appraisal estimates by about
40%. Such a cost overrun would have been due to underestimation of site
works, low construction base costs, delays in implementation and lack of
competition between civil works contractors because of unfavorable market
conditions.
4.03      The actual cost of civil works was 15% higher than appraisal esti-
mates. This was achieved by deleting site works, sports facilities and the
construction of two staff houses from the project.
4.04      The actual cost of equipment and furniture is 6% lower than appraisal
estimates. This saving was achieved primarily by procuring less equipment
than anticipated at appraisal. This issue has been discussed above under
"Equipment and Furniture".
4.05      The actual cost for professional fees is 61% less than appraisal
estimates. The actual costs of the architectural fees for the design of
the two CAFOPs equals the appraisal estimates. The consultancy cost to carry
out the regional studies and the introduction of practical education to
secondary level was accounted for at appraisal partially under professional
fees and partly under technical assistance. The entire cost of the studies
has been accounted for under technical assistance and, as a result, the
"professional fee" category shows savings of over 60%.
4.06      The actual cost of Technical Assistance  exceeds appraisal estimates
by 17%. The cost of technical assistance for the CTUs, and the various
studies was in line with appraisal estimates. The cost of technical assistance



- 43 -
for project administration was three times higher than estimated. At apprai-
sal, one procurement specialist for three years was budgeted at a cost of
US$177,000. A procurement specialist worked for three years (9/75 to 9/78) for
a cost of US$127,000 (IJS$3,500 m/m). To accelerate project implementation the
Government hired an administrator, a civil works adviser and an equipment
specialist. These three experts worked for a total of 46 man-months at a cost
of about UJS$430,000 (US$9,500 m/m).  The difference in cost between the first
expert and the three others (US$3,500 versus US$9,500 per man-month) is
attributable to the fact that the first expert was hired directly whereas the
other experts were hired through companies.
Project Outcomes
4.07      Primary Teacher Training Colleges (CAFOPs) at Abengourou and Gagnoa
were completed 12 months behind schedule and began operations in September/
October 1977. Both institutions are fully staffed and are operating at full
capacity with enrollments of 288 students each. The completion mission
visited both institutions during operation. Both schools appear to be well
managed and adequately financed and following the curriculum envisaged at
appraisal which supports the educational television program. This curriculum
is constantly under review by teachers, headmasters and headquarters staff
in Abidjan. Practice teaching in primary schools participating in the educa-
tional television program occurs as anticipated at appraisal. Contrary to
what was envisaged at appraisal, the CAFOP at Abengourou is a girls' school
rather than coeducational.
4.08      Headmasters and teachers at both institutions were generally pleased
with the project's facilities, although at both institutions they expressed
some dissatisfaction with the size of offices which appeared to the mission to
be adequate. A full evaluation of outcomes must await receipt by the Bank of
the evaluation report which was promised the completion mission.
4.09      Vocational Training Centers.  The establishment in law of an admin-
istrative mechanism to allow employer participation in the design of courses,
programs and financing of vocational training centers is one of the more
important achievements of the project. However, further work is required
to achieve better cooperation. The provision of some inappropriate equipment,
as noted above, may have resulted, in some cases, in employer reluctance to
use the centers for skill upgrading. In all centers, there is a need to
review the balance in enrollments between the two programs which are provided,
basic skill training and skill upgrading. There may be insufficient emphasis
on skill upgrading programs. The Ministry of Technical Education and Voca-
tional Training questions the Bank's conclusions. It does so on the grounds
that since the law on Vocational Skills Upgrading went in effect in 1977, the
five centers were trusted with many projects, both individual and sectoral, at
the direct request of entreprises, or following negotiations with the unions
representing the sectors concerned.
4.10      Although all centers were fully staffed, adequately funded and
operating at capacity, there is a need to review the findings of tracer
studies before a final evaluation can be made. As was the case with the



- 44 -
evaluation of the effectiveness of the primary teacher training colleges,
the completion mission was promised but has not yet received the results of
the studies.
4.11      Preinvestment studies.  Preinvestment studies were to provide a
basis for identifying and preparing a future education project and accounted
for 40 percent of project costs. Clearly, they were intended to be the major
thrust of the project. Given this overall objective, results were disappoint-
ing. Except for the pilot Promovillage component, the studies did not yield
a single component financed under the third project as intended and it is
uncertain that they will contribute much to the identification of a proposed
fourth education project. There are important lessons to be learned in the
design of projects with study components of this size with these practical
objectives. They are:
(a)  the Bank should be satisfied that the Government is sufficiently
committed to general courses of action likely to result from the
studies;
(b)  the design of studies and their conduct should assure that organi-
zations and units which are affected or might be required to imple-
ment study proposals should participate fully in the studies and the
formulation of proposals.
4.12      In the case of the study to introduce a more practical curriculum
into the secondary schools, the appraisal mission was apparently convinced
that the Government, including the Ministry of Education, would quickly adopt
and act upon the Education Reform Commission's recommendations. We know, by
hindsight, that this conviction was unjustified. Funds set aside for this
component of the project were used to conduct a series of other preinvestment
studies, which have not yielded results in terms of project components agreed
with the Government.
4.13      The regional studies are of particular interest, because of the high
quality of technical assistance inputs and analysis in the reports produced.
The proposals in the study were, understandably, not accepted by the Govern-
ment because in their formulation, they had not been subjected to high level
interministerial consultation. The proposals required a sacrifice of authority
and autonomy on the part of all ministries of Government, all parastatals and
local government organizations and their coordination either by a new organiza-
tion or by a strengthened National Office for Rural Development (ONDR) in the
Ministry of Agriculture. The main benefit of the regional studies is that they
provide a massive amount of information and analyses on regions and training
which should prove invaluable to planners and to policy decision-making.
4.14      The technical assistance provided for evaluation to the Ministry
of Primary Education and Educational lelevision yielded good overall results
in terms of strengthening management procedures and information. However,
the entire Educational Television scheme has been a subject of consider-
able controversy in Government because of its costs, programming problems and
geographic coverage. Shortly after the completion mission, the Government
announced that the educational television system is being discontinued.



- 45 -
4.15      The inventory of secondary schools and the strengthening of the
responsible unit within the Ministry of Education should prove invaluable
as a basis for physical planning.  While the METFP completed its inventory,
it has not strengthened its staff sufficiently to maintain an updated inventory
much less to use the information gathered for planning purposes.
V. THE BANK'S PERFORMANCE
5.01      Project design and preparation.  With respect to both the hardware
components and the preinvestment studies, there are obvious problems of
project design and preparation for which the Bank must, by hindsight, accept
some responsibility. The preinvestment studies were not designed and effi-
ciently prepared to assure an acceptable probability thet they would achieve
their objectives. The hardware components were not prepared at all prior to
appraisal with the consequence that there were substantial cost overruns.
5.02      Supervision effort.  Until 1979, the project was largely supervised
by the education unit of the Regional Mission in West Africa, located in
Abidjan, supported by specialist staff from headquarters in Washington. Since
there was frequent, sometimes day to day contact with the project office by
RMWA, it is difficult to assess the intensity and quality of supervision in
terms of normally used measures such as number of missions, their duration and
staff specializations.
5.03      Totally, there were 18 different official missions undertaken
during the course of project implementation including the completion mission
involving staff travel from Washington, from Unesco, Paris or from RMWA to
Europe or to Washington. A total of fourteen different staff members were
involved in the supervision effort including one staff member from the Unesco
Cooperative Program. In terms of specializations, supervision was performed
by two different technical educators, four different architects, 1 agricultural
educator, five economists, one general educator and one mass media specialist.
5.04      It was originally intended that the project would be supervised
from RMWA with ad hoc support from headquarters or Unesco as necessary, but
at least once a year.  After the Education Unit was removed from RMWA in
1979, the project was entirely supervised from headquarters. The record of
field missions from headquarters is as follows:
5.05      The record shows that headquarters provided a total of 27.8 man-weeks
in the field during the implementation prior to the completion mission;
this constitutes a substantial input to the supervision effort by headquarters
amounting to about 6 man-weeks per year. As might be expected, the effort was
concentrated on both the early and later stages of project implementation.



- 46 -
5.06      The interventions of specialists seem to have been timely.  A
question remains; why, in spite of the early supervision effort and RMWA's
presence, the preinvestment studies, particularly the regional studies,
were not put on a more practical footing. Based upon results, supervision
efforts seem to have been more effective with the hardware and vocational
education components than with the substantial software components.
VI. CONCLUSIONS
6.01      The substantial achievements of the project were (a) increasing
the country's training capacity for primary school teachers who are adept in
the use of educational television (b) the institution of procedures to allow
employers to participate in the design and finance of vocational training
programs. The project also provided a basis for the physical planning of
secondary schools and technical education institutions and contributed to
improvements in the management and physical planning of the educational
television program.
6.02      The project provides both the Government and the Bank with an
important lesson with respect to studies. Studies must be given the same
scrutiny as hardware components in terms of design and assessment of benefits
and risks. Preinvestment studies require careful preparation which takes into
account the need to seek agreement among agencies responsible for implementing
the recommendations.
6.03      Since the major thrust of the project was the identification and
preparation of future projects, it fell considerably short of achieving
its objectives.



IVORY COAST - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT - LN. 1125-IVC
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE, FORECAST AND ACTUAL
______ __  74    1975            1976             1977           1978             1979           1980            1981L   1982
_______    _19 74         1975             1976           1977            1978   1  1979                  1980             1981
11_     1  213- _4         11  _     31 4  _  -2    4    _ 1 '2   -3-4      111   4 _      112  1 3   4     213 14          1  2 13    4  _ H           
1.  CIVIL WORKS   _                    _
(a) CAFOPs                  A                                                                                                            4 _ 
(b)  CTUs                   A
2. FURNITURE AND
EQUIPMENT
(a) CAFOPs                 A
(b) CTUs                    A       --      -       -                                 -                                        -           --             -
3. TECHNICAL
ASS ISTANCE
(a) CTTJsAH=
Sec. School  F                          -           -
(I)Inventory ___
(c)  ITV                        -_---t
(d) Regional                F
(e)   Pract. Ed.                                                                                                                 A Z                                                                   1
Admin.
ClVIL WoRKS  ARCIhITECTUPAL DESIGN WORK ANiD BIDDING DOCUMrNTS
IOI TE " ,MFII -, I  NNI I"EI IR F.IARATION OF IlSlS AN') BIDDING DOCUMEN-'S
tr20- th rt VRD   Iimn  OrcIIec hirtCt _ ..t do1--.L.  d'.pp.1 d'o.fOr          CIV1L WOS    CONSTRUCTION
Eqaipemeol.  Ilobilier: FrdparAtion des lite  et C do.....t. d'.poEr..          .QCI?LiDNT  SPFRNIETURE:  S{tkSNFACTURE, DELIVERY, INSIALLATON
SPECIALIST SERVSC7YS: DURATION OF ASSIGMENTE
IoFEL_OW'SHIPS; DURATIONi O  TRAINING
ApEl d'offrCA    et V valuation des oflres                                      8Sti-ent et VID:  construction
AP ;'I d'. f~'. e t ~-I.a t i- d.oftr-                                        Equipetent, ,o'jlolerI  fabrication. livraison, installation
ioeIl.an.e tCCaIqU.: durre de l'affecrArtic
Bour-ca: duree de la formation



COMPARISION OF ORIGINALLY ESTIMATED AND ACTUALLY                                                                                             COMPLETION STUDY
PROVIDED GROSS CONSTRUCTION AREAS                                                                                                            ACHEVEMENT
COMPARAISON ENTRE LES SURFACES
BRUTES PREVUES ET CONSTRUITES
Im2/sq.')
_,  _ ~                         IBRD/IDA Education Projects
ESTIMATED CONSTRUCTED AREAS FOR                                                                          Projets Education BIRD/AID
PREMISES ORIGINALLY REQUIRED-                  %         Actual Gross         %     %
SURFACES A CONSTRUIRE POUR LES
INSTITUTSEN                            LOCAUX PREVUS'                              Cc nsruction Areas for                                              Form
ETABLISSEMENiTS                                                                                                                                        FicheIF OI
APpralsal Architectural    Any Agreed Revisions         C ompleted Facilities                                              Fiche
Work shlts
Programme grchitectural     Modificstions       2/1  Surf coo brutes construltos  3/1   3/2
i lsyiuation                                                                                                       COTE  D'IVOIRE/
1                       2                              3                                        Country:      IVORY  COAST
_____________________________  _____________________                                                        Pays:
1. CAFOP
1.  CAFOP                       ____________                                                                                              Project: Second Education/
Ab_n__ourou   and         _                                                           _    _ _ __                                    Projet:       Deuxieme  Education
Ga,,nos t... 
Gagnon                                        .                                                                  __Credit:
Loan:
_______________________  ________________       -    -~~    _____________      -                        Credit:    No.  1125-IVC
Acad.  and  Comm.                2693                                                    2950                                        Prd -  P                                     co
Dormitrrifps                     2100                                      -             &1899              9    -
Housing                            5RI                                          4_97                        8L
TOTAL                            5373  ..                                                5346    _               -                   Date  March 1981
_____I__.______                                                                                      .. _       -
________________________                                  _____________                                 9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'A    agreed  betw"n  the Government and  IDRD/IDA
-  -               ~~~~~Tel quo conwonu, enuire Is Gouvemrnounen at Is BIRDWOI
Shoot  of  Sheets                  F~~~~~~~~-4
11__ _ _ _ _ _ _ __   ._                                                            _ .-4 .  I
_________________________________  _______________________  ________________________   - ~   __________________  Sheet   of         het



Country:       IVORY   COAST/  COTE  DI TVOIRE                                                 COMPLEI ION SI UDY                                                                                             lono/IDA Education Projects
Pays:-                                                                                            ACHE VEMENT
pl.jml:        Second  Education  /Deuxi;_me  Education                                                                                                                                                       PoesEuainBRII
Projet:                                          COMPARISON .OF ORIGINALLY ESTIMATED COSTS AND ACTUAL COSTS IN    '000                      of Us $           I
Prdt:   No.   115IC              __COMPARAISON ENTRE LES COUTS PREVUS ET EFFECTIFS EN                                               DEF!S
C,edit:
cridit'
CONST PtUCT ION ANDO SITE DEVELOPMCNT          FURNITURIE AND EQUIPMENT                       iI'Iz,FES5IONTL rEEs                   TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
CONaSTHIiCTION CT VRt,21                 MOPILiIIn ET EGUIPEMENT                        tIONORAIAiES                         ASSISTANCE TECIINIOUE                              TOTAL
POJECT ITEm
A.l,.I..I                        F.I--        ~~~~~~~~~A-lu*t It   Aipll"""lil..                            Ape.i. 1- ,.O                             A-e*i.1- F." -         A..I
EL:MENT ~ PROJEt  Egot. Coolig Iol C     Ateg    t.1-1t    Oi.A-.Coig1i5p.ogAl
7-d - C."..  Eff-Ilf.  ~   ~     ~      ~    ~     Ilorg     Ot   C01  Ooig  oo.Colig EfIgoli.    oi.Cc. oln. e.Coln. tIl.lm                     oi E ccoin ntCoig    EI,-I..II    DI'
,ln' ,o      nip. ,3"3   n.p. non    i-p. e                                 3,    I,,P no      tn.                          ImIP. non     lp. n                 Ifl   tur lOe       ,lne V                  1
ro,npdl  coenpria              nonlorit    co~~-p l npto --WI.oIt~l                                               Coisip       -wcopl.                        Onptcmr
1    2           3                 1           3    .      3                 I          ~3  3  22  3                               2                                           
________U       -           __ L95     25        166        65__937                          1019   iog        -           -            -      -          35           41         35    85    940          1233         1220 1 79376753  7___1 39~
4 . 1 T V   _ _   -   _ _   _ _  _                      _   _  _         -      -~~__ i
5Reg~~~~~~~~studI 0L -    ____  ____   111L   145       28  16 .2O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~16  118                                     138616                       19            63 8
~~PrAcL.e.iL    .---  -        -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  25        33--L4  __11        336                                                                                          20       12            80         8
7, FrOJ Admh.              -            -          -        -          4 j   5              122                                         38-   _X        15           177    540  305 154                     182          700  38"
TOTAL US$   -3045    3989  4593   115159                                    27   1956  94 78                         1083          421   39   1335- 1575  _1849   117- 6734  .8717    8-819   10'
March   19~~~~~o    gCtl-Oli1tll0t us1.ao-                  225               co,ri.t,q US$1tOO-       249                                                                                        Shoot 1      .1  1    St1.---
flaIas~~..   ~Olandaotawp-Atige~I'dlapttoggl tdottaeEU.                        ActWia  tdtmlEU.                                          V VtIO  Voliggltaoog- l, di                                            d         paga



COMPARISON OF ORIGINALLY ESTIMATED AND                          COMPARAISON ENTRE LES SURFACES ET COUTS                                  LETION STUDY
ACTUAL  UNIT AREAS AND UNIT COSTS FOR                           UNITAIRES PREVUS ET REi7LS POUR LES                                COMP
NEW INSTITUTIONS                                                ETABLISSEMENTS NOUVEAUX
GROSS AREAS PER                  ACHEVEMENT
GROSS AREAS PER            COSTS PER STUDENT PLACE OR LIVING UNIT"-
STUDENT PLACE OR          COUTS PAR PLACE D'ELEVE OU P kR LOGEMENTI'
TYPE/LEVEL OF INSTITUTION          LIVING UNIT                    (In USS equivalent)  (en d, lIars EU)
SURFACE BRUTE
PAR PLACE D'ELEVE    Buildings and Site     Equipment and                                        IBRDADA Education Projects
TYPE/NIVEAUOU ARLOEMNT                    Development           Purnit.re             TOTAL
TYPENIVEAU              oU      2 PAR GEMN.,  Construction at VRD   Equipement at Mobiler                                 Projets Education BIRD/AID
DE L'ETABLISSEMENT           Original    Actual   Original    Actual?'  Original    Actual' /  OrIginal    Actuall'                            Form
Estimate           Esatmate?/           Estlmatcc2          Est=ma-                                                       V
Privue    Rall    Pr.vuszV    Rials3/   Privus2?    Real3    Privus2?    Riel,2'                                Fiche
A. ACADEMIC AND COMMUNAL
FACILITIES
ENSECIGNMN ET ISTRIIEES
COMMuNS                                                                                                             Country:   IVORY  COAST/COTE  D'IVOIRE
_______  _______                          ~~~~ ~~~Pays:
CAFOP
Abengourou  and                                                                                                    Project     Second  Educatior/
Gagnoa                        9.35   10.24   1,820   4,088   1,235   1,626   3,055   7,143                         Projet:    Deuxieme Education
I___________________________                        _    ______   _______               Loan:
________________________                           ______   ______                      Pret       N    1125-IVC
|=    2                            _                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cred';t:I
_______________________  _ ____                     Credit :n
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ii
B. STUDENTS' BOARDING                                                                   _ _
FACILITIES0
INTE RN AT,,,Mrh18
CFF Ar__L_T_E                                                                                                           Data March  1981
CAFOP_
Abengourou and                                  _                                     _
-    raRnna                   7,34       6.59    1,458   2,520           0         0 _   1,458   2.520
Honoraires non compris              a
_______________________________  ______Imprevus at augmentation  des prix
non compris (1,00 dollar EU -_)
________________________________  Taux  de chsnge actuel  (1,00dollar EU   -  \
C. STAFF HOUSING
LOGEMENTS DE FONCTION
I/ Excluding professional feel 
CAFOP  ~ ~ ~        ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       ~       ___z
CAFOP                            =______ _______                                           -                            V Excludad Contingencis (US$ 1 .00 *I-) 
Abengourou  and
Gagnoa                       145.0t 166.0031.10063.300                   0         0    31.100  63.300    3,Cu             rn5ExchngaRatalu551O0 a 
TOTAL                               9,900  15,400  2,470   2,660   12.370  18S060                      Sheet                  of                  Sheets
__ -_ _ _ _ _ _ __  _ _ _ _ _ _   _ __ _ _    _ _ _     _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _    _ _ _  _ _  _ _      _ _ _ _  _ _ _           Pege                   d t                 Pages
_~~~~~~~~~o _d_e



IVORY COAST - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT - LOAN 1125-IVC/
COTE D'IVOIRE - DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION - PRET 1125-IVC
ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE/
CALENDRIER ESTIMATIF ET ACTUEL DES DEBOURSEMENTS
C
N.   .       *o                                     %   o
W  -              b~~~~~~~~~~~~ .~j  -    Ixo.
z                        -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00
US$ 5.0 m                                                                    CA _  ___=
US$  4.0  mi                             -  _  _  ra
|   C' -  |    J    /  P  CTUAL/AtTUE                  G       l            E
us l o .  - -        t        -              t'-t  -|-   0- tlXI--          ______
i ~.           ,,                      I           I           I             I      I _  _
F.Y.      | 1976          |    1977       i      1978           1979           1980       j 1981
C.Y.      J 75         1976            1977             1978           1979           1980          1981 .



- 52 -
ANNEX VI
STRUCTURE DUSYSTEME D'EDUCATION / Structure of the Education System
-go:   7    S       5    10   I11    12        13    14    16   18          1 7    18    159        20    21    22    23    24    25   25
Enaesagnsrent tprimaira              Erwelgnemnre             Enesig  jn MEnsegNement suneriesir
sencttaire, locyl        secondei, 2* .cylI                20 aVs t audaesm
INJS                                                            ENSEIGNEMENT NORMALI
1 2 2    Ma Ives d'durotion pwuermasr
CAFOP           ENI
I Lycies nrmaux           ENSPrfsesod2eclesdir
Proa ofun    u a du cycl   yocler iconAPEin
--                                          ----                        ---~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Prfsm  d   tyto Im1!~tl       _
-ENS-EIG-NEM-ENT-   F1        . ci
GENERAL                 FcdsseceUIER                                                     IE
(CI (CP2I (CEI) (CE2) (CM1) iCM2)    (6*1  (5C)  (4e1   W)*    12                                    2     3     4        (Tar            doctorat
colegemodrw aeet lyino       l~    I'  Tr                   UL     LismIrn.Ialcrs
i  2  3    4   5     6         1~~~~~-f 2B  f-5fl.                                    DUESscienceetntechnlqual
SEPC                    S         edmdco
Foc de n~~~~~~~ldacidnits
CEG                               l~~~~~~~~~ raistituts unltrsjtjre de tachw1nolol
1      2].  diplfme de zehologle
iFsc de droit et sciences icoomiques
1  2  3     4    Ilnscesn,drolt
ENSEIGNEMOENT TECHNIQUE ET FORMATION PROFESSIONNELLE                                                                    ENA  i
I                                 I~~~~~~~~~~~N.SE.T.
ENISIAsatESCAI
I                1    2       ~~~~~~~~~~~DipldmoI
ITI.ntlI.T.T.         L                                   -
1     Djj-    UT
LV.6e Technique
1  2    3      1     2      ~~~OTS
IGTA - P.D.         BA 
Lyci Tecniqe Plt. ind. ot csmm..)    I
CET mi.fdm.
CEPE      Cwtidice ddtudes primaeeedWmsenteiresFOMTNCNIUE-Pseton ]                                                                                 I
BEPC      Sreet d!Zu du dpremier cyce                                     -
Sac.      Soccor.lat*
SEP~    Srawt dtudes profasuionnellesSE                                                               LysAgai
SEM       Browet deInsegomeont minegBer.6 Arii
CAP       CartRifct daptitude profeuioonnlle . 
CAPCEGI  Crtificat d'aptitudo p6ddeogque pour In                                                          ytegnle DA
Collegetdu prettier cycle
CAPES    Certificat deptitud  pdagogiq.e pour                                                               1     23                  Assistant dos productions ni$tslee at animeles
1ierossernarnt sanodeire                                                                                   Stols d1lenag. foreoidra. dos coopkdrntes
BEEl      Sreve d'enueignsnneat industrili                                                                                        Soso=   spdlrieurs prfesolonnels
DEAT  Olp0me d4tudos d'Wiwttur. tmpimi.  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~lueetetades productinon  odgiels   at nimalesi
ETABLISSEMENTS
I                     ~~~~~~~Centre do       Srevets1-   Brev"  upbrieur das pkche continentulee
CAFOP    Centre decnimation at deformation p6dtlgogiclue                             formation rurolo      prof es-nsls
INJS      loottut patlonal do le Jounesse et des Sportsi'aw
ENI       Ewd. normale d'inetitutsur                                                                        tpdovultu       ENSA
ENS  Stole nortnele erpirleurs                                                                           --~~~~~~trokals  ESA
ENA       Souls setionesisdedministration                                                                                            jtj~ Lj ,Dipiorse d'ingniour
CET       CollEg d'enseirnennnt techique                                                                                       -        L    L UwCsooms
ENSA      Swig natiomale sup6riwur dagwonmis                                                                             IAB  -  -- 
TP  Treosco pohilce  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ flH2IHTh   ~~~~~~Dipi6ro dininowur d.s techniques
GTA       Gmopetactniqwed.oaccfll
CTR       Centres tectchnqad rdioneus
BEFIC   Ag.              ~    ~~~Ecole pratique do Is fonction pobSctu   ENSEIGNEMENT
I              1E   32    Corn6orlure do Iedmnirtcstlon   TECHNIQUE
do                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SPECIAL ISP 
leadminitration                                                 (Misistd. dot         I
Eco  duI Ministira da lesnt0                            Vronus publics)       I
to formation  e arstages                                                                                                   riIra.1I
*Saccaisordlat                                                                                 1            2     3     Tcosiins supdrisurs des T.P.
Commntiorio netisoule doriefnttion
A-43]-4jj [j] [jJ EJ Ing6nisurn du T.P.
Source:  Unesco   Sector   Survey  -  Etablidtf.prd. ledo.ssdesd,tiptimsrecjilllespar Ismission suprds desdiseeMinistiresdo.t.tolle
1Soot tutule. do Ministdr do Issselignaroent technique at dole. formation profeionnelle
2.Leo deco promisres anndes dktuo des doENSA soo donndas Al Is cultd des Sdscire
(DUES do Sciences Agros,miquesi.



