STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
                                                             78707    1



 SM/er         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION    AND DEVELOPMENT




                                          Washington,   D.    C.

                                           Tuesday, May 13, 1975

                      The meeting of the Executive Directors of the

            International Bank for Reconstruction and Development was

            convened at 10:01 a.m.,   in the Board Room, 1818 H1 Street, N.W   ,


            Mr. Robert S. McNamara, Presiding, presiding as chairman.
STRICTLY CNFIDENTIAL
                                                                       2




                                    C 0 N T E N T S

          Agenda Item                                             Page




           3.   Proposed Loan -   Ivory Coast (Second Education
                      Project)                                    62
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                        62




                     MR.    M1cNAMAPA:




                     The third project item on our agenda today is

           presented to you under the special procedure which the

           Board adopted sometime ago.        It is a proposed loan in the

           amount of $5 million equivalent to the Ivory Coast for an

           education project.        According to that procedure, we will not

           introduce it, there will be no discussion of it unless

           certain individual Directors have particular questions they

           wisa to raise.

                     Mr.    Islam.

                     IR.    ISM:       Thank you,   Mr.   Chairman.
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL                                                                   63




                        I am aware this project has been processed as a

           special procedure.            With your permission, I would like to

           raise one or two points.

                        With regard to the first                   point, I would like to

           draw attention to paragraph 12,                  page 4,    of the President's

           report.    It seems that the Ivory Coast is now facing a

           peculiar situation which she cannot impose any direct

           control   to limit       private      transfer     of    foreign exchange.

           On the other hand,          she is     heavily being drained of her

           hard-earned foreign exchange resources by transfer of $100

           million by the expatriate wage earners and a further

           substantial amount by the other foreign investors.

                        It    is   mentioned here in          this report that the

           Ivory Coast cannot impose any effective                     steps to stop transfer

           of resources because it             would adversely affect its         poorer

           neighbors.        Some of the measures initiated in recent years

           nave not apparently brought the desired result.                      So I would

           like to hear some comments about the Bank's thinking as to

           how the situation should or could be handled in the Ivory

           Coast.

                        The second point            --

                        MR. McNAMARA:           Which situation?

                        MR.     ISLAM:        This drainage of foreign exchange
STRICTLY (ONFIDENTIAL
                                                                        64



           resources through unlimited transfers.

                        The second point I would like to mention here is

           that the education sector already takes about 35 percent of

           the national budget.     This is already too high, and one of

           the reasons for this listed here is that the high cost of

           expatriate secondary teachers.      This also is a source of

           heavy drainage    of foreign exchange to the country.

           Therefore,    replacing these by locally trained teachers

           should be one of the basic objectives     of education reform

           in the Ivory Coast.     But in the two Bank projects, the present

           one and the earlier one, we seem to be concentrating on the

           training of primary school teachers, and although we have

           identified the problem which is to replace the more expensive

           expatriate secondary scnool teachers by local, so far we

           don't seem to have done anything towards this objective.

                        Even in the third project it appears from the

           outline given here that the training of secondary school

           teachers of local origin is not a part.      So I would like to

           have some comments as to whether this aspect is important

           enough to be included as a part of the Bank project and, if

           not, what the country is proposing to do about it.

                        Thank you very much.

                        MR. McNAAhRA:   Mr. Koenig, would you respond to the
STRICTLY C NFIDENTIAL
                                                                                     65



           first question.       What, if anything, can the Bank do with

           respect to the problem of the remittances from nationals of

           Upper Volta and surrounding countries?

                        MR.   KOENIG:      Mr. Chairman,   I would like to refer

           this question maybe to Mr. Letham who has been following this

           problem closely, if I may.

                        MR. McNAMARA:        Surely.

                        MR. LETHP1:        Mr. Chairman, I would wish to indicate thz

           in relation to the question of replacement of teachers --

                        MR.   M4cNAMARA:     No,   not teachers.     This is   the

           question of remittances by nationals of surrounding countries

                        Let me give the answer.          Nothing.     (a) Because

           the procedures and rules of the area and the region won't

           permit it;    (b) because these remittances are very important

           transfers of resources from Ivory Coast to the surrounding

           countries     and are major contributing factors to strengthen-

           ing the very weak surrounding economies.                So I don't believe

           that we have a capability to do anything about it, but neithez

          would we recommend that they be stopped.                 Instead, we would

           recommend that Ivory Coast build up its export capacity and

           its foreign exchange earning capability.

                        And we have at times given special consideration

           to Ivory Coast's needs for external capital in order to
STRICTLY ( ONFIDENTIAL
                                                                          66




           stimulate export growth, because of the contribution that the

           Ivory Coast is making to the surrounding countries through

           these remittance transfers.

                       Now, on the second question, Mr. Koenig, would you

           or one of your associates respond to that?        Is it not a fact

           that the high education expenditures do reflect high costs of

           expatriate secondary teachers?     And if it is such a fact,

           why haven't we done something about it in our projects?

                       MR. LETH#M:   Mr. Chairman, indeed, and I think some

           of the work which was done during the employment mission

           which was reflected in the model developed for the economy

           of the Ivory Coast indicated that the major drain on the

           country's foreign resources were payments to expatriate

           manpower, and in particular expatriate teachers.

                       Now, the question has been how to go about compensat-

           ing the lack of teachers in an economy which around 1969 was

           only graduating about 280 young people at secondary level

           diploma.    What has happened is that the Government has put its

           priority on expanding the base of its education system.        It

           has remarkably succeeded in this.      It is now filling the

           requirements   for primary teachers   and moving into   the filling

           of the requirements for lower secondary and upper secondary

           teachers.
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                      67




                    We have been particularly concerned during the

          first education project in ensuring that there would be a

          gradual increase in the output of primary teachers --   of lower

          secondary teachers.   Now, there is a difficulty there in

          attracting and retaining lower secondary teachers when the

          other sectors of the economy are claiming similarly and

          possibly at higher wages people with similar qualifications.

          However, while in appearance we are not providing financing

          for training of secondary teachers, these people in the case

          of Ivory Coast should not be considered exclusively as being

          generated from secondary teacher training colleges.     Secondary

          teachers are also people who have graduated from the universit

          where the expansion has become considerable and flow onto the

          labor market including onto secondary education.

                    In the preparation of the second project, we had

          considered the requirements for training secondary teachers

          at the lower level and    pending the conclusions of the

          Education Review Commission, we have not proposed to prepare

          at this point a training program for these teachers, but it

          is in our intention to continue monitoring the developments

          in secondary teacher training and in fact the training of

          lower secondary teachers is most likely to be considered as

          part of a third education project for Ivory Coast.
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                    6 o




                    MR. McNAMARA:   Thank you, sir.

                    Are there other Directors who may wish to ask

          questions on this project?

                    If not, we will proceed with it.
