CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 439 RW
Development Credit
Agreement
(Agricultural Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED NOVEMBER 29, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 439 RW
Development Credit
Agreement
(Agricultural Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED NOVEMBER 29, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 29, 1973, between the REPUBLIC OF
RWANDA      (hereinafter  called  the  'orrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02 (h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02 (i) into 6.02 (h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth:
(a)   "BNR" means the Banque Nationale du Rwanda established by a law
of the Borrower dated April 24, 1964.
(b)   "Project Area" means an area of about 45,000 ha which occupies the
northwestern part of the Prefecture of Byumba and is bound on the west by
Uganda, on the east by the National Park's Hunting Reserve, and on the south
by the Ngarama-Kararna road.
(c)   " OVAPAM" means the Office pour la valorisation pastorale et agricole
dut Mutara, a public agency to be established by the Borrower for purposes of
carrying out the agricultural development of the Project Area.
(d)   "AU" means an animal unit, i.e. one or more animals (including
fractions thereof) equivalent to a weaned bovine in terms of feed intake.
(e)   "RwF" means francs in the currency of the Borrower.
(f)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement referred to in
Section 3.03(a) of this Agreement.


﻿A7
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to three million eight hundred thousand
dollars ($3,800,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories; and provided further that no withdrawal
shall be made on account of expenditures under Part D (ii) of the Project until
the Borrower shall have made arrangements satisfactory to the Association for the
aerial photographic survey of the tse-tse fly belt in the territories of the Borrower.
Section 2.03. Except as stated in Schedule 3 to this Agreement or as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and services (other than services of
consultants) required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of international competition under
procedures consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under 'orld Bank Loans
and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972,
and in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth in said Schedule 3.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1979 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 1 and
October I in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each


﻿5
April 1 and October 1 commencing April 1, 1984 and ending October 1, 2023,
each installment to and including the installment payable on October 1, 1993 to
be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause OVAPAM to carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency, in conformity with sound financial, administrative
and agricultural practices and according to the policies described in Schedule 4
to this Agreement, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain OVAPAM, with
such organization, powers and authority as shall be satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, OVAPAM shall be
managed by a board of directors constituted by one representative of each of the
following institutions: the Ministry responsible for Agriculture and Livestock, the
Ministry responsible for Finance, the Ministry responsible for Commerce, the
Ministry responsible for Social Affairs, the Ministry responsible for Planning, the
BNR, by one representative of the beneficiaries under Part A of the Project; by
one representative of the beneficiaries under Part B of the Project; and by the
Project Director, who shall participate in the discussions of said board without
vote and serve as its secretary. The representative of the Ministry responsible for
Agriculture and Livestock shall be chairman of the board of directors.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall relend free of interest the equivalent
of $2,700,000 out of the proceeds of the Credit to OVAPAM under a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and OVAPAM under
terms and conditions which shall have been agreed by the Borrower and the
Association. Such terms shall include a term of 35 years including 5 years of grace.
(b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿6
(c)   The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its agencies to take all
action which shall be necessary on their part to enable OVAPAM to perform all
of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and shall not take or permit
to be taken any action which might interfere with such performance.
Section 3.04. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section
3.01 of this Agreement and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall:
(a)   employ, and second to OVAPAM        free of charge to OVAPAM, (i)
qualified and experienced experts acceptable to the Association, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, to serve as OVAPAM's senior executive
(hereinafter called Project Director), Ranching Manager, Marketing Officer, Chief
Development Officer, Paysannat Sub-manager, Chief Accountant, and Chief
Mechanic; provided that said personnel, except for the Project Director and the
Chief Development Officer, shall be employed within three months after the
Effective Date; and (ii) qualified personnel acceptable to the Project Director as
required to carry out efficiently OVAPAM's operations, who shall include
counterparts to any expatriate experts seconded to OVAPAM;
(b)   to the extent that the experts referred to in paragraph (a)(i) hereof
are expatriates, consult with the Association within the fourth year after the date
of this Agreement regarding the availability of local qualified experts to take over
the responsibilities of such expatriate experts and, in case there are no such local
experts available, regarding appropriate arrangements to continue to employ
qualified expatriate experts;
(c)   second from   time to time teams of surveyors from       its Ministry
responsible for Agriculture and Livestock to OVAPAM, in such number and with
such qualifications as the Project Director shall reasonably request, to assist
OVAPAM in the planning and layout of the settlement schemes and group ranches
under Parts A and B of the Project; and
(d)   cause the veterinary services from said Ministry to arrange regular visits
by a qualified veterinarian to the Project Area to assist in organizing and to supervise
the carrying out of routine veterinary practices, and to provide qualified
veterinarians for any specific campaign OVAPAM shall organize from time to time
to insure animal health and fertility.
Section 3.05. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause OVAPAM to be provided
with such overdrafts as shall be necessary for OVAPAM to meet temporary seasonal


﻿7
requirements of additional working capital to carry out its undertakings efficiently,
on terms similar to those available to other agencies of the Borrower.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall approve OVAPAM's budget for next fiscal
year not less than three months before the end of each of OVAPAM's fiscal years.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall establish a committee chaired by the Prefect
of Byumba or his representative and constituted also by the appropriate
Burgomaster, the Project Director or his designee, the sub-manager of OVAPAM's
Paysannat Division, the Ranching Manager of OVAPAM or his representative, a
Paysannat Division agronomist, and an agronomist and a veterinary of the Prefecture
of Byumba, to select beneficiaries under Parts A and B of the Project according
to the criteria set forth in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and such
other supplementary criteria as the Borrower and the Association shall agree from
time to time; provided that the sub-manager of OVAPAM's Paysannat Division
shall participate only in the selection of beneficiaries under said Part A and that
the Ranching Manager or his representative shall participate only in the selection
of beneficiaries under said Part B.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause OVAPAM to enter into contracts
with the beneficiaries under Parts A    and B of the Project, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, specifying their rights and obligations
regarding the cultivation plots they will receive, and, with respect to the
beneficiaries under Part B of the Project, regarding also their grazing rights on
group ranches.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause:
(a)   the beneficiaries under Part B of the Project who will receive grazing
rights on the same group ranch to enter into partnership contracts on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association for purposes of managing jointly their
cattle on said group ranch; and
(b)   OVAPAM to enter into contracts with said partnerships, under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, regarding livestock and pasture
management.
Section 3.10. (a) Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause OVAPAM to charge and collect (i) from each beneficiary under Parts A
and B of the Project, an annual fee of RwF 1,200; provided that during the first
two years after the respective settlement such fee will be of RwF 200 and that
the proceeds thereof will be credited to the beneficiary's account in OVAPAM


﻿8
as a reserve against payment of subsequent fees; (ii) from each beneficiary under
Part B of the Project, an annual fee of RwF 450 per AU, beginning three years
after the respective settlement, and (iii) from each beneficiary under the Project,
an annual veterinary fee of RwF 265 per head of cattle.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause the Project Director to report promptly to
OVAPAM's board of directors any default in the payment of the fees referred
to in paragraph (a) hereof, to ensure the prompt exercise of all administrative
and judicial remedies appropriate to collect said fees, and to report periodically
to said board about the progress of said actions.
Section 3.11. (a) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
Section 3.01 hereof, the Borrower shall promptly provide OVAPAM with such
funds as are needed to meet the expenditures necessary to carry out efficiently
OVAPAM's purposes, whenever the funds available to OVAPAM will be insufficient
to meet such expenditures because of a case of force majeure, non-collection of
the fees referred to in Section 3.10 (a) hereof, or any other cause.
(b)   Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
hereof, the Borrower shall cause OVAPAM to request promptly, through its board
of directors, the provision of such funds.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall, within two years after the Effective Date,
assign three tracts of land of about 20 ha each to OVAPAM, at locations chosen
in consultation with the Project Director, for purposes of constructing three
cattle-holding grounds.
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall cause OVAPAM: (a) to enter into contracts
with the Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du Rwanda on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, for the provision to OVAPAM of technical services
for carrying out Part D of the Project; and (b) to employ a biologist consultant
acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, to assist OVAPAM in carrying Part D (ii) of the Project.
Section 3.14. (a) The Borrower shall cause OVAPAM to insure, or to make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
OVAPAM to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.


﻿9
Section 3.15. (a) The Borrower shall cause to be furnished to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, including
training schedules for local staff who will replace expatriate experts, contract
documents and work and procurement schedules, for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower shall or shall cause OVAPAM to: (i) maintain records
adequate to recc7d the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) enable the Association's
representatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the
Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.16. The Borrower shall provide educational and medical facilities
and services in the Project Area in line with national standards.
Section 3.17. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out
according to the operating policies set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as
amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall consult each other from time
to time on the establishment of associations of beneficiaries under Part A of the
Project.
Section 3.18. Infrastructure works under Parts A, B and C of the Project
shall be carried out by OVAPAM, piincipally by labor-intensive techniques and
giving due preference to the employment of the beneficiaries under Parts A and
B of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.


﻿10
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of the preceding
paragraph (a), the Borrower shall cause OVAPAM to maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the operations and financial condition of OVAPAM.
(c)   The Borrower shall, with respect to its accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) hereof: (i) have said accounts for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by the respective
commissaires aux comptes designated by the Borrower according to its normal
practices; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
said accounts for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
(d)   The Borrower shall cause OVAPAM with respect to all its accounts
to: (i) have its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Association such other information concerning said accounts and financial
statements and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause OVAPAM to take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or to make other provision satisfactory to the Association
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
sound practice.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:


﻿11
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations, resources and expenditures of OVAPAM
and, in respect of the Project, of the other departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrowel, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its administrative subdivisions
and of any agency of the Borrower or of any such administrative subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations, resources and expenditures of OVAPAM and, in respect
of the Project, of the other departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof. the performance by either of them of its obligation: under the Development
Credit kgreement or the performance by OVAPAM of its obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to inspect all installations, sites, works,
buildings, property and equipment of OVAPAM and any relevant records and
documents and to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution,


﻿12
delivery or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   A presidential decree and the necessary executory decrees shall have
been issued, defining the Project Area and establishing OVAPAM and the selection
committee referred to in Section 3.07 of this Agreement.
(b)   The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and OVAPAM, respectively, have been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
(c)   The Borrower shall have deposited in OVAPAM's account with BNR
the equivalent of $100,000 on account of its contribution.
(d)   OVAPAM    shall have employed the Project Director and the Chief
Development Officer referred to in Section 3.04.


﻿13
Section 8.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered
on behalf of, the Borrower and OVAPAM, respectively, and constitutes a valid
and binding obligation of the Borrower and OVAPAM in accordance with its terms.
Section 8.03. the date March 4. 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.02 (b),
3.04 (a), 3.05, 3.06, 3.15 (b) and 3.16 and under Article IV of this Agreement
shall cease and terminate on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date thirty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for Agriculture and
Livestock is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Agriculture
and Livestock
P.O. Box 621
Kigali, Rwanda
Cable address:
MINAGRI
Kigali
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿14
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the city of Kigali, Republic of
Rwanda, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
By   /s /  Aloys Nsekalige
For the President of the Republic
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By   /s /  S. Shahid Husain
Director, Country Programs Department
Eastern Africa Regional Office


﻿15
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below    sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                    Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
I.   Infrastructure, Equip-
ment, Materials, and
Related Facilities
(a)   Part A of the               510,000
Project
}e    100% of foreign
(b)   Part B of the               700,000    )    expenditures and
Project                                )     95% of local ex-
)     penditures
(c)   Part C of the                43,000    )
Project                                )
II.   Headquarters Facili-              372,000         100% of foreign
ties: Buildings, fur-                             expenditures and
niture, water and                                 95% of local ex-
electricity supply,                               penditures
vehicles, machinery,
tools, and related
items
III.  Staff
(a)   Expatriate                  832,000          100% of foreign
expenditures
(b)   Local                       340,000         90% of total ex-
penditures
IV.  OVAPAM's Operating ex-             300,000         90% of total ex-
penses other than                                 penses
regular Staff
V.    Tse-tse Fly Eradi-
cation
(a)   Eradication from            170,000          100% of foreign
Project Area                                 expenditures and
95% of local ex-
penditures


﻿16
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(b)  Studies
(i)  local staff,            55,000        100% of foreign
equipment,                           expenditures and
materials and                         95% of local ex-
transportation                        penditures
(ii)  Biologist             28,000         100% of foreign
consultant                           expenditures
VI.   Unallocated                     450,000
TOTAL          3,800,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the   term  "foreign  expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;
(b)   the term  "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term  "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.


﻿17
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph 1 above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category or sub-category
shall decrease, the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category or
sub-category and no longer required therefor will be reallocated by the Association
by increasing correspondingly the unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category or sub-category
shall increase, the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
1 above in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such
increase, and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the
request of the Borrower, to such Category or sub-category from the unallocated
amount of the Credit, subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies,
as determined by the Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association   shall have   reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Categories III (b)
or IV shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation
to such Categories, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Categories may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the development of Mutara lands, west of the Kagera National
Park, for crop and livestock production, by settling some 5,700 families on about
45,000 ha, one-fourth of which would be developed for small farms tinder intensive
crop production, and the balance as group ranches for cattlemen who are prepared
to manage their cattle collectively. The Project consists of:
Part A:     The establishment of a cropping settlement scheme of about 4,300
lots of about 2 to 2.5 ha each, for the production of food crops with
groundnuts or coffee as the main cash crop, on about 12,000 ha located
in the southernmost and ecologically most suitable lands of the Project
Area. Investments under Part A will include, inter alia, plot layout;
the construction of about 400 km of dirt roads, anti-erosion works,
cattle dips, bridges, water supply, and housing for field staff; and the
provision of housing material for beneficiaries, and vehicles and
machinery.
Part B:     The establishment of about 120 group ranches on about 3 1,000 ha.
Beneficiaries under Part B will receive cropping plots of about 1.3 ha
each, which will carry inseparable grazing rights on group grazing lands
where they will raise their cattle jointly with that of about 12 other
beneficiaries. Investments under Part B will include, inter alia: group
ranch layout; construction of about 150 km of dirt roads; water supply;
construction and repair of cattle dips and related facilities; construction
of 3 veterinary centers, and housing for staff; and the provision of
housing material for beneficiaries, and vehicles and implements.
Part C.     The establishment and operation of a bull breeding ranch on about
480 ha, based on local and imported improved breeding cattle.
Part D:     (i)   The eradication of the tse-tse fly from the Project Area; and
(ii)  The carrying out of a feasibility study to eradicate the tse-tse
fly from Rwanda.


﻿19
Part E:      The establishment and operation of Project related headquarters
facilities. Investment under Part E will include, inter alia: construction
of housing for staff, office buildings, workshops and stores; and the
provision of vehicles, machinery, equipment and tools.
It is expected that the Project will be completed by June 30, 1979.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    With respect to any contract for goods and services estimated to cost the
equivalent of $20,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall cause OVAPAM to furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a description of the
advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall cause
OVAPAM, before a final decision on the award is made, to inform the Association
of the name of the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall
furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on
the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the reasons for
the intended award. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03
of this Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and OVAPAM and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract.
2.    Contracts for goods and services estimated to cost $2,000 or more but less
than $20,000, shall be tendered among local suppliers, and the Borrower shall cause
OVAPAM to furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior
to the submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the award
of the contract is not consistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in
Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and OVAPAM and
state the reasons for such determination.


﻿21
3.    Goods and services for less than $2,000 equivalent may be procured from
local sources without advertising for bids, on the authorization of the Project
Director.
4.    Sahiwal bulls for Part C of the Project may be procured on a negotiated
contract basis.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 4
Operating Policies
1.    OVAPAM
(a)   Powers and Functions: OVAPAM shall, among other things: construct,
maintain and cause to be maintained the infrastructure works;
participate in the selection of Project beneficiaries; prescribe timetables
for land clearing and regulations for soil conservation, land cultivation,
cattle production and animal health; enter into contracts with Project
beneficiaries and the partnerships organized by the beneficiaries under
Part B of the Project, and supervise the fulfillment of their obligations
thereunder; impose and collect settlement, grazing and veterinary fees;
impose destocking by group ranches when necessary; order sale of
cattle that have attained such age or weight as OVAPAM shall specify
from time to time; maintain records to compare projected with actual
Project progress; maintain detailed records for sample cultivation plots
and group ranches, covering inter alia production yields and the
quantity and value of production sold; terminate rights of beneficiaries
pursuant to the respective contracts; provide technical and marketing
services.
(b)   Administrative Structure: OVAPAM       shall have the following four
divisions:
(i)         General Services, in charge of initial development work,
administrative matters, and the carrying out of tse-tse fly
eradication;
(ii)        Paysannat, in charge of carrying out Part A of the Project;
(iii)       Ranching, in charge of carrying out Parts B and C of the
Project; and
(iv)        Marketing.
The area under Part A of the Project shall be divided into three sections,
each under an agronomist and 4 field assistants. A veterinary assistant shall be
assigned to provide veterinary services under Part A of the Project.
The area under Part B shall be divided into three veterinary sectors, each
under a veterinary technician and two veterinary assistants, to provide veterinary


﻿23
cover, day-to-day extension advice, and to keep records of livestock numbers,
performance and health.
2     Selection of Beneficiaries
Selection shall be carried out by the committee referred to in Section 3.07
of this Agreement, taking into account the following: landlessness, physical fitness,
and good repute. Farmers and graziers presently occupying the Project Area shall
receive priority in the selection of beneficiaries under Parts A and B of the Project,
respectively.
Beneficiaries undei Part A of the Project shall be required to have enough
seeds, in the opinion of the Project Director, to carry out production through
the first cropping season following their settlement.
There shall be no barriers to spontaneous grouping under Part B of the Project
and voluntary grouping shall be encouraged; provided, however, that OVAPAM
shall be entitled to modify the constitution of the groups to ensure appropriate
resources use.
3.    Cultivation Plots
Cultivation plots under Part A of the Project shall be laid down along 5
m wide dirt roads which shall follow the contour of the area. A gravity fed piped
water supply system from reservoirs filled by gravity from springs shall be
constructed wherever it is technically and economically feasible, or alternative water
supply systems shall be installed, so that no plot is farther than about 1.5 km
from water.
Cultivation plots under Part B of the Project shall be laid down taking due
account of the suitability of the land for agricultural use.
Beneficiaries under Parts A and B shall receive seedlings; an initial issue of
selected seeds furnished by the Service des Semences Selectione'es of the Ministry
responsible for Agriculture and Livestock, for further multiplication; a hoe and
a machete; and timber to build a house. They shall clear the land according to
a timetable prescribed by OVAPAM; plant boundary hedges and take such measures
for erosion control and follow such cropping practices as OVAPAM shall prescribe;
and shall market their produce through OVAPAM. Beneficiaries under Part A of
the Project shall be allowed to maintain not more than 2 head of cattle in their
lots, provided they are kept in stables. With regard to said cattle, they shall have
the same obligations as beneficiaries under Part B of the Project have with respect
to theirs regarding animal health.


﻿24
4.    Grazing Plots
Beneficiaries under Part B of the Project shall retain individual ownership
of their cattle but all the cattle within a group ranch shall be managed as one
herd by the partnership the members of each group shall organize, under the
technical assistance and supervision of OVAPAM. Each beneficiary shall have a
minimum of 6 AU grazing rights on the group grazing lands, even if at the outset
he owns less than 6 AU. No beneficiary shall have more than 45% of the grazing
rights on the respective group ranch, provided, however, that he may temporarily
enjoy the grazing rights of other members of the group until such members build
up their herd so as to be able to fully enjoy their grazing rights. Voting rights
shall be proportional to the grazing rights each beneficiary has.
Each partnership under Part B of the Project shall receive fencing material,
kraal building material, one improved bull, and one ox-cart and trek gear. With
regard to the group grazing lands, each such partnership shall be obligated to erect
a fence around the group ranch, to plant rows of Euphorbia between outlined
paddocks, market its product through OVAPAM, and to follow sound livestock
and pasture management practices including those prescribed by OVAPAM.
Such practices shall include:
(a)   maintaining fencing and internal demarcations;
(b)   carrying out rotational grazing;
(c)   removing from   pastures undesirable weeds, grasses and unnecessary
timber and scrub;
(d)   controlling grass fires;
(e)   maintaining appropriate stocking rates;
(f)   branding all stock;
(g)   using, and controlling the use of, of improved bulls;
(h)   culling non-productive breeding stock;
(i)   castrating all male calves not suitable for breeding;
(j)   selling of slaughter stock without unnecessary delays;


﻿25
(k)   reporting and treating livestock diseases;
(1)   dipping all livestock once weekly;
(m)   inoculating cattle at least against anthrax, blackwater, and contagious
abortion; and
(n)   maintaining the cattle under a suitable drug regime against internal
parasites.
5.    Bull Breeding Ranch
The ranch shall breed crossbred Sahiwal bulls from Ankole cows and sell
them  at cost to the group ranching partnerships organized under Part B of the
Project.


