Do-comet of
The World Bank
FOR OMFCL USE ONLY
ep CNO. P-3900-yEP
REPORT A1SD RECOMMEATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
ITrERNATIONAL DEVOPMENT ASSOCTATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 8.5 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL MAIPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 20, 1984
Thk iscumiu  a uedkctd bMIt elsd _CW be mW by reipkea may In he peuf.ruuc o
.mkd.Id doom iut emmhb my mut ibrwis be -dl wt   WorM Bak audzati.



CURRENCY   RTALETS
uS$ 1.00        =   N. Rupees 17.30
AR 1            -   US$0.0578
URS 100,000     =   US$5,780
URs 1,000,000   =   US$57,800
FISCAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15
ABBREVIATIONS
AA           - Agricultural Assistant
APROSC       - Agricultural Projects Service Center
CDRD         -  Communications Development and Extension Education
Division, Department of Rural Development
DQA          -  Department of Agriculture
DOL          -  Department of Livestock and Animal Health
FAo          -  Food and Agriculture Organization
GTE          -  German Agency for Technical Cooperation
BWMr         - His Majesty-s Government
IAAS         -  Institute of Agriculture and Animal Sciences
tAg          -  Intermediate Agriculture Certificate
IDA          -  International Development Association
JT           -  Junior Technician
JTIA         -  Junior Technician Assistant
mOA          - Ministry of Agriculture
MUCIA.       -  Mid-Western Universities Consortium for International
Activities
ODA          -  British Overseas Development Administration
PIU          -  Project Implementation Unit
SATA         -  Swiss Association for Technical Assistance
USN          -  United Mission to Nepal
USAID        - United States Agency for International Development
VBIFAO/CP    - World Bank FAO Cooperative Program



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
NEAL
AGRICULTURAL NJMIPOWER DEVELOPMENr PROJECr
Credit and Proiect Summary
Borrower:            Kingdom of Nepal
Amount:              Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) 8.5 million
(US$8.4 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard
Proiect
Description:        The proposed project would assist Ris Hajesty-s
Government in upgrading the quality of middle level
agricultural manpover by: (a) implementing reforms in the
training system, structure and curriculum to make it more
relevant to the duties and responsibilities of agricul-
tural extension vorkers and technicians; (b) establishing
a teacher training program; and (c) improving training
management. The project vould also assist in
strengthening higher level agricultural training at the
Institute of Agriculture and Animal Sciences by
establishing a degree program (BS) in animal science and
upgrading the existing academic, research and extension
programs of the Institute.
Risks:               Due to poor facilities for communication and travel
between project sites, particularly during rainy veather
when travelling is slow and difficult, there is a risk
that supervision of project activities by the Project
Implementation Unit, which is based in one of the project
sites, would be infrequent and irregular. This could
cause delays in project implementation or jeopardize the
achievement of project objectives. To minimize this
risk, the project would provide a radio communication
link between the Tribhuvan University (Kathmandu), PIU
(IAAS) and the other project sites. In addition, a
full-time assistant project engineer would be posted in
each project site to provide day-to-day management of the
physical aspects of the project.
This document has a resticted distribution and mny be used by recpiets only in the performance of
thi Ofica dutis.ts contents may notothowie be dicsed wahout World Bank authoriaton



Estimated Cost: fa          Item                        Local  Fo:eian  Total
US$ miiion-
Niddle Level Training
Training Program                    2.6       2.2      4.8
Teacher Training and
Training Nanagement                0.1       0.4      0.5
Agricultural Manuals                0.2        -       0.2
Hither Level Traininz
Animal Science Degree Program       0.8       1.2      2.0
Upgrading Facilities and Programs   1.1       1.5      2.6
Proiect Implementation Support      0.6       -        0.6
Total Base Costs                5.4       5.3    10.7
Contingencies
Physical Contingency            0.5      0.6       1.1
Price Contingency               1.2      1.3       2.5
Total Proiect Costs             7.1      7.2      14.3
/a Includes taxes of US$1.08 million equivalent.
Financinx Plan:                                         Local   Foreign  Total
IDA                                 4.3      4.1       8.4
USAID                               1.0      3.1       4.1
Government                          1.8        -       1.8
Total                            7.1       7.2     14.3
Estimated
Disbursement:       IDA FY                  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91
Annual                 0.35  1.13  1.95  2.14  1.71  1.14
Cumulative             0.35  1.48  3.43  5.57  7.28  8.42
Economic
Rate of Return:     Not applicable
Appraisal Report:   MEPAL:  Agricultural Mnmpower Development Project
Report No. 4878-JEP, dated November 14, 1984.
Mav:               [IBRD 17793



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EmECUTIv DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Kingdom of Nepal (KMG) in an amount of Special
Drawing Rights (SDRs) 8.5 million (US$8.4 million equivalent) on standard IDA
terms to help finance an Agricultural Nanpower Development Project.
Cofinancing arrangements have been made with United States Agency for
International Development (USAID) for US$4.1 million equivalent on a parallel
basis. USAID will provide this money to MNG as a grant.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 11
2.      The most recent economic report, Nepal:  Recent Developments and
Selected Issues in Trade Promotion (Report No. 4663-NEP), was distributed
to the Executive Directors on October 19, 1983. The principal features and
recent performance of the economy are described below. Country data are
shown in Annex I.
3.      Nepal is one of the least-developed countries in the world.  Per
capita income is estimated at US$170 (1983) and health and education
standards are below the average for South Asia: life expectancy at birth
is only about 46 years; infant mortality, about 145 per thousand; and adult
literacy, only 19 percent. The population, estimated to be 15.8 million
(1983), grew at a rate of about 2.6 percent per year between 1970 and 1982.
a      About 94 percent of the population live in rural areas.
4.      Population density with respect to arable land (356 per sq km) has
reached very high levels, and cultivation has been extended on to marginal
lands and forests. Forests have been denuded further to meet the growing
demand for fuelwood, on which Nepal depends for over 90 percent of its energy
consumption, mostly for household cooking and beating. Because of deforesta-
tion and excessive grazing on the hills and mountains, with high rainfall,
there is accelerated soil erosion leading to silting of rivers, downstream
flooding and loss of agricultural productivity all along.
5.      Agriculture, largely rainfed, still accounts for nearly 60 percent
of Nepal's GDP and 80 percent of merchandise exports, and provides the main
1/ Substantially unchanged from Third Highway Project
(Report No. P-3867-NEP), of August 9, 1984.



-2-
source of livelihood to over 90 percent of the population. Crop production
accounts for about 60 percent of agricultural output, livestock for 30
percent, and forestry for 10 percent. Paddy is the principal food crop
(planted on about half of the total cropped area), followed by maize, wheat,
millet and barley. Cash crops (oilseeds, jute, sugarcane and tobacco) are
grown on about 10 percent of the cropped area. About 15 percent of total
rural income arises from non-agricultural activities, of which the cottage
industry sub-sector is one of the more important generating employment for
over one million people on a part-time basis.
6.      Apart from agricultural land, Nepal's only other important
exploitable resources are hydropower and tourist attractions. The exploita-
tion of the vast hydropower resources beyond that required to satisfy the
country's owv power demand, however, will depend crucially on Nepal's ability
to enter complex financial, exploitation and export agreements with neighbor-
ing countries. The tourism sector, based primarily on Nepal's mountain
environment and its rich cultural heritage, has been dynamic, though it
accounts for only about 1 percent of GDP. Tourism now provides about 20
percent of the country's foreign exchange earnings. About 60 percent of
earnings from tourism are retained in Nepal.
7.      Following centuries of self-imposed isolation, efforts to develop the
economy of Nepal began in the mid-1950s against extremely heavy odds. The
country had virtually no physical infrastructure, an ancient administrative
system, and very limited educational and health services. The resource base
is relatively narrow and its development hindered by the difficult topography
and landlocked position. Against this background, Nepal's primary develop-
ment objective for 20 years, between 1955 and 1975, vas to build basic
infrastructure and lay the groundwork for future economic growth. The
country has made good progress in pursuit of that objective. It now has a
basic road network linking many economic centers. Kathmandu and a few other
towns have basic utilities and public transport. Schools have been built for
almost half of the primary school age children and there are a number of
secondary schools and a national university. A rudimentary hospital system,
including rural health posts, has been built. Some progress has also been
made in establishing the institutional framework for agricultural and
industrial development, including extension and research activities, finan-
cial institutions and industrial enterprises. Yet in all these areas, the
country has a long way to go to achieve a level of development comparable
to other developing countries; for example, public and private institutions
in Nepal must continue to expand and upgrade essential physical facilities,
acquire the necessary expertise in handling economic and financial affairs,
build up adequate technical and managerial cadres, and establish merit-based
systems of personnel management.
8.      The Fifth Plan (FY76-FY80) marked a shift in development objectives,
with increased emphasis being placed on acceleration of economic growth,
employment creation, and raising the living standards of the population.
These objectives have been reiterated in the Sixth Plan (FY81-FY85).
Moreover, the stated strategy of the Sixth Plan appropriately (a) accords



-3-
high priority to developing agriculture, small-scale industries and Nepei's
abundant water resources; (b) stresses soil conservation and populaticn
control; and (c) emphasizes full utilization of existing infrastructure and
alleviation of absorptive capacity constraints, including human resource
development. The development strategy also calls for increased involvement
of the private sector in agriculture, manufacturing, trade, tourism, con-
struction and transport operations.  Investment expenditures, supported by
growing foreign assistance, have increased rapidly over the last two Plans,
from US$146 million (9 percent of GDP) in FY75 to about US$500 million (20
percent of GDP) in 1982183, and there have been substantial shifts in the
composition of spending away from transport to agriculture, power and social
services. GDP growth, however, has barely kept up with that of population.
9.      Part of the explanation for this stagnation lies in factors beyond
Nepal's control such as the difficult topography and the poor resource base.
But factors within Nepal's control bave also contributed. Severe project
implementation problems have been encountered by Government and donors alike
in most sectors of the economy, thereby lowering the rate of growth of
capital formation. In addition, the expected returns on investments which
took place often did not materialize largely because necessary complementary
investments or current spending were lacking, and because of managerial
deficiencies. A good example is the agriculture sector. In the past, insuf-
ficient attention was paid to bringing water down to the farm level and this
was compounded by inadequate support services such as extension and research,
by the lack of timely supplies of improved seed, fertilizer and other inputs
such as credit, by the lack of farm-to-market roads, and by low producer
margins. Future development of irrigation and agriculture would therefore
need to emphasize complementary investments, improvements in agricultural
input supplies and adequate producer margins.
10.     The shortage of funds for current spending needs to be addressed by
further efforts at domestic resource mobilization. In recent years, Nepal's
efforts to mobilize resources have focused on tightening income tax assess-
ment and collection; on discretionary-measures largely in the area of
indirect taxes; and on rEducing subsidies to public enterprises. While there
has been, as a result, a steady increase in revenues, the tax structure
remains inelastic. Some scope exists for increasing Nepal s tax elasticity
by shifting items on the indirect tax schedules from a specific to an ad
valorem basis. There also seems to be scope for increasing yields from the
land tax, urban property taxes and income taxes.
11.     Over the past two years, several positive steps have been taken to
strengthen public sector management. These steps have included increases in
the traditionally low civil service salaries, establishment of public service
training facilities, simplification of budgetary procedures accompanied by
stricter enforcement of expenditure accounting, and granting of more autonomy
to public enterprises in matters concerning personnel and pricing policies.
The implementation of these administrative reforms would have to be pursued
by high-level monitoring of important administrative issues such as appoint-
ment of competent staff, job security and decision-making authority. Also,



-4-
public enterprise reform needs to be pursued by measures aimed at reducing
costs and increasing efficiency. In this regard, the Government has taken
initial steps, subjecting public enterprises to increased competition from
the private sector through liberalization of licensing in industry, trausport
and small-scale hydropower generation. At the same time, the Government has
involved the private sector in the ownership and control of some public
enterprises through the sale of shares to private investors.
12.     Because of slow economic growth, Nepal's balance of payments has been
characterized by widening trade deficits, partly offset by surpluses from
invisibles. The current account deficit (averaging US$100 million annually
during FY80-mY82) has traditionally been more than matched by inflows of
official grants and concessional loans (averaging US$128 million annually
during FY8O-FY82), leading to surpluses in the overall balance of payments in
most years. Nevertheless, foreign exchange reserves had declined from being
equivalent to about one year of imports in the early 1970s to six months in
1982, and four months in mid-1984.
13.     To sustain and further develop its economy, Nepal must mobilize
additional free foreign exchange through export promotion and efficient
import substitution. Improving agricultural production, rural incomes and
food distribution within the country is a major way of doing so, if only to
avoid the need to import and distribute large quantities of foodgrains in the
future. Agricultural development also remains the key to a gradual expansion
of Nepal's traditional merchandise exports. In addition, development of
energy resources is a major means to strengthening the balance of payments
by reducing the need to import fuel and opening up an export potential.
Recently, Nepal has legislated a wide range of fiscal and administrative
incentives for industrial investors and exporters, particularly in the
private sector. The implementation of these incentives in a cost-effective
manner, and the alleviation of the severe transport and transit constraints
facing the country's trade sector, must constitute essential elements of a
trade promotion strategy for Nepal.
14.     Nepal is faced with highly challenging prospects and tasks in
addressing its multiple long-term development problems. While it attempts
to mobilize domestic resources to finance about 40-50 percent of development
expenditures, external assistance, at concessional terms, will continue to be
a vital factor in financing investment and effeccing economic growth. In the
last three years, aid commitments to Nepal have averaged about US$250 million
per year, almost entirely in the form of grants and concessional credits with
grant elements in excess of 70 percent. Aid disbursements grew from about
US$110 million in FY80 to an estimated US$150 million in FY84. Nearly 70
percent of total aid disbursements have come from members of the Nepal Aid
Group, formed in 1976 and now comprising eight DAC countries and four multi-
lateral agencies.
15.     At the end of FY84, Nepal's official foreign debt outstanding
amounted to about US$350 million. As virtually all loans have been
concessional, debt-service payments, including payments to the IDF, have



-5-
remained small in relation to exports of goods and services. In FY84, debt-
service payments amounted to about US$18 million, equivalent to 6 percent of
exports of goods and services. Over the medium term, these payments are
projected to remain at less than 10 percent of Nepal's exports of goods and
services.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
16.     Bank Group operations in Nepal began in 1969 with an IDA credit of
US$1.7 million equivalent for a telecommunications project. Since then. 36
additional credits have been approved, bringing total IDA assistance to Nepal
to US$547.7 million equivalent, net of cancellations. In view of Nepal's
many development needs, this assistance has been for projects in a wide
variety of sectors. Six of these sectors account for about 90 percent of
IDA credits by original amount: irrigation/agriculture (US$173.0 million for
14 projects); water supply and severage (US$46.8 million for 3 projects);
power and energy (US$168.0 million for 4 projects); telecommunications
(US$21.7 million for 3 projects); highways (US$67.0 million for 3 projects);
and rural development (US$19.0 million for 2 projects). The proposed credit
would be the second approved in FY85. No Bank loans have been made to Nepal.
IFC has made three investments in Nepal, the first in FY75 (US$3.1 million)
for the expansion of the Soaltee Hotel in Kathmandu, the second in FY82
(DM14.5 million) to Nepal Orind Magnesite Company for the mining and produc-
tion of dead burnt magnesite, and the third approved in FY84, but not yet
signed, to Nepal Metal Company (DM7.8 million), a zinc/lead mining and con-
centrates project. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and
IFC operations as of September 30, 1984.
17.     Bank Group lending to Nepal so far has been modest compared to the
country's need for external assistance. The international community has
shown considerable interest in Nepal's economic development and, to date, the
shortage of funds has not been a major bottleneck. The main constraint on
the utilization of increased aid has been Nepal's limited absorptive
capacity, affecting the pace of project preparation and implementation. The
Bank Group has provided assistance to the Government in project preElaration
through two Technical Assistance Credits (Credits 659-NEP and 1379-HEP) and
by acting as Executing Agency for a number of technical assistance projects
financed by UNDP. Furthermore, the Resident Representative in Kathmandu has
had a significant impact in improving project implementation performance. As
a result, the rate of disbursements is improving: during FY82, FY83 and
FY84, US$28.5, US$37.4 and US$26.0 million equivalent, respectively, was
disbursed compared to an annual average disbursement of about US$17 million
during the previous five fiscal years. Project completion reports have been
prepared for six projects: First Telecommunications (Cr. 166-NEP), First
Highways (Cr. 223-NEP), Tourism (Cr. 291-NEP), Birgauj Irrigation
(Cr. 373-NEP), Settlement Project (Cr. 505-NEP), and Bhairawa-Lumbini
(Cr. 654-NEP).



-6-
18.     The Bank Group's current lending strategy places emphasis on assist-
ing the Government in its efforts to contain the high level of population
growth, address major constraints in the country's development of human
resources and promote agricultural development. Selected infrastructure
investments, mostly in transport, telecommunications and power, will also be
undertaken to alleviate serious development constraints. In population, a
project is being prepared by the Government and there is donor interest to
co-finance various components. For the cevelopment of human resources,
projects under preparation include engineering education, vocational and
secondary education projects. For agriculture, the basic objective is to
assist Nepal maintain overall foodgrain self-sufficiency and, where possible,
promote exports of agricultural products and encourage afforestation efforts.
Projects under preparation would extend the assistance provided so far by
building irrigation infrastructure mainly in the Terai to increase paddy
production and help reduce the food deficits in the Hills. Both would be
accomplished through irrigation and rural development projects which would
emphasize increased food production and through specific Hill food projects.
PART III - AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING
19.     Pre-service agricultural education in Nepal which is conducted at
middle and higher (university) levels is administered and managed by the
lnstitute of Agriculture and Animal Sciences (IAAS) of the Tribhuvan
University. The Department of Agriculture (DOA) and the Department of
Livestock and Animal Health (DOL) of the Ministry of Agriculture (NOA) carry
out in-service training for their respective staff at all levels.
20.     Middle Level.  Pre-service middle level education consists of a
two-year program leading to the award of the Intermediate Agriculture
Certificate (MAg). Secondary school leavers (grade 10) who have passed the
national examination which entitles them to the Secondary School Leaving
Certificate (SLC), are admitted into tire program. The training program has
dual objectives: (a) to prepare students for admission to higher
(university) studies in agriculture; and (b) to train Junior Technician
Assistants (JTAs) and Junior Technicians (JTs) which constitute the middle
level agricultural manpower in Nepal.  However, only the first year (referred
to as the JTA course) consisting of general agriculture (crops) or general
animal science subjects is required to qualify for the post of agriculture or
livestock JTA respectively. JTAs who satisfactorily complete the second year
qualify as JTs or as candidates for admission to higher studies in
agriculture.
21.     The JTA course in agriculture is conducted at two satellite campuses
of IAAS (Paklihawa and Lamjung), training a total of about 300 to 350 JTAs
per year. The JTA course in animal sciences with an enrollment of 100 stu-
dents per year utilizes the facilities of an animal research center of DOL
located near Kathmandu. The JT course is conducted at Rampur, the main
campus of IAAS, with an enrollment of about 200 to 240 students and at



-7-.
Paklihawa with about 100 to 150 students per year. There is no separate JT
training program in animal sciences.
22.     NiAher Level.  Higher level training, leading to the BS degree in
agriculture is offered at the main campus of IAAS at Rampur. The training
which consists of a three-year program in general agriculture is focussed
u       principally on plant crops with a limited number of subjects in animal
husbandry. It has an output capacity of up to 100 graduates-per year.
Policies and Problems in Agricultural Education
23.     Middle Level.  The present pre-service middle level agricultural
education program does not satisfactorily meet its objectives. It has failed
to train agricultural technicians in either the quantity or quality necessary
and has not adequately prepared students for higher studies in agriculture.
The JTA course which consists of agriculture subjects tends to emphasize
theory more than the practice of agriculture. The JT course consisting of
basic science and humanities subjects does not thoroughly prepare students
for university education since the subjects offered which normally take two
years to complete are condensed to one year. Each year, about 80Z of some
400 to 450 JTA course leavers are admitted to the JT course. The few who are
not admitted accept employment as JTAs but persistently seek admission to the
JT course and if accepted, quit their employment. Of about 300 to 350 JT
leavers each year only 100 to 150 are admitted to the BS degree program.
Employers, however, usually do not employ those who are not admitted because
JTs are entitled to higher pay but are not considered to possess better
agricultural and extension skills than the JTAs. Much training effort is
therefore wasted each year while shortages of agricultural technicians
continue. Starting from 1985, MDA estimates that about 550 additional JTAs
(450 agriculture and 100 livestock) would be needed each year for the next
ten years to implement its on-going and planned agricultural development
activities.
24.     As a result of discussions between His Majesty's Government (ENG)
and IDA on the problems of agricultural education in Nepal, HMG has revised
its agricultural education policy. KMG has decided that starting from the
school year 1985-86, the present pre-service middle level agricultural train-
ing program will be restructured, and the JTA curriculum will be revised to
make it a practical and terminal course and tailored to meet the skill
requirements of men and vomen agricultural extension workers and technicians.
The existing one-year JT course will be abolished and the JT level will be
made a promotional grade for JTAs after at least three years of satisfactory
service and completion of specific in-service courses conducted by the exten-
sion and training sections of DOA and DOL to prepare them for their new tasks
and responsibilities.
25.     The decision of HMG to revise the JTA curriculum to make it non-
academic and terminal would discourage students who have no interest in
becoming agricultural technicians or field extension workers from enrolling
in the course. To further increase the chances of admitting JTA trainees who



-8-
have the aptitude and interest to serve as agricultural technicians in rural
areas, HMG vould establish a Student Admission Committee at IAAS and finalize
student selection procedures by May 31, 1985 (Section 3.07 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement (DCA)).  HMG intends to implement the student
selection procedures by September 1, 1985.
26.     The quality of instruction at the training centers is poor.  The
teachers lack teaching skills because they have had no training in pedagogy.
The students have access to few reading and reference materials, which are
generally inappropriate. Most of the references are written in English and
therefore have limited value to the students whose medium of instruction is
Nepali; the contents are also of little relevance to Nepal conditious.  The
students get very little practical training since the school farms have not
been developed and no farm equipment has been provided.  No supervision and
evaluation of the training program are conducted by IAAS staff for lack of
institutional arrangements to carry out the task.
27.     Accommodation and training facilities also are inadequate.  At
Paklihawa, the training center occupies an old army compound with deteriorat-
ing barrack structures. These barracks are being utilized as classrooms,
laboratories and offices and as student and staff hostels which have commnal
toilets and showers and inadequate water supply. This set up has not been
conducive to good performance by students or staff and is extremely incon-
venient particularly to staff members who have families. At Lamjung the
existing buildings are inadequate to meet the accommodation and teaching
requirements of students and staff and are badly in need of rehabilitation
and extension. No water or lighting facilities exist. At the animal
research center in Kathmandu where training of livestock JTAs is temporarily
conducted, classes are held in makeshift arrangements and sometimes in
corridors. Because of poor accommodations and working conditions, the
teachers' and students' morale is low, and consequently they have little
interest and enthusiasm for their activities.
28.     Higher Level.  The decision to convert the existing JTA course into a
terminal program and the abolition of the JT course automatically eliminates
the Intermediate Agriculture Certificate (lAg) which currently meets the
entrance requirements for degree training in agriculture. Starting from
school year 1985-86, HMG intends to admit secondary school leavers who have
passed the School Leaving Certificate (SLC) qualifying examination, directly
into the degree training program and to lengthen the program to five years.
This reform would improve the basic academic training of the students and
result in better student performance.
29.     At present the BS course in general agriculture, which has been
assisted under a USAID project, needs further selected assistance in order
to meet the requirements of MNA for higher level agriculturalists. No degree
program in animal science exists in Nepal. All higher level manpower
employed in the livestock sector are trained abroad through fellowship train-
ing grants from foreign donors, largely from USAID. After September 1984,
however, HMG anticipates serious problems in meeting additional manpower



-9-
r      ns  of the sector since few comitmets for fellowship grants bave
been obtained from external sources_ Recognizing the significant contribu-
tionI of the livestock sector (212) to tota  a ltral  output, during the
Sixth Plan period, HIG has started to pursue programs aimed at:
(a) expanding fodder production; (b) improving animal health and inatrition;
(c) introducing genetic i provements on existing stocks; and (d) adjusting
total livestock numbers to needs. The success of these endeavors depends
upon the availability of adequately trained livestock technicians and
specialists_  DOL estimates that at least 50 higher level livestock
specialists would be required by the department alone every year beginning in
1985.
30.    Aside from the physical facilities that would be needed to establish
a degree training program in animal science vith an intake of about 75 stu-
dents per year, IAAS is badly in need of additional physical facilities to
provide for the minim space requirements of the staff and anticipated total
student enrollment of about 750. The present provision of 430 hostel spaces
for students would be sufficient to meet only about 57Z of student accomoda-
tion needs. Of the present 89 teaching and administrative staff members of
the institute (not including about 100 peons, farm laborers, campus security
guards and animal caretakers) only 55 are provided with living quarters.
Many students and staff members are facing serious problems in finding
suitable places to stay and in commuting to and from the campus. The school
farm needs to be developed to improve the practical training activities of
the students and research activities of the staff. Only about one fourth of
the 300 hectare school farm can be used for production and research. The
remainder is accessible to outsiders and stray aninals and needs to be
protected. In addition, irrigation and drainage systems would ensure that
the farm functions effectively. Furthermore, teaching staff lacks qualified
instructors in agricultural engineering, agro-forestry, in-land fish produc-
tion and soil conservation, and the research and extension programs need
expansion and adequate support. In addition, the Institute needs to have an
auditorium to permit the student body and faculty to carry out more extra
curricular and co3mon activities and utilize their leisure time more
profitably. The students and staff have no opportunity to engage in recrea-
tional activities outside of the campus due to its remoteness.
31.    The coordination of the activities of ITAS with the agricultural
development program of MG needs to be improved. At present, the academic,
research and extension programs of IAAS are not closely linked with the
agricultural development plans of IEc. The development of human resources as
a means for more effective implementation of agricultural development
activities is given little importance by agricultural development planners.
There is a need for the agricultural agencies and planners of EN and TAAS
authorities to promote closer contact among themselves and to develop aware-
ness of each other-s role and activities in order that effective coordimation
could be achieved.
32.    The proposed project seeks to address these problems and to support
the decisions of 1W in respect of the reforms in the agricultural education



-10-
system. The project will also assist in curriculum development, provision of
equipment, supply of training materials, rehabilitation of physical
facilities, improvement of the quality of instruction and establishment of an
educational supervision system. It would also upgrade and expand the
research and extension programs of the Institute and thus contribute to the
agricultural development efforts of Government.
IDA Assistance to Azricultural Education and Training
33.    A key objective of the Bank's strategy for assistance to Nepal is to
assist the Government in designing and implementing a long-term program to
develop the country's institutional capability and human resource base aimed
at, amongst other things, raising agricultural productivity and efficiency.
The proposed project is designed to contribute to meeting this objective.
To date the training of higher level (graduate) personnel has been supported
by USAID. However, on account of a modification in USAID's strategy for
support to Nepal coupled with increasing constraints on its available
resources, USAID has had to reduce its support for these activities. The
Bank-s intervention at this stage vould complement USAID-s support for the
sector. The project would aim to meet two main objectives (i) effect sig-
nificant changes in the system, structure, quality and cost effectiveness
of training of middle level agriculturel technicians, areas that have not
received any significant support from other donors; and (ii) to strengthen
higher level agricultural training at the Institute of Agriculture and Animal
Sciences.
34.     The proposed project is the first IDA intervention in pre-service
agricultural education. Under the on-going Agricultural Extension and
Research project (Cr.ll0O-NEP), the physical facilities of two regional
in-service training centers - Nepalganj and Bhairawa are being improved. One
other IDA supported training program which has some bearing on agriculture is
for foresters under the Community Forestry Development Training project
(Credit 1008-NEP). This project is financing a nev training center in
Pokhara to train about 40 foresters (diploma) and soil and water conservation
officers per year as well as 100 technicians; a further 100 technicians per
year will be trained through upgrading a similar training center at Hetauda.
The output from the activities to be supported by the proposed project will
have an important bearing on the realization of the objectives of a number of
other IDA supported projects in the agricultural sector. Of immediate note
is the Agricultural Extension project scheduled to be negotiated soon; the
activities of the extension project would create a demand for the JTA exten-
sion staff to be trained by this project.



-11-
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.     The proposed project was prepared in November 1981 by a WBIFAO
Cooperative Programme Mission. Amendments to the proposed project were made
by an IDAIFAO pre-appraisal mission in April 1983. The project vas appraised
in September 1983. A timetable of key events relating to the project and
special conditions are given in Annex III. A staff appraisal report (Report
No. 4878-NEP, dated November 14, 1984) is being distributed separately to
the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from
October 31 to November 6, 1984. The Nepalese delegation was headed by
Nr. Heet Singh Shrestba, Additional Secretary, Miuistry of Finance.
Project Obiectives. Strategy and Scope
36.     The proposed project is designed to assist H11 in:  (a) improving
the quality and relevance of middle level agricultural (crop and livestock)
pre-service training; and (b) strengthening higher level agricultural pre-
service training at IAAS by establishing a BS degree training program in
animal sciences, upgrading the existing academic, research and extension
programs and correcting the deficiencies in space requirements and instruc-
tional facilities of the Institute.
37.     Improvement of the quality and relevance of middle level traininR
vould be achieved by: (a) introduction of reforms in the structure and
system of training; (b) improvement in the management and supervision of
training; (c) curriculum development (including development of student
manuals and provision of reference materials, teaching equipment and develop-
ment of the training farms); (d) teacher training; (e) establishment of a
stueent selection and admission system; and (f) rehabilitation of physical
facilities of the training centers at Paklihava and Lamjung.
38.     Strenftheninz of dezree level trainina at IAA would be achieved by:
(a) establishing a bachelor's degree program in animal science (including
curriculum development); (b) staff training; (c) developing the TAA farm
into an effective practical training and research facility; and (d) upgrading
and expanding existing teaching, extension and research programs and physical
fac.lities at Rampur.
Detailed Features
39.     JTA Trainins Prozram.  To implement HMG's recent decision to modify
the system and structure of training (paras 24-25), the JTA curriculum has to
be revised. Draft revisions have been prepared by the existing TAA Subjects
Committee composed of TAA staff and senior field staff of HOA. This draft
vould be submitted for review and approval to the IAAS Faculty Board consist-
ing of senior administrators of TAAS, Tribhuvan University and MOA.
Curriculum revisions are focussed on the development of knowledge and practi-
cal skills which are of direct relevance to the duties and responsibilities
of agricultural extension workers and technicians. The JTA curriculum has



-12-
been reviewed and commented on by IDA. During negotiations 1MG provided
assurances that the Faculty Board would complete its review and approval of
the JTA curriculum which would be satisfactory to the Association, by August
31, 1985, to enable IAAS to implement the curriculum starting the school year
1985 (Section 3.11 of the draft DCA).
40.     In support of the revised curriculum and to upgrade the living condi-
tions of the students and staff of the JTA tratiing centers (Paklihawa and
Lamjung), the project would provide teaching equipment and develop the train-
ing farms into effective practical training facilities. Adequate space
requirements for teaching and housing of students and staff would be provided
largely by repairing and renovating existing buildings. Water and elec-
tricity would also be supplied. A few new structures, mostly animal sheds
and some student and staff housing, would be constructed. The project would
provide 200 student places (30 females) for agriculture JTA trainees at the
Lamjung Training Center and 400 places (40 females) at the Paklihava Training
Center, of which 300 would be for agriculture and 100 for livestock training.
41.     Teacher Tr!inina and TrainiDR Nanazement. A teacher training program
for agricultural teacaers would be established under the Communications
Development and Extension Education Division of the Department of Rural
Development (CDRD) at TAAS. All teachers at the JIA Training Centers would
be required to undertake training in pedagogy including courses such as
lesson planning, methods and techniques of teaching agriculture, course and
student achievement evaluation and educational psychology. Thereafter,
teacher training courses would continue to be offered to JIA teachers who
would need refresher training and to agriculture teachers of MA-s in-service
training program. USAID would provide 36 staff-months of expert services
for an agricultural educator to assist IAAS in developing and carrying out
the teacher training program and to prepare a five-year plan for the training
of JTA teachers and ?NAs agriculture teachers. Thirty-six staff-mouths of
fellowship training would also be provided by USAID for a staff member of the
CDRD who would eventually take charge of the trairing program. The fellow-
ship training would consist of advanced studies in agricultural education at
a suitable institution preferably vithin the region.  Essential train ig
equipment would be procured under the project to support the program. By
May 31, 1985, IAAS would have chosen the first complemeat of staff to be sent
'or advanced studies and that application for admission to a suitable univer-
sity would have been made. To ensure that the remainder of the staff to be
sent on fellowship training would be identified well in advance and their
applications to universities are processed in good time, it vas agreed that
HMG would furnish the respective applications by December 31, 1985.
(Schedule 4(c) of the draft DCA). USAID would appoint the agricultural
education expert by July 31, 1985.
42.     To improve the management and supervision of JTA training, a suitable
senior staff member of IAAS vould be appointed by EMS as Assistant Dean for
Training before May 31, 1985 (Schedule 4(a) of the draft DCA). This post
would be integrated in the administrative structure of IAAS. The terms of
reference for the post have already been agreed with IDA. In performing his



-13-
management and supervision functions, the Assistant Dean would be assisted by
the CDRD staff member who would be in charge of teacher training after he
completes his training (para 41).
43.    Agricultural Manuals.  To reinforce the introduction of reforms in
the system, structure and curriculum of middle level training and to help
update the knowledge of practicing JTAs and JTs ou latest practices in
agriculture, agricultural manuals in about 15 subject matter areas and writ-
ten in Nepali would be developed. The manuals would be designed to serve
as student textbooks as well as reference guides for ITAs and JTs. The
Subjects Committee under the guidance of the Dean of IAAS (who is also
Project Director) and the Assistant Dean for Training would select the sub-
ject mutter areas in which the manuals would be written and manage the
preparation and production of the manuals. Selected local agricultural
scientists and subject matter specialists would be commissioned under the
project to prepare the drafts using locally available information and
materials and recently tested research findings. After the drafts have been
revieved by the Subjects Committee for content, the manuscripts would be
edited by an expert in the Nepali language to eurure simplicity of writing
and conformity with the comprehension level of JTI students. About 90 staff-
months of local expert services would be provided for the preparation and
editing of the manuscripts. Art work needed for the manuals, and printing
and binding would be financed by USAID and carried out by the existing
Tribhuvan University Publication Unit. Since most of the staff who will be
involved in the preparation of the manuals have full-time jobs (scientists,
professors and subject matter specialists of the Extension Service), work on
these manuals would be additional to their current work load. It is
estimated that the writing, review and rewriting of the manuscripts, the
preparation of illustrations, testing and printing of the manuals will take
at least two years. Distribution of the manuals, therefore, is expected
during the third year of the project. The manuals would be distributed to a
total of about 3,600 JIA students and about 3,500 practicing JTAs and JTs
during the project period. During negotiations, HMG agreed to select and
appoint the consultants who would prepare the draft of the agricultural
manuals, by May 31, 1985 (Section 3.02(a) of the draft DCA).
44.    Establishinz a Dearee Proaram (BS) in Animal Science.  To meet
anticipated future shortages for higher level livestock specialists (para 29)
a degree program leading to the Bachelor of Science in Animal Science would
be established at IAAS. About 48 staff months of expert assistance (24 in
veterinary science and 24 in animal husbandry) would be provided by USAID
to assist in curriculum development and in starting the training program.
About 108 staff months of overseas fellowships preferably in the Region for
specialized training in animal husbandry, veterinary science, animal genetics
and forage production would also be provided by USAID for teaching staff.
Considering the existing facilities at TAA5 and its staff strength, only a
few additional teaching facilities consisting of one combined nutrition and
environmental physiology laboratory, three classrooms and a few animal sheds
would be required; only one additional teaching position (veterinary science)
needs to be created. However, due to the lack of sufficient housing



-14-
facilities for students and teachers at IAAS, additional housing for 180
students (80 females) and for 11 animal science teaching staff members would
be provided under the project. Since the need to start the animal science
degree program is urgent, the required experts would be needed to assist in
establishing the program as soon as the project becomes effective.  USAID
would appoint the needed experts no later than July 31, 1985.
'Section 3.02(b) of the draft DCA). To ensure that the additional teaching
staff would be available vhen animAl science training starts, KMG provided
assurances during negotiations that the needed additional teaching post at
TAAS would be created no later than July 31, 1985 (Schedule 4(b) of the draft
DCA).
45.     Upgrading and Expanding Existing Programs and Facilities at IAAS.
To assist the Dean and staff of the Institute in implementing the planned
reforms in the system, structure and academic programs of IAAS (paras 23-29),
about 70 staff-months of short-term consultantships on specialized activities
such as farm management, operation, care and maintenance of scientific
equipment, food processing, home science and technology, and including inter-
mittent consultantship in educational administration and management would be
provided by USAID. USAID would also reinforce the existing staff of the
general agriculture degree program by providing about 96 staff-months of
fellowships for overseas training in agricultural engineering (24), agro-
forestry (24), fish production (24) and soil conservation (24). In addition,
to promote avareness among HMG's agricultural development planners, of the
importance of human resource development in development efforts and the role
of IAAS in agricultural development and to increase their competency in
planning for agriculture development (para 31), about 96 staff-months of
overseas fellowship training in Human Resources Planning (48) and in
Economics of Agricultural Development (48) would be provided by USAID. The
officers to be trained would be selected by 1M. About 41.7 staff years of
local fellowships would also be provided by USAID for in-service training of
IAAS and HMG staff in various subject matter areas as needed (para 41).
During negotiations, EMG provided assurances that: (a) by May 31, 1985, the
first group of TAAS staff members and HMG officers to be sent for overseas
fellowship training would have been chosen and that applications for admis-
sion to suitable universities, preferably in the Region would have been made,
and by December 31, 1985 all the others would have been selected (Schedule
4(c) of the draft DCA). USAID would appoint the agricultural education
administration expert by July 31, 1985.
46.     To improve practical training of students and the research and exten-
siou activities of both students and staff at IAAS (para 30), USAID would
finance the development of the entire farm of the Institute, consisting of
about 300 ha. This would involve setting up of a drainage system, repair of
irrigation channels, fencing and land leveling and grading. Field and
laborator-y equipment and materials would be provided under the project. The
project would also assist in upgrading the living conditions of both students
and staff of the Institute by rehabilitating existing water and lighting
facilities. In addition, the project would provide an additional 23 staff
houses and an auditorium. Field sports facilities would be provided by USAID



-15-
to promote recreational activities in the campus community. In order to
improve coimmaications between Tribhuvan University (Kathmandu), LIAA campus
(Rampur) and its satellite campuses (Paklihawa and Lamjung), a radio comr-
munication link would be established under the project between all these
campuses. A guest house would also be constructed in order that visitations
by staff of the satellite campuses to the main campus would be facilitated
and that IAAS would be able to invite more resource persons from outside and
increase the exposure of both students and staff members to new ideas and
developments.
47.     To encourage female students to enroll at IAAS and to extend educa-
tional opportunities to students from remote and underprivileged Hill areas,
a total of about 40 three-year scholarships (120 student-years) would be
provided by USAID. The candidates would be selected and recomnended by the
Admission Committee; the Scholarship Committee, chaired by the Dean of IAAS,
would reviev the recommendations and award the scholarships.
48.     Project Implementation Sui,ort.  Except for the Project Director and
the Project Coordinator who are regular staff members of IAAS, the costs of
the staff of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), who would provide the
technical support needed for project implementation and who would be employed
only for the duration of the project, would be financed under the project.
The project would also provide all equipment, materials and miscellaneous
expenditures required to carry out the function of the PIU and for expendi-
tures that might be incurred in new project development and preparation.
49.     Technical Assistance.  USAID would finance the expatriate experts
and the local and overseas fellowships (paras 41, 44) required for the
project and would be responsible for the execution of this project component.
However, agreement has been reached between USAID and IDA that consultations
will be made to ensure that all the experts to be recruited would be accept-
able to the Association.
Proiect Management and Implementation
50.     Overall project implementation would be carried out by a Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) to be established at IAAS. The Dean of the
Institute would act as PIU Director. The Assistant Dean for Training who is
responsible for the management and supervision of the middle level agricul-
tural training program of IAAS (para 42) and the Assistant Dean for Academic
Affairs who is in charge of higher level education at IAAS, would advise the
PIU Director in the implementation of educational aspects of the project. A
Project Coordinator who would be directly responsible to the PIU Director
would take charge of day to day monitoring and management of project
activities and a semi-annual assessment (in January and July of each year) of
the progress of implementation on the basis of project objectives and the
implementation schedule. The Project Coordinator would be selected from the
existing staff of IAAS. During negotiations HMG provided assurances that the
project assessment report would be submitted to IDA for review by February 28
and August 31 of each year during the life of the project starting 1986



-16-
(Section 3.10 of the draft DCh). The Project Director and the Project
Coordinator of the PIU have already been appointed by HMG. The other staff
members of the PIU would consist of a project engineer, three assistant
engineers (one for each project site), an accountant/bookkeeper, a procure-
ment officer, an accounts assistant and supporting staff. The project
engineer has been designated by 1MG. The establishment of the PIU and the
appointment of a project engineer, an accountant/bookkeeper and procurement
officer would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 3.05 and
6.01(a) of the draft DCA). The project implementation schedule would be
reviewed and revised annually and the financial requirements of the project
would be adjusted as necessary by the PIU to ensure that project implementa-
tion is not delayed, and the operation of the project institutions does not
suffer because of lack of funds. HMG would furnish the Association by May 1
each year, starting 1986, with a revised project implementation schedule and
an estimate of the required project funds for the following year and make the
necessary funds available so as to ensure prompt project implementation
during the life of the project (Section 3.06 of the draft DCA).
51.     A Project Implementation Board to be established by HHG and chaired
by the Vice Chancellor of Tribhuvan University with members composed of
senior level representatives of the Ministries of Finance, Agriculture,
Education and the National Planning Commission would be established to assist
the PIU in solving implementation problems that may involve policy issues.
One of the main functions of the Board would be to expedite matters requiring
clearance or approval by HMG and requiring inputs from existing Government
entities such as the Subjects Committee, the Faculty Board of IAAS and the
Tribhuvan University Publication Unit. The establishment of the Project
I-mplementation Board with terms of reference acceptable to IDA, would be a
condition of credit effectiveness (Section 3.04 and 6.01(a) of the draft
DCA).
52.     Designs of staff houses, hostels and academic facilities constructed
at TAAS under a USAID project which are available at TAAS would be utilized
as much as possible. Designs for new buildings as well as for conversions
and renovations of existing buildings and supervision of construction would
be carried out by a local architectural consulting firm which has been
appointed by BMG.  The firm was selected on the basis of demonstrated skill
in building conversions and renovations and project delivery.  The firm has a
qualified quantity surveyor to prepare bills of quantities, cost plans and
establish cost control mechanisms. USAID vould finance the architectural
fees to be incurred during the period from negotiations to credit effective-
ness to enable the consultant architects to prepare working drawings prior to
credit effectiveness. HMG has recently prepared model bidding documents
which were approved by the Bank for procurement of goods and civil works.
These models would be used in preparing the bidding documents and no problems
are foreseen in completing the project bidding documents before credit
effectiveness.
53.     To ensure the effective use of buildings, furniture and equipment
during the life of the project, funds for operation and maintenance and



-17-
repair of physical facilities and equipment have been included in the
project. EB provided assurances during negotiations that sufficient funds
would be provided, thereafter, for this purpose (Section 3.01 of the draft
DCA).
Proiect Cost
54.     Total project costs are estimated at about US$14.3 million equivalent
including US$1.1 million in taxes. The foreign exchange component is
estimated at US$7.2 million including contingencies or 50% of project costs.
Physical contingencies are estimated at 10% of the base costs. Estimated
costs are based on price levels prevailing in September 1983 adjusted to 1984
prices. Price contingencies for foreign exchange costs have been estimated
at 8.5% per annum for FY86, 9.0% for FY87 and FY88, 8.2Z for FY89, 6.7% for
FY90 and 6.0% for FY91. Local costs have been estimated on the basis of the
following projected domestic inflation rates; 7X in FY86-88, 6.5% in FY89-90
and 6X in FY91.
Proposed Financing
55.     The proposed IDA credit of US$8.4 million equivalent would cover 64Z
of the project costs, net of taxes. USAID would finance US$4.1 million
equivalent or 31Z of total net project costs. The Government would finance
the remaining US$0.7 million equivalent (5X) excluding taxes. The provision
of evidence that all effectiveness conditions of the USAID grant agreement
with HMG have been fulfilled would be a condition of credit effectiveness
(Section 6.01(b) of the draft DCA).
Procurement
56.     Past experience in Nepal has shown that contracts for civil works
(below US$800,000 per contract) and furniture (below US$250,000 per contract)
and for building repair or conversion work do not attract foreign bidders.
Therefore, contracts for civil works (US$6.27 million) which are mostly for
building conversion and repair would be awarded on the basis of local com-
petitive bidding folloving procedures which are satisfactory to the
Association and do not exclude foreign bidders. The furniture and equipment
(US$1.28 million) to be procured under the project consists of small items
needed for teaching purposes and a few vehicles, office equipment aind
furniture, most of which would be needed as soon as the project starts. This
equipment cannot be grouped into packages suitable for ICB.  Therefore,
procurement would be through local competitive bidding proceduces fatisfac-
tory to the Association.
57.     Off-the-shelf items of furniture, equipment and educational materials
(excluding books, journals and animal stock) not exceeding US$30,000 equiv-
alent for each contract and aggregating to a maximum of US$110,000 would be
procured on the basis of a minimum of three competitive price quotations.
Books and journals (US$0.08 million) would be purchased directly from pub-
lishers or authorized distributors at the lowest possible prices on the basis



-18-
of at least three price quotations if applicable. Animal Stock (US$0.03
million) for instructional purposes would be purchased directly from live-
stock breeders. Professional services and local consultants (US$0.87
million) would be provided in accordance with Bank group guidelines.
58.     Procurement arrangements are summarized below:
Procurement Procedures (US$ Million)
Procurement Method
Total
Category                          ICB    LCB     Other    NA       Cost
1. Civil works                           -     6.27      -        -       6.27
-    (5.02)    -         -     (5.02)
2. Furniture, vehicles, equipment,
books and educational materials a/  -       1.28    0.22       -       1.50
(1.28)  (0.16)     -      (1.44)
3.  Agricultural manuals production    -        -        -      0.64  I  0.64 bl
and program support                  -      -       -         -        -
4.  Local expert services including    -        -       0.87      -       0.87
engineering and architectural        -      -     (0.87)      -     (0.87)
services
5.  Expatriate expert services           -      -        -      2.96 i   2.96 /
and fellowships                      -      -       -         -        -
6.  Farm and sports field                -      -        -      0.51 i/  0.51 bJ
development
7.  Project implementation               -      -        -      0.37      0.37
technical support                   -       -       -      (0.37)   (0.37)
8.  Staff salaries, allowances and       -      -        -      1.14      1.14
other operating costs                -      -       -      (0.72)   (0.72)
TOTAL c/                        -      7.55    1.09    5.62    14.26
-    (6.30)  (1.03)  (1.09)   (8.42)
Note:  Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Credit.
a/ Including animal stock.
h Financed by USAID.
4j Totals may not add due to rounding.



-19-
Disbursements
59.     The Credit would be disbursed over a period of about six years which
is about two and a half years shorter than average disbursement profile of
all IDA assisted education projects Bank-wide from 1974 to 1983. This reduc-
tion is justified since all project sites exist, and architectural designs
and bidding documents would be completed prior to credit effectiveness.  The
proceeds of the proposed credit would be disbursed against: (a) 80Z of local
expenditures for civil works; (b) 100l of foreign expenditures and 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory), 70Z of local expenditure (off-the-shelf) for
equipment, educational materials, furniture, vehicles and books other than
agricultural manuals; (c) 100% of local expenditures for consultants and
professional services; (d) 10OX of local expenditure for project implementa-
tion technical support; and (e) incremental expenditures for staff salaries,
and operating costs (including consumable goods) on a declining basis by
years (FY85/86, 10OZ; FY86187, 90%; FY87188, 80%; FY88/89, 60%; FY89190, 40%;
and FY90191, 20Z). With the exception of items (d) and (e), all withdrawal
applications for contracts equal to, or in excess of US$10,000 will be sup-
ported by full documentation. Withdrawals against items (d), (e) and for
contracts below US$10,000 in value would be made against Statement of
Expenditures (SOE) certified by the Project Director. To extent practicable,
withdrawal applications would be aggregated in amounts equivalent to
US$50,000 or more (but not less than US$20,000), prior to submission to IDA
for reimbursement.
Project Accounts and Audits
60.     PIU would prepare and maintain project accounts in accordance with
sound accounting practices. Separate project accounts would be prepared and
maintained for payments on the basis of Statement of Expenditures. HNG has
agreed that (a) accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year would
be prepared and audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association, with separate accounts for payments on the basis of Statement of
Expenditures; (b) certified copies of the audited accounts and financial
statements, for each fiscal year, together with the auditor's report would be
furnished to the Association as soon as available, but not more than nine
months after the end of each fiscal year (Section 4.01(c) of the draft DCA).
Project Benefits
61.     Agricultural development in Nepal has been given the highest priority
by HMG from the start of the Fourth Five-Year Development Plan period (1970).
Since then, in spite of considerable investments in agricultural inputs,
increases in production leave much to be desired. A number of factors con-
tributed to this slow growth in production. HMG realizes, however, that one
important factor is inadequacy of present agricultural extension and research
services largely due to lack of sufficient and adequately trained manpower.
The main benefit from the proposed project is that it would help ensure
adequate quality and supply of agricultural manpower in Nepal within the next
decade which would contribute directly to raising agricultural productivity.
The projec would serve as a medium through which the inadequacies of
agricultural education in the country would be corrected. At the middle
level, the project would support institutional reforms in the system, struc-
ture and content of training to make it terminal, practical and focussed on
the skill requirements of field extension workers and agricultural
technicians. At the higher level, the project would fill the gap in the



-20-
agricultural training system by establishing a training program at IAAS for
livestock specialists and would break the Government's complete reliance on
foreign universities and external assistance for such training. The project
would also upgrade and expand on-going training, research and extension
nrogrpris of the Institute by providing the required facilities and support.
Pro.___ Risks
62.     The project sites are located relatively far from each other with
poor means of communication between them. One project site (Laujung) located
in the hill area, can be reached only by trekking from the nearest dirt road
about 10 km. away. During rainy weather, trekking is slow and difficult and
there is a risk that supervision of project activities by the PIU, which is
based in one of the project sites (Rampur) would be irregular or infrequent.
This could cause delays in project implementation or jeopardize the achieve-
ment of the project objectives. To minimize this risk, the project would
provide a radio communications link between the Tribhuvan University (at
Kathmandu), the PIU (IAAS) and the other project sites. In addition, in each
of the outlying sites (Lanjung and Paklihawa) a full-time assistant project
engineer vould be posted to provide day-to-day management of the physical
aspects of the project in their respective locations (para 50).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Kingdom of Nepal
and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
64.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
65.     I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
November 20, 1984
Washington, D.C.



-21-                                                  AW= I
AU,L  v                                          Page 1 of 5
UPAL                   - SOIA  IVOCA(U  AT sUE?
*NL            -         OST         RIPUPICE 4UH['(IrOIISMIGNtD AvEtASR
(HOST xrt, tSflATF) E   b
t,  s7D~~~~R:           t         aw^  u    ?^lrlc     msDs imcroc
I l9E7                MIT Ei sAB  S PACIFIC                   ASA & TACIFIC
Tr*AL                      140.4 14 8               I&.6
A(RtCUL?I1UAL                        35:3        36.3         4t.2
CGM Po C&FtU   i)                       60C0        80.0        170.0            278,6                   509l.2
(RILOO3MIS  O tL 9quPAJzlV)           3          30.0         10.0            272.0                    567.3
PopULAT.m1U4fS  (n0SIM)    9                  zi 350.0     t 1428.0
U3A1 PIPu iuLfel  (I Or tOTAL)          1         i.9         6.4               21.                     34.7
P0l0M5uLTtCW O    000 (HILL)                                26.1
STATI'M   ;=LtON (HILL)                                     71.1
P.jPULATIaN     U                                            1.9
POwULATIW DI7t t
Po! slq' 104. T.~ LAN              6 a                     s6 os.?          166.6                    261.9
PER 50 106.                       266628      30.4        365.1 t45.5                               MM35.1
PopULATLIU AZ  TlUCtum   (Z)
o-16 YR                           3t I        42.0         42.2             35.8                      9.
o15-  YRS                          S7.4       35.0         56.7 l.38                                 37.6
65 go AS                            3,5         3.1         3.0               4.3                      3.3
PKur.TWN atcAU" RATE (2)
ToFAl-                              6:5         1.9         2.4               1.9                      2.3
URMN            4.5         4.2          5.0              ~~~~~~~~~4.1             4.3
c'IQtC a137t RO (PE                  's AM       46.3         42.9             27.7                     30,1
koc VaAI R;Cs (PRC  TUOUS)           25'.        23.0        18.6              10.1                     9.5
oas RSMjX flN IRATE                   2:7         3.1          2.9              3.8                      2.0
PAJILT PLA1NIt    (Thous)                        29.7       223.2
ASCRCS             wc(mo OF                      ..          7.0                                      52.7
?0HFOOD AIS,rgcPr
OF WOOOF FOOD   PER CAiPITA10.                             3011.120
(1'9671-100)                        106.0       10l.0        $3.4             112.6                    123.0
PLI CAPITA SU?f  UR9.                                        9.                 7.                     1.
CALORIES CZ Of RCqijIREMWINS       950a        %O          8.                9.                       1.
PROTEINS (tl&' PR  DAT)            5t 0        51.0        .5.0              56.8                     57.0
OF WICH   L   AND PULst          10:0         9.0          8.0 It          14.9                     14.1
'312i    (AM 5 .A) D5iH  RATE        12,6        27.8        22.0               9.8                      7.2
LIft   EPCT  AX 'IRo. (YEARS)        3           41.5         65.7              00                     60.4
'IW ta "CRT: gArE (P  TYouES        194.5       172.5       1S.Z 3.8                                  b I
-'lR$5 tO 5AfS J1ATE   WoP)                       2.0         9.0 /a           32.9                     37.0
TOTAL                              47-j        53.0        81.0 7-           70.9                     54.B
R0lL^  ,     ,           5.07* , d        ZL1                     26.6
AcczsS TO EXCRTA DIsPOSSAL
TrOAL                                           1.0         l.0 At           18.1                     41.3
14.0         &.0 7*           72.8                    47.6
RUtAL                                            -.6                                                  33.3
PO SIATR PEX N F                  73470.0      2b.0                          3480 6.2                7749.4
Pop put WS       .O                          705P07.   33420.              4193.1                  2460.4
POP. PoR WsWZAL 3W
TOTAL              ~'oa                     6930.0       5780.0            1066.5                   1064.2
UMAXa                           J22900       330.0       450.0 /e          29680                   651.2
RURAL                                *-          *-                       S593                     2594.6
&BRISSIONS PFa 65P1AL IED                                                                              27.0
^'VERAa sxze of  m5mQ
T    N. 1                            '          S. 5..5.
E*1                      5~~~~.4      *'
RURAL.                                           .
All-AlE To                                                                       '' (!ItSOtShLOUq
TOTL                               ,,                       -                ..*.
URtl                                2.0         '
RURAL                                ..         *-''...
TOTAL
30.Z
RAl                                  ..          .'''...



-22-
ANNEX I
T A S L F k                                      Page 2 of 5
IEPAL                 - SOCIAL INDICAOR  DTA SBH
gmL                                TWO==   oUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGS) ja
NOT                 CMOST RECENT ETDMATE) &
, ECET          LOW INCOME           MIDDLE INLCOS
i,ioLb    1970Lf    ESTiMATELk      ASIA A PACIFIC        ASI A PACIFIC
ADJUSTED ENROLLME   RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                    10.0       26.0        91.0              97.4                   102.0
lam                     19.0       43.0        126.0            110.5                   105.9
FuwLz                    1.0        H.0         53.0             63.7                    98.2
SECMNDARTs TOTAL                   6.0        10.0        21.0             35.9                    46.0
mAmI                    11.0       16.0         33.0             ".6                     48.7
FUMALE                   2.0        3.0          9.0             26.8                    43.1
VOCATIONAL (2 Or SECONDmAY)          0.2         5.0         6.8 ..           2.2                    17.5
PUPIL-TEACrEr UTTIO
PIMSAY                            33.0        22.0        38.0             38.5                    31.8
SZCCODAX!                         32.0 A        ..        31.0             18.7                    23.5
ADULT LlTERACT RATE CZ)              a.e        13.0        19.0              53.4                   72.9
PASSENCR  CARS/ITHOUSAND POP         0.1         0.4          ..              0.9                    10.1
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP         3.0         4.8        20.5             112.1                   113.6
TV RECEIVERS/THdOUSAND POP            ..          ..          ..              15.7                   50.1
NESPAPER "DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION            0.7         2.4         7.3 /d           16.2                    53.9
CINIM ANUL ATTENDACE/CAPITA           ..          ..          ..              3.6                     3.4
LAm P09CM
TOTAL LAR FORCE (THOUS)           4953.0      5534.0      7316.0
FERALE (PERCENT)                  40.5        39.2        38.9              33.3                   33.5
ACICULTURE (PERCENT)              95.0        94.0        93.0              69.6                   52.2
IIDISTIY (PERCENT)                 2.0         2.0         2.0              15.8                   17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             51.6        48.8        47.4              42.6                   38.7
MALE                              61.5        58.8        57.6              54.7                   50.9
FERALE                            41.8        38.6        37.1             29.8                    26.6
ECOWNIC DPENDENCT RATIO              0.9         0.9         1.0               1.0                    1.1
DICO DI DSUIrBDTI
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECIVED BY
HIGHEST 5Z OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..          ..        35.3 1c             .                    2Zt
HIGHEST 20S oF WUSEHOuLS            ..          ..        59.2 7:            ..                    48.0
LEST 202 OF HOUSEHDIS                                      4. 6 7e                                  6.4
LEST 40Z OF HOUSEDOLDS              ..          .         12.6 7             ..                    15.5
PUVURT TARRT CBP
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN.                                                    95.0 /t          133.9                   188.6                            3
RURAL                                          5. 6.0 7r                   111.6                  152.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE PovETY IcmE
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               .                                         .                   177.9
RURAL                               ..          .         41.0 t             ..                   164.6
ESTDL4TED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POTIR INCIE LV1EL (Z)
URBMAN                                                    S5.0 /I          43.8                    23.4
RURAL                               ..          ..        61.0 7;:         51.7                    37.7
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
NOT ES
/a  TOJ group  averge for each Indicator are populJon-eighted arlthmtlc mean. Coverage of coustriee among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not unifors.
/b  Unless othervwm noted. "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970" betwen 1969 and
1971; and dnta for "Mont Recant Eutl_tel between 1980 and 1982.
/c  1977; /d 1. j;  /e 1975; /f Personnel in government services only; /L Percentage of population; /h 1963;
JUNE, 1984



-23-                                                                 MNEX I
-                                -                                               Page 3 of 5
am   - =--Z= ts_r ..........a....................-.....................................ml. ~miC..ma.. .a  .Mm   .    .a  -a _a B D
-  _ At     a In _                                 at        a, en _b _Inta .a.W.                           . . -  _             M
_- (2) a --7    e .                       at, ma m ama, amma at at mw    %_  W a- C 
to.. __aa -_-                                -_a                                             C _-_ _
r                       430M~~a cm at at.    -ft   at-   t.             at-   falat -                 a  .1 -      amUS.w ft-a 6- a , ..S  M   a bam.  ma
_-           .m.B                              __                       ~        -Vw.2.2_                 a   a,  -   __ e _ _.  __ 
R"mt  -m    at            a.    -   Catatam.                                                        t  at P- amm a, ial
a_a a                                                          mama..                    mamma maim.. a, a.M 2 _   __
C   amZ   -.....  A"a                             ml..t ma-mm   s              .a    -.    smaim a   -  ma
ma            _    _         _    _           w _. at.  at ma a  - lam  at lam       -.
_am  'm  a        _       _at _qm. am. _                                                 m.  a. _a _    mm _    BO      _   _
r                               -                                                       ama. Cemma) .2.2C a,W CZ  WM-                1Wsm low
- - - mast am ~te..at. at ma. mft 
-   -        ma me~- - a      m-Mw        C. "t.-                     m-aC  atm   mmf              ta,*           1ma 
r~~~~~~~-b  M. W;   -m  ,,--&a.% ~                                             -      _          -c-          r        
7 ~   3ama5     O.A mm. ~ at  a mas am-. .-S                                                                  .    .  ......t)     C   ~  
S- C        _- 1                                                      -                                                 t aa . _   _ D 
4..t~~~~ ft %-Xftr  --M  3-4 =11-=   1-92, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ...
- - C .lta, I:B_ -an ,U..  a                                                _,   _        _ _
a                                                                        -  - f . Linsm       -  ftcd.mata,            C t_t
t.C I         n1mtmm       z C UDD - at C Ca - mm.? ,ma-Sai3-            - a a S  MPm                --top C         ama..w-   - 
mata  zimt  ma ma                                            a   t?.ma    Wit
dw-0  S-v wp"            ~          ~         ~                C         -- DWI.?  Cfa C  m.?
at steasm inmaf.PTma- fta  - la                        .        -am - m  -   a  .m  s   t              Cg
-        tunft=  r-_a   -                              -
-    _           -     ma ama.,  -           C am.                      ft am
at             ma          -_ ammo am      I            aa     -^ Iammmm _mmm  _ amTn __ m_.  __  _ mm _
am   -a mam     _Cam         =ma.         _ma'.                    1_ mml -~              a.ammmz
~~~~Ba    _-t   In sal _t _2. -2      '.2       -            __ ___
.. _-.ma .     t     -_ ga.. .a  ma a             am...
a _t 0    m   ma. _  ...,Uk  mml                    _       5     a -  tIm.   t.._r -0... mm? _l  a
,              t--I          t        a-lt   ase                       .a    Cl  a --15               ..?-  mam__a   a_
_t _ a  mat a                  C    . ato _m a  ma                    a     . _aP   - .....  mlW  _  I     - a__  - t.-
am... ,_a. C    m    ImmIa, -         - w           m.                  mama -m-. __ I. i.-_                    sm     mam
a-93-t a Cmamau ma stmm  samI  mnm                        pmm    m.    a?.-m    ml m~ le maf
ft-a ma      P a-ma-  A..&si 8 a ma .Cta ma.ml,tl.  Tmm  1                                      a -t    a
at.-    aw _-       U       I -   a D.                                  s ;, _
..*  D a      t,  .R  Ma    _     _-a  _           -                 m_   m         _d-   a _n _
a        .. I _  .   fauRm. tll ftm ma                                    5b1 _--           p I  _a~  -_-ft _
.-CM  ta' in.. r                       two. w                                 .Cm.--Z wma   -   ..     an         . ms
f-.99r 9gma9m   a ,  am   .am  ,   ..I  tm  a 
ma-  m   ma-..am 5-    .   tm  1w               ...eIm .mm.at  l
~~~~~~~~~--- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~0                                 -a _     _ _   - * _ _ms
mm.. Isis. ma _wi   .                                       a  lSt.   .   _mt~   -             _             C C.) -
_. 27~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 "Z4
ma -.       _t.m.T _m  -     cf-a _    f.4   lt.stB.                   .a.           P-&- a_.    .l   -   -l          .r
-nIs. _a. _ . t  (     , _-         a _ at. _. . (-                __ _ __ __      _   _ Zt_
-    s_. C _aImS _C  _       .m) a pmmma I Ua-                           aMZ _A 
Cml    a.aa        .a-                                          -.Lt. 0  -P   mam  mma. a.."  Wa  m       2.41   a.
ma.U m..- -mm  - amwIn.m. C .te ma                        .21I. Cmti
ma p    %-iC  _a   nwf. i  pp, -  -.  -a-&t fmt _t   m                                              -                 .. tpC  .-m
1-@ es_f_r _> 0-m  -_.8m  __ " m               bw                                   P" S  rcft-  G._* 1~  -
MP -W 4aOIn m    m.I        -9    wIn.e  20                               maa-ema a   a   t                    Ii       af
lma  a la-m.  twoma ma gmat 4-TKMm.mma m.m   mamaam..                                                    fmC       at
_      a    ma.   -              .a ft    at _ 4 b _                         a _  *_   . ma ..- ma-                   .
am   W  maen maCi- ma?    t   - MD ft   r .24-   -aa..  m.m t.m.mn)-   -m..1 f
at at atm 9 7     W    a  -  .211   --.Mm W- ma-                               nm.tm U                B.ftt
VA"_a."ft" aply    -         Mo   as         am   s.                   .a.       -               _                m       -    .
-S                                                                     tinnMe     M     - -. ;_: C_      -_   -.4B               -
- D             _                                                                                   . -  _a  _ _ _f   -   -
al-mammm           am_a,  -f _m_ _,-aa .aem                      ~S.  (ff1 -s m.., .mm-.  amam
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Smmmt _1 _ wa  _ftmm  _ . tet   mae. -   m  e_____
-   C -n,ms-em   la's ma_mmz-nl-
|~~~~tm  fm.tTte . _t af ma r_in                                                - _nt lalm r_  -r  _t.Sa  a.mr r   fin.r
mt _t_.. rl am f..  _tt.  _Stmem  _C     _a _                                         - r_a     a. mte. r_ _a. -ai  _
r_  *-ma_ ___a ap. _.a. a_tmin..          _ _ r,_a  C.....    _             *r t-- r_ma   mts m-,m r..  T. r' ma lai ma.1
_          -               M    ma       M , -W           _                  - .  '           .        fltm. -.t- ..
m. ma r_.. _  a.                    __ __ tmt sm_ am                   .i.attt    tmar ma _ _t m  _ m.r? a_  *.s   m. rat
mat_         _m    l. i.t.)_-                                           t   S l. -r=t- t            _
t tas          tm-. qm.. (ttmt. .1  ft" t --.    Wm  "a.*ltt mm m   a*       nL  .l.Cfl   t 
ma    --a.L   -m   I     -.z   Cu.Wt a amP 5-       ftm    - ~      S.m.. n.?   i       etmi-a.  l   amm.tm
a,    _ rmm  rpa. satn. r_     a __    .. _    _ at mm..  m_n. a.m ma lam  _1. _h   -.,--   r US- _.mttat *__m
.eaa  ma        _. *a. le  apm  i . mamC. .mt.                   _        _ r  rrw _a-m mmm...e a _mma  .-Ia mam  t..mi. 
C t. m- am _n _w     _      _   rw - a r        __                  ft. 1   _     f _    r 
_ _ _ ma_ - dmtaa. 2  ltma   a 12m. 5 t.               C
Pm  malt    1,m   _t  f0..       a   _.a         _, ma at                  r             _s  (let.  .C  r_ am-m - amamm _at} , ,ma I
m  _a,  _  ma _ . mm ma,2m  r_r a.m  -  _.  _m                      _        . *mma 20 maa_  :em. _l _nma _l Ct. tOSm
.UmmAm. 25amt               mEa ma 2             -    a m
r.i    mam Cma  _  _  0mM a. am_ S.it. _-U_                *      _      t ??
Da 1mm _, _,e  _) amC m.  r_.t ma _r) w_    t _ t ~ ~ m.   .2..m  .spm.m i                                  t  _ma mCa, _
r_. maia mar _i   a.mas.ii ma  a 4.,.                   _t.a emt.Ct_b ma. Tam  Ca.. ra  ma m_.m     - aw ma_. -
_f Ommt inmt inmam D.m      m ma .m.. -     . te.in _- _.        _        m.. Ptnstta..      t S              . _I~m  D   a D
TWIt (ma I-t  amam   at_ -   m  at ma  _t  it                          mim. ma.. Oa.. _.m  a.m. ma . ..mtmm -              m   mm
X...2 ... ma 'Ca_. .a .2 alma am a| am.
bE  a*T. mi (it.  tat, - a?  at    _ __CCam
ma- _ ma ma_ _at_ m. _ .ta. ma  aa_  U   n
aa- bt r_ _a. _2m   _t   . _n . -_
ginm.m _ a _. _am  - _m  ..e  at. m    me ma_
-  _a inaa t.m a, _2m. dia.., -_t_ 
__2C     m.sm  lai..  _ea  _tem  ma im
a Cnea  a tem   m..  ata                 ..a    a at
maat       .  , -m,  am-      mC  in mml..m
ma,?ft~~~~~~~~~_  



-24-
iim     I
Page 4 of S
Zanomi a MC M  m  - MAnL
GW     CAt       1983: US$L70
CGOSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT I 1982183                               AJLAL RATS OFt WFI. 1970-1952 Al
(Z, coastat Pam)
CI at Narket Prices             2.426     100.0                              2.7
Gross Domestic Investment         513      21.1
Gross Domesic Saing               237       9.8
Current Account Balance (eac.
official grants)                -208      -8.6
Exports of Goods, US              238       9.8
Imports of Goods. NES             514      21.2
OUTPUT. rABoa FORCE AND PRODUCr=T IN 1980181
Value Added
ValLe A-ded           Labor Yoce/          Per r
MSS a.      S            2-In.    SL             115
Agriculture                     1.293       61           7.2      91.2           110
Indlustry i                       262       12           0.04      0.5          6,550
Services                          567       27           0.66      8.3           859
Total/Average               2,122      100           7.9    100              269
UOVEEUnUT FINANCE
l. MIL.
Z of GW
1950181     1981/82     1998Z13     I1983/J4    I98314
Current Receipts                  2.403       2,866       2.842       3,404        8.9
ReguLar Expenditures              1.26        1.59         -97        2.263        5
Current Surplus                   1.139       1,277         845       1.14L        3.0
Development Expenditure           2,731       4,034       4,982       5,060       13.3
ExternI Assistance (Net)         1.374       1,953       2.312       2.246        5.9
MNEYm. C1Drr AD PRICES
get.
l980     1981        192193118
(aillion Is outstanding id-July)
Money and Quasi Money                      5.285       6,308        7,459        9.222     10.458
Bank Credit to Government                  1,362       1.357       2.132        4,131       4.781
Bank Credit to Public Enterprises            501         668         675          972         959
Bank Credit to Private Sector              2,547       3.231       3.307        3,429       4.048
Money and Quai Money as Z of GDP            22.6        21.7        22.9          27.4       27.4
General Price Index (1974/75 - 100)        128.7       145.9        161.2       184.1       197.5
Anal Percentage Chanes in:
General Price Index                          9.8        13.4        10.4         14.2         7.3
Bank Credit to Govervment                   15.8        -0.4        ,i.l         93.8        15.7
Bank Credit to Public Enterprises           14.9        33.3         1.0         44.0        -1.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector               28.9        26.9         2.4          3.7        18.1
Note: All conversions to US dollas in this table are at the average e=hange rate pevailin
during the period cvered.
Fiscal year dat are for Nepalese fiscal year. July 16 - July 15.
gi World Development Report 1984.
f  rotal labor force; unmployed are allocated to sector of their norml occupation.
Incltudes nning, manufacturing, construction and utilities.
-e. 41.X



AMI=    I
333e S of 5
DM PA=   AD CArmL ru1
MALA    oF ,ANU                                                                     l        g           193/" w
--     Expott. f.*b,. l          l            S..0                9-6              Ag.icsltaca pcodcts                *.        ao-7
Inports. c_i_f. &f                  381.1 4o 6.7         399.1             33i1f9ctazZs iL                              19.3
J3dikle                       -266.3    -364.7    -2S9.5                         1                         .6  1M00.
Services. Mt                         106.3    1l0.2       99.2
of   cl-: Tourim                    64.9      60.8       56.4                     VW. DInZNM  3t1 1963
Trnsfes. mat                          40.4       6.5       46.3
of slich: Priate Umait.             34.5      41.2         .              Phblic Debt. inC. gssrAts             336.4
ladis osa Ieffau          3_1        0.7        ._oe-Gasrsed Private Debt                               -
Carrent Aca       Uelsom       -119.6    -208.0    -15.0               Total Detutaiwn   & D     iiaesd      366.4
Official Grants                       89.3     10.        85.0
Official Capital. nt                  59.7      64.4       63.S
Private Capital. nur                   9.3      -7.3         .-            DMMT S5C  RA    for 19"383 Li           .
Canee in _R                     -38.7      "85        - 5.2            Public Debt. ine. guaraatee             6.0
(- - Increame)
cross Offici Reseres (mid-July)    231-l       16.0       132.2 il              x3 1 inC Sewser 30. 1964 (Wiltios WM)
Outstanding & Disbrsed               -      208.3
godisiazs"                           _      339-4
Outstandi-g. ic.  *naibwed           -      54.7
RATE OF UtaAUG
19791W                  191016                  196118Z                   12163                      19184
uS1.00 - Rs 12.00            00- Rs 12.00      DS$1.00 -     12.96       IISSI00 - Na 13.86         96100 - RS 1533
Rs 1_00 - uss$ 0.03          1.00 - US5 0.083    Rs 1-.0  - 05 0.077     Rs 1.00 - US5 0.02         as 1.00 - Ws5 0.06
Roa Recent rue Si
Noveber 10. I94
SS1.00 - Rs 17.4
la 1.00 - IS$ 0.057
4t Itimate
]if  Custm besis.
siPayomets basis.
Rati of Debt Service to 1up1ts of Goods ad Servics.
fSince Jan.1 *9. rho Nee haIs#  Uek amuoces the eachangert daily.
boamd an a trade-weighted basket, with the US d.llaw an the iLtervention
cerrency. 7he raft she. hem is the mid-rate cm the date indcate-.
1  Kid April 1164.
not applichble
_ot vailable
Sooth Asai Progrm Depertment
November 13. 1964



-26-                             AftI4    11
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NEPAL
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (as of September 30. 1984) 3j
US$ million
(net of cancellations)
No.   Year      Borrower        Purpose                          IM   Uudisbursed
Ten credits fully disbursed                                      82.3
470    1974 Kingdom of Nepal Water Supply and Sewerage          11.8       1.1
704    1977  Kingdom of Nepal  Second Water Supply & Sewerage   8.0        2.3
705    1977  Kingdom of Nepal  Industrial Dev. Corporation       4.0       0.7
730    1977  Kingdom of Nepal Second Highway                    17.0       1.7
772    1978  Kingdom of Nepal  Technical Education               5.7       2.2
799    1978  Kingdom of Nepal Telecommunications III            14.5       4.3
812    1978  Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation (Sunsari-Norang)      30.0      15.4
856    1978  Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigatio- (Narayani Zone)       14.0       5.6
939    1979  Kingdom of Nepal  Second Rural Development         11.0       8.8
1008    1980  Kingdom of Nepal  Community Forestry               17.0      14.3
1055    1980  Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation (Nahakali)            16.0      14.2
1059    1980  Kingdom of Nepal  Third Water Supply & Sewerage   27.0       15.2
1062c/  1980  Kingdom of Nepal  Grain Storage                     6.2       4.3
1093c1  1981  Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation (Babai)                3.5       0.3
ilOOdc  1981  Kingdom of Nepal  Agricultural Extension & Res.   17.5        7.2
1101    1981  Kingdom of Nepal  Hill Food Production            8.0       5.1
1191c/  1982  Kingdom of Nepal  Cottage & Small Industries        6.5       3.6
1198/c  1982  Kingdom of Nepal  Second Education                 14.3      11.5
1260c/  1982  Kingdom of Nepal  Petroleum Exploration Promotion  9.2        4.7
1316c4  1983  Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation VII-Whairava-Lumbini 16.0       12.4
1339c/  1983  Kingdom of Nepal  Cash Crop Development Project    6.0-       4.9
1379c/  1983  Kingdom of Nepal  Second Technical Assistance
Project                        6.0        5.5
14004c  1983  Kingdom of Nepal  Second Forestry Project          18.0      16.7
1452c/  1984  Kingdom of Nepal  Karnali Preparation Project
(Phase I)                     11.0      10.2
1463_cd/1984  Kingdom of Nepal  Primary Education                12.7      12.7
1984  Kingdom of Nepal  Marsyangdi Hydroelectric
Power Project c/e/           107.0      107.0
1984  Kingdom of Nepal  Third Highways c/e/              47.5      47.5
Total,                          547.7      339.4
of which has been repaid        0.5
Total now outstanding k/        547.2
Total now held by IDA           547.2
a/ No Bank loans have been made to Nepal.
b/ Prior to exchange adustments.
4  IDA 6th Replenishment Credits, principal amounts shown in U.S. dollar
equivalent at date of negotiations, as shown in President Reports, and
Disbursed amounts shown in US dollar equivalent at the rate of exchange
for the SDR on September 30, 1984.
A/ Not yet effective.
el Not yet signed.



-27-
ANNEX   II
Page 2 of 2
B.  STAUTET OF IFC INVESTHEJT (as of Seo::ember 30. 1984)
Amount ($ million)
Year             Oblizor           Tvye of Business         Loan Equity  Total
1975    Soaltee Hotel (Pvt) Ltd.   Hotel                    2.7    0.4     3.1
1982    Nepal Orind Nagnesite      Mine and process         4.8     -      4.8
(Private) Limited         magnesite ore
Total commitments nv held by IFC                    7.5    0.4     7.9
i



-28-
Axnex III
Page I
MEPAL
AGRICULTURAL ANPOWnER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementarv Proiect Data Sheet
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
3 Years.
(b) Agencies preparing the project:
World Bank/FAO Cooperative Program.
Cc) Date of first preparation mission by IDA and date
of first mission to consider the project:
August 1981.
Cd) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
September 6, 1983.
Ce) Date of completion of negotiations:
November 1984.
Cf) Planned date of effectiveness:
April 1985
Section II:     Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III:    Special Conditions
None



| z ,,%.,.1 HUM;A <'> ~~NEPAL
P. 1'/A R C HU L'-j A                          '                                                       AGRICULTURAL MANPOWER
-   'BAJHANG/        +  MU.,,')                                                                       DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BAITADIk            / J    u ,.J                                                                                  ProJect Locations
,   +"[D     OrI  WHAtKCIA    JIUMtLA                 DOLPA                 r 
J   _   t   pCH"^g  <   .  ,,rr               t      ,                                          t  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Instituteof Ariculture andAnimalSciences
,ANCHANPUR)                 @ \AtEH/fAK\       \2 0MSAG                                                                                  JTA TraJining Centers (Junior Techniciasn Asiistant)
<xl, AIltl                                                          .     RUKM  '- MANANGr 
n    /    t s  SURKHEI                           t             .8               . /
p    <   >   2  DOL^|CIl_ t T! _w ;7 MYA/D
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -                                        KASKI bondrl  A" jPD7 L   .sU Nv<*./OuHuBt{  #
BARDIYA   Y' \.       8 4 GI ulv, '-- - - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PASA *4QQQ)       85NDUt">8<HIA               / W IR 
Mles~ ~ ~    ~~    ~~~~~~    -- R!L0 %0                            i oivD ngAD-<4*    l                            X            v      J H B A  
rh.  ,.s ,  Powrs *8 *, *,X, bs * .,, ,.issso 2, ,~~~~~~~~.                   ...   V
r~.,+t,..,  .....  s^"2w~,>Mr~^w"g^.^,,..,f,Mhr *>/ >:_;:> gSAPARG /SUNARIA            'SJIPA Im 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f o~cXw  b hlisbP IrWrA2v- .-:=  LnGr )A's r*S    tANA mUN
r* - firol r rs, wkIRS W V brr^*PlreC DANjr,                                        I`r 0^                                    . INU,  I  ;          ^A _HOK  DOJA_
.-r/|f~~~~~~~~~~~~N                                       PALPA4~v.w^rwv~vel%rhrvrf  J'~                                                ''_    -       1-\/-
Distric boudaie                                                                                                *r4 .?D0IDN'- A,ChlI   , T'AKUAA






