Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14667
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1534-NEP)
JUNE 21, 1995
Population and Human Resources Division
South Asia Country Department II
(Bhutan, India, Nepal)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit = Nepalese rupees (NRs)
At appraisal: US$1.00 = NRs 17.3
At completion: US$1.00 = NRs 49.9
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 16-July 15
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DOA           Department of Agriculture
HMG           His Majesty's Government
IAAS          Institute of Agriculture and Animal Science
IAg           Intermediate Agriculture Certificate
IDA           International Development Association
JT            Junior Technician
JTA           Junior Technical Assistant
MOA           Ministry of Agriculture
MUCIA         Mid-Western Universities Consortium for International
Activities
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
TU            Tribhuvan University
USAID         United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1534-NEP)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ................................................................... ....i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .....................................................                                                    ii
PART 1. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .......................................................1
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives .......................................................I
B. Achievement of Objectives ......................................................2
C. Implementation Experience and Major Factors Affecting the Project .......................................................4
D. Project Sustainability ......................................................                                         5
E. Bank Performance ......................................................6
F. Borrower Performance .......................................................6
G. Assessment of Outcome ......................................................7
H. Key Lessons Learned .....................................................7
PART 11. STATISTICAL ANNEXES .....................................................9
Table 1: Summary of Assessments                                                 ..9
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits                        ..10
Table 3: Project Timetable                         ..10
Table 4:  Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual                    ..11
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation                     ..12
A. Original Objectives .12
B. Modified Objectives .14
C. Civil Works: Original Plan .17
D. Civil Works: Recast Plan .18
E. Technical Assistance .20
F. Graduates by Program .23
Table 6A: Summary of Costs by Project Component ..............................................                          24
Table 6B: Project Financing .............................................. .                                            25
Table 7:   Status of Legal Covenants ..............................................                                     26
Table 8:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements                     ............................................ 28
Table 9:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ............................................... 28
Table 10:  Bank Resources: Missions .............................................. .                                    29
APPENDICES
A. Mission's Aide Memoire (October 1994) .............................................. 30
B. Borrower's Evaluation .................                                                                          35
C. Map ..................43
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






-i-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1534-NEP)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agricultural Manpower Development
Project in Nepal, for which IDA Credit 1534-NEP, in the amount of SDR 8.5 million (US$8.4 rnillion
equivalent), was approved on December 13, 1984, and made effective on June 5, 1985.
The Credit closed on December 31, 1994, compared with the original closing date of June 30,
1991. Final disbursement took place on May 17, 1995, and an undisbursed balance of about SDR 1.0
million will be canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Hon-Chan Chai (consultant) and Ms. Soon Hee Kim of the
Population and Human Resources Division, Country Department II, South Asia Region, and was reviewed
by Richard Skolnik, Chief, SA2PH, and Kazuko Uchimura, Project Advisor, SA2DR. Ms. K. Johnston
and Messrs. C. Maguire and Y.K. Choi made valuable contributions to the preparation and review of the
report.
The report is based on Bank documents and materials in the project files, including the project
authorities' periodic reports, as well as findings of Bank supervision missions to Nepal. Comments from
the Borrower and USAID (cofinancier) on the ICR have been incorporated in the report. The Borrower's
own evaluation of the project is included as Appendix B to the ICR.






-_j-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1534-NEP)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
i.     Nepal was showing signs in the late 1970s and early 1980s that agricultural productivity was
falling, while over 90 percent of the growing population of 15 million (1981 estimated) depended on
agriculture for their livelihood. The cause was attributed to a combination of complex extemal factors,
over which Nepal had little control, and internal factors which were believed to be amenable to some
control. Among the latter was the inadequate coordination between planning agricultural programs and
ensuring that there were adequate human resources to implement them.
Project Objectives
ii.    The project was designed to address the issue of the supply of appropriately trained people with the
long-term aim of helping the country improve agricultural productivity. The specific objectives were to
improve the quality and relevance of middle-level agricultural training and strengthen degree-level training
at the Institute of Agriculture and Animal Sciences (IAAS) of Tribhuvan University (TU). These
objectives were in line with the aims of Nepal's Sixth Plan of quickening economic growth, generating
employment, and raising living standards. Project activities focused on improving the IAAS's academic
and communal facilities, and implementing new training programs for Junior Technical Assistants (JTAs)
and the B.S. degree in veterinary science and animal husbandry, and academic (higher-degree) staff
training. These objectives were clear to His Majesty's Government (HMG) and to the implementing
agency, the IAAS, and were in harmony with IDA's development strategy for the agricultural and human
resource sectors in Nepal. However, as noted below (iv.), these objectives had to be reformulated within
three years of implementation.
Implementation Experience and Results
iii.   Implementation proceeded well during the first two to three years, but soon thereafter slowed to a
standstill, brought about by a convergence of internal problems and external events. The main internal
problem stemmed from the lack of employment opportunities for IAAS's graduates, especially the JTAs, in
part because they were considered less well-trained than others in comparable fields of training, but also
because the general demand for them was much less than anticipated. The manifestation of this problem
coincided with political turmoil which spilled over to the university campuses, resulting in student unrest that
practically brought the university to a halt and highlighted serious institutional problems, including
management weakness at the IAAS. The problems faced by the project were exacerbated by the price
inflation of imported goods and shortages of building materials resulting from the Indo-Nepalese trade and
transit dispute.



-_jj-
iv.    The impact of these events made it clear that the project had to be terminated or revamped.
Following a midterm review in 1992, the project was recast, with the objectives reformulated to strengthen
institutional management and to improve the quality of undergraduate training, partly by shifting from the
three-year to four-year B.S. program. The return of political stability and a concerned University Vice
Chancellor, coupled with an active and effective IAAS management team and project board, facilitated the
successful completion of the reformulated project.
v.     The project has succeeded in achieving most of the original and the revised quantitative targets for
new and rehabilitated facilities, equipment, furniture, and vehicles. The revamped project capitalized on the
original investments by strategically filling in the gaps with selected additional civil works and equipment.
At the formal closing date (December 31, 1994), the project's revised objectives were substantially achieved.
Key institutional development indicators include the production of a draft academic master plan, a master
land use plan, and a campus maintenance plan, various measures to regulate staff discipline and student
affairs, the institution of a new four-year degree program, and a significant increase in faculty with higher
degrees.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
Vi.    Overall, the project performance should be rated satisfactory when judged against its revised
objectives. The timely and courageous decision to revamp the project, following political upheaval in
Nepal, succeeded in turning around a seriously failing investment and giving it a fair chance of long-term
institutional development and sustainability. The new and rehabilitated buildings, equipment, furniture and
other new and refurbished facilities provide the necessary infrastructure for the further development of the
IAAS. The most important asset, however, is the large body of highly trained staff, whose initiative and
creativity, in concert with an effective management, will largely determine the long-term sustainability of
the IAAS by leading the institution in teaching, research, and service that will forge stronger links with
government and private sector agencies. The longer-term value and sustainability of the IAAS cannot be
judged easily at this time but will depend on how the IAAS will use its strengthened institutional base to
continue to improve the quality of agricultural education, training, research, and extension in Nepal.
vii.    The project experience suggests six main lessons:
* First, as manpower projections are a tenuous basis for justifying investments in higher education
without a supportive macroeconomic environment, a modular approach that allows for
adjustments in response to changing circumstances would minimize risk.
*  Second, a project that does not address the institutional problems of the main project institution
responsible for meeting project objectives runs a high risk of failure.
* Third, sustainable institutional development entails the responsibility on the part of the
institution to prove its relevance and effectiveness by improving and broadening its teaching,
research, and service functions and to ensure that its graduates are relevant to local needs.
* Fourth, Bank-Borrower goodwill and patience, Borrower determination, effective leadership,
and good staff teamwork can turn failure to relative success.
*  Fifth, careful monitoring will help alert project management to potential or actual problems in
time to allow for remedial action.



-iv-
*  Sixth  to achieve more sustainable project designs, it is essential to mandate a systematic
approach to project monitoring and evaluation, which requires that all key sustainability
indicators be clearly identified and monitored throughout implementation.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1534-NEP)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENTJEVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.    The project was designed with a two-pronged program to assist the Institute of Agriculture and
Animal Sciences (IAAS) to: (a) improve the quality and relevance of (non-degree) middle-level agricultural
(crop and livestock) pre-service training; and (b) strengthen higher-level (B.S. degree) agricultural pre-
service training. The project objectives were in line with the government long-term goal of achieving self-
sufficiency in food production for local needs, maintaining agricultural exports and supplying raw
materials for industry. The project assumed that a key factor in improving agricultural output and
productivity was to raise the quality of extension and other support services provided by trained personnel
in the Ministry of Agriculture.
2.     To achieve the first objective, the project was to: (a) introduce reforms in the structure and system
of training; (b) improve the management and supervision of training; (c) develop appropriate curricula and
instructional materials, including reference materials and teaching equipment, and the development of
practical-training farms; (d) provide teacher training; (e) establish a student selection and admission
system; and (f) rehabilitate physical facilities at the Paklihawa and Lamjung training centers.
3.    The second objective was to be achieved by: (a) establishing a bachelor of science (animal science)
three-year degree program, for which an appropriate curriculum would be developed; (b) staff training; (c)
developing the IAAS farm into an effective practical training and research facility; and (d) upgrading and
expanding the existing teaching, research and extension programs, and physical facilities at the Rampur
campus.
4.    The project was based on the assumption that the country needed an increased supply of Junior
Technical Assistants (JTAs) and degree-level personnel to meet Nepal's long-term development of the
agricultural sector, which was showing signs of declining productivity although over 90 percent of the
people still depended on agriculture for their livelihood. Nepal's decline from a rice exporter in the 1 960s
to a net rice importer by the 1970s exemplified the country's productivity decline. While several
exogenous factors, such as bad weather conditions and sharply rising fertilizer and transportation costs
resulting from escalating fuel prices were blamed, the basic weakness of the economy was attributed to the
lack of coordination between planned agricultural development programs and the supply of appropriately
trained people to implement them. Specifically, the prevailing agricultural extension and research services
were assessed as inadequate, largely because of the lack of sufficient and adequately trained people. The
project was therefore an attempt to respond to the need for more effective development and utilization of
agricultural manpower. Its objectives were consistent with the broader aims of the (FY81-FY85) Sixth
Plan's program for accelerating economic growth, generating employment, and raising living standards.
However, although the project implicitly aimed to strengthen LAAS's institutional capability in meeting
Nepal's agricultural developmental needs, insufficient emphasis was placed on this aspect during the first



-2-
few years of implementation. At the same time, the preoccupation with manpower production was not
accompanied by a commensurate concern about its utilization. Events in the late 1980s revealed that the
fundamental issue of manpower production and utilization had been overlooked or misunderstood at
appraisal. The lack of any effective demand for the graduates of the LAAS and its weak institutional
management would ultimately seriously undermine the project.
5.     The project was scarcely into the third year of implementation when it became clear that the
economy, specifically the public sector, facing serious budget constraints, could employ no more than a
small fraction of the graduates, especially the Junior Technical Assistants. As a result, the JTA program
was suspended in 1989 and terminated in 1992. Thus, the unemployability of IAAS graduates rendered the
manpower objective irrelevant and seriously weakened the basic rationale of the project. This development
coincided with the outbreak of political instability in the country and the turmoil spilled over onto the
university campuses. The resulting student unrest practically brought the university, including the LAAS, to
a standstill. The campus turmoil highlighted serious internal problems-weak management at the IAAS,
strained relations between the IAAS and its parent, Tribhuvan University, lax student and staff discipline,
and low faculty morale.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
6.    In this situation, it was clear that completing the project as planned was of questionable value. A
review of the project by IDA and the Borrower at this critical juncture suggested either terminating or
reorienting the project. A tentative decision was taken to give the project a second chance, pending the
findings of an External Review Panel appointed in 1992 following an earlier request of IAAS to review its
program. On the basis of the External Review Panel's recommendations for changes in the organization and
management of the IAAS, it was agreed to recast the project: (i) to strengthen the management and promote
the institutional development of the IAAS, and (ii) to improve conditions for undergraduate training. These
overlapping objectives were to be achieved through various measures to improve the management of the
IAAS, promote stronger linkages with outside research and extension agencies, and establish an upgraded
four-year B.S. (Agric.) degree program and M.S. programs in selected specializations, and research geared
towards improving the quality of the IAAS's academic and service functions. With the new mandate, the
IAAS, with the support of the concerned government agencies and IDA, made a concerted effort to turn the
Project back from the brink of failure and succeeded in achieving a substantial measure of the revised
objectives.
7.     The project turnaround was brought about by a determination on the part of faculty and IAAS
management to succeed. It was facilitated by several fortuitous events which are described under para. 15
(Internal and External Factors). The project has substantially met the quantitative targets of the revised
objectives, as well as those of the original objectives (Table 5: A and B). Key indicators of this achievement
include the production of a draft academic master plan, an academic staff reference rule book, a master land
use plan, and a campus maintenance plan; the appointment of a Chief of Student Affairs; and the institution
of a new five and half-year bachelor of veterinary science and animal husbandry (B.V.S. and A.H.) degree
program. The staff development program, financed by USAID, has resulted in a substantial net increase in
the number of faculty with higher (Ph.D. and M.S.) degrees (Table 5: E(a)). The new and refurbished
physical facilities will provide the necessary support for further institutional development.
8.     With the achievement of these quantitative targets, which are merely a means to an end, attention is
now focused on what the IAAS can and will do with a stronger institutional base to provide tangible
evidence for justifying the investments made. The IAAS needs to clarify and delineate its role as a higher



-3-
agricultural educational institution. It must demonstrate how it will maximize its impact on agricultural
development in Nepal, now that it has many more highly qualified faculty, better physical facilities, and
better academically prepared students. It needs to relate its institutional priorities in agricultural education,
training, research, and extension to the needs of Nepal.
9.     Given the limited demand for agricultural university graduates, the IAAS needs to ensure that the
graduate output from the new four-year B.S. program is linked to effective market demand. Assurance is
needed that the new graduates will not face the same unemployment problem encountered by the graduates
of the outdated three-year degree program. For the record, it should be noted that, while in operation under
the original project, the three-year program produced an average of 75 graduates per year during the period
1984/85-1990/91 (Table 5: F), but only a fraction could be employed.  While the country's limited
absorptive capacity is the main cause of the high unemployment rate, the quality of the graduates has also
been a contributing factor. There is a perception that the quality of graduates varies according to the number
of years required to complete each B.S. program. In this situation, employers naturally prefer those with
more and better education and training, especially graduates trained in foreign universities. Graduates from
Nepal's higher educational institutions are generally considered less well-trained than those from neighboring
countries, such as India and Pakistan, because the latter countries' universities require 12 years versus
Nepal's 10 years of formal education prior to entering university.
10.    A small but significant compensation for the failure with regard to the JTA and B.S. (agric.)
programs was the project's success in increasing the enrollment of women in the IAAS. In 1991/92, the
B.S. program's combined enrollment at Rampur, Lamjung and Paklihawa was about 490 students, of whom
43 (9 percent) were women. This suggests that the project had substantially met the objective of having
women make up 10 percent of total enrollment. The project, however, fell short of the target of increasing
the number of students from disadvantaged Hill Areas. Evidently, there was no unemployment problem for
female graduates, as they were reported to be in great demand, but there had been a dearth of female
applicants for the IAAS programs. This was attributed to the unattractive employment conditions requiring
girls to be away from home and low remuneration.
Institutional Objectives
11.    Technical Assistance. Technical assistance, financed by USAID, played an important role in
strengthening IAAS's teaching function. The project provided 20.3 staff-years for specialist services and
about 190 staff-years for fellowships (Table 5: E(a)). (Detailed list of textbooks and manuals produced
are available in the project files). Foreign expert services were successfully used to: (a) conduct an
agricultural teacher training program to provide pedagogical training for the IAAS staff and (b) assist the
educational administration and management of the IAAS's specialized activities. Local expert services
were employed in the development of 47 titles (18 Nepali, 29 English) of agricultural student manuals and
17 titles (11 Nepali, 6 English) in agricultural textbooks (list of textbooks and manuals produced are
available in the project files). While the expert services made a valuable contribution to the project, the
staff development program made the biggest impact.
12.    Staff Development. The project continued a long-standing program of staff development dating
from the 1970s with USAID support. A total of 17 staff gained higher degrees (7 in Ph.D. and 10 in M.S.
programs) in various specializations in agriculture. An additional 17 staff were trained overseas in non-
degree programs in specialized areas. Administrative and operational staff were provided short training
courses, 105 in Nepal and 20 overseas (Table 5:E(a - b)). The impact of staff training, however, has been
somewhat undermined by the "brain-drain" which evidently has weakened IAAS's academic and
institutional development. In 1992, out of a total of 125 faculty members, 35 (28 percent) were not at



-4-
IAAS. Of the 35 absentees, 62 percent were staff with M.S. or Ph.D. degrees. Nevertheless, the staff at
the IAAS represent a large concentration of high-level agricultural experts who constitute a valuable
national resource and whose contributions are expected to shape the direction of higher agricultural
education in Nepal.
Physical Objectives
13.    The project has substantially met the original and the modified objectives for new buildings and
rehabilitated facilities, equipment, vehicles, and furniture (Table 5: C and D). (List of equipment and
vehicles purchased and installed are available in the project files.) The main campus at Rampur and the
branch campuses at Paklihawa and Lamjung have been well provided with administrative and teaching
facilities, including laboratories and seminar rooms, in addition to student hostels and staff housing.
Various farm buildings, new livestock housing, reputed to be the best in Nepal, and equipment, together
with newly acquired livestock, cater adequately to the needs of practical teaching and learning as well as
research. The construction of service roads and irrigation and drainage canals and the implementation of a
new lay-out have converted the IAAS's once-derelict property into a viable agronomy farm.
14.    Most of the laboratories have been provided with the equipment for teaching and basic research. A
total of 32 microcomputers and two file servers were procured under the recast plan and they are expected
to serve adequately the needs of the IAAS. The project also provided the institution with three four-wheel
drive station wagons, a pickup truck, and two minibuses.
C. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
15.   Internal and External Factors. The Project was running well during the first two to three years,
but in the late 1980s, the combination of political conflict between rival parties that spilled over into the
university system, faculty and management tensions, student unrest on the various campuses, and the Indo-
Nepalese trade and transit dispute brought the project to a virtual standstill which persisted for three years.
The project reached its nadir during 1990/91. By the time the decision was taken in 1992 to refocus the
project, with real prospects of achieving its institutional objectives, several fortuitous developments helped
turn the project around. These fortunate events included a major change in the political environment that
helped defuse the potentially explosive group tensions surrounding the campus and the IAAS and allow
stability to return, strong and effective leadership in the office of the Dean of IAAS as well as the office of
the Vice Chancellor of Tribhuvan University, and the appointment of a dynamic Project Manager. These
happenings had a beneficial impact on IAAS staff morale, which was further uplifted by their active
participation in preparing for a constructive and positive assessment of the IAAS by the External Review
Panel. Concerted staff effort saved the project. Consequently, more development activities took place
during the final two years of implementation than in the previous seven. This rededication of the project
qualitatively made up for some lost time. However, the original closing date of June 30, 1991, was
extended by three and half years, with a final extension to December 31, 1994.
16.    Apart from the disruptions caused by political unrest on the campuses, project implementation was
at times affected by a complex government review system, which was exacerbated by the administrative
relationship between the lAAS and its parent, Tribhuvan University. This resulted in the tardy release of
funds for civil works and equipment and for the printing of textbooks and manuals. Lack of operating
funds, despite the existence of a special account, hampered overall project implementation, often curtailing
the supervision of activities in the branch campuses, especially at Lamjung, located in the Hill Region.
Besides Tribhuvan University and the IAAS, the Ministry of Education, Culture and Social Welfare, the



-5-
Ministry of Finance, the National Planning Commission, and the Ministry of Agriculture were also
involved in project implementation through the project implementation board.
17.   The lack of coordination between key agencies and weakness in planning, issues that had been
identified at appraisal, were major factors in the failure of the JTA program. Although the project had a
planned annual output of 550 JTAs, there was apparently no preparation for their placement in government
or private employment, and no monitoring of the employment situation. If proper planning had been
carried out, the scale of the JTA program might have been much reduced considerably at the outset, if it
were undertaken at all.
18.    Similarly, in academic staff development, the lack of a comprehensive re-entry program for the
utilization of faculty members returning from overseas training resulted in much professional, if not
personal, frustration, which included difficulties in undertaking research. All this has contributed to the
university's brain-drain.
19.   Project Costs and Financing. The estimated total actual cost of the project is US$15.50 million,
compared with the appraisal estimate of US$14.26 million. It should be borne in mind that the final project
cost will be slightly higher than reported here because part of the civil works added under the recast project
that have yet to be completed and which are being financed under the Higher Education Project (Credit
2560-NEP). The IDA credit of the SDR equivalent of US$8.4 million was to finance 64 percent of the
appraisal estimate of project costs (details in Table 6A). Actual disbursements totaled US$11.75 million.
The over-disbursement in US dollars is due to the SDR appreciation against the US dollar. SDR
disbursements totaled SDR 7.5 million, compared with the original credit amount of SDR 8.5 million
(Table 4).
20.   The Borrower was to provide the equivalent of US$1.74 million to finance the project. The actual
expenditure was US$1.35 million. The remaining cost of US$4.10 million was to be financed by USAID.
The actual USAID expenditure was US$2.40 million (Table 6B).
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
21.   The project is sustainable so long as: (a) HMG is committed to supporting the national university
system, of which the IAAS is an important part; and (b) LAAS's "products", whether in the form of
graduates, research output, or professional expertise, are utilized and valued by the agricultural sector in
general, and public agencies in particular. It is presumed that the IAAS will continue to receive the
necessary budget from HMG for administration, academic teaching, research, and general maintenance.
The onus, however, is on the IAAS not merely to justify its existence, but also, more importantly, to widen
and deepen its academic and practical contribution to higher agricultural education and training. This can
be achieved in four mutually reinforcing ways, whose basic thrust was identified by the Extemal Review
Panel and which are elaborated below.
(a)    The first is to improve institutional management, which entails rationalization of
departmental organization to achieve scale economies. The sharing of teaching staff, physical
resources, and instructional materials and equipment in complementary teaching programs tends to
produce synergistic effects that benefit both teachers and leamers. The result would be improved
all-around quality.



-6-
(b)    The second is to ensure that the teaching and research programs, which should be closely
linked, are relevant to national needs. This calls for the IAAS to redefine its role in regard to its
student clientele, which currently include degree as well as non-degree candidates, and to allocate
staff and other resources accordingly to ensure that the objectives can reasonably be achieved.
This means ensuring that the programs are qualitatively and quantitatively responsive to the
agricultural community.
(c)    The third is to establish linkages with public and private agricultural agencies to exchange
information and, as appropriate, provide services. One way to foster and strengthen the existing
informal relations with the MOA is to run in-service training for the MOA and other agencies,
utilizing the IAAS's research findings and related information output.  Strong and dynamic
relations with outside bodies are likely to strengthen the IAAS as a teaching and research
institution.
(d)    The fourth is to try to improve efficiency and autonomy in financial matters. This depends
in part on incentives being provided by HMG through Tribhuvan University for the IAAS to be
more efficient, so that the fruits of efficiency are retained by the institution. Ultimately, the long-
term sustainability of the IAAS will depend on its ability to rely less on governnent funding and
more on its capacity to raise its own resources.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
22.    With the benefit of hindsight it may be questioned whether, given the on-going USAID support for
the IAAS, it was an opportune time in 1983/84 for IDA to complement and eventually replace USAID
efforts in Nepal's agricultural education and training programs. It may also be further questioned whether,
having decided to invest in this field, IDA should have supported the project as designed. That the
manpower rationale, at least for the JTA program, proved to be ill-founded less than three years after
implementation suggests that there was inadequate appraisal of the mismatch between the demand for and
supply of middle-level manpower.
23.    Having helped to launch the project, IDA provided strong support to the Borrower throughout
implementation. Over a nine year period (October 1985-October 1994), IDA mounted 18 formal
supervision missions, averaging about seven days per mission. There was an average six-month interval
between missions, in addition to informal supervision visits in the course of other IDA work in Nepal. The
mix of IDA staff skills was satisfactory. The project benefited from the professional expertise of the
agricultural specialist and the agricultural education specialist, especially during the period of November
1988-December 1991, when the Project needed strong guidance. The above IDA staff, the facilities
planner specialist, and the education specialist provided strong and constructive support for the PIU.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
24.    Except for delays in the provision of local funds, Borrower performance was satisfactory over
much of the project life.  Staff turnover at the PIU was moderate and did not appear to affect
implementation adversely. Although there were two successive Project Coordinators, implementation
continuity was maintained by the core staff responsible for the project. Implementation was most difficult
during the period of political turmoil on the campuses. Faced with a challenge, the Borrower was able,
with a determined effort, to turn around a failing project and to achieve a substantial measure of success in



-7-
reaching the revised objectives. The fact that more work was accomplished in the final two years of
implementation than in the preceding seven testifies to the Borrower's capacity for getting things done when
the right conditions prevail. There were periodic delays in the timely submission of audit reports; these
were due to bureaucratic procedures rather than lack of expertise. All project covenants, as amended in
line with the recasted project, have been substantially fulfilled.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
25.    Despite a flawed manpower rationale and staff and student unrest in the university campuses that
practically derailed the project, the outcome can be said to be satisfactory. The project was able to cut its
losses and build on its achievements in staff development, thus laying the foundation for forward movement
in strengthening the institutional capacity of the IAAS to plan and manage agricultural education and
training. This basically central objective, implicit in the original project design, was obscured by the
preoccupation with the JTA and the outdated three-year B.S. programs. The result of excising the JTA
program was to clear the way for the proper focus on the institutional development of the IAAS, the central
purpose of the project's investment in staff and infrastructural development. After a false start, the Project
was able to reset the overriding institutional objective, which it has substantially achieved. However, it
remains to be seen how the IAAS will use its strengthened institutional framework and its highly qualified
staff to continue, on a sustainable basis, to improve the quality of agricultural education, training, research
and extension in Nepal.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
26.    The experience of this project suggests six main lessons:
(a)    It is evident that the main reason why the original project collapsed was the failure of
appraisal to ascertain correctly the effective, as distinct from the presumed, demand for graduates.
Bank experience has shown that manpower projections are a tenuous basis for justifying investments
in higher education, particularly when a supportive macroeconomic environment is absent (World
Bank Assistance to A2ricultural Higher Education. OED Report No. 10751). Thus, projects aimed
at producing specified quantities of manpower should require extra care in examining demand-
supply assumptions and ensuring no duplication of effort. A modular approach, with provision for
incremental or decremental change in response to changing circumstances, minimizes the risk of
waste and optimizes the opportunity for resource-use efficiency.
(b)    It is also clear that a major reason why the original project failed was that project appraisal
did not adequately examine the institutional problems of the IAAS as well as those of the Tribhuvan
University system of which the IAAS is a constituent. The lesson is that a project that does not
adequately take into account institutional problems of the main project institution will undermine the
achievement of its objectives and jeopardize project sustainability.
(c)    Strengthening a key institution such as the IAAS would serve no real purpose if it did not
take the initiative to prove its relevance and effectiveness by improving and broadening its teaching,
research and service functions. Similarly, improving the quality of a degree program would be
futile if its graduates were irrelevant to local needs.



-8-
(d)    A failing project can be turned around if there is the right combination of Bank-Borrower
goodwill and patience, Borrower determination, effective management leadership, and dedicated
teamwork.
(e)    Implementation calls for a close and consistent monitoring of internal and external events
to anticipate and, to the extent possible, take appropriate actions to avert potential and actual
developments that could have a negative if not disastrous impact on the project.
(f)    The central importance of ensuring sustainability calls for a systematic approach to project
monitoring and evaluation, which requires that all key sustainability indicators should be clearly
identified and monitored throughout implementation so that they provide (i) early signals of
whether project progress is on-track or off-track and (ii) cumulative data for the assessment of the
prospects for sustainability at implementation completion.



-9-
PART H. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.  Achievement of objectives      Substantial        Partial       Negligible    Not applicable
Macroeconomic policies             0               0               0 °
Sector policies                    0               0               0 O
Financial objectives               0               0               °               U
Institutional development          0               *               0               0
Physical objectives                *                               0
Poverty reduction                  0               0               0               U
Gender issues                      *0                                              0
Other social issues                0               0               0
Environmental objectives           0               0               0
Public sector management           0               0               0
Private sector management          0               0               0
Other (specify)                    O0 O
B. Project sustinabilit               Likely            Unlikely            Uncertain
U                  0                   0
C. Bank performanee                                     Satifisictorv       Deficient
Identification                       0                   *                 0
Preparation asistance                0                   *                 0
Appisal                              0                  0 
Supavision                           0                  *                  0
D. Borrowr  rfom ance              HiXlv satisfitoy      Satisfactor        Deficient
Imphacltc                             0                   *                0
Covat cpliance                                               
opati                                 0 
E  Assessmcnt of outcome         satslfactonr   Safisfactoiy   Unsatisfictory   unsatisfactry
0             *              0                0



-10-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
j                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Year of
Loans/Credit Title                Purpose              approval   Status
Preceding operations
1. Agricultural Extension and  Strengthen agricultural extension  1981    Closed
Research I (Cr. 1100)   service and develop adaptive
research in eight administrative
districts of the Nepal Terai aimed
to help achieve early and sustained
improvement in agricultural
production, particularly of
foodgrains.
3. Agricultural Extension and  The second phase of Cr. 1100   1985    Closed
Research II (Cr. 1570)   above, expanding to 11
administrative districts of the
Terai.
Following operations
None.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle          Date Planned               Date Actual
Identification                  Not Available                  8/81
Preparation                     Not Available                  4/83
Appraisal                            8/83                      8/83
Negotiations                        11/84                      11/84
Board presentation                  12/84                      12/84
Signing                              3/84                      3/84
Effectiveness                        6/85                      6/85
Midterm review                       5/92                       5/92
Project completion                  12/94                      12/94
Credit closing                      12/94                      12/94



-1 1-
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(Thousands of US Dollars)
FY86          FY87          FY88           FY89          FY90          FY91           FY92          FY93           FY94    FY95'
Appraisal estimate                     350         1,480         3,430          5,570         7,280         8,420
Actual                                  40           440           790          1,970         4,870         4,910          5,560         6,160          7,400        11,750
Actual as percentage of                 11            30             23            35             67            58            66             73            88           140
estimate
As of May 17, 1995.
Note: Due to the SDR appreciation against the US dollar, the credit is over-disbursed in US dollar terms but is under-disbursed in SDR terms (actual SDR disbursements stand at about SDR 7.4 million, compared
with the original credit amount of SDR 8.5 million).



-12-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
A. ORIGINAL OBJECTIVE 1: I MPROVEMENT OF THE QUALITY AND RELEVANCE OF MIDDLE-LEVEL
AGRICULTURAL TRAINING
KEY IMPLEMENTATION
INDICATORS                               PLANNED                                ACTUAL
I. Introduction of reforms in  New promotion posts after three years   Annual output achieved.
the structure and system of   satisfactory JTA service and
agricultural manpower      completion of specific in-service
training and in management   extension courses.
and supervision.           Annual output: 550 JTAs.
2. Development and           The new curriculum would have a     New curriculum developed with a balance of
implementation of an       proper balance of theory and practical  theory and practical studies. Manuals and
appropriate curriculum.    work geared to extension services.  textbooks were written accordingly.
3. Preparation of reference  Manuals in 15 subject areas to be used   17 textbooks and 47 manuals in various
materials for staff.       as textbooks and reference materials for subject areas were printed with sufficient
3,600 ITA students and 3,500       number of copies for each publication. (List
practicing JTAs and JTs during project  of details is available in the project files).
period.
4. Provision of reference    Appropriate and relevant materials  Textbooks and reference books were made
materials for staff.       would be available to students and  available.
l                             staff.
5. Development of training   Students would have relevant practical  All three campuses have agronomy,
farms.                    training.                           horticulture and livestock farns for practical
training.
6. Development and           Agricultural teachers would be better   In-country training in pedagogy, organized
implementation of an       qualified and equipped in subject areas  four times, was provided to all L4AS faculty
appropriate teacher training   and teaching methods.          members.
program.
7. Establishment of an adequate  Only students with aptitude and interest The appropriate selection and admission
student selection and      in agriculture would be selected for the  criteria were established.
admission system.          new JTA program.



-13-
TABLES: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION (CONTINUED)
A. ORIGINAL OBJECTIVE II: STRENGTHENING DEGREE-LEVEL TRAINING AT IAAS
KEY IMPLEMENTATION
INDICATORS                                PLANNED                                 ACTUAL
I . Establishment of an       Develop new curriculum in Veterinary   New curriculum was introduced as planned.
adequate B.S. degree       Science and Animal Husbandry.       Projected output of students was substantially
program in Animal          Annual output of 50 B.S. graduates on   achieved.
Husbandry.                 an annual intake of 75 students.
2. Construction of the required  Three new classrooms, some animal  Substantially achieved.
training facilities.       sheds, housing for 180 students (80
females) and 11 teaching staff.
3. Provision of equipment and    Laboratory equipment and materials.    Substantially achieved.
fumiture.
4. Technical assistance       For curriculum development, 48 staff-   Substantially achieved.
l    services.                 months of expert services.
5. Fellowships for IAAS staff   Training in various subject areas, 108    Substantially achieved.
staff/months of fellowships.
6. Implementation of an       About 42 staff-years of local       Substantially achieved.
appropriate in-service    fellowships for MOA and IAAS staff in
training program for MOA   various subject areas.
and IAAS staff.
7. Upgrading and expansion of  Development of about 300 hectares,  Substantially achieved.
the existing IAAS farm at    establish a drainage system, repair of
Rampur for practical       farm fencing, drainage system,
training and research     irrigation channels, land leveling and
programs.                  grading.
8. Upgrading and expansion of  Rehabilitate of existing water and  Substantially achieved.
the existing IAAS extension,  lighting system for staff and students,
academic and research      provide 23 new staff houses and an
programs.                  auditorium.
9. Upgrading the existing IAAS  Establish radio communication linking   Substantially achieved.
academic training facilities   TU, IAAS, Lamjung and Paklihawa
at Rampur.                 campuses.
10. Upgrading the existing    Renovate sports facilities for students   Substantially achieved.
IAAS field sports facilities   and staff.
at Rampur.
11. Encouraging enrollment of   Provide 40 three-year scholarslips.  Increase in female enrollment was
women and remote area     Increase enrollment of women and    substantially achieved but there was a shortfall
disadvantaged students.   students from remote areas.         in enrollment of students from remote areas.



-14-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation (continued)
B. MODIFIED OBJECTIVE 1: STRENGTHEN MANAGEMENT AND PROMOTE INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
KEY IMPLEMENTATION
INDICATORS                                PLANNED                                ACTUAL
I .    Establishment of an   Publish a report presenting findings and    The report was published in August 1992.
External Review Panel  recommendations to strengthen IAAS
(ERP) to assess IAAS's management and promote institutional
effectiveness.        development.
2.    Initiating action to   Adopt and implement the relevant agreed
improve IAAS          recommendations by the Planning Unit
management including:   setting priorities and developing action
plans.
(a)  Production of a                                             A draft Reference Rule Book has been
Reference Rule Book                                         prepared.
for IAAS staff.
(b)  Appointment of a                                            Has not been appointed yet.
Director for Extension.
(c)  Appointment of Chief   Improve student-faculty relations;   Chief of Student Affairs was appointed.
of Student Affairs    establish and operate under studies of
graduates.
l(d)  Introduction of       Improve budgeting approval and       There is not much progress in improved
improved financial    allocation process, establish and operate  financial management practices.
management practices.   a "revolving fund" with farm income,
providing some financial autonomy to
IAAS to improve research and extension.
l 3.  Preparation of an      Abolish the 1.S. courses; institute a 4-year I.S. program has been abolished; 4-year B.S.
Academic Master Plan.  B.S. (Agric.) degree program; M.S.  (Agric.) program has been instituted; M.S.
programs in selected fields, consolidate    program will be started soon. Number of
various academic departments into larger  academic departments have not been
administrative units, develop new    changed yet. New courses in farming
programs in farm management, farming   system, agro-forestry, sustainable
systems, and indigenous knowledge    agriculture, irrigation management,
systems.                             environment agri-ecology, computers have
been added in 4-year B.S. (Ag) program.
4.     Promotion of stronger   Develop linkages with research and  Efforts are being made to establish linkages
linkages between IAAS  extension and Nepali and international    with national and international agencies
and its clients.      agencies, possibly establish Executive  involved in agricultural research and
Committee for IAAS, a Consortium of    extension. MOU will be signed with NARC
Research Organizations in Central Terai  in near future. No progress in the formation
and a Field External Laboratory at   of Executive Committee for IAAS,
Rampur, strengthen linkage between   Consortium of Research Organization or
IAAS and CGIAR centres, regional     Field External Laboratory.
research/extension centres and foreign
academic institutions.



-15-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation (continued)
B. MODIFIED OBJECTIVE 11: IMPROVE CONDITIONS FOR UNDERGRADUATE TRAINING
KEY IMPLEMENTATION INDICATORS ESTIMATED                                   ACTUAL
I.    Completion of activities supported under the original
project, including:
(a)    development of a Land Use Master Plan.         Preparation of Land Use Master Plan has been completed.
(b)    completion of civil works and farm development.  Substantially achieved. (see Table 5: D for details).
(c)    printing of textbooks, manuals (Provision of a  7 textbooks and 19 manuals removed from TU press and
photocopy machine at Rampur campus for small-scale  printed by private press. Total number of publications
production of manuals and teaching materials.).  include 22 text books and 54 manuals. (List of details
available in the project files.) Two photocopy machines
have been purchased and are kept in the library.
2.    Preparation of a campus maintenance management    Campus maintenance management plan has been prepared
plan.                                           and implemented.
3.    Construction of administrative building         Substantially completed.
4.    Construction of faculty office-cum-communications    Substantially completed.
center
5.    Construction of veterinary clinic, bunker, godown,  Substantially completed.
farmhouse, and storage shed.
6.    Construction of boundary wall, drainage system,  Substantially completed.
water and lighting facilities, service road, walkways,
and land development works.
7.    Construction of water tank and reticulation system.    Substantially completed.
8.    Farm Development Work:                          Service roads, irrigation channel, and drainage system
constructed and land leveled and graded on 50 hectares
(a)    Construction of irrigation channels, service roads,  agronomy farm. Two deep tube wells also established.
syphon, grading, and leveling on agronomy farm        Dug wells and established pipeline in horticulture farm.
Fencing constructed but no farmhouse.
(b)    Construction of fencing, farm house, dug wells and
pipeline in horticulture farm.



-16-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation (continued)
B. MODIFIED OBJECTIVE II: IMPROVE CONDITIONS FOR UNDERGRADUATE TRAINING
| KEY IMPLEMENTATION INDICATORS
ACTUAL
9.    Execution of repair, maintenance and rehabilitation  More than 90 percent of the old buildings have been
work of existing buildings.                    repaired and maintained.
10.   Construction of outdoor sports facilities.       Substantially completed.
11.   Procurement and installation of laboratories,    Procurement of 95 percent of Furmiture have been
educational, farm, dairy equipment and processing units  completed. (Detailed list of furniture and equipment
and maintenance equipment.                      procured and installed is available in the project files).
12.   Procurement of vehicles.                         Six vehicles have been purchased.
13.   Establishment of telephone communication system.  One telephone line has been added without using project
fund.
14.   PIU technical support.                           Satisfactory.
15.   Operation and maintenance work.                  Satisfactory.
16.   Construction of staff quarters.                  80 percent work for the construction of 18 senior and 12
l___________________________________________________ junior quarters have been completed.
17.   Execution of demolition of unserviceable buildings and   Has not been executed.
sheds.
| 18.   Construction of misc. and ancillary works.     Substantially completed.



-17-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
C. Civil Works: Original Plan
Buildines Constructed under the Original Plan
A. Rampur Campus
Area (Square meters)
1.     Office, laboratory, and classroom complex                       771
2.     Guest house (south farm)                                        437
3.     Senior staff duplex quarter (south farm)                        1013
4.     Multipurpose hall                                               595
5.     Main gate including accommodations for guards                    50
6.     Four professor quarters                                         634
7.     Six junior staff quarter (south farm)                           870
8.     Boys' hostel for 64 students                                    977
9.     Girls' hostel for 64 girls                                      977
10.    Livestock farrn workshop (north farm)                            74
11.    Staff duplex quarter (north farm)                               507
12.   Junior staff quarter (north farm)                                507
13.    Goat shed                                                       290
14.    Veterinary laboratory                                           126
15.    Nutrition laboratory                                            149
16.    Fish hatchery                                                   149
17.    Pig shed for 40 animals                                         360
18.    Gravel road in north farm (1 km)
19.    Deep tubewell one at north and two at south farm
20.   Irrigation facility for new orchard
21.    Labor quarter for eight families
22.    Calf rearing shed                                               168
23.    Compound wall                                                    86
B. Lamjung Campus (new construction)
1.     Classrooms                                                      770
2.     Hostel for (64 boys + 40 girls)                                2780
3.     Nine duplex staff quarter                                      2052
4.     Farm building                                                   552
5.     Guest house                                                     110
6.     Rehabilitation of existing facilities
C. Paklihawa Campus
1.     Sheep and goat shed                                              278
2.     Calf shed                                                        127
3.     Pig shed                                                          78
4.     Rehab. of water supply, drainage, electrification and educational buildings -
a) Classroom                                                    1523
b) Staff housing                                                1872
c) Hostel facility                                              4247



-18-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
D. Civil Works: Recast Plan
Buildings Constructed under the Recast Plan
Package A
Area (square meters)
1.    Administrative building                                        2096
2.    Faculty office and communication centre                        1272
3.    Outdoor sport facility                                   No data available.
a. gymnasium
b. basketball court
c. football ground
Package B
1.    Swine RM unit                                                 225
2.     SB furrowing pen                                              341
3.     Swine sick animal pen                                          55
4.     Swine manure pit                                               90
5.    Milking cow pen                                                388
6.    Cattle buffalo bull pen                                        136
7.    Cattle buffalo isolation pen                                    91
8.    Cattle buffalo maternity pen                                   132
9.    Cattle calf shed                                               107
10.   Milking buffalo shed                                           168
11.   Buffalo heifer shed                                            168
12.   Buffalo calf shed                                              108
13.   Milking parlour                                                184
14.   Chauffeur shed                                                  52
15.   Cattle buffalo manure pit
16.   Bunker silo                                                    198
17.   Bull exercise ring ( eight meter diameter)                      50
18.   Sick animal pen                                                 19
19.   Sheep/ewe pen                                                  184
20.   Hay store                                                       52
21.   Goat/ram kid shed                                              118
22.    Sheep handling yard                                           240
23.    Sheep/goat manure pit                                          30
24.   Broiler house                                                   87
25.   Brooding unit                                                  163
26.   Hatchery                                                       135



-19-
Buildinus Constructed under the Recast Plan (continued)
Package B
Area (square meters)
27.   Layer house                                                      140
28.    Parent stock house                                             226
29.    Mini dairy                                                     312
30.    Farm management office                                          138
31.    Feed mill godown                                               267
32.    Veterinary clinic                                              483
33.    Overhead water tower
34.    Others
a. gravel road                                                 7.0 km
b. extemal electrical including street light                   6.8 km
c. external water supply                                       3.5 km
d. external drainage works                                     3.1 km
e. mating yard for C/B
f. compound wall with gate                                     2.5 km
Package C
1.    Tissue culture lab                                               768
2.     18 senior staff quarters (155 sq. meters/quarter)              2790
3.     12 junior staff quarters (23 sq. meters/quarter)                276
Other Works
I .    Repair and maintenance of almost all the old buildings.
2.     Land use master plan.
3.     Farm layout and development of irrigation facilities in
45 hectare of agronomy farm.
4.     Meditation centre with outdoor open space.



-20-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation (continued)
E. Technical Assistance
(a) FellowshiDs: Staff Develooment: Higher-Degree Programs
Field of study           Host country              Number of staff in degree programs in:
Ph.D.                        M.S.
Estimated      Actual        Estimated       Actual
Agric. education         United States        1              1             0              0
Agric. engineering        Philippines         1             0              0               1
Animalbreeding                                1              1              I
Animal science                 .              1              1              1              1
Aquaculture                                   0              0              1              1
Entomology                                    1              1              I              1
Extension education                           0              0             2               1
Extension education      United States        1              0             0               1I
Horticulture              Philippines         2              2             0               0
Plant pathology                It             0              0              1              1
Rural sociology                .,             0              0              1              1
Soil conservation             ,,              0             0              1               1
Soil science               Malaysia           0              1              1             0
Total                                         7              7             10             10
Source: PIT and the External Panel Report on the Institute of Agriculture and Animal Science, Tribhuvan University, Appendix IV-2,
August 1992; based on IAAS Status Report, 1992.
Completed in Malaysia



-21-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation (continued)
E. Technical Assistance:
(b) Fellowships: Staff Development: Short Courses
Field of study                    Number of staff trained in:
Nepal              Overseas
Estimated   Actual   Estimated   Actual
Administration                 0         0          1         1    U.S.A. and Philippines
Accounting and budgeting       9         9          3         3    Malaysia and Philippines
Admission and records          0         0          1         1    Philippines
Audio-visual                   6         6          0         0
Biochemistry                   0         0          1         1    Philippines
Bookbinding                    2         2          0         0
Computer science               0         0          1         1    U.S.A.
Computer word processing      10         10         0         0
Automechanic training          9         9          0         0
Dairy processing               0         0          1         1    U.S.A.
Dormitory management           0         0          1         1    Philippines
Driving (mechanical)           5         5          0         0
Electricity                    5         5          0         0
Farm management                0         0          5         5     Malaysia and Philippines
Field assistance              10         10         0         0
Games and sports               I         1          0         0
Laboratory management         13         13         0         0
Library management             0         0          2         2     Philippines
Memographic (mechanic)         5         5          0         0
training
Office management             12         12         1         1    Malaysia
Project management             0         0          1         1    U.S.A.
Plumbing                       5         5          0         0
Security                       7         7          0         0
Store Inventory               0          0          1         1    Philippines
Typing (mechanical)            6         6          0         0
Veterinary lab training       0          0          1         1    Malaysia
Total                         105       105        20        20
Source: External Panel Report on the Institute of Agriculture and Animal Science, Tribhuvan University,  August
1992, Appendix IV-4.z



-22-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation (continued)
E. Technical Assistance
(c) Student Enrollments by Proeram and Campus. 1991/92
Pro2ram                      Lamiung                       Paklihawa                    Rampur
Male Female Total            Male Female Total              Male Female Total
Year1       -      -       -             -       -      -            42      11     53
Year 2          -      -                  -      -      -            58       3     61
Sub-Total       -       -      -              -      -      -            100     14   114
I.S.(Ag.)/B.S. (Ag.)
Year 1 27        27      3      30            99      13    112            -      -
Year 2 30        30      0      30            49       3     52
Sub-Total        57      3      60           148      16    164
B.S. (Ag.)
Year 3          -       -      -              -      -      -            101    16   117
Year 4          -       -      -              -      -      -            138    11   149
Year 5          -       -      -              -      -      -            141      5    146
Sub-Total       -       -      -              -      -      -            380    32   412
B.S. (AS)
Year I          -       -      -              -      -      -             27      4     31
Year 2          -       -      -              -      -      -             29      4     33
Year 3          -       -      -              -      -      -             35      1     36
Year 4          -              -              -      -      -             44      1    45
Sub-Total       -       -      -              -      -      -            135    10    145
TOTAL                 Male Female Total            Male Female  Total            Male Female Total
57      3    60             148     16     164           615   56    671
*This course is operated by IAAS on behalf of the Institute of Science and Technology.
Source: External Panel Report on the Institute of Agriculture and Animal Science, Tribhuvan University, August 1992, Page 34.



-23-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation (continued)
F. Graduates by Program in the Institute for Agriculture and Animal Science, 1984/85-1993/94
Program                              1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92 1992/93  1993/94  Total 1985-92
1.Proficiencycertificatein             85        129       164        -        118       72       113        -        -         -           681
agriculture (Junior Technician)
2. Proficiency certificate I. S. (pure   -        6          8        4         13       11        7        17         9        18            93
science)
3. B. S. agric (3-yr. program)          50         -        65        60       55        164       30       13         1        -            438
4. B. S. agric (5-yr. program)'          -                   -         -        -         -       121       130      108        -            359
5. B. S. (aninal sc.) (4-yr. program)2             -         -         -        -         -        -        39        -         -             39
6. Non-academic JTA program
(a) Plant science                              155       178       249       146      229       44        45        21       21          1,088
(b) Aninal science                    -        156       178       161       100      219       79        66       59        24          1,042
TOTAL                                  135       446       593       474       432      695       394      310       198       63          3,740
Source: IAAS, "On-Going Programs and Future Plan for Development," February 1992, p. 4.
lAdmission based on high school graduation. Students in this program study at either the Paklihawa or Lamjung campus during the first two years, after which they complete the next three years at the main campus at Ramnpur.
2 Admission based on 1. S. (ag) or 1. S. (pure science).



-24-
Table 6A: Summary of Costs by Project Component
(Millions of US Dollars)
Original Plan                 Actual*
Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total
A. IMPROVING QUALITY AND RELEVANCE OF MID-LEVEL
TRAINING
1. Lamjung JTA training program                                     1.41      1.06     2.47      .86
2, Paklihawa JTA training prograrn                                  1.20      1.05     2.25      .63
3. Teacher training and management                                  0.06      0.43     0.48
4. Agricultural manuals                                             0.17      0.02     0.19      .95
Subtotal improving quality and relevance of midlevel training       2.84      2.56     5.39
B. STRENGTHENING OF DEGREE LEVEL TRAINING AT IAAS
1. Establishment of animal science degree program                   0.82      1.25     2.07
2. Upgrading facilities and programs                                1.17      1.59     2.76
Subtotal strengthening of degree level training at IAAS             1.99      2.84     4.83                         5.58
C. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT                                   0.46      0.01     0.47                         1.02
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                                                5.29      5.41     10.69
Physical contingencies                                              0.53      0.54     1.07
Price contingencies                                                 1.19      1.31     2.50
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                                 7.01      7.26     14.26                       15.50
*Data incomplete.
Sgu=: The Project Implementing Unit, 05/1995.



-25-
Table 6B: Project Financing
(Millions of US Dollars)
Category of Expenditure                            Original plan                                  Actual
HMG        IDA       USAID    TOTAL         HMG         IDA       USAID    TOTAL
1. Civil works'                       1.14       4.57       0.00       5.71       0.56        7.92       0.00       8.48
2. Furniture, vehicles, equipment,    0.05        1.3       0.00        1.35       0.25       2.52       0.00        2.77
books and educational materials2
3. Agricultural manuals production and  0.00     0.00       0.58       0.58        0.00       0.00       0.43        0.00
program support3
4. Local expert services including    0.00       0.79       0.00       0.79        0.00       0.44       0.00        0.44
engineering and architectural
services
5. Expatriate expert services and     0.00       0.00       2.69       2.69        0.00       0.00       1.97        1.97
fellowships
6. Farm and sports field development  0.00       0.00       0.46       0.46        0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
7. Project implementation technical   0.00       0.33       0.00       0.33       0.00        0.56       0.00       0.56
support
8. Staff salaries, allowances, and other  0.51   0.53       0.00        1.04       0.54       0.31       0.00       0.85
operating costs
9. Unallocated                        0.04        0.9       0.37        1.31       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
Total project cost net oftaxes        0.66       8.42        4.1       13.18       1.35      11.75       2.40       15.50
'Includes site development, water and lighting facilities; excludes professional fees.
2'ncludes animal stock.
'Includes support for research, extension and publication, and printing.



-26-
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants
Original      Revised
Covenant                    fulfillment   fulfillment
Agreement Text reference        class(es)        Status         date          date      Description of covenant          Comments
Sch. 4A    Sch. 4(a) -             5              CD         05/31/85      01/01/86    Establish within IAAS the        In consultation with IDA, a
Assistant Dean                                                              position of Assistant Dean for    position for a training officer
for                                                                         training responsible for middle-  was established instead of
level training.                 Assistant Dean.
Sch. 4B    Sch. 4(b) -           12, 11           CD         07/31/85                  Establish and, thereaftcr,       In compliance.
Additional                                                                  maintain within IAAS an
teaching post                                                               additional teaching post in
_  animal science.
Sch. 4C    Sch. 4(c) -             5              CD         12/31/85      01/31/89    Select fellowship candidate and   (Revised fulfillment date 7/31/85
Fellowship                                                                  obtain respective admission to a  to 1/31/89) Fellowship training
university acceptable to the    completed satisfactorily.l
Association.
3.02     3.02 -                  5               C         05/31/85      08/3 1/85    Employ consultants satisfactory  In compliancc.
Consultants                                                                 to the Association to assist in
curriculum development,
teacher training and improving
administration and
management.
3.04     3.04 - Project          5              CD                       08/31/85    Establish a project              The board has bcen established
implementation                                                              implementation board to ensure  and is functioning.
adequate coordination of all
agencies involved in the project.                               l
3.05     3.05 - Project          5               C                                    Establish a project             The unit is fully established and
implementation                                                              implementation unit to carry    operating very effectively.
out the project.
3.05     Implementation          9              CD                                    Prepare and fumish              In compliance.
schedule/budget                                                             implementation schedule and
estimated budgetary
requirements for the next fiscal
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _y ear.                          l__  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



-27-
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
Original     Revised                                    Comments
Text             Covenant                    fulfillment   fulfillment
Agreement reference          class(es)        Status        date         date      Description of covenant
3.07    3.07 - Student        10             C                                  Establish student admission     In compliance. However, JTA
Admission                                                              committee and student selection   program currently in flux
Committee                                                              procedures for middle-level     because of lack of demand and
agriculture training satisfactory  reorganization of 10 + 2 system.
to Association.
3.10     3.10 - Semi-         9             CD                                  Prepare and furnish Association  Written reports are satisfactory.
annual report                                                          semi-annual reports regarding    Reporting on physical progress
progress in carrying out the   has improvcd greatly since
project.                      retention of BDA (A and E firm)
and hiring of present project
architect.
Status: C = Complied with
CD = Compliance after delay
General Covenant Classification
Class Description
I. Accounts/audit
2. Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
3. Flow and utilization of project funds
4. Counterpart funding
5. Management aspects of the project or its executing agency
6. Environmental covenants
7. Involuntary resettlement
8. Indigenous people
9. Monitoring, review, and reporting
10. Implementation
11. Sectoral or cross-sectional budgetary or other resource allocation
12. Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional allocation
13. Other



-28-
Table 8: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
The project was in compliance with the applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements.
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned            Revised            Actual
Stage of Project Cycle   Weeks    US$    Weeks    US$        Weeks    US$
1. Through Appraisal                                          95.8
2. Appraisal - Board                                          42.8
3. Board - Effectiveness |___T                                  1.8
4. Supervision                                                87.0
5. Completion         _                                        9.0' 
Total                   _       l  l                 236.4       =
planned.



-29-
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
Specialized                  Performance rating
Stage of project    Month/  Number of   Days in   staff skills               Implementation   Development         Types of
cycle          year      persons       field     represented '                            objectives 2      problems 3
Identification       8/81
Preappraisal         11/81
Appraisal             9/83
Supervision 1        10/85        2            6               AE, I                HS                HS
Supervision 2        4/86          1                            AE                   S                HS              M
Supervision 3        10/86        2            11              AE, I                 S                HS              M
Supervision 4        3/87          3           10           AE, 1, A/FP              S                HS              M
Supervision 5        12/87         1           11               AE                   S                HS              M
Supervision 6        6/88          1           13               AE                   S                HS              M
Supervision 7        11/88         1           3               A/FP                  S                 S             M,F
Supervision 8        6/89         2            9           A/FP, AS/AE               S                 S           P,F,L,M,S
Supervision 9        11/89        2            9           A/FP, AS/AE               S                 S          P,F,L,M,S
Supervision 10       9/90          2           5             AE/AS, I                S                 S          P,F,L,M,S
Supervision 11       5/91         2            9             AE/AS, I                U                 S           P,F,L,M,S
Supervision 12       12/91         1           6              AS/AE                  S                 S           P,M,F,S
Supervision 13       5/92          1                            AE                   S                 S          M,F,P,S,W
Supervision 14       11/92         1           2                AE                   S                 S          M,F,P,S,W
Supervision 15       4/93         2            7              AS, AE                 S                 S           F,P,S,W
Supervision 16       12/93         1           7                AE                   S                 S           F,P,S,W
Supervision 17       4/94          1           10               AE                   S                 S           F,P,S,W
Supervision 18       10/94         1           8                AE                   S                 S             F,P,S
I = Institutional development; AE = Agri. education specialist; AS = Agricultural specialist. FP = Facilities planner specialist
2 F = Funding; M = Management; P  Procurement; I = Institutional; LC = Compliance with legal covenants; S = Studies progress; W   WID Impact
3 U = Unsatisfactory, S = Satisfactory, HS = Highly Satisfactory.



-30-
Appendix A
Page 1 of 5
AGRICULTURAL M.ANPOWER DEVELOPN[ENT PROJECT
CREDIT 1534-NEP
OCTOBER 1994 SUPERVISION MISSION
AIDE MEMOIRE
Introduction
1.    In accordance with Terms of Reference dated September 21, 1994, Ms. Kathryn Johnston
(EAPI PH) supervised the Agricultural Manpower Development Project (Cr. 1534-NEP) from October
18-24, 1994. The mission visited Rarnpur to hold discussions with staff of the Project Unit and the
Dean and faculty of the Institute of Agriculture and Animal Science (IAAS) and review
implementacion progress since April. On return to Kathrnandu, the mission mec wich officials of
Tribhuvan University (TU), USAID, Winrock Foundation and Nepal Agricultural Research Council
(NARC). The mission is grateful for the help accorded by IAAS and the Resident Mission in Nepal.
2.     This Aide Memoire and its attachments record the principal findings, observations, and
recommendations of the mission. These were discussed with Borrower officials and Resident Mission
staff during a wrap-up meeting held in Kachmandu on October 23, 1994. The Aide Memoire has
been revised in light of comments received. All recommendations are subject to review and
confirrmation by IDA management.
Progress since Aoril 1994
Outscandin^ Commitments and Liabilities
3,.    As of October 20, 1994, the outstanding commitmenc for goods, services, and works under
the Credit was about USS 1.7 million (USS 1,721,543.60).' Thanks to the decline of the dollar
against the SDR, the balance remaining in the Credit was more than sufficient to cover this.
Furthermore, there was no problem with HMG/N allocation through December 31, 1994.
4.     Nevercheless, the mission expressed grave concern that all outstanding commitments could be
cleared by the Closing Date, and noted that the Government would be responsible for any payments
This comoares to a balance of US$ 2,680,336.70 in oucscanding
paymencs six monc:ns ago.



Appendix A
-31 -                                    Page 2 of 5
remaining.2 Regarding the Government's potential responsibility after December 31, 1994, the
mission calculated three scenarios based upon partial completion of remaining activities and presented
these to the Gove=rnent.
*      Scenario I
(assumes 80% payment toward equipment only, no further construction and
minimal installation or testing of furniture and equipment):
Payment outstanding as of 12/31/94: USS 1.0 million
*      Scenario 2
(assumes 80% payment toward equipment and 50% remaining construction):
Payment outstanding as of 12/31/94: USS 0.53 million
*      Scenario 3
(assumes 95% payment toward equipment and construction):
Payment outstanding as of 12/31/94: USS 0.09 million
5.    The mrission considered it likely that the Government would remain liable for some
portion of remaining expenditures (probably around USS 0.5 million equivalent) given that: (a)
only two months remained until Credit Closing; (b) civil works have not been completed as
scheduled, and some appear unlikely to do so even before December 31; and (c) final payment for
furniture, lab equipment, and compucers could not be mAde until items were satisfactorily installed,
tested, and handed over.
v :
6.    If all eligible expenditures are not covered prior to the Closing Date and liability remains, the
Government should consider how best to budget for these payments, which will lik-ely become due
aInd payable in early 1995. The Government may wish to explore wvith IDA the possibility of
Financincg the remaining financial liability from one of the project activities in the education sector.
Obiective 1: Scrensthen Management and Promote Institutional Development
7.     Discussions of the External Panel Review (EPR) Report. The Institutional Action Plan
(Appendix I) charts progress against this and other institutional indicators. The External Panel
Review Report was discussed at a "Planning Workshop for a Long-Term Vision of IAAS" in
December 1993. A paper of the workshop's proceedings was finalized in June 1994 and has been
sent to participants, and a copy will be retained in IDA files as well.3 The proceedings paper sets
2       The mission reiteraced IDA policy chat disbursements could
concinue against eligible expenditures made before the Closing Date (i.e.
payments made or due for goods, works, and services that have been provided
prior to the closing date).
Institute of Agriculcure and Animal Science;  "Planning Workshop
for a Long-Term Vision of IAAS.  Proceedings of a National Workshop held at
S  Ramour on December 10, 1993." (T.U. Press, April 1994).



3? 
ADDendix A
Page 3 of 5
forth eleven future agenda items categorized under the following headings: Autonomy; Agricultural
Education and Research; Linkage of IAAS with NARC; Agricultural Extension/Out-reach Activities;
Farms; Agricultural Manpower and Career Opportunities; Post Graduate Programs; Branch
Campuses; Library Serial Endowment Fund; Computer Center; and Agricultural University. It
presents a very credible synthesis of both the Workshop and the EPR itself. Given that it is a careful
distillation of both internal and external feedback to the EPR, this document should serve as the
conceptual basis for the future direction of the Institute.
8.     ImDrovements to IAAS Mana2ement. This comprises four activities identified in the External
Panel Report--i.e. (a) producing a Reference Rule Book for IAAS staff; (b) appointing a Director for
Extension (DOE) and strengthening research and outreach; (c) appointing a Chief of Student Affairs;
and (d) introducing improved financial management-as well as one identified by IAAS management:
the removal of non-performing staff. As noted in previous Aide Memoire, the Student Affairs Chief
has been appointed and is functioning well. Seven of the twelve non-performing staff have been
removed. Other measures (production of a Reference Rule Book, appointment of the DOE, and
introduction of improved financial management practices) remain to be carried out.
9.     Work on the Reference Rule Book awaited revision of the T.U. Bylaws, which has been
completed. The proceedings paper noted that technical institutions were expecting greater autonomy
under the revised Bylaws, and recommends that "IAAS should be given full autonomy in terms of
academic, financial, and administrative matters without the restrictions by the general rules and
regulations of the T.U. system" (pg. 19). The mrLission concurs *with this recommendation.
10.    Academic Master Plan (AMP) and Related Academic Attivities. This comprises developing
an Academic Master Plan and instituting: (a) a revised four-year BSc program for Agriculture; (b) a
veterinary component in the Animal Husbandry program; and (b) Masters level programs. In
preparation for the AMP, the AMP Committee reviewed documents (including previous Master
Plans); sent a questionnaire to 35 agencies in Nepal regarded as potential "consumers" of IAAS
graduates anid products; held discussions with IAAS faculty, students, and administrative staff; and
during February-March 1994, visited five Indian universities and research institutes and interviewed
their staff. A draft AMP was completed in June and is being circulated for comment. IAAS
management envisioned finalizing the AMP by March 1995, about a year behind schedule. The
mission reiterated its opinion that the A)LIP should reflect the necessary steps to develop IAAS
into an agricultural university as a future goal.
II.    Over the past two years the BSc Agriculture curriculum was extensively revised and several
new courses were added. The four-year program began this term. A new BVSc program has begun
in "condensed" and "conversion" versions for students who have completed all and the first two years
of their studies, respectively. The Faculty Board has approved in principle IAAS' petition to initiate
M91asters Degree Programs, and IAAS have formed committees to develop curriculum. There is
strong support within IAAS to initiate such programs, which are perceived as essential for attracting
and retaining highly trained staff as well as linking teaching and research. Actual start up has been
delayed by several factors, inter alia: (a) lack of appropriate funding (either through public or private
means); (b) TU reluctance to commit public funding for Mlasters Programs without concomitant
assurance that graduates will find employment; (c) TU desire to see a balance between undergraduate
and graduate enrollments. In response to these concerns, IAAS has started reducing undergraduate
student intake and soliciting the views of prospective and current employers. A concept proposal for



- 33 -                             Appendix A
Page 4 of 5
twinning IAAS with a recognized foreign university in order to develop graduate programs has also
been developed, and the possibility of upgrading MOA and NARC staff at IAAS within the context of
an IDA-financed agricultural research project is under consideration. The mission signaled its
support for any proposals which would combine upgrading of local agricultural researchers with
strengthening of IAAS of teaching and research.
12.    Linkages to Clients. Of the four major institutional development areas, this remains the
weakest. There are three distinct groups with whom IAAS needs to strengchen linkages: (a) farmers
and the farming community; (b) public and private entities engaged with agricultural production and
development; and (c) international organizations concerned with agricultural education, training, and
research. While some very useful and practical suggestions for strengthening linkages have been put
forward (inter alia, joint appointments for NARC and IAAS staff), little has been accomplished.
Given that IAAS cannot be institutionally or financially viable without such linkages, the lack of
progress in this area remained a major concern for the mission.
Objective 2: Improve Conditions for Training
13.    Civil Works under the Original and Revised Proiect Scope. Appendix II provides information
on the percentage of construction completed and payments made and outstanding. Progress has been
steady but much slower than expected. Works have not-been completed by the dates forecast in
April. The following were cause for particular concern:,,(a) Administration Building (85% complete-
-Package A); (b) delayed electrical hookup for animal scienee buildings (Package B); (c) tissue culture
laboratory (60% complete--Package C). An additional concern $vas lagging disbursements. As of
October 20, 1994, anticipated outstanding payments amounted to USS 939,451 equivalent.4
14.    Vehicles. Stocks. Consumables, and Additional Equipment and Materials for Ongoing
Academic Programs. Appendix III provides information on the status of procurement, including
payments outstanding. Most furniture and computers have been delivered and are being stored at
IAAS. Only installation remains. The farm equipment and farm animals have also been procured.
The laboratory equipment has been shipped. As of October 20, 1994, anticipated outstanding
payments amounted to USS 782,092.60 equivalent (of which laboratory equipment represented some
93 %).5
15.   Improvements to Performance of Campus Farms. All three Farm Superintendent positions
have been filled (Agronomy, Animal Science, and Horticulture). The mission visited the agronomy
and animal science farms and was impressed with the dramatic changes over the last two years. Rice
and fodder production were in full swing, and showed promise of high yields. IAAS management is
to be comniended for the strong actions taken to improve the conditions and operations of the farms.
4       This compares co US$ 1,303,700 in outstanding payments six months
ago.
This compares co US$ 1,376,636.70 in outstanding payments six
months ago.



34 -                            Annendix A
Page 5 of 5
16.    Maintenance Issues. Some campus buildings had received little attention over the past 20-30
years. Project funds have been instrumental in their repair and maintenance. Older buildings have
been painted and some have had electrical repairs or new roofs. In consequence, the campus looks
and functions much better than in the past, and there is little visible difference between the old and
new buildings. Nevertheless, there is minimal funding for future repairs, even though a Property
Management Chief has been appointed. Furthermore, there is no funding or institutional provision
for an equipment repair and maintenance cell.
Summary of Observations and Recommendations
17.    The project has made remarkable progress over the last two and one half years, largely thanks
to strong project management and a supportive environment vis-a-vis the management of the IAAS
and the TU itself. Institutional development progress has been impressive, and construction (albeit
delayed) had been record-breaking for the quality of works achieved.
18.    However, given the likelihood that some liability will remain after the Closing Date, the
mission recommended that the Government consider requesting IDA for a reallocation of the proceeds
from one of the ongoing education sector projects. This would ensure that contractors and suppliers
were paid in a timely manner.
19.    The mission supported IAAS's decision to finaiize the Academic Master Plan prior to March
1995, and agreed that, if timing was convenient for both sides, the IDA Completion Mission could be
held simultaneously with the AMP Workshop. The mission disltussed the Implementation Completion
Report data needs with the Project Management, and noted that work should start as soon as possible.
The Government's Completion Report should be finalized by March 15, 1995, and the IDA
Completion Mission should take place in late March/early April.



-35-
Appendix B
Page 1 of 8
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
AGRICULTURAL MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1534-NEP)
BORROWER'S EVALUATION'
PROJECT DESIGN
Project Objectives:
1.    Agricultural Manpower Development Project was implemented in June 1986. The general
objectives of the Agricultural Manpower Development Project were to assist HMG in (a) improving the
quality and relevance of middle level agricultural pre-service training; and (b) strengthening higher level
agricultural pre-service training at IAAS by initiating a B. S. program in animal science; upgrading the
existing academic, research and extension prograns; and correcting the deficiencies in space requirements
and instructional facilities of the Institute. The project was co-fnanced by the World Bank and USAID
with a total financial commitment of US $13.18 million.
2.     On the basis of need assessment for middle level technical manpower in the country the number of
Junior Technical Assistants (JTAs), the field level agricultural extension workers was found insufficient to
serve the farmers in the country. The project was thus designed and implemented to produce 550 JTAs
annually for the next 10 years by developing training facilities at two branch campuses of IAAS, Lamjung
and Paklihawa.
The Size of the Project:
3.     Originally, the size of the project was small in comparison to the need of the Institute and its
capability to implement the project. The size of the project was increased when the objectives were
redefined during a mid-term review in 1992. With the balance fund some important activities were
implemented. However the fund and the time available were insufficient to implement many other
programs to meet the important needs of the Institute.
Scope of the Investments Proposed:
4.     The project fund was used for the construction of new buildings and repair, maintenance and
rehabilitation of old ones; (2) procurement of furniture, vehicles, lab and farm equipment, books and other
educational materials; (3) production of text books and manuals; (4) local expert services including
engineering and architectural services; (5) expatriate expert services and fellowships; (6) farm
development; (7) project implementation technical support; and (8) staff salaries, allowances and other
operating costs.
5.     Scope of the investment was well defined to achieve the objectives of the project. However,
construction of new buildings at Lamjung and rehabilitation of old buildings at Paklihawa should have
1 The Appendix B is the Borrower's own assessment of the Project performance and has not been revised or
edited by the Bank.



-36-
Appendix B
Page 2 of 8
been kept at a minimum. The physical facilities developed at these two branch campuses have remained
under-used whereas the central campus at Rampur is still in need of more physical facilities such as office
space, classrooms and laboratories. The project fund was used to send 7 faculty members for Ph.D. degree
and 10 faculty members for M.S. degree in various subject areas. Twenty faculty members and staff
received various short term trainings outside of the country. Up to the termination of USAID component of
the project there were more than 40 faculty members with B.S. degree and 80 faculty members with M.S.
degree. More investment, especially the USAID grant money, should have been made to train faculty
members at M.S. and Ph.D. level and for short term training.
Design of the Project in Term of Its Implementation
6.     There were varied activities to achieve the original objectives of the project. Those activities were
simple to implement and the time frame provided for their implementation was adequate. Most of the
activities to achieve the re-defined objectives of the project were also not difficult to implement. However,
some of the action plans to achieve the objective to strengthen IAAS management and help the Institute
move toward a comprehensive institutional development strategy were difficult to implement under the
existing TU rules and regulations and within the given time frame. The time available to implement other
activities such as construction and procurement of goods was also very limited.
Effect of Government's Institution
7.     Various ministries and government offices besides Tribhuvan University were directly or indirectly
involved in project implementation. The successful completion of the project is the result of cooperation
from these ministries and offices. The representatives from various ministries and National Planning
Commission on the Project Implementation Board were always cooperative. Budget release, however, was
a lengthy process that often had adverse affect on the project activities.
PROJECT APPRAISAL
8.     The original objective of the project was to improve the quality and relevance of middle level
agricultural pre-service training and to strengthen a degree level training in Animal Science. A mid-project
review was conducted in June 1992, and project objectives were redefined to place greater emphasis on
institutional development. Two major objectives were stated as under:
Objective 1: To strengthen IAAS management and help the Institute move toward a comprehensive
institutional development strategy.
Objective 2: To improve conditions for undergraduate degree training.
9.     The project implemented various activities to achieve the new objectives. An historical seminar
faculty and staff was held to discuss the issues raised and recommendations made in the report of the
External Review Panel. The seminar was continuously held for 9 days, devoting 5-6 hours each day. A
national seminar was held on December 10, 1993 for a long term vision of IAAS, based on the report of
External Review Panel. It was decided in the national seminar that IAAS should prepare an Academic
Master Plan for its future program. As a result, a draft Academic Master Plan has been produced but its
Finalization is still pending.



-37-
ADpendix B
Page 3 of 8
10.   The second objective has been fully achieved. All the activities initiated to achieve this objective
have been satisfactorily completed. Some of the major activities that were carried out in the recast plan of
the project have set the records. They are briefly described as following:
i. Civil Works: A large number of buildings and animal sheds have been constructed. The
construction is the heaviest among the previous construction. The list of buildings and sheds is
attached.
ii. Land Use Master Plan: Use of land in the Institute was done on an ad hoc basis. Land use
master plan has now been prepared by the project.
iii. Repair and Maintenance: Many old buildings of the Institute were in bad conditions due to
lack of repair and maintenance works. Most of the old buildings have now been completely
repaired or rehabilitated.
iv. Farm Development: IAAS agronomy farm was unproductive, and was also unsuitable for
research due to lack of lay-out and irrigation system. Farm lay-out and construction of
irrigation and drainage channels and service roads were completed in 50 hectares of farm.
The newly constructed livestock housing is the best facility in the nation.
v. Lab Equipment: A large quantity of lab equipment have been procured to meet the present
needs. This is the heaviest purchase ever made.
vi. Computers: The project bought 8 micro computers three years ago. Before this, IAAS had
only four computers. Procurement of networking computers, with two file servers and 25
working stations, which will serve the needs of the Institute for at least the next 10 years, has
recently been completed.
vii. Vehicles: The project purchased six vehicles--3 4WD station wagons, I pick-up truck, and 2
minibuses two years ago which was the largest purchase of vehicles ever made.
viii. External Review, Internal Discussion and National Seminar: The project conducted an
external review of the programs of the Institute in the Summer of 1992. The findings of the
external review were discussed by the faculty members and staff of the Institute. The
discussion took 9 days. A national seminar was held in December 4th 1993 to discuss the
recommendations made and issues raised in the external review. Such a review and discussion
never took place previously.
ix. Improvements to LAAS Management: Various activities to improve the management of the
Institute have been implemented over the last three years.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
11.   The implementation took longer duration than originally planned. The project had a balance of
about half of the IDA fund at the expiration of the credit on June 30, 1991. The IAAS needed the



-38-
Appendix B
Page 4 of 8
balance fund to strengthen management, promote institutional development and improve conditions for
training. The Credit closing date was extended to implement various activities to meet the new and
growing needs of the Institute.
12.   IDA saw the problems of the Institute very sympathetically. IDA supervision mission was always
timely and useful in making decisions and solving many problems at site. The task managers were always
supportive and cooperative. They always made prompt response through telephone, fax and/or letters and
provided advice and guidance throughout the project period. They were concerned and made sincere efforts
for the successful completion of the project and for the continuous development of IAAS. The success of
the project was mainly due to the sympathetic consideration of IDA management, including timely and
continuous support, advice and guidance from task managers.
13.    The National Planning Commission, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Education, Culture and
Social Welfare, Tribhuvan University, Institute of Agriculture and Animal Science, and Project
Implementation Board were involved in the implementation of the project. All of them showed concern and
were cooperative for the implementation of the project. Members of the Project Implementation Board who
held high an responsible positions were always available for meetings and contributed in making important
decisions.
14.    Other than slow decision making or indecisiveness during political instability and changes in
management in various offices connected to the project implementation before the present political system,
everyone concerned or involved in the project implementation showed strong commitment and played
important roles for the successful completion of the project.
PROJECT RESULTS AND MAIN LESSONS LEARNED
15.   The original project objectives were achieved, except that JTA training program was dropped out
and B.S. degree program in animal science was converted into or upgraded to B.V. S. and A. H. program.
The project objectives were redefined and the programs launched to achieve both the onrginal objectives and
the redefined objectives have been highly useful to develop teaching, research and extension facilities of
IAAS, enabling it to become a primer agricultural university in the country in near future.
16.   There is no direct economic benefit except the income from agronomy farm at the Central Campus,
Rampur has increased almost by three times.
17.    Facilities were added and improved to implement JTA training at two branch campuses of IAAS
Sundar Bazar of Lamjung and Paklihawa of Rupandehi districts. The JTA training program was
established immediately after the implementation of the project in 1986 and was phased out in 1991,
producing 2140 JTAs (1098 in plant science and 1042 in animal science). The JTA training program was



-39-
Appendix B
Page 5 of 8
dropped on the half way before reaching the target, and the main reasons for dropping out the program
were as following:
i. Majority of the JTAs remained unemployed after receiving the training.
ii. The JTA training program was non-academic. On the basis of this training thev could not
pursue higher study in their field of study. Not only they remained unemployed for a long
time, the type of training they were given did not qualify them to pursue further study in their
area of training. Out of frustration, many trainees lost interest to be JTAs and switched their
field of study.
iii. The JTA trainees also went on strikes and put pressure on the Institute to let them to continue
their studies for higher degrees in agriculture, which was against the design and objectives of
their training.
iv. The trade schools of CTEVT also started providing training in agriculture to high school
dropouts, thus producing agriculture manpower at middle level.
18.    Large investment was made to create facilities for JTA training program. After the cancellation of
JTA training. these facilities are being used to run first two years curriculum of the B.S. program in
agriculture. The facilities are under utilized. His Majesty's Government and Tribhuvan University have
yet to think and make decisions to make better utilization of these facilities.
19.    B.S. program in Animal Science was initiated in accordance with the objective of the project. The
program was converted into or upgraded to B.V.S. and A.H. (Bachelor in Veterinary Science and Animal
Husbandry) program from the academic year 1993.
20.    A Directorate of Research was established and various research projects were conducted with
funding support from the project. With the financial support from the project various extension programs
were also successfully carried out. The extension program strengthened at the first half part of the project
has been almost discontinued after the termination of USAID part of funding.
21.    When the Institute was established under Tribhuvan University in 1972, the mission of the Institute
was to produce manpower with Diploma in vocational agricultural education to teach in high schools. The
vocational agriculture program was later converted into B.S. program in agriculture. Space and
instructional facilities were created at the Institute to run the vocational program. These facilities were
insufficient to run the B.S. program. Therefore, the objective of the Agricultural Manpower Development
Project to create space and instructional facilities was appropriate and achieved well.
22.    Main lessons leamed from implementation experience are as following:
i.  The PIU should always keep in mind that there are many stakeholders in the project. The
faculty members and staff of the Institute are the ones who are most concerned and affected.
Therefore, they should have been involved in every stage of project design and implementation.



-40-
Appendix B
Page 6 of 8
Experience in the latter part of the project indicates that they are always willing to make
contribution for successful implementation of the project.
ii. Many persons in various HMG offices are involved in the project implementation. Regular
follow-up meetings with them is very essential and useful.
iii. Regular and timely contacts with IDA task managers should be made for their advice and
guidance.
iv. Success of the project depends on the realization of roles and commitments on the parts of
everyone connected or related to the project implementation.
v. Members of Project Implementation Board come from high and responsible positions and can
spare limited time to the project. Their responsibilities to the project should be limited to only
important decision making, and much freedom should be given to PIU in matters of project
implementation.
vi. Budget release process should be simplified and made efficient.
NEED FOR FURTHER IDA ASSISTANCE
23.   The financial and technical assistance provided by USAID and the World Bank came to an end in
1990 and 1994 respectively. The external assistance available to the Institute for a long time has been thus
discontinued at a time when the institute is planning to start M.S. program and upgrade itself to an
agricultural university.
24.   There is a pressure for the Institute to start the M.S. program as early as possible to meet the
growing demand for competent technical manpower for agricultural research and extension. The need for
starting M. S. program has also been increasingly felt to engage the IAAS faculty members in productive
research and quality teaching, and retain them at IAAS. A large amount of IDA money has been spent to
buy various lab equipment, and if they are not properly used, they will soon become functionless and be a
waste. Appropriate use of these lab equipment is not possible without starting M.S. program and
conducting research at graduate level.
25.   Further loan assistance from IDA is required to improve research facilities at IAAS; to conduct
collaborative research with NARC; to send faculty members and staff for higher studies, short term
trainings, seminars and workshops in regional universities; to strengthen library; and to develop
infrastructure in deficient areas. The External Panel which reviewed the programs of the Institute in 1992
has recommended for an external assistance in the amount of US$14,340,000 to strengthen the academic
and research capabilities of the Institute. The detail of the external funding recommended by the panel is as
following:
Programs/Activities                                                 Estimated
Budget (US$)
A. Manpower development to prepare staff for B. S. and
M.S. level teaching and research supervision.
Upgrading 20 M.S. to Ph.D. @ $75,000                             1,500,000
Upgrading 15 B.S. to M.S. @ $40,000                               600,000



-41-
Appendix B
Page 7 of 8
B. Physical infrastructure (construction and renovation):             4,000,000
Additional departmental buildings, offices, graduate
student rooms, research laboratory, computer centre,
graduate students hostel, housing, etc.
C. Equipment, furniture, library resources, computers,                2,000,000
vehicles, etc.
D. Experimental station development (Layout for research,               750,000
teaching, production; irrigation, greenhouses, farm structures)
E. Staff visits (seminars, workshops, congresses, etc. - local and abroad)  100,000
F. Technical assistance, consultant services                          1,000,000
G. Research scholarships and grants for postgraduate students         1,000,000
H. Operational expenses                                                1,000,000
11,950,000
Exigencies 20%                                                 2,390,000
Total:                                                        14,340,000
26.   It will take time to get such a large amount of funding recommended by the Extemal Review Panel.
However, some extemal funding is immediately needed to sustain development of IAAS and to strengthen
its academic and research capabilities. Discussions are underway to involve IAAS in the proposed
Agricultural Technology and Dissemination Project to be funded by IDA. The project will require NARC
scientists and DOAD technical personnel to pursue higher studies at M.S. level and IAAS will be the
appropriate institution for this purpose. The project will also be highly benefited by conducting
collaborative research, involving IAAS and NARC. Therefore, some funding, at least 3.4 million US
dollars, from the proposed Agricultural Technology and Dissemination Project should be made available to
IAAS to train NARC scientists and DOAD technical personnel, to carryout collaborative research
programs and to strengthen the capabilities of IAAS in its academic and research functions.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION
27.    Agricultural Manpower Development Project was implemented in June 1986 to improve the quality
and relevance of middle level agricultural pre-service training and to strengthen a degree level training in
animal science. After a mid-project review in June 1992, the project objectives were recast. Under the
recast plan strengthening of IAAS management and improvement of conditions for undergraduate degree
training at the Institute of Agriculture and Animal Science were emphasized.
28.   JTA training program was terminated after producing only 2170 JTAs, far less than what was
originally planned. B.S. program in animal science was also converted into B.V.S. and A.H. program after
producing one batch of students. However, all project activities under the recast plan were fully completed.



-42-
Appendix B
Page 8 of 8
29.    Physical facilities were developed in Lamjung and Paklihawa campuses to conduct JTA training
programs. Physical facilities were also developed in Rampur under the project to improve conditions for
conducting B.S. (Ag) program and start B.S. (AS) program. Facilities of Lamjung and Paklihawa
campuses are now being used for conducting first two years of B.S. (Ag) program and plans have yet to be
made for the proper utilization of these now under-utilized facilities. The physical facilities of the central
campus in Rampur are sufficient for B.S. (Ag) program and will also serve the basis for staring M.S.
programs in some academic departments.
30.    The achievements of the project in terms of both quantity and quality, especially during the recast
plan are highly satisfactory. The timely advice and constant guidance from IDA task managers,
sympathetic consideration of IDA management, cooperation from every one connected to the project
implementation, including members of the Project Implementation Board and sincere efforts and
commitments from staff of the Project Implementation Unit, all contributed for the successful completion of
the project.
31.   Institute of Agriculture and Animal Science has an important role to play in the development of
agriculture in the country and in the improvement of living conditions of the rural population. With grant
assistance from the USAID and credit assistance from the World Bank, IAAS has now grown in term of
physical facilities and institutional development. Further assistance from the World Bank is necessary to
strengthen the academic and research capabilities of IAAS.



84.
H U M L A                                                                                                         NFFDAL
,'DARCHUII                                                                                                                   AGRICULTURAL MANPOWER
C H I N A
-A,                                                                                                             DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
J H A N G                         MUGU
BAJURA
BA I TA D Ik--,                                               J                                                                              Project  Locations
IhEtOllt)                                        JUMLA                 DOt PA
IKOI
D         CIHA.A'                                                                                                                                  lnstitutO of Agriculture and Animal Sciences
O',
JAJARKOT                                                                                                            JTA Training Centers (Junior Technician Asistant)
DAILEKti                                                   MUSTANG
KA.1;IR
C)
KAILALI                                     RUKUM             .F                     MANANC,
-0
SURKHET )               I-  _                                    -
n,                                                                        J  C"
SALYAN
BARDIYA                                                            KASKI       LAMJUNC,
XF                  1Jv
RC 'A
q                                       RASUW
-eg,                                         PANKE
,'fUTHAN    U L M
--v G   Ir,          _ H__   _/
(                6               m   4,    r
j                                              ci                                  1-
ARGFIA-_ - _YAN(;J    ANAHUN               (/,q  A( 15          SINF)HU-
_K HANCIII                                                 IUIAKO (PAICHOK          DOLAKHA
PALPA
D,st,ct bo.ndor,ei                                                                                     7DHADINC,                                                                    Al.)
- -                                 \_)               . -                                    .)        \   SANKHUWASAB,_
I  u   m  's         /V  //     4. P-            ;---           -
\)1,TKTAPUR-
Zonal bo,ndar,es                                      K A P I t B A S T U             \Y      CHITAWAN  ,                            <,
RUPANDE H            _/1                                                     /,\x .- SOLUKI-IUMBU
Al A  R  A                                                                               TAPLFJUN6
lnternc,.onol bounda,as                                                            L                        "fq
Ir  A                             9-          'k- _T'                         s-
\PA RSA                                    )KHALDHUNGA            a,   k
-LI..        I            __1
SINDHULI    YKHOTAN
K, 1-1,, 0             50            i(O          150          200                                                                                                                                      41,
IDHANKUTA
-j  ILAM
0                    -50                  I 0                                                                                                                UDAYAPUR   )__"c __       '
)MORAN    I  '..   ()
m
SAPTARI /FSARI/                JHAPA    m -4
m
(D












