Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFIC"..L USE ONLY
C (q. 'lz-3  t-.J,31 
Report No. 4878-NEP
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NEPAL
AG,.-,ULTURAL MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ivember 14, 1984
South Asia Projects Department
Education and Human Resources Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforTn-nce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authm ation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00   =  N. Rupee 17.3
FISCAL YEAR
July 16 through July 15
ABBREVIATIONS
AA         -  Agricultural Aseistant
APROSC     -  Agricultural Pr'Jjects Service Center
CDRD       -   Communications Development and Extension
Education Division, Department of Rural Development
DOA        -  Department of Agriculture
DOL        -   Department of Livestock and Animal Health
FAO        -   Food and Agriculture Organization
GTZ        -   German Agency for Technical Cooperation
RMG        -   His Majesty's Government
IAAS       -   Institute of Agriculture and Animal Sciences
TAg        -   Intermediate Agriculture Certificate
IDA        -   International Development Association
JT         -   Junior Technician
JTA        -   Junior Technician Assistant
MOA        -   Ministry of Agriculture
MUTCIA     -   Mid-Western Universities Consortium for International
Activities
ODA        -   British Overseas Development Administration
PIU        -   Project Implementation Unit
SATA       -   Swiss Association for Technical Assistance
tMN        -   United Mission to Nepal
USAID      -   United States Agency for International Development
VB/FAO/CP  -   World Bank FAO Cooperative Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL MANPOtER DELOPZ0?MET PRO3JECT
Table of Contents                       Fame No.
BASIC DATA
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
I. AGRICULTURE IN NEPAL.                                                 1
Socio-Economic Background . .. ..  1
Sectoral Context .                                                   1
Development Pattern and Strategy             .                       2
Agricultural Manpower Demand and Supply                              3
II.  AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION AND TRAININC                                  3
The Training System                                                  3
Policies and Problesms in AgTicultural Education                     4
External Financing of Agricultural Education and
Training                                                         7
Bank Group Participation in Education and Training                   8
III.  THE PROJECT                                                          9
A.  Project Formulation                                              9
B.  Project Objectives, Strategy and Scope                          10
C.  Improving Quality and Relevance of Pre-Service M4iddle
Level Agricultural Training                                 11
D.  Strengthening Degree Level Training at IAAS                     13
E.  Project Implementation Support                                  15
F.  Technical Assistance Summary                                    15
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND DISBURSEMENTS .16
Project Cost ..16
Financing Plan                                                      18
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Nepal in
September 1983.  Mission members were Messrs. S.R. Santos (Senior Agricultural
Education Specialist, Mission Leader) and J. Burfield (Architect, Consultant).
Ms. S. Pak managed the production of the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Table of Contents                        Page No.
V.  MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION                   ......  20
Project Management .                                                 20
Project Implementat.on .........   21
Procurement Procedures    ..22
Project Accounts and Audits .                                        24
Disbursements ................................      .                24
Vs. BENEFITS AND RISKS .................. . 25
Benefits .25
Risks ,....                                                          25
VII.  RECOMMENDATIONS                 ..................  26
LIST OF TABLES:
4.1  Summary of Costs by Project Component .                     16
4.2  Price Escalation Estimates            . .       .17
4.3 Project Financing Plan             . . .19
5.1 Procurement Procedures..                                     23
ANNEXES:
1. Summary of Estimated Project Costs
Table 1 - Project Components by Year
Table 2 - Summary Account by Project Component
Table 3 - Summary Accounts by Year
Table 4 - Summary Accounts Cost Summary
2. Schedule of Projected Disbursements
3. Implementation Schedule
4.  Selected Documents Available in the Project File
CHARTS:
1. Organizational Chart, Institute of Agriculture and Animal
Sciences
2. Organizational Chart, Project Implementation Uniit
MAP:
Map of Nepal Showing Project Sites.



-iii-
NEPAL
Basic Data
Population
Estimated total (1981)                     15.0 million
Annual growth rate (1970-81)               2.6%
Average density  1/                        104 per sq km
Literacy rate (1977)                       19%
Enrollments (1982) 2/                      Total   Male   Female   Z Female
…------ (1000) -…----
Primary (grades 1-5)              1,475  1,068      407        28
Lover secondary (grades 6-7)        200    157        43       22
Secondary (grades 8-10)             170    137       33        19
Higher (1981)
Certificate (grades 11-12)       44.8  36.6      8.2        18
Bachelor Degree
(Two-Three Years)              11.0   8.7      2.3        21
Higher Degree                     3.5   2.8      0.7        20
(Two years or more)             _      _       _
59.3  48.1    11.2        19
Education Expenditure Regular and Development (1981-82) 3/ 4/
As a percentage of GDP                          1.4
As a percentage of total
Government expenditure                          9.7
Percentage        Approximate
of Education    Cost per Student
Budget        Rupees      US$
Primary education                     29.0             112      7.8
Secondary education                   15.2             234     16.4
Higher education                      35.6          3,412    238.6
Other budgeted expenditures           20.2
100 .0
1/ Average population densities vary from 24 per sq km to 103 per sq km from
the mountains to the hills respectively and 356 per sq km on agricultural
land (mostly the Terai and some valleys)
2/ Source: Central Bureau of Statistics.
3/ Source: Ministry of Finance.
4/ N. Rupees 14.9 = US$1.



-iv-
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Kingdom of Nepal
Amount:              Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) 8.5 million
(US$ 8.4 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard
Proiect:             The proposed project would assist His Majesty's
Government in upgrading the quality of middle level
agricultural manpower by: (a) implementing reforms in the
training system, structure and curriculum to make it more
rel3vant to the duties and responsibilities of agricul-
tural extension workers and technicians; (b) establishing
a teacher training program; and (c) improving training
management. The project would also assist in strengthen-
ing higher level agricultural training at the Institute of
Agriculture and Animal Sciences by establishing a degree
program (BS) in animal science and upgrading the existing
academic, research and extension programs of the Institute.
Lisks:               Due to poor facilities for communication and travel
between project sites, particularly during rainy weather
when travelling is slow and difficult, there is a risk
that supervision of project activities by the Project
Implementation Unit, which is based in one of the project
sites, would be iufrequent and irregular. This could
cause delays in project implementation or jeopardize the
achievement of project objectives. To minimize this risk,
the project would provide a radio communication link
between the Tribhuvan University (Kathmaudu), PIU (IAAS)
and the other project sites. In addition, a full-time
assistant project engineer would be posted in each project
site to provide day-to-day management of the physical
aspects of the project.



Estimated Cost: La
Local   Foreign   Total
Item                                 US$ million…
Middle Level Training
Training Program                       2.6       2,2      4.8
Teacher Training and
Training Management                   0.1      0.4       0.5
Agricultural Manuals                   0.2        -       0.2
HigRher Level Training
Animal Science Degree Program          0.8       1.2      2.0
Upgrading Facilities and Programs   1.1          1.5      2.6
Project Implementation Support         0.6        -       0.6
Total Base Costs                  5.4       5.3      10.7
Contingencies
Physical contingency              0.5       0.6       1.1
Price contingency                 1.2       1.3       2.5
Total Proiect Costs               7.1       7.2      14.3
La Includes taxes of US$ 1.08 million equivalent.
Financing Plan:                                       Local    Foreign    Total
IDA                              4.3        4.1        8.4
USAID                            1.0        3.1        4.1
Government                       1.8         -         1.8
Total                        7.1        7.2       14.3
Estimated
Disbursement:        IDA FY                FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91
Annual               0.35  1.13  1.95  2.14  1.71  1.14
Cumulative           0.35  1.48  3.43  5.57  7.28  8.42
Economic
Rate of Return:      Not applicable



-1-
I.  AGRICULTURE IN NEPAL
Sccio-Econom c Backaround
1.01    Nepal is one of the least developed countries in the world.  Its
population was estimated at about 15.0 million in 1981 with a growth rate of
2.6% p.a. About 56% of the population live in the mountains and hills and
the rest in the Terai (lowlands). Only about 5% reside in urban areas.
Population pressure and lack of employment opportunities in the hills force
male family membera to migrate either seasonally or permanently to the Terai,
Kathmandu or other more developed areas in order to find employment and
supplement their incomes. Adult literacy is only 19% and average annual per
capita income is estimated at about US$ 150 (1981).
Sectoral Context
1.02    Agriculture dominates the economy, providing a livelihood for over
90% of the population and generating about two-thirds of GDP. About a sixth
of the total land area is suitable for cultivation of which about 15% is
irrigated. About 10% of the cropped area is under cash crops; mainly oil-
seeds, jute, sugarcane, potatoes and tobacco. Food crops (mainly paddy,
maize, wheat, millet, barley and potatoes) are grown in some 2.2 1 ha. or
about 50% of the total cropped area. Paddy, cultivated on 1.3 M ha. is the
dominant crop. Maize, second in importance is grown in some 445,000 ha.
Wheat, millet and barley follow with 348,000, 121,000 and 24,000 ha. respec-
tively. Some 50,000 ha. are under potatoes. Livestock products contribute
about 21% to the total agricultural output.
1.03    In the hills, agricultural production is largely subsistence
oriented. Crops are grown on terraced slopes using every available piece of
land; animal husbandry is an important supportive activity. The average size
of family land holding which supports 5 to 6 persons is less than 0.4 ha.
Agricultural productivity has fallen due to the extension of cultivation to
marginal land and to declining fertility of older fields. As a result of
increasing cultivation, grasslands and forests are being rapidly depleted as
sources of fodder, and animal waste traditionally used as fertilizer is
increasingly used as fuel. Government services are not readily available
to the hill farmers since their farms are not easily accessible.
1.04    The situation in the Terai provides a marked contrast with that of
the hills. The average farm size is 1.7 ha. and the Terai farmers have
better access to supportive agricultural services from the Governnent. Some
80% of Nepal's exports (rice, jute, pulses and oilseeds) largely come from
the Terai. However, yields are low and the continuous increase in population
has greatly reduced grain surpluses.



-2-
Development Pattern and Strategy
1.05    Before 1970, agriculture received little attention in the overall
development of Nepal. The first three Five-Year Development Plans covering
the period 1956-1970 focussed on the creation of infrastructure upon which
future development was to be based. The creation of transport, communica-
tions and development of administrative infrastructure were given emphasis as
little of these existed then. Starting from fiscal year 1971, with the
initiation of the Fourth Plan (1970-1975) agriculture gained importance and
thereafter, has been given priority in the country's development efforts.
1.06    However, except for wheat, the trend in production of major food
grains and other food crops has been disappointing. Production grew at about
1.1% annually, largely due to acreage expansion while yields fell at a rate
of 0.9% per year, in spite of real increases in the levels of investments.
From an exporter of about 500,000 tons of rice in mid 1960s, Nepal became a
net importer of rice in 1979-1980.
1.07     There were many causes for this low output growth and decline in
production. Among the most evident, which were beyond Government's control,
were bad weather conditions and the fuel crisis in 1974 which escalated
fertilizer prices and transportation costs. Among the causes within the
purview of Government was general weakness in the implementation of planned
development activities due to a large extent, to manpower constraints in
terms of insufficient supply and inappropriate training.
1.08    Among HMG's principal objectives for agricultural development during
the Sixth Plan Period (1980-1985) are: (a) to produce enough food to meet the
b;--ic requirements of the population; (b) to maintain agricultural exports;
and (c) to adequately supply raw materials for industry. As one of the
strategies in pursuing these objectives, HMG intends to continue improving
and expanding its research and extension activities. An on-going IDA
assisted agricultural extension and research project (Cr. 1100-NEP) is cur-
rently helping carry out this strategy, and a second agricultural extension
project is in the process of preparation for possible IDA financing.
1.09    To be able to carry out planned development strategies, HMG is aware
that human resource development to strengthen implementation capability
should be given due importance. In the Agriculture Sector unless the supply
and quality of agricultural manpower is improved, serious problems will be
met in attaining the agricultural development objectives of the Sixth and
subsequent plan periods. Consequently, manpower issues are now being
addressed by Government.



-3-
Agricultural ManRower-Demand and LugE
1.10    In 1981, under the IDA financed technical assistance project, an
agricultural manpower study was conducted by the Agricultural Projects Serv-
ice Center (APROSC) for HMG. The results of the study showed that from 1985
to 1990, the additional requirement for middle level agricultural technicians
and field extension workers would be 5,700 or an average increase of 1,140
p.a. and for higher level (BS), the additional requirement would be 1,800 or
an average increase of 350 p.a. IDA discussions with the operational depart-
ments (Department of Agriculture, and Department of Livestock and Animal
Health), however, reveal that while they agree that APROSC'S projections are
correct as they are based on the development plan of HMG, the number of new
posts which they expect would be created and financed would be much below the
apparent plan requirements.  It was decided that a more :ealistic target
would be an average annual increase of 550 Junior Technician Assistants
(JTAs) (450 agriculture and 100 livestock) and 150 BSs (100 agriculture and
50 animal science) for the next ten years. The present capacity of the
training centers is adequate for an output of 450 per year and therefore
capacity would have to be increased to accommodate an additional output of
100 agriculture JTAs per year. It was also decided that at least 10% of
those admitted for enrollment to middle and higher level pre-service training
in agriculture would be females in response to HMG's intention of encouraging
women to actively participate in agricultural and rural development
activities.
1.11    For the training of JTAs who generally are the field extension
workers, the above targets can be met by on-going programs only if the exist-
ing training facilities which are so poor and inappropriate are rehabilitated
and renovated. The content and quality of instruction also need to be
greatly improved (para 2.05).
1.12    At the BS level, expansion of physical and instructional facilities
is needed to provide for the establishment of a degree program in animal
science which at present does not exist and to help correct deficiencies in
space requirements of the Institute of Agriculture and Animal Sciences.
II. AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING
The Training System
2.01    Pre-service agricultural education in Nepal which is conducted at
middle and higher (university) levels is administered and managed by the
Institute of Agriculture and Animal Sciences (IAAS) of the Tribhuvan Univer-
sity. The Department of Agriculture (DOA) and the Department of Livestock
and Animal Health (DOL) of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) carry out
in-service training for their respective staff at all levels. Presently, the
German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation has an on-going project



-4-
aimed at assisting HMG to improve the quality and management of the
in-service training programs of MOA.
2.02    Middle Level.  Pre-service middle level education consists of a
two-year program leading to the award of the Intermediate Agriculture Cer-
tificate (IAg). Secondary school leavers (grade 10) who have passed the
national examination which entitles them to the Secondary Leaving Certificate
(SLC), are admitted into the program. The training program has dual objec-
tives: (a) to prepare students for admission to higher (university) studies
in agriculture; and (b) to train Junior Technician Assistants (JTAs) and
Junior Technicians (JTs) which constitute the middle level agricultural
manpower in Nepal. However, only the first year (referred to as the JTA
course) consisting of general agriculture (crops) or general animal science
subjects is required to qualify for the post of agriculture or livestock JTA
respectively. JTAs who satisfactorily complete the second year qualify as
JTs or as candidates for admission to higher studies in agriculture.
2.03    The JTA course in agriculture is conducted at two satellite campuses
of IAAS (Paklihawa and Lamjung), training a total of about 300 to 350 JTAs
p.a.  The JTA course in animal sciences with an enrollment of 100 students
p.a. utilizes the facilities of an animal research center of DOL located near
Kathmandu. The JT course is conducted at Rampur, the main campus of IAAS,
with an enrollment of about 200 to 240 students and at Paklihawa with about
100 to 150 students per year. There is no separate JT training program in
animal sciences.
2.04    Higher Level.  Higher level training, leading to the BS degree in
agriculture is offered at the main campus of IAAS at Rampur. The training
which consists of a three-year program in general agriculture is focussed
principally on plant crops with a limited number of subjects in animal hus-
bandry. It has an output capacity of up to 100 graduates p.a.
Policies and Problems in Agricultural Education
2.05    Middle Level.  The present pre-service middle level agricultural
education program does not satisfactorily meet its objectives. It has failed
to train agricultural technicians in either the quantity or quality necessary
and has not adequately prepared students for higher studies in agriculture.
The JTA course which consists of agriculture subjects tends to emphasize
theory more than the practice of agriculture. The JT course consisting of
basic science and humanities subjects does not thoroughly prepare students
for university education since the subjects offered which normally take two
years to complete are condensed to one year. Each year, about 80% of some
400 to 450 JTA course leavers are admitted to the JT course. The few who are
not admitted accept employment as JTAs but persistently seek admission to the
JT course and if accepted, quit their employment. Of about 300 to 350 JT
leavers each year only 100 to 150 are admitted to the BS degree program.
Employers, however, usually do not employ those who are not admitted because



-5-
JTs are entitled to higher pay but are not considered to possess better
agricultural and extension skills than the JTAe.  Much training effort is
therefore wasted each year while shortages of agricultural technicians con-
tinue.
2.06    As a result of discussions between His Majesty's Government (HMG)
asid IDA on the problems of agricultural education in Nepal, HMG has revised
its agricultural education policy.  HMG has decided that starting from the
school. year 1985-86, the present pre-service middle level agricultural train-
ing program will be restructured, and the JTA curriculum will be revised to
make it a practical and terminal course and tailored to mieet the skill
requirements of men and women agricultural extension workers and technicians.
The existing one-year JT course will be abolished and the JT level will be
made a promotional grade after at least three years of satisfactory service
as a JTA and the completion of specific in-service courses conducted by the
extension and training sections of DOA and DOL (para 2.01) to prepare them
for their new tasks and responsibilities.
2.07    The decision of HMG to revise the JTA curTiculum to make it
non-academic and terminal would discourage students who have no interest in
becoming agricultural technicians or field extension workers from enrolling
in the course. To further increase the chances of admitting JTA trainees who
have the aptitude and interest to serve as agricultural technicians in rural
areas, HMG has decided to create a Student Admission Committee at IAAS to
establish and implement student selection procedures starting September 1,
1985.
2.08    The quality of instruction at the training centers is poor.  The
teachers lack teaching skills because they have had no training in pedagogy.
The students have access to few reading and reference materials, which are
generally inappropriate. Most of the references are written in English and
therefore have limited value to the students whose medium of instruction is
Nepali; the contents are also of little relevance to Nepal conditions. The
students get very little practical training sin^e the school farms have not
been developed and no farm equipment has been provided. No supervision and
evaluation of the training program are conducted by IAAS staff for lack of
institutional arrangements to carry out the task.
2.09    Accommodation and training facilities al,o are inadequate.  At Pak-
lihawa, the training center occupies an old army compound with deteriorating
barrack structures. These barracks are being utilized as classrooms,
laboratories and offices and as student end staff hostels which have communal
toilets and showers and inadequate water supply. This set up has not been
conducive to good performance by students or staff and is extremely incon-
venient particularly to staff members who have families. At Lamjung the
existing buildings are inadequate to meet the accommodation and teaching
requirements of students and staff and are badly 7-ii need of rehabilitation
and extension. No water or lighting facilities exist. At the animal



-6-
research certer in Kathmandu where training of livestock JTAs is temporarily
conducted, classes are held in makeshift arrangements and sometimes in cor-
ridors. Because of poor accommodations and working conditions, the teachers'
and students' morale is low, and consequently they have little interest and
enthusiasm for their activities.
2.10    Higher Level.  The policy to convert the existing JTA course into a
terminal program and the abolition of the JT course automatically eliminates
the Intermediate Agriculture Certificate (IAg) which currently meets the
entrance requirements for degree training in agriculttre. Starting from
school year 1985-86, HMG intends to admit secondary school leavers who have
passed the School Leaving Ccrtificate (SLC) qualifying examination, directly
into the degree training prog-am and to lengthen the program to five years.
This reform would improve the basic academic training of the students and
result in better student performance.
2.11    At present no degree program in animal science exists in Nepal.  All
higher level manpower employed in the livestock sector are trained abroad
through fellowship training grants from foreign donors, largely from USAID.
After September 1984, however, HMG anticipates serious problems in meeting
additional manpower requirements of the sector since few commitments for
fellowship grants have been obtained from external sottrces. Recognizing the
significant contribution of the livestock sector (21%) to total agricultural
output, during the Sixth Plan period, HMG has started to pursue programs
aimed at: (a) expanding fodder production; (b) improving animal health and
nutrition; (c) introducing genetic improvements on existing stocks; and
(d) adjusting total livestock numbers to needs. The success of these
endeavors depends upon the availability of adequately trained livestock
technicians and specialists. DOL estimates that at least 50 higher level
livestock specialists would be required by the department alone every year
beginning in 1985.
2.12    Aside f-om the physical facilities that would be needed to establish
a degree training program in animal science with an intake of about 75 stu-
dents per year, IAAS is badly in need of additional physical facilities to
provide for the minimum space requirements of the staff and anticipated total
student enrollment of about 750. The present provision of 430 hostel spaces
for students would be sufficient to meet only about 57% of student accommoda-
tion needs. Of the present 89 teaching and administrative staff members of
the institute (not including about 100 peons, farm laborers, campus security
guards and animal caretakers) only 55 are provided with living quarters.
Many students and staff members are facing serious problems in finding
suitable places to stay and in commuting to and from the campus. The school
farm needs to be developed to improve the practical training activities of
the students and research activities of the staff. Only about one fourth of
the 300 hectare school farm can be used for production and research. The
remainder is accessible to outsiders and stray animals and needs to have
irrigation and drainage systems if it is to function effectively. Aside from



-7-
inadequate farm facil-ty for research, expansion of the research program is
hindered by inadequate field and laboratory equipment and materials. The
extension program of IAAS also needs considerable support. The carrying out
of effective extension activities has also been hampered by lack of
appropriate equipment and materials, particularly for conducting on-campus
field days, community field demonstrations, farmer training and for the
development and production of extension materials. In addition, the
Institute needs to have an auditorium to permit the student body and faculty
to carry out more extra curricular and common activities and utilize their
leisure time more profitably. The students and staff have no opportunity to
engage in recreational activities outside of the campus due to its remote-
ness.
2.13    The coordination of the activities of IAAS with the agricultural
development program of HMG needs to be improved. At present, the academic,
research and extension programs of IAAS are not closely linked with the
agricultural development plans of HMG. The development of human resources as
a means for more effective implementation of agricultural development
activities is given little importance by agricultural development planners.
There is a need for the agricultural agencies and planners of HMG and IAAS
authorities to promote closer contact among themselves and to develop aware-
ness of each other's role and activities in order that effective coordination
could be achieved.
2.14    The proposed project seeks to address these problems and to support
the decisions of HMG in respect of the reforms in the agricultural education
system. The project will also assist in curriculum development, provision
of equipment, supply of training materials, rehabilitation of physical
facilities, improvement of the quality of instruction and establishment of
an educational supervision system. It would also upgrade and expand the
research and extension programs of the Institute and thus contribute to the
agricultural development efforts of Government.
External Financing of Agricultural Education and Training
2.15    Foreign assistance in agricultural education and training has been
focussed primarily on the development of the Institute of Agriculture and
Animal Sciences (IAAS) and on improving the in-service training program of
the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) for its staff at all levels. However,
hardly any assistance has been given to improve pre-service middle level
agriculture training.
2.16    The development of IAA.S has been carried out under a USAID funded
project since 1974. USAID has provided most of the existing physical
facilities and teaching equipment and materials and has assisted in estab-
lishing its present general agriculture degree program. The project has been
executed mainly by consaltants from the Mid-Western Universities Consortium
for International Activities (MUCIA). To date, of about 77 members of IAAS



-8-
teaching staff, 60 have been trained abroad under the USAID project which
terminated in September 1984. Considerable improvements have been
accomplished in instructional programs, and in staff development. !Nowever,
much needs to be done to improve physical facili ies. The teaching staff
needs to be reinforced with qualified instructors in agricultural engineer-
ing, agro-forestry, in-land fish production and soil conservation, and the
research and extension programs need expansion and adequate support.
2.17    Since 1970, the Federal Republic of Germany under its Agency for
Technical Cooperation (GTZ) has assisted MOA in improving in-service training
programs for MOA staff at all levels. A new training center has been estab-
lished at Khairenitar, near Pokhara. In 1983, GTZ also seconded a training
specialist to the Extension and Training Division of DOA to assist in
developing a systematic program of in-service training for all grades of
staff.
2.18    Other donors also contributed to the development of agricultural
training. In the 1970s, another training center for in-service training of
JTAs, Agriculture Assistants (AAs) and farmers, was established in Janakpur
through Japanese aid. In early 1980s the British ODA assisted in estab-
lishing young farmer training programs in two hill areas, Lumle and Pakribas
under the Ministry of Education's Technical Schools Program. Similar training
programs were established by the United Mission to Nepal (UMN) in Jtumla and
by the Swiss Association for Technical Assistance (SATA) in Jiri, both in the
hill area.
Bank Group Participation in Education and Trai%inz
2.19    The proposed project is the first IDA intervention in pre-service
agricultural education. Under the on-going Agricultural Extension and
Research Project (Cr.llO0-NEP), the physical facilities of two regional
in-service training centers - Nepalganj and Bahairawa are being improved.
IDA is also assisting technical, vocational and forestry training. Technical
training for manpower development has been assisted in the First Education
Project which became effective on July 13, 1978. The project focus5es on
quality and quantity improvements in the supply of technical manpower at
certificate and diploma levels. Implementation is now proceeding satisfac-
torily but earlier shortages of building materials, which have now been
resolved, retarded implementation. Two years extension of the closing date
have been granted to allow successful completion of the project. The Second
Education Project became effective in July 1982 and focusses on improving the
quality of training for craftsmen and technicians in electrical, mechanical
and civil engineering. This project is progressing satisfactorily although
some problems are emerging regarding the effectiveness of some building
design consultants. Forestry skills training is being provided under Credit
1008-NEP (which became effective on September 18, 1980) for the development
of community forestry. This project is financing a new training center in
Pokhara to train about 40 foresters (diploma) and soil and water conservation



-9-
officers p.a. as well as 100 technicians; a further 100 technicians p.a. will
be trained through upgrading a similar training center at Hetauda. The
project has suffered initial delays of about 18 months on civil works con-
struction due to slow contractual procedures. A primary education project
which was approved by the Board in April 1984 aims to improve the quality of
primary education through teacher training, provision of instructional
maiterials and physical facilities and improvement of school management.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Formulation
3.01    In August 1981, based on the results of an agricultural manpower
study by the Agricultural Projects Service Center (APROSC) and of an agricul-
tural and training subsector review conducted by Ban1k staff, an IDA mission
visited Nepal to: (a) review APROSC'S manpower estimates in consultation with
HMG officials concerned and the problems being faced by the agricultural
education system in meeting the present and future agricultural manpower
requirements of the country; (b) identify the content of a possible IDA
assisted project for the improvement and further development of the agricul-
tural education system; and (c) arrive at tentative agreements with HNG on
the steps to be taken for the preparation of the project.
3.02    Tle project was prepared in November 1981 by a WB/FAO Cooperative
Programme Mission, based on a general consensus among representatives of all
the agencies concerned that the administration and management of middle level
agricultural training should be shifted from IAAS to MOA. After project
preparation, however, HMG decided against the shift and retained the
administration and management of middle level training with IAAS.  IDA.s
concern at this stage was to ensure that agricultural training adequately
reflected the needs of MOA, the major employer of trained agricultural man-
power. This was achieved by agreement with HMG that: (a) all decisions on
curricula and course content would be made by a Subjects Committee composed
of IAAS staff and senior field staff of the MOA; and (b) all policy matters
concerning training would be decided upon by a Faculty Board consisting of
senior administrators of IAAS, Tribhuvan University and MOA.
3.03    As a result of these decisions and agreements, amendments to the
proposed project were made by an IDA/FAO pre-appraisal mission in April 1983.
The revised proposal formed the basis for the appraisal of the project in
September 1983.



-10-
B.  Proiect Objectives. Strategy and Scope
3.04    The proposed project is designed to assist iM*G in: (a) improving the
quality and relevance of middle level agricultural (crop and livestock)
pre-service training; and (b) strengthening higher level agricultural
pre-service training at IAAS by establishing a BS degree training program
in animal sciences, upgrading the ecisting acadenic, research and extension
programs and correcting the deficiencies in space requirements and instruc-
tional facilities of the Institute.
3.05    Improvement of the quality and relevance of middle level trainirng
would be qi:hieved by:
(a) introduction of reforms in the structure and system of training;
(b) improvement in the management and supervision of training;
(c) curriculum development (including development jf student manuals and
provision of reference materials, teaching equipment and development
of the training farms);
Cd) teacher training;
Ce) establishment of a student selection and admission system; and
(f) rehabilitation of physical facilities of the training centers at
Paklihawa and Lamjung.
3.06    Strengthening of degree level traininR_ at IAAS would be achieved by:
(a) establishing a bachelor's degree program in animal science (including
curriculum deveLopment);
Cb) staff training;
Cc) developing the IAAS farm into an effective practical training and
research facility; and
(d) upgrading and expanding existing teacbing, extension and research
programs and physical facilities at Ramnpur.



-11-
C. Improving the Quality and Relevance of Pre-service Middle Level Agricul-
tural Training
3.07    ..rainina Program (Proposed Outlay US$ 4.72 million). jj   To imple-
ment RMG's recent decision to modify the system and structure of training
(para 2.06-2.07), the ITA curriculum has to be revised. Draft revisions have
been prepared by the SLbjects Committee to be reviewed and approved by the
Faculty Board (para 3.02). Curriculum revisions are focussed on the develop-
ment of knowledge and practical skills which are of direct relevance to the
duties and responsibilities of agricultural extension workers and tech-
nicians. The JTA curriculum has been reviewed and commented on by IDA.
During negotiations, HMG provided assurances that the Faculty Board would
complete its review and approval of the JTA curriculum which would be satis-
factory to the Association, by A;gust 31, 1985 to enable IAAS to implement
the curriculum starting the school year 1985. Student s-lection would be
carried out by the IAAS Student Admission Committee to be created by EMI
(pars 2.07). During negotiations, HMG provided assurances that the Student
Admission Committee would be established and the student selection procedures
finalized by May 31, 1985.
3.08    In support of the revised curriculum and to upgrade the living condi-
tions of the students and staff of the JTA training centers (Paklihawa and
Lamjung), the project would provide teaching equipment and develop the train-
ing farms into effective practical training facilities. Adequate space
requirements for teaching and housing of students and staff would be provided
under the project largely by repairing and renovating existing buildings.
Water and electricity would also be supplied. A few new structures, mostly
animal sheds and some student and staff housing, would be constructed. H1MG
completed a physical survey of all project sites, showing topography and
contours on faim areas, existing structures, services and utilities. The
survey provides a basis for detailed planning by the project engineer and
architect consultants of the repairs, renovations and farm development which
have been determined generally during project appraisal. In addition, 1MG
has also prepared a master list of required equipment for the proposed
project. The project would rehabilitate and renovate existing buildings to
accommodate 200 agricultural JTA students (30 females) at the Lamjung Train-
ing Center and 400 JTA students (40 females) at the Paklihawa Training Cen-
ter, of vwhich 300 would be taking agriculture and 100 livestock training.
This capacity would produce an annual output of about 550 JTAs (para 1.10).
3.09    Teacher Training and Training Management (Proposed Outlay US$ 0.48
million). A teacher training program for agricultural teachers would be
established under the Communications Development and Extension Education
1/ This and subsequent statements of proposed outlays are base cost
estimates.



-12-
Division of the Department of Rural Development (CDRD) at IAAS.  All teachers
at the JTA Training Centers would be required to undertake training in peda-
gogy including courses such as lesson planning, methods and techniques of
teaching agriculture, course and student achievement evaluation and educa-
tiornal psychology. Thereaftex, teacher training courses would continue to be
offered to JTA teachers who would need refresher training and to agriculture
teachers of MOA's in-service training program. USAID would provide 36
staff-months of expert services for an agricultural educator to assist IAAS
in developing and carrying out the teacher training program and to prepare a
five-year plan for the training of JTA teachers and HOA's agriculture
teachers. Thirty-six staff-months of fellowship training would also be
provided by USAID for a staff member of the CDRD who would eventually take
charge of the training program. The fellowship training would consist of
advanced studies in agricultural education at a suitable institution
preferably within the region. Essential training equipment would be procured
under the project to support the program. by Kay 31, 1985, IAAS would have
chosen the staff member to be sent for advar+ced studies and that application
for admission to a suitable university would have been made. USAID would
appoint the agricultural education expert by July 31, 1985.
3.10    To improve the management and supervision of JTA training, a suitable
senior staff member of 1AAS would be appointed by HMG as Assistant Dean for
Training.  This post would je integrated in the administrative structure of
IAAS (see Chart 1). The terms of reference for the post have already been
agreed with IDA.  In performing his management and supervision functions, the
Assistant Dean would be assisted by the CDRD staff member who would be in
charge of teacher training after he completes his advanced studies in
agricultural education (para 3.09). During negotiations, EKG provided
assurances that the Assistant Dean for Training would be appointed no later
than May 31, 1985.
3.11    Agricultural Manuals (Proposed Outlay US$ 0.19 million).  To rein-
force the introduction of reforms in the system, structure and curriculum
of middle level training and to help update the knowledge of practicing JTAs
and JTs on latest practices in agriculture, agricultural manuals in about 15
subject matter areas and written in Nepali would be developed. The manuals
would be designed to serve as student textbooks as well as reference guides
for JTAs and JTs. The Subjects Committee under the guidance of the Dean of
IAAS (who is also Project Director) and the Assistant Dean for Training would
select the subject matter areas in which the manuals would be written and
manage the preparation and production of the manuals. Selected local
agricultural scientists and subject matter specialists would be commissioned
under the project to prepare the drafts using locally available information
and materials and recently tested research findings. After the drafts have
been reviewed by the Subjects Committee for content, the manuscripts would be
edited by an expert in the Nepali language to ensure simplicity of writing
and conformity with the comprehension level of JTA students. About 90
staff-months of local expert services would be provided for the preparation



-13-
and editing of the manuiscripts.  Art work needed for the manuals, and print-
ing and binding would be financed by USAID and carried out by the existing
Tribhuvan University Ptublication Unit. Since most of those who would be
involved in the preparation of the manuals have full time jobs (scientists,
professors and subject mpatter specialists of the Extension Service), work on
manuals would be done during their spare time. It is estimated that the
writing, review and rewriting of the manuscripts, the preparation of
illustrations, testing and printing of the manuals will take at least two
years. Distribution of the manuals, therefore is expected during the third
year of the project. The manuals would be distributed to a total of about
3,600 JTA students and about 3,500 practicing JTAs and JTs during the project
period. During negotiations, XMG agreed to select and appoint the local
consultants who would prepare the draft of the agricultural manuals, by May
31, 1985.
D. Strengthening Degree Level Training at IAAS
3.12    Establishing a Degree Program (BS) in Animal Science (Proposed Outlay
US$ 2.08 million). To meet anticipated future shortages for higher level
livestock specialists (para 2.11), the project would finance the estab-
lishment of a degree program leading to the Bachelor of Science in Animal
Science at IAAS with an annual output of 50 graduates. About 48 staff months
of expert assistance (24 in veterinary science and 24 in animal husbandry)
would be provided by USAID to assist in curriculum development and in start-
ing the training program.  About 108 staff months of regional fellowships
for specialized trnining in animal husbandry (24), veterinary science (24),
animal genetics (36) and forage production (24) would also be provided by
USAID for teaching staff. Considering the existing facilities at IAAS and
its staff strength, only a few additional teaching facilities consisting of
one combined nutrition and environmental physiology laboratory, three class-
rooms and a few animal sheds would be required; only one additional teaching
position (veterinary science) needs to be created. However, due to the lack
of sufficient housing facilities for students and teachers at IAAS, addi-
tional housing for 180 students (80 females) and for 11 animal science teach-
ing staff members would be provided under the project. Since the need to
start the animal science degree program is urgent, the required experts would
be needed to assist in establishing the program as soon the project becomes
effective. USAID would appoint the needed experts no later than July 31,
1985. To ensure that the additional teaching staff would be available when
animal science training s'zarts, HMG provided assurances during negotiations
that the needed additional teaching post at IAAS would be created no later
than July 31, 1985.
3.13    Upgrading and Expanding Existing Programs and Facilities at IAAS
(Proposed Outlay US$ 2.76 million). To assist the Dean and staff of the
Institute in implementing the planned reforms in the system, structure and
academic programs of IAAS (paras 2.05-2.11), about 70 staff-months of
short-term consultatntships on specialized activities such as farm management,



-14-
operation, care and maintenance of scientific equipment, food processing and
home science and technology and including intermittent consultantship in
educational administration and management would be provided by USAID. USAID
would also reinforce the existing staff of the general agriculture degree
program (para 2.16) by providing about 96 staff-months of fellowships for
overseas training in agricultural engineering (24), agro-forestry (24), fish
production (24), and soil conservation (24). In addition, to promote aware-
ness among HMG's agricultural development planners, of the importance of
human resource development in development efforts and the role of IAAS in
agricultural development and to increase their competency in planning for
agriculture development (pare 2.13), about 96 staff-months of overseas fel-
lowship training in Human Resources Planning (48) and in Economics of
Agricultural Development (48) would be provided by USAID. The officers to be
trained would be selected by IlMG. About 41.7 staff-years of local fellow-
ships would also be provided by USAID for in-service training of IAAS and EMG
staff in various subject matter areas as needed. During negotiations, HMG
provided assurances that: (a) by May 31, 1985, the first group of IAAS staff
members [including the agricultural education fellow (para 3.09)] and the HMG
officers to be sent for overseas fellowship training would have been chosen
and that applications for admission to suitable universities, preferably in
the Region would have been made, and by December 31, 1985, all the others
would have been selected. USAID would appoint the agricultural education
administration expert on or before July 31, 1985.
3.14    To improve practical training of students and the research and exten-
sion activities of both students and staff at IAAS, USAID would finance the
development of the entire farm of the Institute, consisting of about 300 ha.
This would involve setting up of a drainage system, repair of irrigation
channels, fencing and land leveling and grading. Field and laboratory equip-
ment and materials would be provided (para 2.12) under the project. The
project would also assist in upgrading the living conditions of both students
and staff of the Institute by rehabilitating existing water and lighting
facilities. In addition, the project would provide an additional 23 staff
houses and an auditorium. Field sports facilities would be provided by USAID
to promote recreational activities in the campus community.  In order to
improve communications between Tribhuvan University (Xathmandu) IAAS campus
(Rampur) and its satellite campuses (Paklihawa and Lamjung), a radio com-
munication link would be established under the project between all these
campuses. A guest house would also be constructed in order that visitations
by staff of the satellite campuses to the main campus would be facilitated
and that IAAS would be able to invite more resource persons from outside and
increase the exposure of both students and staff members to new ideas and
developments.
3.15    To encourage female studenta to enroll at IAAS and to extend educa-
tional opportunities to students from remote and underprivileged Hill areas,
a total of about 40 - three-year scholarships (120 student-years) would be
provided by USAID. The cand:'dates would be selected and recommended by the



-15-
Admission Committee; the Scholarship Committee (Chart 1) chaired by the Dean,
1AAS, would review the recommendations and award the scholarships.
E. Project Implementation SuRport (outlay US$ 0.47 million)
3.16    Ex,.ept for the Project Director and the Project Coordinator who are
regular staff members of IAAS (para 5.01), the costs of the staff of the
Project Iraplementation Unit (PIU), who would provide the technical support
needed for project implementation and who would be employed only for the
duration of the project, would be financed under the project. The project
would also provide all equipment, materials and miscellaneous expenditures
required to carry out the functions of the PIU and for expenditures that
might be incurred in new project development and preparation.
F. Technical Assistance Summary
3.17    The technical assistance to be provided under the proposed project
would comprise 20.3 staff years (7.5 local and 12.8 expatriate) of expert
services and 189.7 staff years of fellowship training (28 overseas and 161.7
local). The assistance would be allocated as follows:
(a) 3 staff Years of expatriate expert services and 3 staff years of
overseas fellowships to assist in the establishment of the agricul-
tural teacher training program;
(b) 4 staff years of expatriate expert services and 9 staff years of
regional fellowships to assist in the establishment of a BS degree
training program in animal science;
(c) 5.8 staff years of short-term expatriate expert services to assist in
educational administration and management and in specialized
activities of LAAS;
(d) 16 staff years of overseas fellowships to reinforce the teaching
staff of the general agriculture degree program (8) and to enhance
capability of agricultural development planners in Government (8);
(e) 161.7 man-years local fellowships for selected male and female stu-
dents at LAAS (120) and for local in-service training of IAAS and HMG
staff (41.7); and
(f) 7.5 staff years of local expert service- to assist in the development
of agricultural student manuals.
3.18    In addition to agricultural manuals production, farm and sports field
development and programs support, USAID would finance all expatriate experts
and overseas and local fellowships required under the project as discussed in
previous paragraphs and would be responsible for the execution of this



-16-
project component.  However, USAID has assured IDA that the qualification of
all the experts to be recruited would be reviewed by the Association.
IV. PROJECT COST. FINANCING AND DISBURSEMENT
Project Cost
4.01    The total cost of the project is estimated at Rs. 246.68 million or
US$ 14.26 million equivalent. Detailed costs are given in Annex 1. The
estimated costs by project component are summarized below in Table 4.1.
Table 4.1:  Summary of Costs by Project ComDonent .J
(RMMlE   I3illiain3                                     1 T.t2i
-------------Z Fortiin   IM
Local  FoNign Total   Local Foridn Total  Exchang            Costs
A. IiqPuWtiNO QUALITY AND REAICE OF KID - LW   TRAINI
1. LAU       STA TRAINING P BR M                                            24*4k   18o34  42.76   1.41    1.06  2.47              43       23
2. PAKLIAA JT.   TRAININ  PROGRAM                                           20.70   18.1'  38S       1.20    1.05  2.25            47       21
3, TEAER TPAINING  D NlAMAEJmNI                                              0.99    7.36   9,35   0.06    0,43  0.48              8e        5
4. AGRICILTURML IWWM                                                         2.91    0.31   3.22   0.17    0.02  0.1             tO         2
9q*-Totl IMRINI  QAITY AN  RaEEAC  OF HID - LEML TRAINING                      49.02   4.2   93.22   2.83    2,55  5.39               47        50
3. 9TRET1ING OF K E  LW    TRAININS AT IAS
1. ESTAILISNIWI  OF W     IMWL SCIENCE  DEREE PROGRAM                       14.24   21.70  35.94   0.92    1.25  2.08             60        19
2.    SRING FACILITIES AM  PRdRll                                           20.24   27.43  47,67   1.17    1.59  2.26              58       26
Sth-Tota1 STRE MING OF DeM              LEI. TRAINING AT HAS                   34.48   49.13  M6     1.9         2.94  4.8      W      9        45
C. PROC  IIUNTATION l            tlT                                            7.94    0.24   8.18   0.46    0.01  0.47               3         4
Total IM11IIE COSTS                                                             S91.4    93.57 15.01   5.29    5.41 10.69               51       10
Phsical Cantioncies                                                            9.14    9.36  18.50   0.53    0.54  1.07              51        10
Prlc  Canti rnicif                                                            20.51   22.65  43,16   1.1t    1.31  2.50              52        23
Total PR I' CSTS                                                                121.10  125.58 24668   7400    726 14.26                St       133
1/ Totals do not add due to rounding.



-17-
4.02    Basis of Cost Estimates  Base costs refer tD September 1984 estimates
derived from September 1983 prices and were calculated on the following
basis:
(a) Construction costs - on facilities of a similar nature, currently
bid or completed in Nepal. The average cost per sq. meter was
estimated at about US$ 200 (excluding site development, contingencies
and professional fees). An appropriate reduction has been calculated
where existing buildings are to be repaired or renovated.
(b) Equipment and furniture - on lists prepared with assistance from
WB/FAO/CP during project preparation.
(c) Operating costs and recurrent expenses - on detailed breakdown of
salaries of additional staff and costs of services and materials.
(d) Architectural design cost, management and supervision - on standard
practice for conversion of buildings, amounting to 6.5% for design
and supervision services, and 3.5% for preparation of bills of quan-
tities and supervision.
(e) Consultant Services and overseas fellowships - on l'revailing rates
in Nepal and on the past Bank experience.
(f) Local Fellowships - on current actual analysis of student expendi-
tures at IAAS at about US$ 35 per month.
4.03    Customs duties and taxes.  Goods not specifically imported for the
project are subject to certain duties and taxes. In the cost estimates civil
works, locally procured materials, furniture and equipment include a tax
component.  This is estimated at 15%, 12% and 10% respectively and amounts to
about US$ 1.08 million.
4.04    Contingency allowances.  Estimated project costs include physical
contingencies estimated at 10% of the base cost for unforseeable factors. In
addition price contingencies (US$ 2.50 million) are incluted to cover
anticipated price escalation as shown in Table 4.2 below:
Table 4.2:  Price Escalation Estimates
84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88   88/89   89/90   90/91
Local Price Cont.        8.0%    7.0%    7.0%    7.0%    6.5%    6.5%    6.0%
Foreign Price Cont.      5.8%    8.5%    9.0%    9.0%    8.2%    6.7%    6.0%
4.05    Foreign Exchange Component.  The estimated foreign exchange component
including contingencies estimated at US$ 7.2 million represents about 50% of
the total estimated project cost, and has been calculated for major project
items as follows: (a) Construction 40%; (b) Site Development 30%;



-18-
(c) Professional Services 30%; (d) Furniture 60%; (e) Equipment 90%;
(f) Animal Stock 60%; and (g) Technical Assistance including Fellowship
Training 90%. These calculations have been based on detailed analysis of
expenditures in similar projects in Nepal.
F inanc inR Plan
4.06    Financial Plan.  The total project cost of US$ 14.26 million would
be financed as follows:
(a) proposed IDA credit of US$ 8.4 million equivalent would cover
64% of total project costs, net of taxes;
(b) USAID would finance US$ 4.1 million equivalent or 31% of total net
project costs; and
(c) the Government would finance the remaining net cost US$ 0.7 million
equivalent or 5% of net project costs, and all taxes.
The signing  of the contract between USAID and the Government for the financ-
ing of specified project items costing about US$ 4.1 million equivalent by
USAID would be a condition of project effectiveness.
4.07    The financing plan showing IDA credit allocation by category of
expenditure is presented in Table 4.3 below.



-19-
Table 4.3: Project Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Catagorv of Expenditure                      HMG    IDA    USAID   TOTAL
1. Civil works it                                    1.14   4.57      -     5.71
2. Furniture, Vehicles, equipme:it,                 0.05   1.30       -     1.35
books and educational materials 2/
3. Agricultural Manuals Production                    -      -       0.58   0.58
and program support V/
4. Local expert services including                    -     0.79      -     0.79
engineering and architectural services
5. Expatriate expert servTices                       -       -       2.69   2.69
and fellowships
6. Farm and sports field development                  -      -       0.46   0.46
7. Project implementation technical support           -     0.33      -     0.33
8. Staff salaries, allowances, and other            0.51   0.53       -     1.04
operating costs
9. Unallocated                                      0.04   0.90    0.37   1.31
TOTAL PROJECT COST g/                            1.74   8.42    4.10  14.26
less Taxes                                       1.08    -        -      1.08
TOTAL ProAect Cost Net of Taxes                  0.66   8.42    4.10  13.18
1/ Includes site development, water and lighting facilities; excludes
professional fees.
2/ Includes animal stock.
/  Includes support for research, extension and publication and printing.
4/ Totals may not add due to rounding.
4.08    Recurrent Expenditure.  To assist the Government in operating the
project institutions, the Credit would include financing of incremental
recurrent expenditures on a declining basis consisting mostly of operating
and maintenance costs, and a small amount for staff salaries during the
prtject period from July 1985 to June 1991.
4.09    Recurrent Cost Implications.  The additional recurrent costs gener-
ated by this project when fully operational would amount t) Rs. 2.97 million
per annum in 1983 prices which is equivalent to about one half of one percent
of the total estimated public sector expenditures for education in fiscal
year 1982/83. These expenditures could be accommodated without undue finan-
cial difficulty to the Government.
4.10    Local Budget Requirements.  Budget allocations would be nade avail-
able to the project on an annual basis, in accordance with the Forecast of
Expenditures and Disbursements shown in Annex 2. In addition, funds required
on expenditures not eligible for IDA financing, such as taxes and duties,



-20-
would also be provided in the budget. The Project Implementation Schedule
(Annex 3) would be reviewed and revised annually and the financial require-
ments of the project would be adjusted as necessary by the Project Implemen-
tation Unit (PIU) to ensure that project implementation is not delayed, and
operation of the project institutions does not suffer because of lack of
funds. During negotiations, HMG provided assurances that it would (a) fur-
nish to the Association by May . each year starting 1986, a revised project
implementation schedule, and estimates of the required project funds for the
following Borrower's fiscal year; and (b) make the necessary funds available
so as to ensure prompt project implementation during the life of the project.
V. MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
Proiect Management
5.01    Overall project implementation would be carried out by a Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) to be established at IAAS (Chart 2). The Dean of
the Institute would act as PIU Director. The Assistant Dean for Training who
is responsible for the management and supervision of the middle level
agricultural training program of IAAS (para 3.10) and the Assistant Dean for
Academic Affairs who is in charge of higher level education at IAAS would
advise the PIU Director in the implementation of educational aspects of the
project. A Project Coordinator who would be directly responsible to the PIU
Director would take charge of day to day moniLoring and management of project
activities and a semi-annual assessment (in January and July of each year) of
the progress of implementation on the basis of project objectives and the
implementation schedule. The Project Coordinator would be selected from the
existing staff of IAAS. During negotiations, EMG provided assurances that
the project assessment report would be submitted to IDA for review by
February 28 and August 31 of each year during the life of the project start-
ing 1986.  The Project Director and Project Coordinator of the PIU have
already been appointed by HMG. The other staff members of the PIU, would
consist of a project engineer, three assistant engineers (one for each
project site), an accountant/bookkeeper, a procurement officer, an accounts
assistant and supporting staff. The project engineer has been designated by
HMG.  The establishment of the PIU and the appointment of the project
engineer, accountant/bookkeeper and procurement officer would be a condition
of credit effectiveness.
5.02    A Project Implementation Board to be established by HMG and chaired
by the Vice Chancellor of Tribhuvan University with members composed of
senior level representatives of the Ministries of Finance, Agriculture,
Education and the National Planning Commission would be established to assist
the PIU in solving implementation problems that may involve policy issues.
One of the main functions of the Board would be to expedite matters (such as
civil works contracting, budgeting and release of local funds for project



-21-
work) requiring clearance or approval by HMG and requiring inputs from exist-
ing Government entities such as the Subjects Committee and the Faculty Board
of IA.3 (for preparation, review and approval of the JTA curriculum and the
review and approval of the drafts of agricultural manuals) and the Tribhuvan
University Publication Unit (for artwork, printing and binding of the
agricultural manuals). The establishment of the Project Implementation Board
by HMG with terms of reference acceptable to IDA would be a condition of
credit effectiveness.
5.03    Architectural Design and Professional Services.  Designs of staff
houses, hostels, and academic facilities constructed at IAAS under the USAID
project (para 2.16) which are available at IAAS wc-uld be utilized as much as
possible. Designs for new buildings as well as for conversions and renova-
tions of existing buildings and supervision of construction would be carried
out by a local architectural consulting firm which has been appointed by HMG.
The firm was selected on the basis of demonstrated skill in building conver-
sions and renovations and project delivery. The firm has a qualified quan-
tity surveyor to prepare bills of quantities, cost plans and establish cost
control mechanisms. USAID would finance the architectural fees to be
incurred during the period from negotiations to credit effectiveness to
enable the consultant architects to prepare working drawings prior to credit
effectiveness. HMG has recently prepared model bidding documents which were
approved by the Bank for procurement of goods and civil works. These models
would be used in preparing the bidding documents and no problems are foreseen
in completing the project bidding documents before credit effectiveness.
5.04    Maintenance of Physical Facilities.  To ensure the effective use of
buiidings, furniture and equipment, funds for operation and for maintenance
and repair of physical facilities and equipment have been included in the
Credit. HMG provided assurances during negotiations that sufficient funds
would be provided, thereafter, for this purpose.
Project Implementation
5.05    Implementation Schedule.  The project would be implemented over a
period of about six years. To assist in effective and timely project execu-
tion, a detailed implementation schedule, acceptable to the Government has
been prepared (Annex 3). This schedule would also serve as basis for
monitoring project implementation and iwould be updated regularly (para 4.10)
by the Project Director and the Project Coordinator, in consultation with the
project engineer for the physical aspects of the project and with the Assis-
tant Dean for Training (middle level training) and the Assistant Dean for
Academic Affairs (higher level education) for the educational aspects.
5.06    Review and Approval of Project Activities.  IDA would review and
approve all master equipment and furniture lists, building materials
schedules, equi-ment specifications, site layouts, plans and preliminary
designs for civil works, draft tender and contract documents, packaging of



-22-
civil works/equipment contracts and all related cost estimates under the
Credit. USAID would review and approve the fellowship programs, terms of
reference of expatriate experts, and the procurement of all items which it
finances.
Procurement Procedures
Local Competitive Bidding (LCB)(US$ 7.55 million) 1/
5.07    Civil Works (US$ 6.27 million).  Past experience in Nepal has shown
that contracts for civil works below US$ 800,000 per contract and for build-
ing repair or conversion work do not attract foreign bidders. Since the
project sites are widely dispersed, civil works contracts would be much less
than US$ 800,000 per contract and therefore contracts would be awarded on the
basis of local competitive bidding following procedures which are satisfac-
tory to the Association and do not exclude foreign bidders.
5.08    Furniture. -Equipment and Vehicles (US$ 1.28 million).  The equipment
to be procured under the project consists of small items needed for teaching
purposes and a few vehicles and office equipment, most of which would be
needed as soon as the project starts. This equipment cannot be grouped into
packages for bulk procurement of at least US$ 100,000 for ICB.  ContractE for
furniture are expected to be below US$ 250,000 per contract which would not
attract foreign bidders. Therefore, procurement would be through local
competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Other Procurement Methods Including Direct Purchase and Off-che-shelf Shop-
pina_(local and international) (Us$ 1.09 million)
5.09    Off-the-shelf items of furniture, equipment and educational materials
(excluding books, journals and animal stock) not exceeding US$ 30,000 equiv-
alent for each contract and aggregating to a maximum of US$ 110,000 would be
purchased on the basis of a minimum of three competitive price quotations.
Books and journals (US$ 0.08 million) would be purchased directly from pub-
lishers or authorized distributors at the lowest possible prices on the basis
of at least three price quotations if applicable. Animal Stock (US$ 0.03
million) for instructional purposes would be purchased directly from live-
stock breeders. Engineering and architectural services and local consultants
(tUS$ 0.87 million) would be provided in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines.
5.10    Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 5.1 below.
1/ This and subsequent statements are estimates including contingencies.



-23 -
Table 5.1: Procurement Procedures (US$ million)
Procurement Method
Total
Catagory                         ICB    LCB      Other     NA       Cost
1. Civil works                            -      6.27     -         -       6.27
-    (5.02)    -         -       (5.02)
2. Furniture, vehicles, equipment,        -      1.28    0.22       -        1.50
books and educational materials a/   -    (1.28)  (0.16)         -      (1.44)
3. Agricultural manuals production        -       -       -        0.64 b/  0.64 b/
and program support                    -      -        -         -        -
4. Local expert services including        -       -      0.87       -       0.87
engineering and architectural          -      -      (0.87)      -      (0.87)
sernices
5. Expatriate expert services             -       -       -        2.96 b/  2.96 b/
and fellowships                        -      -        -         -        -
6. Farm and sports field                  -       -       -        0.51 b/  0.51 jX
development                            -      -        -         -        -
7. Project implementation                 -       -       -        0.37     0.37
technical support                      -      -        -      (0.37)   (0.37)
S. Staff salaries, allowances and         -       -       -        1.14     1.14
other operating costs                  -      -        -      (0.72)   (0.72)
TOTAL c/                            -     7.55    1.09      5.62    14.26
-    (6.30)  (1.03)   (1.09)   (8.42)
Note:  Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Credit.
a/ Including animal stock.
b/  Financed by USAID.
c/ Totals may not add due to rounding.
5.11    IDA Review and Approval of Procurement Decisions.  Prior approval of
the Association would be required for the award of any civil works contract
exceeding US$ 200,000 equivalent and for contracl:s for the purchase of any
equipment, books, furniture, and consumable training materials for opera-
tional activities exceeding US$ 50,000 equivalent resulting in a coverage of
about 90% of building materials and works contracts and about 50% of goods
contracts. The PIU would be advised to forward bid evaluations and recommen-
dations for contract awards to the Association, allowing sufficient time (at



-24-
least one month) for review and approval.  In addition, bid validity dates
would be estabjiqhbd to allow the PIIU or evaluating body involved, sufficient
time to process bids received, prepare an evaLustion and reach agreement on
award recommendations.
Project Accounts and Audits
5.12    PIU wouxld prepare and maintain project accoumts in accordance with
sound accounting practices.  Separate project accounts wouLd be prepared and
maintained for payments on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (para
5.13). During negotiations, Government provided assurances that (a) accounts
and financial statements for each fiscal year would be prepaxed and audited
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, with separate accoumts
for payments on the basis of S- tement of Expenditures; (b) certified copies
of the audited accounts and financial statements, foT each fiscal year,
together with the auditor's report would be furmished to the Association as
soon as available, but not more than nine months after the end of each fiscal
year.
Disbursements
5.13    The proposed credit of US$ 8.42 milLion would finance 93% of project
costs after deduction of US$ 4.10 million contributed by US&ID, net of cus-
toms duties and taxes. The Credit would be disbursed over a period of about
six years (Annex 2) which is about two and a halE years shorter than average
disbursement profile of all IDA assisted education projects Bank-wide from
YY1974 to FY1983. This reduction is justified since all project sites exist,
and architectural designs and bidding documents would be completed pTior to
credit effectiveness (para 5.03). Disbursement fron the proceeds of the
credit would finance various categories in the folloving manner:
(a)  80% of local project expenditures for civil works;
(b)  100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of Local expenditures (ex-factory),
70% of local expenditc.re (off-the-shelE) for equipment, educational
materials, furnitare, vehicles, and books other than agTicultural
manuals;
(c)  100% of local expenditures for professional services co'vering
architectural design and supervision and consultant services;
td)  100% of local expenditure for project implenentatiom technical
support; and
(e)  100% for FY85/86, 90% for FY86/87, 80% for FY87/88, 60% for FY88189,
40% for FY89/90, 20% for FY90/91 for incremental staff salaries,
and operating costs (FY - fiscal year frcm July 16 to July 15).



-25-
5.14    With the exception of items (d) and (e) above, all withdrawal
applications for contracts equal to, or in excess of US$ 10,000 will be
supported by full documentation. Vitbdrawals against items (d), (e) and for
contracts below US$ 10,000 in value would be made against statements of
expenditure (SOE) certified by the Project Director. Documentation in sup-
port of SOEs would not be submitted to the Association but would be retained
by the PIU for review by IDA's supervision missions. In addition, this
documentation would be subject to an independent auditor's report which would
be submitted no later than nine-months after the end of the Borrower's fiscal
year in which the expenditures covered by the SOEs were paid. To extent
practicable, withdrawal applications would be aggregated in amounts equiv-
alent to US$ 50,000 or more (but not less than US$20,000), prior to submis-
sion to IDA for reimbursement.
VI.  BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
6.01    Agricultural development in Nepal has been given the highest priority
by HMG from the start of the Fourth Five-Year Development Plan period (1970).
Since then, in spite of considerable investments in agric'ltural inputs,
increases in production leave much to be desired.  A number of factors con-
tributed to this slow growth in production. HMG realizes, however, that one
important factor is inadequacy of present agricultural extension and research
services largely due to lack of sufficient and adequately trained manpower.
The main benefit from the proposed project is that it would help ensure
adequate quality and supply of agricultural manpower in Nepal within the next
decade which would contribute directly to raising agricultural productivity.
The project would serve as a medium through which the inadequacies of
agricultural education in the country would be corrected. At the middle
level, the project would support institutional reforms in the system, struc-
ture and content of training to make it terminal, practical and focussed on
the skill requirements of field extension workers and agricultural tech-
nicians. At the higher level, the project would fill the gap in the agricul-
tural training system by establishing a training program at IAAS for live-
stock specialists and would break the Government's complete reliance oiL
foreign universities and external assistance for such training. It wouLd
also upgrade and expand on-going training, research and extension programs of
the Institute by providing the required facilities and support.
Risks
6.02    The project sites are located relatively far from each other with
poor means of communication between them. One project site (Lamjung) located
in the hill area, can be reached only by trekking from the nearest dirt road
about 10 km. away. During rainy weather, trekking is slow and difficult and



-26-
there is a risk that supervision of project activities by the PIU, which is
based in one of the project sites (Rampur) would be irregular or infrequent.
This could cause delays in project implementation or jeopardize the achieve-
ment of the project objectives. To iminimize this risk, the project would
provide a radio cozmunications link between the Tribhuvan UIniversity (at
Kathmandu), IAAS and the other project sites. In addition, in each of the
outlying sites (Lamjung and Paklihawa) a full-tixe assistant project engineer
would be posted to provide day-to-day management of the physical aspects of
the project in their respective locations (para 5.01).
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01    During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it
would:
(a) cause the Faculty Board to complete the review and approval of the
JTA curriculum vhich would be acceptable to the Association, by
August 31, 1985 (para 3.07);
(b) create the Student Admission Committee and finalize student selection
procedures by May 31, 1985 (para 3.07);
(c) appoint the Assistant Dean for Training no later than M4ay 31, 1985
(para 3.10);
(d) appoint the local consultants wbo would prepare the draft of the
agricultural manuals, by May 31, 1985 (para 3.11);
(e) create the additional teaching post at IAAS no later than July 31,
1985 (para 3.12);
(f) choose the first group staff mem:nbers and HMG officers for fellowship
training and that applications for admission to suitable universities
preferably in the Region have been made by May 31, 1985, and by
December 31, 1985, all the others would have been selected (para
3.13);
(g) furnish the Association by Kay 1 each year starting 1986 a revised
itapleinentation schedule and estinates of required project funds for
the following Borrower's fiscal year and make the necessary funds
available to ensure prompt project impleaentation during the life of
the project (parE 4.10);



-27-
(h) conduct a semi-annual assessment (in January and July of each year)
of project implementation progress and submit to IDA for review the
assessment report by February 28 and August 31 of each year starting
1986 during the life of project (para 5.01);
Ci) provide sufficient funds for maintenance of physical facilities after
the project is completed (para 5.04); and
(j) prepare accounts and financial statements for each year and have them
audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the Association with
separate accounts for payments on Statement of Expenditures and
submit to the Association certified copies of the audited accounts
and financial statements not later than nine months after the end of
each fiscal year, during the life of the project (para 5.12).
7.02    In addition to the usual conditions, the following would be condi-
tions of credit effectiveness:
(a) signing of contract between USAID and Government for the financing
of specified project items by USAID (para 4.06);
(b) establishment of the PIU and appointment of the project engineer,
accountant/bookkeeper and procurement officer (para 5.01); and
(c) establishment of the Project Implementatio,; Board (para 5.02).
7.03    Subject to the above conditions and assurances, the proposed project
constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$ 8.42 million to His
Majesty's Government of Nepal for a term of 50 years including a 10 year
grace period.



-28-                                                       ANNEX  I
Table
#EPAL
AGRICtlLTURAL RAINIMG PROJECT
ProJect Cowmontns b  Year
(RUPEE Ml1;lion)
Total
am  Costs                 ..   ...,..
85/86 86/87 87/88 88/89 89/90 "/91  RJP   Nillion)
A. IUING GALITY AND R£LEVANCE OF MID - LEEL TPAINING
1 LAUtNB JTA TRAINING PROM                                            12.38 13.10  8.36  6.11  1.38  1.42   42.76      2o47
2. PAKLIHA JTA TRAINING PROBRAM                                        11. L 11.47  7.57  5.45  1.26  1.29   38.89      2.25
3, TEACfR TRAINING AND MNAGMT                                           1.83  2.61  2.55  1.15  0.10  0Q10    8.35      0.48
4. AGRICULTRL  ANUALS                                                   1.61  1.61     -     -     -      -    3.22     0.19
Sub-Total I11ING  ULITY AND RELEUANCE OF MID - LEUEL TRAINING             27.67 28.79 18.48 12.71  2.74  2,81   93.22      5.39
B. STRMTHENING OF DERfEE LE'a  TRAIMING AT 1AA8
1. ESTABLISHENT OF ANIMAL SCIENCE DEGREE PROM                          11,12 11,5  8.94  3.12  D.45  0.46   35.94      2.08
2. UPGRADIRG fCILITIES OND PRORAMS                                     11,93 12.58 10,64  7,67  4.66  0.18   47.67      2.76
Sub-Ttal STRENGTHENING OF DEGREE LEUEL TRAINING AT IAAS                   23.05 24,43 19.58 10.80  5.12  0.64   83.61      4.83
C. PROJEC1 IMPlMN ATION GPPRT                                             0,83  1.66  1,43  1.43  1,43  1.42    8.18       0.47
Total BASELIE COSTS                                                         51.55 54,88 3949 24,94 9.28  4,87  185.01    10.69
Physical Coatir9ncius                                                     5.16  5.49  3.95  2,49  0.93  0M49   18.50      1.07
Price Contingencies                                                       4.54 10.03 11,37  9,85  4.59  2,79   43,16      2.50
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                         61.25 70.40 54.81 37.27 14.81  8.14  246.68    14.26
rl=-cr= ==--a 0=-:-:: =--==  rwxt=    - W: wac:- s-
Taxes                                                                    4.51  5.42  4.63  3.01  0.47  0,51   18.74       1.08
Foreign Exchdme                                                          W3.7  36.19 29.58 19.52  7.38  2,15  125.58      7.26
_~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ ~                                 -    -_    -- -- -   -----  _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _       _ _ _   . ._   _ _ _ _



-29-.                                                                                    ANVNEX  I
T3able 2
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL. TRAIONING PROCT
Suweav Account bv Project Componet
(RUPEE hi IlI In)
INPION O QALITY AND R!LEVANCE OF NIB - LEVEL          STRENGTHENING U' DEGREE LEVL
TRAINING                                  TRAINING AT IAAS
-- -------- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- ---- -----    .. .. ... .. .. . . .                                    Phosical
LAN.F  JN TA   PAIKLII4A     TEAME                       ESTALIS9IONT DF   0P60A0100         PROJECT              Contlnluncl.o
TRAINING    JTA TRAINING  TRAINING AND  AGRIC(LTIRML   AJIIIIM  SCIENCE    rACILITIES   IIPLENE0TATION-
PROGAM       PIROWAM      NAAEXET    NMIALS             DECKE PROORAN   AND PROOASM       SWPRT         Total    I    Amount
1. IWESTNCENT COSTS
A, CIVIL VMRS
BUILDINGS                                               25.35          20,21             -              -15.55                       10.72                -   71.80.  10.0    7.19
SITE AEVLOPLOINET                                         2.50          1.99"                                           1.53          1.05                -    7.011  100.0  0.71
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES                                     2.75          2.19             --1.69                                       1.16                -    7.79   10.0    0.78
Sub-Total CIVIL UOR(S                                      30,60          24,40             -                             10,77         12.93                -   06.70   10.0    0.67
S. WATER AND ELECTRICITY                                     1.53          1.70             -1 40                                                            -    4.94   10.0    0,49
C. FARM AND SPORTS FIELD IOCVELOPNENT                        0.50          0.50                                               -          5.82                -    6.81   10.0    0.68
P. YEHICLES ESOIPNENT AND BUOS                               1.79          4.06          0,47                              1,63          0.68            0,27    8.90   10.0    0.09
E. FURNIttURE                                                3.41          3,04             -                              1,92          1,38                -   6'.711  10.0    0.97
F. AOINAL STOCK                                              0.11          0.21                            -        -                -                       -   0.32   10.0    0.03
B. AVRICULTURtAL MIAIRKS PRO4ITION                              -             -             -           2.05                  --                             -   2.05   10.0    0.28
H. FELLOWSHIPS
OI1RSEAS VELLOWSI4PS                                         -                         .5-2.84                                        5.84                -    9.64   10.0    0.96
LOCA  FELLOWSHIPS                                            ---                                                           -          1,27                -    1.27   10.0    0.13
Sob-Total PtLLONSIPS                                            -                         .5-2,84                                        7.12               - 10.91   10.0    1.09
I, COIOSVR.TMT SERICES
AGRICULTURA  HUIALS CEVCLPVENT                                                                   0.37                   ---                                 0.77   10.0    0.04
POJECTS PREPARATION SUPUT                                 --                                                            -3.40    30.0   10.0    0.34
54ib-ltal LOCA                                               ---                                    0.37                   -3.40    3.77   10,0    0.38
2. LIPATRIATE                                                --                       6.30                              0 .41        12.21               -   26.97   10.0    2.70
Soib-Total COROOTANT SERVICES                                   -                        6.30          0.37                8,41         12,26            3.40   30.73   10.0    3.07
J. PRDGRi SUPOT                                                 -                           -             -                   -          S.49               -    5.49   10.0   0.55
K. PROJECY INPLENENTATION TECMNICAL. SUPPOT                     ---                                                           -                          4.52    4.52   10.0    0.45
total INVESTNCNT COSTS                                        37.94          33,90          7.72          3.22               33.57         47.30            8.16  171.91   10.0   17.19
it. RECURRENT COSTS
A. STAFF SALARIES AND ALLOWANCS                                -             -             --                             0,16             -                -   0.16   10.0    0.02
0. VEHCLE  UNNING CMSTS AND EWJJPNET MAINTENANCE               -          0.59          0.2?              -               1,10                             -   2.06   10.0   0.21
C. DFFICE AATERIALS AND SUPPLIES                            1.20          1.68          0.34              -               0.60             --    3.82   10.0    0.38
D. WUILOING AND? P"IROl   MAINTENAC  COSTS                  3.61          2,71             -              -               0.43          0.30               -    7.05   10.0    0.70
Total RECOARER  COSTS                                           4.82          4,98          0.63              -               2.37          0, 30              -   13.10   10.0    1.31
Total BASLINE COSTS                                             42.76         30,89          0.35          3.22               35.94         41.67             0.18  185,01   10.0  18.50
Ptiosical Cootintencies                                       4.28          3.89          0.84           0.32               3,59          4.77             0,82   18.50    0.0    0.00
P'ice Ccotintmg0s                                             9.75          8.82          2.01           0.43               7,49         11."9             2.67   43,16    9.1    3.92
Total PROJECT COSTS                                             56.79         51.59         11.20          3.97               47.02         64.44           11,67  246,611   9.1   22.43
Taxes                                                         6.49          5.44          0.07              -               3.66          3.09                -   10.74    9.1    1.70
Foreign ExchonNo                                             24.59         24.30          9.88           0.38              20.43         37.69             0.31  125.58    9.1   11.42



-30-
ANNZEX 1
Table 3
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PRORCT
Summary Accounts by Yfer
aMe Costs                    Forelin
(RUPEE hillion)               Exchange
85/86 86/87 87/88 88/89 89/1O 90/91 Total      Aaount
*-XS= *Casa :zamC z2ozz ====CC==  =,==    =,=
I. INUESTHE   COSTS
At CIVIL WORKS
BUILDINGS                                       21455 26.11 16.9  7.18      -    - 71.83  41.7  29.94
SITE DEVELOP$ENT                                 2,83 2.12  1.42 0,71      -    -  7,08 31.7  24
PROFESSION4 SERVICES                             4,67  2.34  0.78    -    -    -  7.79  31.7  2.47
Sub-Total CIVIL ilORKS                             29.05 30.57 19.19  7.89    -    - 86,70 40.0  34.65
B. MATER AND ELECTRICITY                            2.45  1.82  0.49 0,17     -    -  4.94  41,7  2,06
C. FARM AND SPURTS FIELD DEVELOPMENT                2.24  2,60  1.38 0.58     -    -  6.81  31.7  2.16
D. VEHICLES EQUIPMENT AND BOOKS                     4.67 2.49  1.21  0.53    -    -  8.90  90.7  8907
E. fURITURE                                            -    - 4.87 4.87    -    -  9,74  61.5  5."
F. ANIMAL STOCK                                        -    - 0.16 016        -    -  0.32  61.9  0.20
S. AGICULTURML HAILS PROWCTION                      1,42  1.42    -    -    -    -  2,85  10.7  0,31
H. FELLOWSHIPS
OUERSEA  FELLOSHIPS                              2.69  3,32  1.74  1.11 0,79     -  9.64  90.7  8.74
LOAL FELLOJSHIPS                                 0.14 0,22  0.30 0.30 0.22  0.08   1.27  0.0  0,00
Sub-total FELLOWSHIPS                               2.83  3,54  2.04  1.41  1.01  0.08  10.91  80.1  8.74
I. CONSULTANT SERVICES
1. LOCAL
AGRICULTURAL MALS DEVELDOPENT                 0.19 0.19      -    -      -    -  0.37  0,0  0.00
PRDJECTS PREPARATION SUPPORT                     - 0.68  0.68 0.68  0.68  0.68   3.40  0.0  0,00
Sub-Total LOCAL                                  0.19  0.86  0.68  0.68  0.68  0.68   3.77  0.0  0.00
2. EXPATRIATE                                    5.60  8.76  6.65  3.50  2.45    - 26,97  90.7  24.46
Sub-Total CONSULTANT SERVICES                       5,79 9.62  7.33 4.18  3.13  0.68  30.73  79.6  24.46
J. PROORh  SUPPORT                                  1.10  1.10  1.10 1.10  1.10     -  5.49  31.7  1,74
K. PROJECT IMPLEETATION TECHMICAL SUNORT            0.79  0.75  0.75  0.75  0,75  0.74   4,52  0.0  0.00
Total INVESTMENT CSTS                                 50.35 53,91 38.52 21664 5.99  1,50 171.91  51.4  89.37
II, RECURRENT CMOTS
A. STAFF SALARIES AN ALLOWANCES                    0,03 0.03  0.03 0,03  0.03  0,03  0.16   0,0  0.00
B. VENICLE RUWNINt COSTS AND EQUIPMENT HAINTENANCE   0.41  0.33  0.33 0.33  0.33  0.33   2.06  85.4  1.76
C. OFFICE MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES                   0.76 0.61  0.61 0.61 0.81  0.61  3.82  31.7  1,21
D  BUILIDNiG AD FURNITURE HAINTEWNNCE COSTS           -    -    - 2,33 2.33  2,40  7.05 31.6  2.23
Total RECURREtT COSTS                                  1.20 0,97 0.97 3.30 3.30 3.37 13.10 39.7  5.20
Total BASELINE COSTS                                   51.55 54.85 39.49 24.94 9,28  4.87 185.01  50.6 93.57
Physical Coatinrenoies                               5.16 5.49 3.95 2.49 0.93 0,49  18.50 50.6  9.36
Price Contintencies                                  4.54 10.03 11.37 9.85 4,59  2.79 43.16 52.5  22.65
Total PROJECT COSTS                                    61.25 70.40 54.81 37.27 14.81 8.14 246.68  50.9 125.59
a-- ----- --…-                        …-:==  ==: =…--:= : ::=: =:::
Taxes                                                4,51  5.62 4,63 3,01  0.47 0,51  18.74  0.0  0.00
Foreign Exchde                                      30,76 36.19 29.58 19.52 7.38  2.15 125.58  0,0  0.00



- 31-
ANNEX I.
Table 4
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
SURNiARY ACCOUNTS COST SUNIIARY
(RUPEE Million)        (US$ Million)                I Total
…-----------          ----------              Foreign  Dase
Local  Foreign~ lotal   Local Foreign Total  Exchange   Costs
It IM4?STMET COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS
BUJILDINGS                                          41.89   29.94  71,83   2,42    1.73  4,IS          42       39
SITE DEVELOPMIENT                                    4.84    2s24   7.08  0,28    0.13  0.41           32        4
PROFESSIONAL SERVJICES                               5.32    2,47   7,79   0.31    0,14  0.45          32        4
Sub-Total CIVIL MORS                                   52.05   34,65  86.70   3.01    2,00  5.01          40       47
Bo WATER AND ELECTRICITY                                2.88    2.06   4.94   0.17   0.12  0,29           42        3
C. FARM MDJ SPORTS FIELD DEVELOPMENT                    4.66    2.16   6,81   0,27   0.12  0.39           32        4
D. VEHICLES EQUIPMENT AND DOO$                          0,83    8,07   8.90   0.05   0.47  0.51           91        5
E. FURNITURE                                            3.75    5.99   9,74   0.22    0.3z  1,56          61        5
F. ANIMAL STOCK                                         0.12    0,20   0,32   0.01    0,01  0,02          62        0
St AGRICULTURAL WMAULS PRODUCTION                       2,54    0.31   2.85   0.15    0,02  0,16          It        2
No FELLOWSHIPS
OVERSEAS FELLOWSHIPS                                 0,90    8,74   9.64   0,05    0.51  0,56          91        5
LOCAL FELLOWSIPS                                     1,27       -   1.27   0.07       -  0,07           -        1
Sub-Total FELLOWSIPS                                    2.17   8.74  10.91   0.13    0.51  0,63           80        6
Is CONSULTANT SERVJICES
1. LOCAL
AGRICULTURAL MANUALS DEVELOPMENT                  0,37       -  0.37   0,02        -  0,2           -         0
PMJECTS PREPARATION SUJPPORT                      3,40       -  3.40   0.20        -0,20            -2
Sub-7otal LOCAL                                      3,77       -  3.77   0,22        -  0,22           -        2
2. EXPATRIATE                                        2.51   24,46  26.97   0.15    1.41  1,56          91       15
Sub-Total CONSULTANT SERVICES                          46s28   24.46  30.73   0.36    1.41  1,78          80       17
J. PROGRAM SUPPORT                                      3.75    1,74   5.49   0.22    0410  0,32          32        3
K. PROJECT IIIPLEMENTATION TECHNICAL SUPPORT            4,52       -  4.52   0.26        -  0,26           -        2
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                   83.54   88.37 171,91   4.83    5.11  9.94           51       93
II. RECURREN COSTS
A. STAFF SALARIES AND AiLLOWNCES                       0,16       -  0.16   0,01        -  0,01           -        0
Ds VEHICLE RUNNING COSTS AND EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE    0.30    1,76   2,06   0,02    0.10  0.12           85        1
C. OFFICE MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES                       2,61    1,21   3.92   0.15    0.07  0,22          32        2
D. BUILDING AND FURNITUIRE MAINTENANCE COSTS          4.83    2,23   7.05   0.28    0.13  0,41           32        4
Total RECURREN  COSTS                                      7.90    5,20  13.10   0.46    0,30  0.76          40        7
Total BASELINE COSTS                                       91.44   93,57 185,01   5.2?    5.41 10,69          51      100
Phusical Contingencies                                   9.14    9,36  18.50   0,53    0.54  1.07          51       10
Price Contingencies                                     20,51   22,65  43.16   1.19    1.31  2,50          52       23
Tota?l PROJECT COSTS                                      121.10  125,58 246.68   7.00    7.26 14,26          51      133



-32-
ANNEX 2
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Proiected Disbursements
Expenditures                  Disbursement
IDA Fiscal Year           Semester   Cumulative          Semester   Cumulative
and Semester           ----(US$ Million) ------      ----(US$ Million)------
FY86
1. (Jul 85 - Dec 85)          0.18          0.18             0.09         0.09
2. (Jan 86 - Jun 86)          0.53          0.71             0.26         0.35
FY87
1. (Jul 86 - Dec 86)          0.93          1.64             0.46         0.81
2. (Jan 87 - Jun 87)          1.41          3.05             0.67         1.48
FY88
1. (Jul 87 - Dec 8.)          1.78         4.82              0.91         2.39
2. (Jan 88 - Jun 88)          2.00          6.82             1.04         3.43
FY89
1. (Jul 88 - Dec 88)          1.95          8.76             1.07         4.50
2. (Jan 89 - Jun 89)          1.83         10.60             1.07         5.57
FY90
i. (Jul 89 - Dec 89)          1.50        12.10              0.92         6.49
2. (Jan 90 - Jun 90)          1.22         13.32             0.79         7.28
FY91
1. (Jul 90 - Dec 90)          0.94        14.26              0.64         7.92
2. (Jan 91 - Jun 91)          0.00         14.26             0.50         8.42
Closing Date: June 30, 1991.



-33-
V1ACAI. YEAEn              I                fl'S             F           Y6 I                     F Y Sy                     FY0se                       FY69             F           y 90              
CALENDAR YEAH:I                   CY 84            1 I            0  C~8                  Y F6A                     CY47            1         CBe               I         CY 49            1         CY 90            F  CY 9I
OUARTYRiF    I  I  2  I  3  I 4   1  1  I  2  1  3  14  I  I  I 2  I  3  I  4  I  I  1 2  I  3  I  4  1  I  1 2  1 3  I A  1  1  I 2  1  3  I  A                                    I  I  2  I  3  14  I  1 I  2
MONTEISI FJVINJI JAN  FONOIJFMI4AH4IJASIOWN  IJIS4IAIJIJANIOII)IJflMIAIJIJASIOHDIJNN  IAHIJkglONIIIJflFAIJ IJASIONI)13IJ MIA)IJAS  IONSIJVHIIA)U
---------------------- I---------                  IIII                                                                                                                                       F
2.   (L!YJI TALFLT.REqYC1IL------------------  ------~ '                                                                                   F      I      I      I      I     I      I      II                                                                     
bl   OfSCH   UYELOPMHT  -----------------                -----          I                                 I      I     I       I     I                                        I      I          I         I            I  I          I      I 
.IICOS TRUCTIO N                OUMNS--------                         ---IQ1~                                                                                                                                                                                            
d)   87    DOCUENT8    --------------------   I--------   0 I                                        II  I  I      I                 I  I  I     I      I      I      I     I      I             I      I      I     I      I      I      I         I
b)  BDA      NNO   UN11 CEMN        ------------I-------------------    I                                                     I      I      I     I      I      I      I     I      I      I      I      I      I     I      I      I      I      I     I      I      I         P
C)     BI DING  ----- ----- ----- -----    -----       ---    ---    ---   --    ---   ---    ---    --     Il     I      I     I      I      I      I      I     I      I      I      I      I      I     I      I      I      I      I     I      I
a)SPREI MINA RY   LISTS            AN  D   …AYUS…----                          …----loo.1          I      I     I      I      I      I     I      I      I      I      I     I      I      I      I      I      I      I     I      I      I      I      I     I     I
b)  FIAL   LSTS   (PECSANI)COSTS    -------   ----------  I                            I      I00    I      I      I     I      I      I      I      I     I      I      I      I      I      I      I     I      I      I      I      I     I      I 
d)COBID   ANNOUNIlCEM          ENT ------…-----oo------------------  1.    I                                                         I     I      I      I      I      I     I      I      I      I      I      I      I     I      I      I      I      I     I         II
BIDING----------------------- ----------------------- I                                                    I      I      F                   Ioolooloo  I  I      I      I      I     I      I    I        I     I      I      I      IF        I
CONTRACT   AWARD   AND   APPROVALS  ----------I  ----------------------- I                                                         I      I      I     Iocooo     I      I     I      I      I      I      I      I     I      I      I         I      I
3.    SI AISIN   ACTl)   ICONSANDCSHIPP -I-                                                   -       -------------o.o---------------------------------------------------F.*I..,I                                                                                  I 
I         I      I     I      F      I      III  I  I  I        I         I      I                                           FI  IF I  I  I  IF
a)   REVCSUIIRAYT OF   LOCALEP                ERTS   …------I------------- lo oo                                      l I     I      I     I      I      I      I      I     I      I      I      I      I      I      I     I      I      I      I      I     I      I
b)OIOANNOSI)CENSNY…~                                     ~~~I…IoI  IoI                              I            I I          I          I      I     I      I      I      I      I  I         I         I      F      I  I      I      I         I
CSd)    RPAAI       ONO           RTG…X     N           A       INGO        … …1----…----…-------------                                    F0 -       I      I         I     I             I      I      I         I         I             I      I     F      I      I     I
A- ON1NACTS     ARR        AJFPE         ROIIE               …             …       …       …       ……I oI                     IooI          I     I      I      I      I      I     I      I      I      I      I      I     I      I             I      I     I 
b)  EXPERTN      SERVICE        PFN…I----------…---…                                  …----------1-Fo0 ool0010.oolooleoolooolooelooolooolocoloooloooloooloooloooloool                                                                            I      I looocI             I
F) SELECTIOS       O  CI A  NDIDATES  --------------…                                                                                                                 …       …      …      …       …      …----                 F F..          '-1         I      I
b)   TRININGPERIO    -------------------   -------------------  I                                           F 00I        F      I      I      F     I      I      I      F      F      F      F     I      Floolo0100100190    I  I  I       I  I  F       I
NEGTIAIOSNALLSS (PC                       0      OSTS            …        F         …      …          FoCIO9F                    F  4F                               DI   FCT    LU I TF IE   AN                 WA    IT      F  R IO        F      I      F                
BOARD   DATE   (ESTIKATE)                                        1  -  JF                                 F      F                   F             F            F      I      F      I            F                    F         19              I      I5
EFECIVYE  DATE(ETIMATEIJ)EFTS                                       …--ol MayI                                                                                     I                    I     F  19F                            I                    I      F     I          
CLOSING   DATE   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~                            I      F      F            I      I      F             F     IFJune                                          I      I        1991                                  I      F         



-34-                                 ANNEX 4
Page I
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
A. General Reports. Studies and Data Collections
A-1   Report on a Visit to Nepal, Volume I, September 9 to September 30,
1979; Volume II, November 19 to December 13, 1979; Alan Hall,
Technical Education and Training Organization for Overseas
Countries; Alan Hall, London, 1979.
A-2   A Pilot Extension Program for the Institute of Agriculture and
Animal Sciences (Nepal); IAAS Extension Committee and Dr. Paul F.
Kaplan, Rural Development Specialist, IAAS/MUCIA.
A-3   Manpower Development Program, Agriculture, Nepal; His Majesty's
Government of Nepal, Ministry of Food and Agriculture, Department
of Agriculture; Kathmandu, November 15, 1980.
A-4   A Comprehensive Planning and Building Program for the Insitute of
Agriculture and Animal Sciences at Rampur, Chitwan, Nepal; USAID,
Nepal, May 31, 1980.
A-5   Proceedings of the Third Joint Annual Review (of IAAS); IAAS,
MUCIA, USAID, February 1980.
A-6   Nepal, Development of I.AS Progress Report for the Period July 1,
1982 to June 30, 1983, USAID in cooperation with MUCIA.
A-7   Project Paper, Amendment Number Two, Nepal, Institute of Agricul-
ture and Animal Science, Agency for International Development,
Washington, DC, June 1983.
A-8   An Analysis of Progress and Outcomes of the Institute of Agricul-
ture and Animal Science Project, Rampur, Nepal (prepared for
USAID), September 1983.
B. Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B-1   Nepal, Agricultural Manpower Study; E. Davidson, July 1979.
B-2   A Proposed Prospectus for the Development of the Department of
Animal Sciences at IAAS; Weslie Combs, Consultant in Livestock
Development, 1982.



ANNEX 4
-35-                                Page  2
B.-3   Nepal, Education Sub-Sector Review on Agricultural Training, World
Bank, June 30, 1981.
B-4   Nepal, Trained Manpower for the Agricultural Sector, Vol. I and
Vol. II, Agricultural Projects Service Centers, Kathmandu, Nepal
July 1981.
B-5   Nepal, Education Sector Memorandum; World Bank, September 4, 1981.
B-6   Nepal, Agricultural Manpower Development Project, Preparation
Mission Report, FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program, Rome, March 8,
1982.
B-7   Nepal, Agricultural Sector Memorandum, World Bank, September 1,
1982.
C. Working Papers and Tables
C-1   Set of Working Papers.



-36-
NEPAL                                                       CHART I
AGRICULTURAL MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Institute of Agriculture and Animal Sciences, Tribhuvan University (IAAS)
nzational Chart
Dlean
Faculty Board
Campus Develo pment
Committee
Research Committee
Extension Committee
Examinations Committee
Scholarship Committee
Subjects Committee
Planning Committee
Student Admissioa
Committee
(to be established)
Asst. Dean                                 Asst. Dean                                 Asst. Dean
Administration                                 Training                             Academic Affairs
T                                  ---I
Administration                          Mliddle Level Training                    Higher Level Education
Services                                     Programs                                 Programs
(Lamjung & Paklihawa)                    (Academic Departments)
(     Campuses         )



-37-
NEPAL                                                                        CHART 2
AGRICULTURAL MANPOW%R DEVELopMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
OrganizatiOnal Chart
J   Project Director
(Dean, IAAS)
Asst. Dean for                                                    Arst. Dean for
Academic Affairs                                                   Training, IAAS
Project Coordinator
(Member, Faculty.IAAS)
Accountant/                                                      Project Engineer                                                     Procurement Officer
Book Keepe e
AccoLntant                        Asst. Engineer                 Asst. Engineer                  Aset. Engineer
Ass istant                          ( Lam jang)                      (Rarapur)                    (Pakl ihawa)/
;upport Servicea
(typists, drivers, pelons)



/   P t               2         ,HUM LA                                                                           EPAL 
JD A R C I  L A\    l                                                                                   AGRICULTURAL MANPOWER
y_ AJv~f/                                                   +~/>CHI-1NGA                                 DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
\  8AJHANG /  >       g   ~~~MUGU    1 .
(JbAITADI'              8JUA                   ,                                                                      Project Locations
>     - r-, \  'J <(ry >       ,
D~ADELDHURA       ~                      JUMLA .           DOP                 r 
!s? + DOTl KACHHA R ' K°r t (> < ;? | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Institute of Agriculture and AnimaliSciences
,KANCHAuR    (,  t;   -          DAILEKH jJpAJARKOT                                                                                     A    s  s G     JTA Torai ...  Centers (fJunior Technician Ass.stant)
<tw   tLu  KAtLALI  4  9  <     /   ~RUKUM                 FE f    MANANG                
'   ARIY \ ., )Sii,       N             _                     SKI   ,LAMJUNa            <     L\);                                                          B
-d8t                kr\(  ~~~~~~eANKE  *oP-yLJTHAN) GLMl  po                   6 4 %_tMSA71\ / .  
Oo         ;     i'SINDHU-               HOAN rLNt,fi?/>,S 
M.les 0      5.0              l~~~~DANDaUHR                                                ).IUWKD PACO <                       TUAP  ;T u > IA 
I        ;{9iIOANG)HIm 
w Xr  rJ *o v>s9^lii^<s;tt2lt l smettr.slo1s / ^~  SPTALISNAI  HPA  t 
tX   e.   '  .....1  'Jr  ^. _. _.D  _t .!A ....................... l . (.vSSh ......D...AD. IN_G( S>                       AN.......W..SAB..%, 
D   ^ ,'',.istric J' W', t,,'l, boundarie['V(Vls. .11 tB1-Di 7R~t' . ri nd  . 
.t _  . :.  ""' 3' '>  hZ°                                          ei,40                                            etAP                      ' A      -1 CH/    -tN



