Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5697 
Operation Name 
MA-SOLID WASTE SECTOR DPL2 
Region 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
Sector 
Solid waste management (100%) 
Project ID 
P119781 
Borrower(s) 
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Economy and Finance, Ministry of Interior and 
Ministry of Environment 
Date PID Prepared 
April 27, 2010 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
December 21, 2010 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
During the design of the programmatic series of DPLs, a review of the sector was conducted and showed that the 
municipal solid waste sector in Morocco faces a number of structural problems with serious impacts on urban 
environment, air quality and water resources, and some vital economic development activities including tourism.  
 
The government recognizes that failing to tackle the identified sector issues in a timely and integrated manner 
would further exacerbate the poor environmental, social and economic performance of the sector.  Key 
challenges and issues the sector is facing include:  
 

Country-wide collection efficiency in Morocco is estimated to be 75 percent, although major towns and 
cities show average collection rates of up to 90-95 percent, while less than 20 percent of collected waste 
is being disposed of in an environmentally and socially acceptable
 
manner. A key thrust of the 
government program is therefore to pursue environmentally sustainable development to reinforce long-
term growth.  
 

The legal framework remains incomplete and requires further development to ensure good sectoral 
governance in solid waste over the long term.   Morocco is undergoing significant change following the 
passing of the 2006 Solid Waste Law, the main tenets of which underpin the institutionalization of 
strategies and key principles for integrated and modern solid waste management throughout the country. 
However, some executive regulations remain to be adopted and/or effectively implemented 
 

The Government is encouraging municipalities to promote the role of private sector in service delivery as 
an option for improving cost-effectiveness, quality and coverage. However, necessary conditions for 
successful private sector involvement in professionalizing the sector are not fully established yet. 
 

Upgrading municipal solid waste systems will increase costs for municipalities in the range of 15-20%. 
Despite the potential for improving revenues through better local tax collection, there is limited visibility 
on municipal capacity to offset the cost increases in the long term, in particular for disposal. Thus, 
securing the long-term financial sustainability of the sector beyond the timeframe of government 
financial support remains essential.  
 
The program of two DPL operations, which was initiated by DPL 1 in 2009, is fully consistent with the Country 
Partnership Strategy (CPS).  The lending program envisaged in the CPS includes the proposed operation which 
contributes to the achievement of the CPS second and third pillars: (i) support to the improvement in access to, 
Page  2
and quality of services; and (ii) sustainable development in a changing climate. In addition the operation is fully 
aligned with the CPS cross cutting theme of enhancing governance.   
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The overreaching goal of the reform supported by the proposed policy development operation (DPL2) is to 
improve the economic, environmental and social performance of the municipal solid waste management in 
Morocco.  
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The proposed operation is the second and last of a programmatic series of two single-tranche DPLs. It will 
continue supporting the Government뭩 program for the reform of the Municipal Solid Waste Sector in Morocco 
with focus on three strategic reform areas: i: (i) improving governance of the sector through additional legal, 
regulatory, and institutional measures; (ii) improving the sustainability of the sector through the introduction of 
financial mechanisms and incentives; and (iii) mainstreaming social and environmental considerations.   
 
In accordance with the initially agreed reform program, this second operation is specifically designed to capitalize 
on the momentum gained during the first operation while deepening reform through results-oriented actions at the 
regional and local levels.  The key outcomes of the reform program include:  (a) effective inter-ministerial 
coordination of the National Solid Waste Program (PNDM) and a strengthened regulatory framework through the 
enactment of executive regulations for Solid Waste Management (SWM) planning, norms and standards; and (b) 
better financial sustainability through: allocation of financial resources consistent with sector policies and 
programs, improved cost effectiveness of private sector operators involved in providing SWM services, and 
additional sources of revenues generated through the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM); and (c) waste 
disposal practices consistent with international social and environmental good practices. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
An assessment of the potential impacts of supported policies on the environment and natural resources was 
carried out, and concluded that the measures supported by the program are expected to have significant positive 
environmental impacts. Main positive impacts  include (i) improvements in public health through proper 
collection, transport and disposal of municipal solid waste; (ii) decreased  potential contamination of groundwater 
(aquifer) and surface contamination from waste leachate; (iii) pollution reduction from on site burning of waste; 
(iv) improved  waste management with a special focus on waste treatment and disposal in sanitary landfills; (v) 
protection of the global environment though methane capture and (vi) empowerment of  municipalities as 
implementers of integrated municipal solid waste management. 
 
Furthermore, the positive contribution of the proposed operation is the mainstreaming of environment and social 
dimension into the solid waste management sector as well as mainstreaming the global environment into the local 
environment through the operationalization of the Clean Development Mechanism in the waste sector.  More 
specifically, the third DPL pillar is exclusively an environment and social related component.    
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
130 
 Total 
130 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Jaafar Sadok Friaa 
Page  3
Title: Lead Urban Specialist 
Tel: (202) 473-7124 
Fax:  
Email: jsfriaa@worldbank.org
 
