Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB6037 
Operation Name 
MA- Municipal Solid Waste Sector  DPL2 
Region 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
Sector 
Solid waste management (100%) 
Project ID 
P119781 
Borrower(s) 
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Interior, State Secretariat for Water and Environment 
Date PID Prepared 
October 6, 2010 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
 
October 22, 2010 
Date of Board Approval 
December 21, 2010 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
During the design of the programmatic series of DPLs, a sector review was conducted and showed that 
the municipal solid waste sector in Morocco faces a number of structural problems with serious impacts 
on the urban environment, air quality and water resources, as well as some vital economic development 
activities, including tourism.  
 
The Government recognizes that failing to tackle the identified sector issues in a timely and integrated 
manner would further exacerbate the poor environmental, social and economic performance of the 
sector.  Key challenges and issues facing the sector include:  
 
·
The country-wide collection efficiency rate in Morocco is estimated at 75 percent.  However, 
major towns and cities show average collection rates of up to 90-95 percent, while less than 20 
percent of collected waste is being disposed of in an environmentally and socially acceptable
 
manner.  A key thrust of the Government program is therefore to pursue environmentally 
sustainable development to reinforce long-term growth.  
 
·
The legal framework remains incomplete and requires further development to ensure good 
sectoral governance in solid waste over the long term.   Morocco is undergoing significant 
changes following the passing of the 2006 Solid Waste Law, the main tenets of which underpin 
the institutionalization of strategies and key principles for integrated and modern solid waste 
management throughout the country.  However, some executive regulations remain to be 
adopted and/or effectively implemented 
 
·
The Government is encouraging municipalities to promote the role of the private sector in service 
delivery as an option for improving cost-effectiveness, quality and coverage.  However, the 
conditions necessary for successful private sector involvement in professionalizing the sector are 
not yet fully established. 
 
·
Upgrading of municipal solid waste systems will increase costs for municipalities by about 15 to 
20 percent.  Despite the potential for improving revenues through better local tax collection, 
there is limited visibility of the municipal capacity to offset the cost increases in the long term, in 
particular for disposal. Thus, securing the long-term financial sustainability of the sector beyond 
Government
’s financial support timeframe remains essential.  
Page  2
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The development objective of the DPL program is to support the Government of Morocco in 
implementing its program of reforms aimed at improving the financial, environmental and social 
performance of the municipal solid waste sector in Morocco.  The first DPL (DPL1) supported the key 
foundations of Government’s reform program which established the enabling environment for an 
integrated and affordable municipal solid waste system. This second DPL (DPL2) supports capitalizing 
on the momentum gained during the first operation while deepening the reforms at the regional and 
municipal levels.
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
The program of two DPL operations, initiated by DPL1 which was approved in 2009, is fully consistent 
with the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS).  The lending program envisaged in the CPS includes the 
proposed operation which would contribute to the achievement of the CPS’ second and third pillars: (a) 
support to the improvement of and access to the quality of services; and (b) sustainable development in a 
changing climate. In addition, the operation is fully aligned with the CPS’ cross-cutting theme of 
enhancing governance.   
 
4. Financing 
 
Source: 
(Euro Million) 
 
Borrower 
          0 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
      100 
 
Total 
      100 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The same arrangements used for the first operation will apply to the proposed operation, including the 
following implementation and coordination mechanisms: 
·
The Steering Committee for the Municipal Solid Waste Sector DPL will continue to oversee loan 
coordination at the ministerial level. 
·
The National Commission for the National Program of Municipal Solid Waste (PNDM) will be 
responsible for the coordination, review, and evaluation of the solid waste sector reform program 
and the PNDM.  The National Commission is led by the Secretary of State in charge of Water and 
Environment and includes representatives of the MoF, the MoI, the SEEE, the MAEG and the 
FEC. In particular, the National Commission will ensure progress reporting and schedule 
management, action documentation, inter-ministerial coordination, and proactive corrective 
measures for lagging actions. The National Commission will also be responsible for 
communication with the Bank supervision team. 
·
The Program Management Unit established within the DGCL will be in charge of the day-to-day 
management of the PNDM. 
Page  3
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
The higher-level objective of the program is to improve the financial, environmental and social 
performance of the solid waste sector in Morocco.   The overall benefits expected from this operation are 
related to mitigation of the political, environmental, social and economic impacts of the existing 
municipal solid waste management system.  Government is committed to addressing these impacts as part 
of its policies to improve governance and performance in the sector, as well as the sustainability of related 
services in urban areas.  Moreover, the proposed Loan is expected to provide support to coherent 
implementation of the necessary reforms.  
The specific benefits expected from implementation of the reform program and from the PNDM 
supported by this operation are: (a) improved environmental and social conditions resulting from the 
progressive elimination of the existing dumpsites and construction of sanitary landfills; (b) enhanced 
access to waste collection services for the urban poor; (c) reduced cost of waste landfilling resulting from 
more cost-effective planning regulations and standards; (d) more efficient use of resources allocated to the 
solid waste sector and better targeted public subsidies to the sector; and  (d) growth and employment 
generation resulting from the creation of small and medium enterprises, the promotion of recycling and 
the integration of informal actors such as wastepickers.   
The risk environment is substantially the same as for DPL1, under which three main risks were identified:  
(a)  Commitments to the reform and implementation capacity risks
:
this potential risk is mitigated by 
Government’s strong commitment to: (i) scaling-up and mainstreaming the solid waste capacity- 
building activities within the Government program to support decentralization at the municipal level; 
and (ii) mobilizing appropriate financial and human resources to support program management at the 
national and local levels. 
(b)  The social acceptance risk
:
namely, that the reforms will be unacceptable to the general public 
and to wastepickers.  This potential risk is mitigated through Government’s decision to create a 
specific line item within the PNDM’s 2010 budget to expand these pilots, and the mandatory 
requirement for operators to cover social aspects in future contracts. 
(c)  The possibility of municipalities resisting the solid waste reforms
was initially identified as a 
minor risk for the 2009 operation, to be mitigated by the allocation of targeted financial support. 
However, concerns remain that the incremental cost of the required investments may prove too high 
for some municipalities. This potential risk is mitigated by the Government’s strong commitment to 
proceeding with the envisaged municipal finance reforms. Efforts are underway from both cost 
reduction and revenue generation perspectives, ranging from short- to medium- and long-term time 
frames. Inter-municipal cooperation and regionalization of solid waste disposal facilities will also 
help small municipalities in particular take advantage of the significant economies of scale in waste 
management. 
7.  Poverty/Social Impacts and Environmental Aspects 
 
An assessment of the potential impacts of supported policies on the environment and natural resources 
was carried out, and concluded that the measures supported by the program are expected to have 
significant positive environmental impacts. The main positive impacts  would include: (a) improvements 
in public health through proper collection, transport and disposal of municipal solid waste; (b) decreased  
potential contamination of groundwater (aquifer) and surface contamination from waste leachates; (c) 
pollution reduction from on-site burning of waste; (d) improved  waste management with a particular 
Page  4
focus on waste treatment and disposal in sanitary landfills; (e) protection of the global environment 
though methane capture; and (f) empowerment of  municipalities to manage integrated municipal solid 
waste operations. 
 
Furthermore, the positive contribution of the proposed operation is the mainstreaming of environmental 
and social dimensions into the solid waste management sector, as well as mainstreaming the global 
environment into the local environment through the launch of the Clean Development Mechanism in the 
waste sector.  More specifically, the third DPL pillar is exclusively an environment and social component. 
 
The DPL program design takes into account the results of an analysis of potential socio-economic impacts 
of solid waste management reforms. A Poverty and Social Impact Analysis (PSIA) was conducted 
between March and June 2008 to: (a) establish baseline data regarding the size of the informal solid waste 
sector, the characteristics of the groups and individuals involved, and the economic relevance of waste 
collection activities for their livelihoods; (b) determine the likely negative and positive effects of the 
reforms; (c) identify options to mitigate adverse impacts and maximize potential benefits; and (d) identify 
the remaining analytical and data requirements for the proposed second DPL.  The analysis benefited 
from decision-maker inputs at various levels as well as several civil society organizations, and in this 
sense, served as a platform for stakeholder consultations on the objectives and broader dimensions of the 
reform program. 
 
8. Contact point: 
 
Contact:  
Jaafar Sadok Friaa 
 
Title:  
Lead Urban Specialist 
 Tel: 
 
(202) 
473-7124 
 Fa: 
 
 
(202) 
473-1609 
 Email: 
jsfriaa@worldbank.org 
 
9.  For more information, contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
