                                            Documentof
                                         The World Bank


                                   FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                           ReportNo. 41349-GZ




                               EMERGENCYPROJECTPAPER

                                               FORA

                                      PROPOSEDGRANT

                                     INTHE AMOUNT OF

                                        US$10 MILLION

               FROMTHE TRUST FUNDFOR GAZA AND WEST BANK

                                              TO THE

                                   WEST BANK AND GAZA

                                             FORTHE

          THIRD EMERGENCYSERVICESSUPPORT PROJECT(ESSP3)


                                        November26,2007




HumanDevelopmentSector
Middle EastandNorthAfrica Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contentsmav not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                        (Exchange Rate Effective September 26,2007)
                  Currency Unit           -          NIS
                       1 US$              -         4.033
                                         FISCALYEAR
                      January 1           -      December 31

                             ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

AA     Administrative Agreement
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA   Country FinancialAccountabilityAssessment
CPAR   Country ProcurementAssessment Review
CTA    Central Treasury Account
DA     DesignatedAccount
DFID   Departmentfor InternationalDevelopment-UK
DIRD   Directorate of InternationalRelationsDepartment (Ministry of Finance)
ESSP   Emergency Service Support Project
EU     EuropeanUnion
FA0    UnitedNationsFoodand Agriculture Organization
FMRs   FinancialManagementReports
FY     FiscalYear
GDP    Gross Domestic Product
IBRD   InternationalBank for Reconstructionand Development
IDA    InternationalDevelopment Agency
IFRs   InterimFinancialReports
MDTF   Multi DonorTrust Fund
MoEHE  Ministry of Education and Higher Education
MoF    Ministry of Finance
MoH    Ministry of Health
MoSA   Ministryof Social Affairs
PA     PalestinianAuthority
PCU    Project CoordinationUnit
PFM    Public FinancialManagement
RFP    Request for Proposal
SHC    SpecialHardship Case Program
SOEs   Statement of Expenditures
SSNRP   Social Safety Net ReformProject
TFGA   Trust FundGrant Agreement
TFGWB   Trust Fundfor Gaza and West Bank
TIM    Temporary InternationalMechanism
WA      WithdrawalApplication
WBG    West Bankand Gaza
WFP     World FoodProgram




                         Country Director:     Mr.A. David Craig
                         Sector Director:      Mr.MichalRutkowski
                         Sector Manager:       Mr.DavidSteel

                                                                                                                                   FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                  WEST BANK AND GAZA
                THIRD EMERGENCYSERVICESSUPPORTPROJECT (ESSP 3)
                           MIDDLE EASTAND NORTHAFRICA REGION


                                                           Table of Contents
    EMERGENCY     PROJECTPAPERDATASHEET                          .......................................................................................           i
    A     INTRODUCTION     ..................................................................................................................................     3
     B..  EMERGENCYCHALLENGE                 .................................................................................................................    4
            I CountryContext                  ................................................................................................................    4
            I1      Recovery Strategy            .............................................................................................................    6
                                                                                                                                                                  6
     C.     I11
             ...    Rationalefor Project             .........................................................................................................
          BANKRESPONSE:THEPROJECT                                                                                                                                 7
            I BankStrategyforEmergencyRecovery                                                                                                                    7
            I1      Project Development Objective                                                                                                                 7
            I11
             ...                                        ......................................................................................................
                                                                        .......................................................................................
                                                                                       .........................................................................

                    Summary ofProjectsComponents                             ..................................................................................   8
            I V                                                                                                                                                   8
            V ..    Eligibility for Processingunder OP/BP 8.00
                    Expected Outcomes              ...........................................................................................................
                                                                                             ...................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                  8
     D                                                            .............................................................................................
      .
      .   APPRAISALOFPROJECTSACTIVITIES                                                                                                                           9
     E    IMPLEMENTATION PLAN   ARRANGEMENTS FINANCING         AND                                     ........................................................   10
            I ImplementationArrangements                                                                                                                          10
            I1      FinancialManagement Arrangements                                ..........................................................................    11
            I11
             ...                                                       ......................................................................................

                    ProcurementArrangements                       ...........................................................................................     11
            IV                                                                                                                                                    12
            V ..    DisbursementArrangements                        .........................................................................................
                    AlternativeDisbursement Arrangements Considered              .............................................................................
                                                                                                               .................................................  13
            VI                                                                                                                                                    13
     F.        .    Project Supervisionand Monitoring
          PROJECTRISKSAND MITIGATINGMEASURES                                    ..............................................................................    13
     G.   TERMS   AND CONDITIONSFORPROJECTFINANCING                                       ....................................................................    14

    Annexes
     Annex 1:       Detailed Description ofProject Components                                   ...............................................................   15
     Annex 2:       Results Framework and Monitoring                             .............................................................................    17
     Annex 3:       PA EmergencyProgramfor the Social Sectors                                      ............................................................   19
     Annex 4:       FinancialManagement and Disbursement Arrangements                                                  .......................................... 21
     Annex 5:       Procurement Arrangements                      ...........................................................................................     25
     Annex 6:       Implementationand Monitoring Arrangements                                        ..........................................................   28
     Annex 7:       Project Preparationand Appraisal Team      ..............................................................................................
                                                                                         .....................................................................    31
     Annex 8:       Documentsin ProjectFile                                                                                                                       32
     Annex 9:       Statement of Loansand Credits                        ....................................................................................     33
     Annex 10:      Country at a Glance             ........................................................................................................      34
     Annex 11:      Map  ...................................................................................................................................      37
                                                                                                                                          MAP IBRD33512




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties.Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                   WEST BANKAND GAZA
           THIRD EMERGENCYSERVICES SUPPORT PROJECT(ESSP3)
                    MIDDLEEASTAND NORTHAFRICA REGION
                    EMERGENCYPROJECTPAPERDATA SHEET


Date:November 26, 2007                                       Team Leader: EileenMurray
Country Director:A. DavidCraig                               Sectors: MNSHD
Sector Managermirector:DavidJ. SteeMichal                    Themes: Health(P), Education(S),
Rutkowski                                                    Social Development (S)
Lendinginstrument: Emergencyoperation                        Environmentalscreening category: C




Financingtype: Loan [ ]            Credit [ ]          IDAGrant [ ]          Other [XI

ProjectID: P108373                                  Total Amount: $10 million

Proposedterms: Grant from the Trust Fund for        Expectedimplementationperiod:January 2,
Gaza and West Bank                                  2008 throughJune 30,2009
Expectedeffectivenessdate: January 2, 2008          Expectedclosingdate: December 31, 2009

Recipient:The PalestinianLiberation                 Responsible agency: Ministry of Finance
Organizationfor the benefitofthe Palestinian
Authority




Short Description:
The proposed Third Emergency Services Support Project (ESSP 3), financed through a US$lO
million grant from the Trust Fundfor Gazaand West Bank (TFGWB), is an integralpart of the PA's
emergency program in the social sectors. It accompanies the ongoing Bank administered ESSP
Multi-Donor Trust Fund (MDTF); both mainly finance non-salary recurrent expenditures. These
companion operations will help maintain essential social services operational during the protracted
crisis that the West Bank and Gaza is undergoing. The design of ESSP 3 will allow faster
disbursement than has been possible under previous ESSP phases as there will no be procurement o f
goods, works, or drugs. Likewise, the additionalfunding for the next phase of the ESSP MDTF will
focus on recurrent expenditures, thus allowing for faster disbursement.


Source                                      Local                   Foreign               Total
TFGWB                                       10.00                                         10.00
ESSP Multi-Donor Trust Fund                 10.00                                         10.00
Total                                       20.00                                         20.00
                                          I                        I                    I




                                                   1

                                             2008                       2009            2010
 TFGWB'                                       5.0                        5 .O
 Doesthe emergency operationrequireany exceptions from Bank policies?                 Yes[ ] No[x]
 Have these beenapprovedby Bank management?                                           Yes[ ] No[x]

 Are there any critical risksrated "substantial" or "high"?
 The country risk is ratedhighdue to the volatile political and security situation.   Yes [ x 3No [ ]
 What safeguardpoliciesaretriggered, ifany?                                           None




' The ESSP Multi-Donor Trust Fundis expectedto follow asimilar disbursementpattern.



                                                       ii

A.      INTRODUCTION

1.      This Emergency ProjectPaper seeks the approval of the ExecutiveDirectorsto provide a grant in
the amount of US$lO million2to the West Bank and Gaza for a proposedThird Emergency Social Service
Support Project(ESSP 3).

2.      The proposedgrant would help finance the continuedprovisionof essential social services during
the on-goingprotracted crisis inthe West Bank and Gaza. The decline in economic and social conditions
caused by the crisis has resulted in a deterioration of human development indicators. Health indicators
have seen a steady drop over the last three years. Chronic malnutritionamong children under the age of
five increased 3 percent between 2004 and 2006. The quality of education and education enrollment are
also both declining. The increasing insecurity, especially in Gaza is impacting the performance of
students. Failure rates in mathematics and Arabic end of secondary school examinations are nearly 80
percent and 40 percentrespectively. Furthermore, the continuingconflict is perpetuatingan internalcycle
of violence, fragmenting social cohesion and affecting psychosocial well-being. The proposed Bank
support would directly respond to the crisis situation by helping to ensure that the bulk of education,
health, and social welfare facilities can continue to provide required services. The proposed operation
would fund operating expenditures for health facilities, schools, and social centers for disabled, elderly
and youth. Inaddition, the proposedoperation would fund tertiary healthcare activities providedby non-
government organizations (using competitive contracting mechanisms), salaries for university staff who
are not civil servants, and per diems for exam controllers to supervise high school examinations. The
main project outcomes are to: (a) maintain essential public education, health and social care facilities
operational; (b) promote greater synergies among donor-fundedemergency projects in the social sectors;
(c) leverage additionaldonor resources to be channeled through the next phase of the ESSP multi-donor
trust fund; and (d) underpin discussions on sector development by maintaining a policy dialogue in the
social sectors.

3.      The proposed Third Emergency Services Support Project (ESSP 3), financed through a US$10
million grant from the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank (TFGWB), is an integral part of the PA's
emergency program in the social sectors. It accompanies the ongoing Bank administered ESSP Multi-
Donor Trust Fund (MDTF); both mainly finance non-salary recurrent expenditures. These companion
operations will help maintain essential social services operational during the protracted crisis that the
West Bank and Gaza is undergoing. The design of ESSP 3 will allow faster disbursement than has been
possible under previous ESSP phases as there will no be procurement of goods, works, or drugs.
Likewise, the additional funding for the next phase of the ESSP MDTF will focus on recurrent
expenditures, thus allowing for faster disbursement.

4.      Since the outbreak of the second intifada in September 2000, processingof projects in West Bank
and Gaza has mostlybeen on an emergency bask3The dramatic deteriorationinthe economic and social
situation over the past two years has exacerbated the crisis situation. As a result the proposed operation
will be processedunder OP/BP 8.00.




    Through the Trust Fundfor Gaza andthe West Bank which was replenishedin December2006
    These include: Emergency Response Program, Emergency Services Support Project I& 11, Emergency Municipal Service
    RehabilitationI& 11, EmergencyWater Project, and North Gaza EmergencySewage Treatment Project.



                                                           3

B.       EMERGENCY     CHALLENGE

          I. CountryContext

The Economy

5.       More than five years after the outbreak of the second intifada in 2000, the West Bank and Gaza
(WBG) remains in a state of protracted economic crisis, as the volatile political and security situation
continue to block conditions for economic revival. Intermittent conflict and Israeli security measures
severely restrict movement of goods and people between and within Palestinian territories, fragmenting
the economy and imposing significant transaction costs that have reduced its growth potential. The
decision by Israel, taken in early 2006 and only recently rescinded, to suspend the transfer of clearance
revenuesthat it collected on behalfof the PalestinianAuthority (PA), has led to a severe fiscal crisis that
undermines public institutions and the delivery of essential public services. Clearance revenues usually
account for some 60 percent of PA revenues.

6.       Economicperformanceis poor. Real GDP is estimated to have fallen by 5 to 6 percent in 2006,
and average per capita incomes, currently at US$l,OOO, are some 40 percent below their 1999 level.

with significant regional differences - the situation is particularly severe in Gaza, where the
About a quarter of the Palestinian labor force is out of work, and there is large-scale underemployment

unemployment rate was 39 percent in 2006 compared to 28 percent in the West Bank. The labor force
participation rate is 41 percent, indicating that a significant number of working age individuals have
altogether stopped looking for a job.    Only increased donor support has prevented the economy and
household incomes from falling even more rapidly, and over the short- to medium term, high levels of
donor assistance will remaincritical for sustainingthe Palestinianeconomy.

7.       While stronger than expected official and private inflows have helped cushion the overall
contraction in incomes and consumption, a narrowing tax base and, in particular, the withholding of
clearance revenues, reduced government revenues by over a third in 2006, severely eroding the
PalestinianAuthority's (PA) capacityto provide basic services. Government expenditurefell from US$1
billion in 2005 to US$656million in 2006. The resumptionof clearance revenue transfers in July 2007
ostensibly reduced the fiscal burden faced by the PA, but has not restored fiscal sustainability as the PA
faces: (i) reconstructionneeds in the public sector, (ii)the impact of spending policies introduced under
the Hamas government that dramatically increasedthe public sector wage bill, and (iii)the fiscal impact
following the expulsion of Fatah from Gaza that brought economic activity there to a virtual standstill.
Consequently, the Government's capacityto providebasic services remains severely compromised.

8.       The uncertainsecurity situationwith intermittentconflict, the closures and movement restrictions,
and economic and fiscal deterioration have had a profound impact on the livelihoods of ordinary
Palestinians. As a result of declining incomes and precarious employment, the proportion of people
livingbelowthe poverty line by end-2006 was 66 percent, an increase of 16 percent over the March 2006
figure. Again, the situation in Gaza was worse, with over 75 percent of the population living below the
poverty line (compared to 59 percent in the West Bank). With public resources stretched, essential
services have been lagging, and this is reflected in key health and nutrition indicators. There was a
reversal of trends in infant mortality in 2006, as infant mortality increased by 4.5 percent that year
compared with 2004, from 24.2 deaths per thousand births to 25.3 per thousand. Mortality rates are
noticeably higher in Gaza than in the West Bank. While strong community and family ties have pre-
empted acute household hunger, chronic malnutrition is rising, and micro-nutrient deficiencies are an
increasingconcern. The FAO/WFP estimates that some 45 percent of the population is either vulnerable
to becoming, or already is, food insecure-that is, unableto access an essential food package.




                                                     4

The Social Sectors

9.       The economic and social implicationsof the crisis are evident in deterioratingperformance in the
social sectors - health, education, and social services. Insufficient domestic revenues squeeze operating
budgets and cause disruptions and decline in service provision; and limited mobility between the West
Bank and Gaza reduce the scope for allocatingresources where they are most needed while also raising
transactions costs.    While the large wage bill reduces the resources available for operations and
maintenance, salary budgets also are insufficient, causing intermittent strikes and absenteeism by civil
servants, which further disrupt services. Donors play a key role in helping maintain services, but
assistance has so far been insufficient to maintain an adequate level of service delivery in the public
sector. For the immediate future, a sharp re-focusingof both domestic and donor resources on a selected
subset of essential social services is neededto avoid a collapse of public provision.

10.      Health. With the sharp drop in domestic revenues over the past fifteen months, the health system
has seen service standards deteriorate and health indicators worsen. Restrictionson movement of goods
and services have aggravated shortages of medical supplies and drugs disrupting services; intermittent
health worker strikes have exacerbated the situation. Public sector facilities are often under-staffedand
mostly under-equipped, and in most instances operate at levels significantly below capacity. While other
health providers - UNRWA, NGOs, the private sector - play an increasingly important role, they have
not been able to fully compensate for public sector declines. Drug shortages are frequent as the PA has
yet to establish a reliable procurement and funding mechanism and thus has to rely on ad-hoc donor
support. In addition, drug storage facilities are limited. The PA is beginning to address this issue and is
likely to fund drugprocurementthrough its regular budget.The MOH is also taking stepsto strengthen its
drug procurement capacity. Donors provide significant funding for operations and maintenance, which
has helped slow down the deterioration of services. The key challenge for the immediate future is to
ensure that sufficient resources are available to maintain public services at some minimum acceptable
level, while at the same time leveraging complementarities between public and private provision. The
MOH has prepared a first draft of its three-year health sector development plan. This plan will be the
basis for MOH's reformto addressthe above issues.

11.      Education. In the short term, the education sector faces problems similar to those in the public
health sector - a shortage of financial resources to keep the school system operationaland a large wage
bill limiting resources for operating expenditures. Both need to be dealt with: (i)an adequate salary
budget will avoid disruptive strikes, and will reduce the number of teachers leaving the public school
system; and (ii)with the beginningof every new school year, the system faces growing demands on non-
salary operating resources, includingthe need to cope with new entrants into the system. In addition, the
situation over the years has not been conducive to ensure proper upkeep of education facilities and thus a
number of schools require rehabilitation.Again, donors play an important role as providers of resources
for essential goods and services, and in facilitating stronger interaction between public and private
provision.MOEHE has finalizedits 2007-2011 EducationPlan, which tackles quality of education issues.
This plan differentiates between development and emergency assistance to the sector which has enabled
this operation to be framed within the latter part ofthe plan.

12.      Social Afsairs. Given the limited financial resources and large social assistance requirements as
growingnumbers of households and individualsfall belowthe povertyline, or become at risk, it is critical
that available resources are targeted to those most in need. This will require priority-setting among
ongoing, under- or un-fundedprograms. Key interventionsmay require focusingresources on a few high
profile interventions,including:(i)the Special HardshipCase Program (SHC) established to providecash
payments to poor households which has been paying benefits to some 35,000 households under a EU
funded Temporary International Mechanism (TIM); (ii)merging the various on-going cash assistance
programs (including the Bank's Social Safety Net ReformProject) into a PA administered program; and



                                                       5

(iii) shelters, rehabilitation and training centers for youth, handicapped, elderly and women's
development that are run by the Ministry of Social Affairs, providingvocational training, social support,
meals and overnight residenceto vulnerableindividuals. As inthe case ofthe public healthand education
authorities, public resources for spending on services beyond salary payments are severely constrained.
Still, maintainingthese programs, which cater to some of the most vulnerableindividuals and households,
i s an essential element in preservingthe social fabric in the West Bank and Gaza. A strategy focusing on
the continuedprovisionof essential support to the poor andvulnerableshould be integralto rebuildingthe
PA, both inthe short term and over the longer period.

            11.    Recovery Strategy

13.        Prior to 2006, the economy had started to recover, and this was reflected in a modest upswing in
economic activity over the 2003-2005 period, as well as improved social indicators: essential education
indicators - enrollments and attendance - were maintainedat high levels, and health indicators showed
steady improvement. The PA's renewed efforts to address economic and social issues in a more
comprehensive way and donor contributions in cash and in kind also played an important role in
supporting these developments. Following the Hamas election victory in January 2006, economic and
social trends dramatically changed course as donors withdrew support and public revenues diminished.
In the face of a looming breakdown in public services, the focus shifted rapidly back to the
implementationof emergency programs aiming at the provision of a basic levelof social services. Donor
support became contingent on by-passing the Hamas government and was channeled through the Office
of the President. Recent developments, in particularin Gaza, raise the risk of another downturn in social
indicators, and have again underlined the priority of maintaining essential social services. Since the
establishment of the Caretaker Government in June 2007, the international donor community has lifted
the embargo makingit possible for donorsto channel funds directlyto PA entities.

14.        Since March 2006, donor funding has been channeled through the Office of the President. Arab
donors continue to contribute generously, providingUS$360million in budget support in the first half of
2007.4 In June 2006, the European Commission established the Temporary International Mechanism
(TIM), to provide rapid direct assistance to relieve the current socio-economic crisis in West Bank &
Gaza. The TIM has contributed to the delivery of essential social public services and has a catalyzing
effect by facilitating support by internationaldonors. To date, over US670 million' have beencommitted
to the TIM's three windows - social service provision, essential public service provision, and a social
allowance program. The World Bank administered ESSP Multi-Donor Trust Fund was designed as the
TIM's socialservice provision"window."

            111. Rationalefor Project

15.       This proposedBank financed Third Emergency Services Support Project(ESSP 3) will be one of
the main instruments that finance the PA's social sector emergency program. It will be closely linked to
the ongoing Bank Administered ESSP Multi-Donor Trust Fund. These two operations will have the
common objective to help mitigate the deterioration in the provision of essential public services in
education, health and social services by maintaining essential social services during the protractedcrisis
that WBG is undergoing. The project will allow faster disbursement than has been possible under the



     An estimated total of US$560 million was provided in budget support by donors in the first half of 2007, more than twice
     the amount in the same periodof the previousyear. Macroeconomic and Fiscal Developments in the West Bank and Gaza,
     IMF, September24, 2007
     T I M Operational and Financial Report June-Dee 2006 & Jan-Aug 2007, European Commission Delegation West Bank &
     Gaza



                                                            6

ESSP MDTF, as the bulk of disbursements will be against recurrent expenditures, not subject to Bank
procurementguidelines.

16.     ESSP 3 complements other Bank operations financed through the Trust Fundfor Gaza and West
Bank (TFGWB). Its assistance to poor and vulnerable population groups complements the support
provided through the Bank's Social Safety Net Reform Project (SSNRP) and that provided to
communities under the Palestinian NGO Project (PNGO 3).                They will serve to strengthen the policy
dialogue on social safety net reform. The ESSP should facilitate implementationof some activities under
the ongoing Tertiary EducationProject, and will allow the Bank to support policy reforms in the health
sector. The Bank is also re-engaging the PA in its policy dialogue on pensions, which complements the
dialogue on the fiscal impact ofthe wage bill andhowto contain it.

17.     The PA's emergency programin social services was launched with the help of the World Bank in
2002 with the aim to provide a means of rapidly channeling donor funds to priority social services in a
coordinated manner. The Bank and donors have provided support for the past five years through ESSP 1,
ESSP 2 and the ESSP Multi-Donor Trust Funda6Over the 2002 to mid-2007 period these mechanisms
have disbursed over USD 200 million for the non-salary recurrent expenditures. Implementation
arrangements have included design elements to compensate for institutional weaknesses in the
participatingagencies, while maintainingrigorous fiduciary and implementationprocedures acceptable to
the World Bank.

18.     An Operational and Policy Services (OPCS) review of emergency operations established the
ESSP model and adopted it as a best practice instrument in the Bank for similar country situations. Such
operations address priorities that are particularly important in a time of crisis, such as the continuity in
provisionof essential social services for poor and needy populations, with an added value of safeguarding
social cohesion. In addition to funding recurrent emergency expenditures, this has given the Bank a solid
platformto maintaina policy dialogue inthe social sectors.

C.      BANKRESPONSE: PROJECT THE

          I. BankStrategyforEmergencyRecovery

19.     While no formal Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) exists for West Bank & Gaza, the Executive
Directors in December, 2003, approved the "Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank: Status, Strategy and
Request for Replenishment." The document sets out the Bank's assistancestrategy for the PA. The Bank
monitors social and economic developments in WBG and provides policy advice; finances development
projects where feasible; and provides emergency assistance to mitigate the deterioration in the provision
of essential public services as well as to help maintain Palestinian institutions. An update of the
document was approved by the Executive Directors in December 2006, reaffirming the strategic
directions of the 2003 document, as these have given the Bank the necessary flexibility to respond
effectively to emergingchallenges and opportunitiesinWBG.

          11.    Project Development Objective

20.     The proposed project will help mitigate the deterioration in the provision of essential public
services in education, heath and social services. In order to do so, the Bank will providea US$lO million
grant from the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank to support the PA's Emergency Program in the Social



    ESSP 1 was effective from March 2002 to June 2004; ESSP 2 was effective from January 2003 to December 2004; and the
    ESSP MDTF as been effective since September 2006.



                                                          7

Sectors. The proposed project would mainly fund operating costs7 for the Ministries o f Education and
Higher Education, Health and Social Affairs, focusing on recurrent expenditures essential to the
continued functioning o f public facilities, and using line ministries' administrative practices. These are
acceptable to the Bank.

           111. Summary ofProjectsComponents

21.      The project will consist o f four components. Component 1 will finance the non-salary operating
costs for education services, costs o f general examinations and support to higher education institutions.
Component 2 will finance the non-salary operating costs for health services including non-medical
recurrent expenditures, and treatment in private and non-governmental clinics. Component 3 will finance
the non-salary operating costs for the Ministryo f Social Affairs (MOSA), and its shelters, rehabilitation
and treatment centers. The final component will support project management and monitoring, namely the
Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) inthe Ministry o f Finance and its incremental operating and audit costs.
A detailed description o fthe project components is inAnnex 1.

22.      The P A submitted a budget linked to the above intervention areas, which the Bank has reviewed
and found acceptable. Agreement was reached during negotiations that any changes to this budget will be
subject to the Bank's prior approval.

           IV. Eligibilityfor Processingunder OP/BP 8.00

23.      Since the outbreak o f the second intifada in September 2000, processing o f projects in the West
Bank and Gaza has in many instances been on an emergency bask8 Interventions that aim to preserve or
restore essential services can be processed under Operational Policy (OP8.00) on Rapid Response to
Crises and Emergencies. The renewed and prolonged deterioration in the economic and social situation
since early 2006 has exacerbated the long-term crisis situation. As a result the proposed operation will be
processed under OPBP 8.00.

           V.      Expected Outcomes

24.      The outcomes o f the project will be o f significant importance to the social welfare of the
Palestinian people. In line with its primary objective, the project will help maintain a network o f public
social services available to all Palestinians and in particular the poor and most vulnerable as they are
particularly dependent on public education and health systems. Its support for social care services is o f
special importance - it directly addresses the needs o f individuals who often are most at risk - abandoned
children and youth, the unskilled, the elderly and refugees from precarious family situations. In this, the
series o f ESSP projects have already garnered much appreciation among the Palestinian population, and
this project buildson, and is an important extension of, those experiences.

25.      Beyond its direct effects on the target population, it generates other tangible outcomes that are
beneficial to the broader economy. It will continue to create an enabling environment that draws in donor
resources and helps focus those resources on areas that are essential for maintaining the Palestinian social

'   Operatingcosts will include: (a) rent paymentsfor offices and facilities; (b) water and electricity utilities; (c) transportation

    consumableand other perishable items; (9 maintenanceof equipment and buildings; (g) heating fuel; (h) cleaningservices;
    including fuel, vehicle maintenance, licensing and insurance; (d) communication including telephones, fax and mail; (e)

    (i) advertisementcosts solely related to procurement under the Project; (j)commercial bank charges; and (k) per diem and
    transportationallowancesfor MOEHE, MOH, MOSA andPCU stafffor activitiesdirectly relatedto the project.
    These include: Emergency Response Program, Emergency Services Support Project I& 11, Emergency Municipal Service
    RehabilitationI& 11, Emergency Water Project, andNorth GazaEmergencySewageTreatment Project.



                                                              8

networks and civil society. At the same time, serving as a catalyst for donor moneys, it becomes an
important instrument for the PA to channel such moneys quickly into priority areas, including ones that
can be expected to have a large impact on the general well-being of the population and, just as
importantly,on maintaining,andpossiblyenhancing, human capital development for future growth.

26.      Finally, it is an importantmeans of enhancing the policy dialogue between the PA and the Bank
in the social sectors. It draws a broad spectrum of donor interests into this same dialogue, and thus
benefitsfrom the resultant synergies.

D.       APPRAISALOFPROJECTSACTIVITIES

27.      Project benefits. The Palestinianpopulationwill reap most of the benefitsof this operation.Most
importantly, essential budget needs will be met, allowing schools and health services to operate, and
social care to remain available. In additionto filling the most critical financing gaps in the social sector,
the ESSP offers the PA a flexible instrument with transparency and fiduciary rigor that can also attract
donors to contribute moneys, thus continuing to increase budgets for social services that are critical for
the well-being of the population. Mechanisms are in place to allocate and disburse donor contributions
relatively quickly meetingneeds as they arise. The ESSP instrument also minimizes the duplication of
efforts inthe social sectorsthroughthe poolingarrangements designed inthe ESSPMDTF.

28.      Derived ESSP benefits not only alleviate immediate social service shortages, but also lay the
foundation for forward-lookingprogrammingand funding of recurrent expenditures. This is of particular
importance in light of the upcomingdonor conference in mid-December, where the availability of ready
conduitsfor effectiveuse of moneyswill be an advantage.

29.      Fiduciary aspects. The fiduciary aspects of the project are described in section below and
detailed inAnnexes 4 and 5

30.      Environmental aspects. The environmental category of this Project is C, as there will not
adverse environmentalimpact.

3 1.     Lessons learned and reflected in project design. Over the past decade, the Bank has become
increasingly involved in fragile states. This includes the West Bank and Gaza where it has provided
emergency support since 2002 to social sector line ministries, utilities and municipalities. The Bank has
also funded development projects in WBG. Lessons learned from the implementationof these operations
has beenreflectedinthe design of ESSP 3 and include:


         Emergency operations must be simple, rapidly executable and sharply focused; a simple
         operation that can channel funds quickly to minimize disruption in social service delivery is an
         efficient and effectivevehicle for responding to emergency and crisis situations;

         Rapid preparationensures that the design of the operation does not deviate significantly from a
         country context that tends to evolvequickly;

         Streamlined implementationarrangements are neededto avoid delays in project execution; close
         monitoring, in particular through field-based staff, is a means of ensuring responsiveness in
         emergency and crisis situations;

         Large volumes of procurement transactions are not conducive to rapid implementation, as
         experienced under the ongoingBank administeredESSP MDTF.




                                                     9

32.     Exceptions to Bankpolicies. There are no exceptions to Bank policies. The project meets the
"readiness for implementation" criteria as the PCUhas been inplace for some time already and is familiar
with Bank procedures.

E.      IMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTS              AND FINANCING    PLAN

          I. ImplementationArrangements

33.     The Ministry of Finance (MOF) will have primary responsibility for overseeing project
implementationand ensuring coherence with the Bank's procedures and guidelines. In performing this
function, the MOF will draw existing technical and implementationcapacity in the Ministries of Health,
Educationand Higher Education, and Social Affairs. The implementationarrangements will be similar to
those under the ESSP MDTF, with one exception which will be to revert back to the 2002-2005 set-up
whereby the Ministries of Health and Education and Higher Education were fully responsible
implementingproject activitiesand managingtheir respectiveDesignatedAccounts.

34.     The ESSP Project Coordination Unit/Ministry of Finance (ESSP PCU). The ESSP PCU will
continue to oversee and manage the proposed operation. The MOF Director General for International
Relationsand Development Projects (DIRD)will headthe PCU and thus be the Bank's main interlocutor.
As such, the DIRD will be responsible for project oversight and rely on PCU staff to carry out fiduciary
and project management tasks. The PCU staff includes a project coordinator, a financial officer, a
disbursement officer, a procurement officer, and four accountants, who are knowledgeable in World Bank
financial management and procurement procedures due to of to their involvement in previous phases of
the ESSP.

35.     The PCU will make the link between the line ministriesand the MOF on project implementation
and fiduciary issues. The PCU shall: (a) ensurethat financingof the OperatingCosts of MOEHE, MOH,
MOSA and PCU shall be made against the items set forth in the OperatingBudgets for these respective
entities as approved during negotiations. Any changes to these operating budgets will be subject to
Bank's prior approval. Detailedfiduciary arrangements are described in Annexes 4 and 5.

36.     Role of the line ministries. The Ministriesof Health,EducationandHigher Education, and Social
Affairs will be responsible for the day to day implementation and the management of the Designated
Accounts for the respective components. These Ministries will prepare individual work programs and
budgets and will in turn be responsible for monitoring project performance through the performance
indicators defined in Annex 2. These indicators will further be confirmed by field spot check audits.
These functions will be carried out by existing staff within these ministries as a means of continuingto
strengthen their capacity. The line ministries will be required to report on quarterly implementation
performance to the ESSP PCU who in turn will be responsible for consolidating this information and
preparingquarterly progress reports. The PCUwill continue to support the Ministry of Social Affairs in
the implementationof its activities, includingthe preparation of annualwork plans and budgets.

37.     Project costs andfinancing plan. The PA's Emergency Program for the Social Sectors for the
year 2008 is estimated at US$482.27 million (see Table 1 below). This includesthe estimated operating
budgets for the three social sector ministries,as well as management costs relatingto the implementation
of the ESSP 3 and ESSP MDTF by the PCU. The budget has been submitted by the PA to the Bank, and
it was reviewed and agreed on during project negotiations. The non-salary budget and the financing
scheme are includedin Annex 3.

38.     The budget includes US$480.89 million in wages and salaries, and US$20.00 million in non-
salary operating costs. It is expected that the PA will finance the cost of wages and salaries. Non-salary



                                                      10

operating costs have been determined as a function o f available resources: the ESSP 3 project will
contribute US$lO million towards non-salary operating costs and the ESSP MDTF will do the same.
Donors have pledged an additional US$7 million to the ESSP MDTF, and it is expectedthat other donors
will step forward, possibly already during the PA donors' conference in mid-December. This should
allow the PA to strengthen its non-salary operating budget.

                      Table 1: ESSP3 and ESSP MDTFCost and FinancingPlan




       Sources: MOF budget data for 2007; World Bank estimates
       (1)       An additional US$7 million has been pledged.

          11.    Financial Management Arrangements

39.     Financial Management. Since the proposed operation builds mainly on the current phase of the
ESSP MDTF no full-fledged financial management assessment will be carried out. The ESSP PCU's
performance in financial management is satisfactory and thus the existing arrangements will be
maintained with the exception of having MOH and MOEHE manage their respective designatedaccounts.
Accordingly, the PCU will be responsible for preparing and issuing IFRs and annual financial statements
on the basis of transactions carried out by the line ministries. IFRs will consist of (i)sources and
applications of funds; (b) use of funds by program activities and (c) physical progress. In addition, the
PCU will also consolidate a general reconciliation of the Designated Accounts and a progress report on
implementation with analysis of variances. The final format of the IFRs will be consistent with that
provided under the current reportingarrangements of the ESSP MDTF.The IFRs will be submitted to the
Bank no later than 45 days after the end of the quarter to which they relate.

40.     Audits. The financial statements, including SOEs, and the DAs will be audited annually by an
independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with internationally accepted auditing
standards and terms of reference cleared by the Bank. The audit report will be sent to the Bank no later
than six (6) months following the closing of the fiscal year. The PCU will be responsible for preparing the
TORs for the auditors and the firms to be in charge of the spot checks. The Bank has already reviewed
and cleared the TORs for the recruitment of the auditors under the previous program and the auditors
have been hired on a competitive basis in compliance with IBRD Guidelines for the recruitment o f
Consultants. It is recommended that the auditors working on the ESSP MDTF be retained as their first
financial audit report was satisfactory. Inaddition, an independent consultant will be recruited to carry out
the physical spot checks to ascertain the achievement of physical progress. The audit costs will be
financed out of the grant proceeds.

          111. Procurement Arrangements

41.     Procurement subject to Bank tendering requirements will be limited to tertiary health services
under the second component (Financing Operating Costs for Health Services) and a few consultancy
services under the fourth component (Project Management and Monitoring). This will include short-term
consultancies for the Line Ministries, and external financial and physical spot audits. The procurement of



                                                           11

these activities will be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's "Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by WorldBank Borrowers" dated May 2004 and the provisionsstipulatedin
the Grant Agreement. The detailed procurement arrangements, including consultant selection
arrangements andthresholds for procurement methodsandprior revieware presentedinAnnex 5.

42.     The project will finance services rendered by non-governmental organizations and private sector
hospitals for specialized tertiary health services not offered by Ministry of Health facilities.    The
procurement of these services will follow a competitive process based on the new Request for Proposals
(RFP) and contracts, which were developed by MOHwith technicalassistance providedunder the current
phase ofthe ESSPMDTF. These new RFPs and contracts were approved by the Bank in October 2007.

43.     Operating costs. The operating costs to be financed by the proposed project would include: (a)
rent and maintenance of offices and facilities for the MOEHE; (b) utilities (water and electricity); (c)
salaries of non-civil servant staff of Higher Education Institutions; (d) transportation, including fuel,
vehicle maintenance, licensing and insurance; (e) communications, including telephone, fax, etc.; (f)
consumables and other perishable items; (g) fuel for heating and for generators; (h) advertisement costs
solely related to procurement under the project; (i)commercial bank charges; and (j) per
diemhransportationallowances for MOEHE staff for activitiesdirectly related to the project.

44.     Procurement Process. The ESSP PCU under the oversight of the Director of DIRD will be
responsible for the procurement of consultancy services under component 4 in compliance with the
provisions of the Grant Agreement and the Procurement Plan. The PCU's procurement officer will be
responsible for managing the procurement process including preparingthe procurement plan, managing
expressions of interests and requests for proposals, as well as the evaluation of proposals, and contract
award and management. The Director of the DIRD will send to the Bank all requests for "no objections"
on consultant contracts, which are subject to prior review, before contract signature.

45.     The overall project risk for procurement is average. Given the limited and simple type of
procurement, the capacity within the PCU and MOH is adequate. However, the persistent unstable
security situation,which has resulted in closures in boththe West Bank and especially in Gaza, where the
movement of people and goods has been at a virtual standstill since June 2007. Therefore, delays and
disruptionto the procurement processare possible.

          IV.    Disbursement Arrangements

46.     The implementationperiod will go through June 30, 2009. The ESSP PCU will update budgets
quarterly based on actual expenditures incurred in the most recent quarter. The allocationby expenditure
category of grant proceeds is shown inthe table below.

                                Table 2: Allocationof Grant Proceeds


                           ExpenditureCategory                     IAmount in
                                                                    US$Million Percentage
                                                                                   IFinancing I
            1. Consultants' and other services(including audit       3.97            100%
            and MOHTertiary HealthCare Services)
            2. Consultant HigherEducationInstitution Staff            1.oo           100%
            2. Operating Expenses                                     5.03           100%
            TotalProjectCosts                                        10.00




                                                      12

47.     Fundwithdrawals will follow standard disbursementproceduresby meansof reimbursements and
replenishments to the DAs based on the documented Statement of Expenditures (SOEs), special
commitments and direct payments. The supporting documentation will be retained by MOH, MOEHE
and the PCU respectively. This documentation should be made available for the Bank during its
supervision missions, andwill be reviewedduringthe annual audit ofthe ESSPfinancial statements.

48.     Designated Accounts.      The proceeds of the grant will be disbursed through 3 Designated
Accounts: (i) Account A for MOEHE; (ii)Account B for MOH; and (iii)Account C for Project
Managementand MOSA expenditures.

          V.     AlternativeDisbursementArrangementsConsidered

49.     An alternative to the present approach could have been to proceed with another phase of the
existing ESSP, which includes procurement of a wide array of goods and services (including
pharmaceuticals). However, in the context of reduced procurement management capacity in the social
sector ministries, procurementhas provento be relatively difficult for the PA to implementand there have
been lengthy delays in the procurement of certain categories of goods and supplies. In this context, a
decision was taken to streamline the program andfund activitiesthat do not involveprocurement of goods
and works such as tertiary health care contracts, fuel and maintenance. The PA is likely to use its own
resourcesto fund drugs andmedicalsupplies.

          VI. ProjectSupervisionand Monitoring

50.     As an emergency operationin a volatile environment, the proposed project will require intensive
supervision. The World Bank task team leader is located in the region and will visit and follow-up on
implementation matters regularly. The team leader is supported by a strong fiduciary and operational
team in the World Bank Offices in WBG. The ESSP Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will prepare
quarterly progress reports, which will include updates of the indicators (provided by the line ministries)
listedin Annex 2. Inaddition, an independent audit consultant will carry out regular physical spot checks
to monitor progress on the ground and assess whether the ESSP is on track in terms of achieving the
performance indicatorsdefined in Annex 2. Full supervisionmissions will be carried out quarterly. The
project will require an estimated20 staff weeks of supervision time (in addition to supervision resources
from the ESSP MDTF).

5 1.    The ClosingDate ofthe projectwould be December 31,2009.

F.      ProjectRisksand Mitigating Measures

52.     Project risks relate to: (a) the volatile political and security situation; (b) limited management
capacity; (c) insufficientdomestic fiscal resources; and(d) drug shortages.

        (a) Intermittent conflict, border closures and restrictions on movement of people and goods may
            create delays in the delivery of essential goods and services funded under the project to
            schools, health facilities and care services. This may cause interruptionsin their operations,
            which projectfunding is meant to minimizeor avoid altogether. This risk may be particularly
            high in Gaza.
        (b) Limited management capacity may exacerbate the adverse effects of intermittent conflict:
            management resources may be stretched thin in order to cope with the many challenges that
            the volatile environmentposes, andthis may affect project implementation.




                                                       13

         (c) The precarious fiscal situation is a significantrisk factor. Already, the PA faces difficulties in
             meetingthe civil service wage bill, which has resulted in absenteeism and disruptive strikes
             in the civil service. Fiscal resources fall far short of recurrent needs, and donor funds,
             includingthe ESSP 3 project and the ESSP MDTF are able to meet only a part of recurrent
             spending needs.
         (d) Drug shortages are frequent in the absence of reliable drug procurement and funding
             mechanisms. When drugs are unavailable, utilization of health facilities declines, and
             recurrent funding for health facilitiesunder the projecthas less of an impact.

53.      While the political and security situation remains an exogenous factor for which there are no
mitigating measures under the project, there are a number of initiatives that address the challenges of
institutional and fiscal capacity:

         (a) Institutional capacity. The MOF and the PCU, as well as the participating line ministries,
             have experience in implementing ESSP-type projects. Moreover, the proposed project, as
             well as the new phase of the ESSP MDTF, have been simplified and will not involve
             procurement of goods and only limited procurement of services, includingselectedconsultant
             support to strengthen the PCU as well as the line ministries, as necessary. The World Bank
             Office in WBG will allocate significant stafftime to the project, supported by technical staff
             from headquartersto work with the line ministries on specific policy and management issues
             related to the project. Finally, the monitoring system and periodic spot checks will help
             signaleventual operational problems in implementation;
         (b) Fiscal management. While the fiscal situation is likely to remainprecarious for some time to
             come, resumption of the transfer of clearance revenues by the Government of Israel should
             provide some relief in the tight budget situation. The upcoming donor conference in mid-
             December should also provide additional resources - for addressing the recurrent budget
             crisis as well as for development expenditures. Finally, support by donors for better budget
             managementwill also allow increasedefficiency and effectiveness in the allocationof budget
             resources. All these measures should reduce the risk to the project inherent in the fiscal
             situation,
         (c) Regardingdrugs, the Bank will continue to explore options with MOH and donors to ensure
             that drugs are available on a timely basis. Given the significant delays in drug procurement
             during the ongoing phase of the ESSP MDTF, drugs are not included in the proposed
             operation. However, considering the importance of drugs to the functioning of the health
             sector, the Bank has discussed various scenarios with the PA. The MOH is keen to continue
             to carry out its own drugs procurement and the PA may use its own resources to purchase
             these. The drug situationwill be closelymonitoredduring projectimplementation.

G.       Terms and Conditions for ProjectFinancing

54.      The project is a grant made under the Trust Fundfor Gaza and West Bank (replenishment to the
TFGWB was approved on December 14, 2006). All disbursement categories will be financed at 100
percent. This is consistent with the Country FinancingParameters for West Bank and Gaza approved on
March 10, 2005.




                                                        14

                                                   Annex 1
                                           West Bank and Gaza
                              Third Emergency Services Support Project
                             Detailed Description of Project Components

        The Bankfinanced ESSP 3 will be implemented in parallel to the Bank administeredmulti-donor
trustfund (ESSP MDTF) using the same objectives and supporting the same budgets. These companion
projects provide quick disbursing mechanisms to help mitigate the deterioration in essential public
service delivery in education,health and social services.

        The Bank will provide a grant of US$lOmillion to support incremental operating costs in the
PA's recurrent for the Ministries of Education and Higher Education (MOEHE), Health (MOH), and
Social Affairs (MOSA). With the exception of limited consultancies and the contracting of NGO and
private health services, these expenditures are not subject to the Bank's tendering requirements. The
grants will be complementedby an additional US$IO million provided by bilateral donors to the ESSP
MDTF.

Component 1: FinancingOperatingCostsfor EducationServices

     Subcomponent A: Recurrent Expenditures

        This will cover the recurrent expenditures o f schools directorates, and the Ministry headquarters,
        defined as: (a) rent and maintenance o f offices and facilities for the MOEHE; (b) utilities (water
        and electricity); (c) salaries o f non-civil servant staff o f Higher Education Institutions; (d)
        transportation, including fuel, vehicle maintenance, licensing and insurance; (e) communications,
        including telephone, fax, etc.; (0consumables and other perishable items; (g) fuel for heating and
        for generators; (h) advertisement costs solely related to procurement under the project; (i)
        commercial bank charges; and         6) per diem/transportation allowances for MOEHE staff for
        activities directly related to the project.

     Subcomponent B: General Examinations

        This will cover stationary, printing o f examinations, and the payment o f per diem expenses to
        examination monitors and reviewers

     Subcomponent C: Supportto Higher Education Institutions

        This will cover salaries ofthe staffo fHigher Education Institutions(excluding PA civil servants)


Component 2: FinancingOperatingCosts for Health Services

     Subcomponent A: Non-medical recurrent expenditures

        This will cover non-medical costs o f operating and maintaining the Ministry directorates and
        health facilities including: (a) rent and maintenance o f offices and facilities for the MOH; (b)
        utilities (water and electricity); (c) transportation, including fuel, vehicle maintenance, licensing
        and insurance; (d) communications, including telephone, fax, etc.; (e) consumables and other
        perishable items; (f) fuel for heating and for generators; (g) advertisement costs solely related to




                                                        15

     procurement under the project; (h) commercial bank charges; and (i)per diedtransportation
     allowances for MOH staff for activities directly relatedto the project.

  Subcomponent B: Treatmentinprivatehon-governmental clinics

     This will fund the cost o f contracts with non-governmental and private institutions providing
     tertiary services that are not available in public facilities.

Component 3: FinancingOperatingCosts for Social Services

  Subcomponent A: Recurrent Expendituresfor theMinistry of SocialAffairs and its shelters,
  rehabilitation, and training centers

     This will cover: (a) rent and maintenance o f offices and facilities for the MOSA; (b) utilities
     (water and electricity); (c) transportation, including fuel, vehicle maintenance, licensing and
     insurance; (d) communications, including telephone, fax, etc.; (e) consumables and other
     perishable items; (f) fuel for heating and for generators; (g) advertisement costs solely related to
     procurement under the project; (h) commercial bank charges; and (i)per diemhransportation
     allowances for MOSA staff for activities directly relatedto the project.

Component 4: ProjectManagementand Monitoring

     This component will finance costs related to project management including: (i)short-term
     consultancies to support the management o f capacity o f the Ministry o f Finance and the Project
     Coordination Unit (PCU); (ii)project management staff and operating costs; and (iii)external
     financial and physical spot audits.




                                                     16

                                                       Annex 2
                                                 West Bank and Gaza
                                         Third EmergencyServices SupportProject
                                           ResultsFrameworkand Monitoring

PDO      -
                                            4 .OUTCOME~ICATOR       ' a           USEOFOUTCOME
                                                                                     INFORMATION
Helpmitigatethe       Education,healthand social service facilities       Monitortrends inthe use of
deterioration inthe   operateat the same, higher or lower levelsthan      education,healthand social care
provisionof essential baselines                                           servicesas a proxyfor the impact
public servicesin                                                         of the ESSP and ESSP MDTF on
education, healthand                                                      access to social services
social services
.. .. ...
  INTERMEDIATE           INTERMEDIATE               OUTCOMEINDICATOR MONITORING
                                                                        , USEOFRESULTS
      OUTCOME
Component 1:          Number of publicprimary schools operatingand
Education Services    number of students attendingthose schools, per      anduse of publicprimary education
                      school, comparedto a baselineset at September,      facilities as proxies for the impact
                      2007.                                               ofthe ESSP andESSP MDTF on
                                                                          access to primary education

Component 2:          Utilizationrates(overall, outpatient,gynecology)    Monitortrends inhospital
Health Services       in Shefa and Rafediahospitals,comparedto a          utilizationas a proxy for the impact
                      baselineof end-September,2007.                      ofthe ESSP andthe ESSP MDTF
                                                                          on access to healthservices

Component 3:          Number of facilities(trainingcenters,youth center
Social Services       anddisabledrehabilitationcenters)that are able to
                      operatenormally, andoccupancy, comparedto a
                      baselineofmid-November,2007.




Results Monitoring. A detailed description of the monitoring arrangements for the above indicators is
provided in Annex 6.




                                                           17

8
c

                                 Annex 3
                          West Bankand Gaza
               Third EmergencyServices Support Project
             PA EmergencyProgramfor the Social Sectors
                      Summaryof EstimatedCosts
                              (US$million)


                           Total         Salary      Non-salary
           MOH             130.64        119.39         11.25
         MOEHE             340.04        332.04         8.00
          MOSA              11.24         10.74         0.50
       Project Mgmt          0.35         0.10          0.25
           Total           482.27        462.27        20.00



             PA EmergencyProgramfor the Social Sectors
                             FinancingPlan
                               (US$ million)

  Source        Salaries    Non salary      Total     Local      Foreign
                           expenditures
Recipient       462.27                     462.27     462.27
Grant                          10.00          10.00      10.00
ESSP MDTF                      10.00          10.00      10.00      __--__
 Total          462.27         20.00        482.27     482.27      --


             PA EmergencyProgramfor the Social Sectors
                         ESSP3 andESSPMDTF
                     @on-salaryOperatingBudget)
                              (US$ million)

         Component                costs             Financing
                                               Grant        MDTF
  MOH                             11.25
   Treatment inNGO/private         5.00         3.75          1.25




                                      19

                              PA Social Sectors Emergency Program
                                              (US$)
                                              .    ,
                  Non-salary Operating Costs                          Financing
                                                                 Grant         MDTF
MOH                                      11,250,000
 Treatment in private, NGO clinics        5,000,000               3,750,000     1,250,000
 Operating costs                          6,250,000               2,500,000    3,750,000
    Rent                                   530,000
    Transportation                        1,200,000
    Communications                          750,000
    Electricity, water                    1,070,000
    Cleaning contract                     2,000,000
    General maintenance                     700,000
MOEHE                                     8,000,000
 University staff salaries                5,000,000               1,000,000    4,000,000
 Operating costs                          3,000,000               2,000,000     1,000,000
    General examinations
    Rent                                    500,000
    Transportation                          270,000
    Electricity, water                    1,000,000
    Communications                          400,000
    General maintenance                     450,000
    Fuel for heating                        380,000
MOSA                                        500,000
 Operating costs                            500,000                 500,000
    Rent                                    200,000
    Water, electricity                       75,000
    Communications                           80,000
    General maintenance                      60,000
    Fuel                                     85,000
Project management                          250,000
  Services                                  220,000                 220,000
  Operating costs                            30,000                  30,000
               TOTAL                    20,000,000               10,000,000    10,000,000

                                                 Annex 4
                                          West BankandGaza
                             Third EmergencyServices SupportProject
                     FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements

I. Introduction

1.       The financial management system under the Bank financed portion of the Third Emergency
Services Support Project (ESSP 3) will encompass internal controls, accounting, reporting, payment and
auditing aspects necessary to ensure a smooth and efficient implementation of the project. The system
has been designed with due regard to the separation of the following functions: initiatiodauthorization;
approval; recordingandreporting; payment of eligibleexpenditures; internalreviewsand; external audits.

2.     .The underliningrationalefor sucha system to achieve an acceptable level transparency,
                                                       is                               of
accountabilityandtimeliness in the reportingof resource allocationunder ESSP 3. In addition, the system
will allow ready access, through the World Bank, by donors, to the relevant project information anytime
they so desire.

11.      ImplementingAgencies

3.       The allocation of financial management functions between participating entities would be as
follows;

4.       The Ministry of Finance (MOF). The MOF will bear responsibility for the general oversight of
the Designated Accounts as well as for the submission of withdrawal applications (WA) to the World
Bank. In addition, they will continue to maintaintheir traditional function of ensuring compliance with
the Basic Organic Law of PublicFinancialManagement (PFM).

5.       TheProject Coordination Unit (PCU). The PCUthroughthe MOF will provide the link between
the line ministries, the MOF and the World Bank. The PCU will be responsible for the preparation of
quarterly un-auditedInterim FinancialReports (IFRs) to be addressed to the World Bank and donors. In
addition, the PCUwill be responsible for processingall payment orders under components 3 and4.

6.       Line Ministries. The Ministry of Educationand Higher Education(MOEHE), Ministry of Health
(MOH) and Ministry of Social Affairs (MOSA) are the line ministries under this program. They are
responsible for the actual implementation of the program including the preparation of their sectoral
budgets, confirming the eligibility of expenditure items, incurring expenditures, processing the
documentation related to transactions and monitoringtheir individual sectoral budgets (actualvs planned
to ensure availability of adequate resources at any given time). In addition, MOEHE and MOH will be
responsible for processing payment orders under components 1 and 2, including signing checks, issuing
checks to suppliers and makingall bank transfers for the benefitofthe supplier.

111.     ImplementationArrangements

7.       Ithas beenagreedwith MOF andthe lineministriesthat the existingdedicatedteams of fiduciary
staff (financial officers, accountants, disbursement staff and procurement specialists) who have gained
sufficient experience under the previousprograms will continue inthe same capacity under this program.
They will be the front line staff and serve as focal points for the World Bank and the PCU. While these
teams will not be exclusively dedicated to the ESSP, they will remainaccountable for the operation of the
ESSP within their respective sectors, in line with the Grant Agreement. Where the relevant skills are not



                                                     21

available, short term consultants will be hiredto backstopthe teams and ensure the work is carried out in
an effective manner with due regardto economy and efficiency.

8.      Budget. The starting point of the financial management mechanism is the budget of eligible
expenditures under ESSP 3 and the MDTF. During negotiations, agreement will be reached between the
Bank and the PA on the proposedbudget and eligible expendituresfor the Ministriesof Health, Education
and Higher Education, and Social Affairs.

9.      The line ministries, in coordinationwith MOF, will finalize their operating sectoral budgets. The
finalization of the budget will be carried out in coordinationbetween MOF and the World Bank's task
team for the ESSPto ensure that: (i)selectedbudget line items correspondto those agreedto with MOF,
(ii)prioritieshavebeenwelldefinedsuchthatonlyexpenditureswhicharedeemedemergencyinnature
have been retainedand (iii) costingremains in compliance with the standards of MOF for preparation of
the budgets. Agreed upon expenditure items will be reflected in the Trust Fund Grant Agreement to be
signed betweenthe World Bank andthe PA.

10.     It is understoodthat once the budget has beenfinalizedby the line ministries, vetted by MOF, and
approved by the World Bank, it will be considered as the budget of ESSP against which resources from
the Bank grant will be utilized.

11.     DesignatedAccounts (DAs). Financial resources will be transferred to three DAs established by
MOF. The DAs for components 1 and 2 will be managed directly by the relevant line ministry (MOEHE
and MOH). The PCU will manage the third DA established for components 3 and 4. Consequently, all
payments (cash, checks, bank transfers) will be made from the DAs by MOH, MOEHE or the PCU. The
PCU will be responsible for the periodic reconciliation of its DA as well as the preparation of the
withdrawal applications(WA) for its replenishment or for direct payment by the Bank. Similarly, MOH
and MOEHE will be responsible for such reconciliation and WA preparation for their respective DAs.
The PCU will be responsible for final verification of DA reconciliationsand WA contents before their
submissionby MOF to the Bank.

12.     Transactionprocessing. The line ministries will manage their respective budgets and carry out
the ESSP operations within their respective sectors. They will initiate the transactions on the basis of the
operating budget of eligible items as approved by the Bank. Uponreceipt of the invoicesthey will carry
out due diligence (invoices are for bona fides transactions; correctness of prices; transactions duly
authorized and approved by designated officials; goods are in compliance with quantity and quality as
ordered; services are fully renderedand accepted; etc), and issue payment orders.

13.     Control and Clearance.The relevantfinancial department (MOEHE & MOH components) or the
PCU (MOSA and PCU components) will review the package for (i)eligibility of the expenditures, (ii)
availability of sufficient resources under the line items in the budget; and (iii)proper authorization and
approval of all supportingdocuments by designated officers.Ithas beenagreedthat no exceptions will be
tolerated, such that no payment will be effected until the payment files are in full compliance with the
agreeduponproceduresfor processingtransactions.

14.     The system, as designed, provides the Bank with a greater sense of assurance that the control
mechanism will reduce the level of fiduciary risks. Ex-ante reviews of the payment process have been
established at the line ministries.Transactions will be rejected if they are not eligible or do not meet all
the agreed to criteria. The PCU reviews of MOH and MOEHE Was represents an additional layer of
verificationbefore the submission ofthe applicationto the WB.




                                                      22

15.     Proceeds of the Grant will be disbursed to the specific Designated Accounts established at a
commercialbank acceptable to the Bank for this purpose. The designated accounts will be opened by the
MoF under the Single Treasury Account. Following the declaration of program effectiveness, the MOF
will submit withdrawalapplicationsrequestingthe initial depositsfor each DA.

16.     Direct Payments. A mechanism for direct payment has been introduced, to settle large ticket
items by the World Bank. The thresholds are as follows: Consultingfirms (US$lOO,OOO);      and Individual
consultants (US$25,000). The processing of these transactions will comply with the system as explained
above.

17.     Accounting, reporting, audit and archiving. The project does not require additional
implementation capacity beyond what is already in place. The PCU has adequate internal controls and
management systems in place for consolidatingthe financial reports as well as preparingand producing
the IFRs.This work will be basedon informationand data supplied by line ministries.The line ministries
will be requiredto keep proper records and accounts of the operations within their respective sectors as
well. The line ministrieswill archive all original invoices, contracts, vouchers and payment orders. The
PCUwill file copies ofthe same.

18.     Annual audits andperiodic spot checks. The PCUwill be responsible for preparingthe TORSfor
the auditors and the accounting firms to be in charge of the spot checks. The Bank has already reviewed
and cleared the TORSfor the recruitment of the auditors under the previous program and the auditors
have been hired on a competitive basis in compliance with IBRD Guidelines for the recruitment of
Consultants. It is recommendedthat the auditors working on the ESSP MDTF be retained as their first
financial audit report was satisfactory. The financial statements, including statements of expenditures
(SOE), and the Designated Accounts will be audited annually by the independent auditor, in accordance
with internationallyaccepted standards. In addition, the auditor will carry out the physicalspot checks to
ascertain the achievement of physical progress and to track service delivery. Specialized technical
consultants will be used by the auditor as deemed relevant. The audit costs will be financed out of the
proceedsofthe Grant.

19.     Supervision and World Bank fiduciary reviews. The World Bank will carry out its regular
supervision of project implementation with a full team of sectoral specialists, fiduciary specialists
(financial management and procurement), the Task Team Leader of the ESSP as well as any other experts
as circumstances might require. In addition, fiduciary specialists will carry out semi-annual Statement of
Expenditure(SOE) reviews, as well as ex-post procurement reviews to ensure that expenses reimbursed
on the basis of SOE andprocurementtransactions are in compliance with the Grant Agreement.

IV.     Risks

20.     The Country FinancialAccountability Assessment (CFAA) conducted in 2004 concludedthat the
Palestinian Authority (PA) made considerable progress between 2002 and 2004 in the establishment of a
Public Financial Management (PFM) system which provides for adequate financial controls and
transparency. Unfortunately, there has been little progress since 2004 and some of the previous
achievements have unraveled, seriously underminingthe quality of PFM. Furthermore, the budget did not
comply with the Basic Organic Law of PFM and no annual accounts were prepared from the election of
Hamas in January 2006 until the Caretaker Government was established in June 2007. In addition, the
Central Treasury Account (CTA) was not functional during this period, as donors funneled resources
either throughthe President's Office or directly to project expenditures. Finally, the commercialbanking
system showed reluctanceto deal directly with PA institutionswhile Hamaswas in power.




                                                     23

21.      UnderESSP3, flow of funds mechanismshave been streamlined. As a result, MOHandMOEHE
will be responsible for managingtheir respective designated accounts. The PCUwill have responsibility
for a third DA covering its own and MOSA's expenses. This will facilitate efficient implementationand
minimizeflow of funds delays.

22.      Since this phase of the ESSP is being prepared with a good knowledge of the existing reality,
various measures to mitigate the envisaged risks have been agreed. These measures include: (i) issuing
permits to PCU staff in Gaza to travel frequently to West Bank so as to speed up the flow of funds, (ii)
preparing a more realistic budget under the line ministries with regular monitoring by the PCU; (iii)
payment responsibilitydecentralizedto the concernedentities (MOEHE, MOHor PCU) so as not to delay
the process; and (iv) PCU review of all (including MOH and MOEHE) withdrawal applications before
submission by MOF to the WJ3. Additionally, the quarterly spot-check audits by an independent audit
consultant will help the line ministries track delivery of services to their end point and will provide
additionalassurancethat the funds are usedfor their intendedpurpose.

23.      The overall project risk from a financial management perspective remains substantial. It should
be noted however, that various measures have been taken by the Caretaker Government to re-establish
good PFM. The CTA is once more functional, and the MOF has resumed its central coordinating role.
Also, donors have lifted their restrictions and resources are once more flowing through the Ministries.
Finally, the commercial banking system is now working with PA Institutions.This is in addition to the
projectspecific mitigatingmeasuresdetailed above.




                                                    24

                                                Annex 5
                                         West Bankand Gaza
                             Third EmergencyServices Support Project
                                     ProcurementArrangements

I. Introduction

Procurement Reform

1.      The Public Procurement system in West Bank and Gaza (WBG) is currently regulated by two
separate laws: Procurement Law No. (9) of 1998 (or General Supplies Law) and Law No. (6) of 1999 on
Public Works Tenders. The first law, which is supplementedby detailedregulations, governsprocurement
of goods and services, while the second one regulates procurement of constructionand lacks any specific
regulations. Two ministries are involved in procurement policy - the Ministry of Finance and the
Ministry of Public Works and Housing. A Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) for WBG,
completed in December 2004, reviewedthese legal frameworks and assessedthe related institutionaland
organizational aspects. It concluded that these procurement laws are more or less in line with accepted
procurement practices but are only partially enforced, and many procuring entities have developed their
own independent procurementpractices.

2.      Following the CPAR recommendations, the Palestinian Authority has been implementing a
Public Procurement Reform Project with the support of an IDF grant due to close on January 11, 2008.
The reform includes four main activities: (i)drafting and enactment of a new procurement law and
accompanying regulations, (ii)preparation of national standard bidding documents and a national
procurement manual, (iii) establishment of an independent Public Procurement Authority and (iv)
strengthening national capacity through the implementation of a continuous and targeted procurement
training program. A new procurement law and detailed regulations, incorporating most of the
recommendations of the CPAR, have been draftedand discussed intwo workshops held in February 2006
with the participation of PA project implementation units and civil society. The new law will introduce
major improvements in transparency, economy and efficiency aspects of public procurement, and will
introduce procedures for selection of consultants' services. It is generally consistent with international
standards and is more or less in line with the World Bank's guidelines.This law has now been submitted
to the President for signature.

3.      With the lack of progress in the implementation of the CPAR's recommendations and the
continuing erosion of procurement capacity in line ministries, the country's overall procurement risk
remains significant.

4.      Much of public procurement is currently financed by donors, who insist on using sound
procurement procedures in line with their own procurement guidelines, and much of the government
procurement activity makes use of donor standard document formats andprocedures.

11.     Use of Guidelines

5.      Procurement (subject to Bank guidelines) for the proposed project will be limited to a few
consultancy services to be carried out under component 4. This will include short-termconsultancies to
support the capacity of the Ministry of Finance and the Line Ministries, and external financial and
physicalspot audits.




                                                    25

6.       Consultancy services would be procured in accordance with the World Bank's "Guidelines:
Selectionand Employmentof Consultantsby WorldBank BorrowersI' dated May 2004, andthe provisions
stipulated inthe Grant Agreement. A descriptionofthe various expenditure categories is below.For each
contract to be financed by the grant, the selection methods, estimated costs, prior review requirements,
and time frame have been agreed between the Recipient and the Bank in the Procurement Plan. The
Procurement Plan will be updated at least annually or as required to reflect the actual project
implementationneeds and improvements in institutionalcapacity.

7.       Selection of Consultants. Consultant services include short-term consultancies to support the
capacity ofthe Ministriesof Finance, Health, Educationand HigherEducation, and Social Affairs, as well
as external financial and physicalspot audits.

8.       Contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$lOO,OOO or more, would be procured through
Quality- and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS). The contracts for services estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of US$lOO,OOO      per contract may be procured under contracts based on Consultants'
Qualificationsinaccordancewith the provisionsof paragraphs3.1 and 3.7 ofthe Consultant Guidelines.

9.       Externalfinancial and spot-check audits estimated to cost less than the equivalentof US$l00,000
may be procured under the Least Cost Selection (LCS) method in accordance with the provisions of 3.1
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.

10.      Consultancies for services meeting the requirements of section V of the consultant guidelines
may be selected under the provisions for the Selection of Individual Consultants, i.e. in essence through
the comparisonofthe curriculumvitae of at least 3 qualifiedindividuals.

11.      Single source selection may be usedexceptionally in accordancewith paragraph3.9 to 3.12 of the
Consultant Guidelines when the hiring of consultantsthrougha competitiveprocess is not practicableand
uponthe Bank's concurrenceofthe decisiononthe Single-SourceSelection method.

12.      The Bank's standard RFP document will be used. Short lists of consultants for services estimated
to cost less than US$lOO,OOO equivalentper contract may be composed entirely of national consultants in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, providedthat a sufficient
number of qualifiedindividualsor firms (at leastthree) are available at competitivecosts.

13.      Tertiary Health Services Contracts. The project will finance contracts with non-governmental
organizations and private sector hospitals for specialized medical services not offered by Ministry of
Healthfacilities.The procurement of these health services will follow a competitive process based on the
new set of Request of Proposals (RFP) and forms of Agreement which were developed by MOHwith the
technical assistance provided under the current phase of the ESSP. The new RFPs and forms of
Agreement have beenreviewedby IDA andwere cleared in October 2007.

Assessment of the agency's capacity to implement

14.      The responsibility for overall oversight and monitoring on the implementation of procurement
will rest with Ministry of Finance through its Directorate of International Relations and Development
Projects, which will ensure that procurement is carried out in accordance with the Grant Agreement and
the ProcurementPlan.

15.      The ESSP PCU will be responsible for implementing procurement of consultancy services
financed under the project. The PCU procurement officer will be responsible for managing the




                                                     26

procurement process for these activities including preparing the procurement plan, expressions of
interests, andrequests for proposals, as well as evaluatingproposals, contract awardandmanagement.

16.      A rapid assessment of the capacity of the PCUto implement procurement actions for the project
has been carried out by Ahmed Merzouk, Sr. procurement specialist, during appraisal. The assessment
reviewed the organizational structure for implementing the project and the interaction between the
project's staff responsible for procurement and the Ministry's relevant centralunit for administrationand
finance. The assessment also covered the performance of the current PCU in implementingprocurement
activities under the ongoing phase of ESSP MDTF. The assessment concluded that given the limited and
simple type ofprocurementto be carriedout under the project, the capacity ofthe PCUis adequate.

17.      The overallproject procurement risk is ratedaverage.

111.     ProcurementPlan

18.      The Recipient, at appraisal, developed a simplified procurement plan for project implementation,
which providesthe basis for Consultant selection. This included determining the particular contracts for
consulting services to be carried out, the proposed method for selection of consultants services, and the
Bank's related review procedures. This plan was agreed between the Recipient and the project team on
November 7, 2007 and is available at the ESSP PCU unit. It will also be available in the project's
database and in the Bank's external website. The Procurement Plan will be updated quarterly or as
requiredto reflect the actual project implementationneeds and improvements in institutionalcapacity.

IV.      Prior review thresholds for selection of consultants

19.      The procurement plan shall set forth those contracts, which shall be subject to the Bank's prior
reviewprocess.All other contracts shall be subject to ex-post review.




                Selection Method               Prior Review Threshold              Comments
    Competitive Methods (Firms)                > 100,000$                 Also, the first two contracts
                                                                          irrespectiveof value
    Single Source (Firms)                      All
    Individual Consultants                     >25,000$                   Plus first two contracts
                                                                          irrespectiveof value.
    Single Source (Individual Consultants)     All
    Tertiarv HealthCare Services               -                          First contract onlv

V.      Frequencyof ProcurementSupervision

21.     In addition to the Bank prior review supervision mission, the capacity assessment of the
ImplementingAgency has recommendedtwo supervision missions per year to visit the field to carry out
ex-postreview of consultanciesto be carriedout under the project.




                                                     27

                                                 Annex 6
                                          West Bankand Gaza
                            Third EmergencyServices Support Project
                          Implementationand MonitoringArrangements


I. ImplementationArrangements

1.      In order not to create a parallel implementationstructure, the proposed operation will follow the
implementation arrangements of the ongoing ESSP MDTF. The Ministry of Finance (MOF) will have
primary responsibility for overseeing project implementation and ensuring coherence with the Bank's
procedures and guidelines. In performing this function, the MOF will draw on existing technical and
implementationcapacity inthe Ministriesof Health, Educationand HigherEducation, and Social Affairs.

2.       The ESSP Project Coordination Unit/Ministry of Finance (ESSP PCU). The ESSP PCU will
continue to oversee and manage the proposed operation. The MOF Director General for International
Relationsand Development Projects(DIRD)will headthe PCUandthus be the Bank's main interlocutor.
As such, the DIRD will be responsible for project oversightand rely on PCU staff to carry out fiduciary
and project management tasks. The Line Ministries (Ministries of Health, Education and Higher
Education, and Social Affairs) will be responsible for implementing the activities defined in their
respective budgets. The PCU staff includes a project coordinator, a financial officer, a disbursement
officer, a procurement officer, and four accountants, who are knowledgeable in World Bank financial
managementand procurementproceduresdue to ofto their involvementin previousphases ofthe ESSP.

3.      The PCU will make the link betweenthe line ministries and the MOF on project implementation
and fiduciary issues. Additionally, the PCU will be responsible for the fiduciary aspects of the project as
described in Annexes 4 and 5.

4.      Role of the line ministries. The Ministriesof Health, Educationand Higher Education, and Social
Affairs will be responsible for the actual preparation of their individual work programs and budgets.
They will ensure that the agreed performance indicatorsdefined inAnnex 2 are closely monitored. These
shall be confirmedthroughthe quarterly spot checks. These functions will be carried out by existing staff
within the various line ministries as a means of continuing to strengthen their capacity. The line
ministries will be requiredto report on quarterly implementationperformance to the ESSP PCU who in
turn will be responsiblefor consolidatingthis informationandpreparingquarterly progressreports.

5.      Project costs andJinancing plan. The PA's Emergency Program for the Social Sectors for the
year 2008 is estimated at US$500.89 million (see Cost Table below). This includes the estimated
operating budgets for the three social sector ministries, as well as management costs relating to the
implementationof the ESSP 3 and ESSP MDTF by the PCU. The budget has been submitted by the PA
to the Bank, and it was reviewedand agreed on during project negotiations. The non-salary budget and
the financing scheme are includedinAnnex 3.

6.      The budget includes US$480.89 million in wages and salaries, and US$20.00million in non-
salary operatingcosts. It is expected that the PA will finance the cost of wages and salaries. The ESSP3
project will contribute US$10 million towards non-salary operating costs; the ESSP MDTF will do the
same. Together, these two operations will cover the full estimated amount of non-salary operatingcosts
for the year. Donors havepledgedan additionalUS$ 7 million to the ESSP MDTF, and it is expected that
other donors will step forward, possiblyalready duringthe PA donors' conference in mid-December.




                                                     28

                       Table 1: ESSP3 and ESSPMDTFCost and FinancingPlan

                            PA's Emergency Program
                                                                    PA      I    ESSP3        1 MDTF(1)      1


         (1)      An additionalUS$7 million has been pledged.

7.       The following pro-forma implementation plan summarizes the main actions.

              Key Activities               ResponsibleAgency            I   Implementation Schedule

           Effectiveness             MOF                                 end-December2007
           Project Completion        MOF, MOEHE, MOH, MOSA, PCU          June 30,2009
           Closing Date              World Bank                          December31,2009
       Financial Management
       0   Establishmentof DAs     I MOF                                1 1Q2008
       0   Update of budgets         PCU, MOEHE, MOH, MOSA               Quarterly, starting end lQ08
           InterimFinancial Reports  pcu                                 Quarterly, starting end lQ08
           Annual financial audit    pcu*auditing firm                   Decembereachyear
      Recruitment of consultants
           Short-termconsultants     PCU, MOEHE, MOH, MOSA               Ongoing
           Procurementof Tertiary    MOH                                  142008
           Health Services
      Supervision
      0    Project supervision       TTL, World Bank WBG office          Ongoing
      0    Spot Checks               PCU                                 Quarterly, starting end lQ08



11.      MonitoringArrangements

8.       Monitoring. Results monitoring will be undertaken by the three line ministries and reported
quarterly. Results will be verified by quarterly spot checks o f a sample o f facilities in the case o f primary
schools, social care facilities and hospitals. Monitoring will focus on whether levels o f operation o f
facilities have been maintained.

9.       Indicators have been chosen on the basis o f their relevance, validity, precision and consistency,
and the availability o f the needed information. For public primary schools, fluctuations in the number o f
schools that remain open will be monitored, together with enrollment rates. These data, drawn from the
MOEHE information system, will constitute proxies for the impact o f the project and the ESSP MDTF.
A baseline has been determined for all public primary schools in WBG operating as o f the beginning o f
the 2007/2008 school year. For the health system, two MOH hospitals, one in the West Bank and one in
Gaza, have been selected for monitoring. Utilization o f certain hospital services will be monitored on a
quarterly basis as proxies for services being available. Hospital information systems will serve as data
sources. The selected services/categories are out-patient services, emergency services and obstetrics. The
baseline is set at end September. In the case o f MOSA social care services, the number o f facilities
operating, and occupancy per facility, will be monitored. The baseline i s set at mid-November, 2007.




                                                      29

Monitoring will focus on training centers, juvenile rehabilitationcenters and rehabilitationcenters for the
disabled. Their continuedoperation will be monitoredusingquarterly data from the MOSA database.

10.     For all these indicators, random spot checks will be undertaken on a quarterly basis to verify the
data. In the case of schools and social care services, a random sample of facilities will be selected for
spot checks. For hospitals, the spot check will cover the full set. Terms of reference for the spot checks
will be preparedby the PCUfor Bank approval.




                                                     30

                                 Annex 7
                          West Bank and Gaza
              Third Emergency Services SupportProject
               ProjectPreparationand Appraisal Team


 EileenMurray              Lead Operations Officer, Task Team  M N S H D
                           Leader
 SamiraHillis              Operations Officer                  M N S H D
 NicholasLeffler           Junior Professional Associate       MNc02
 Ahmed Merzouk             Sr. Procurement Specialist         MNAPR
 SiakaBakayoko             Sr. FinancialManagement Specialist MNAFM
 AdrianaJaramillo          Sr. EducationSpecialist             M N S H D
 Firas Raad                HealthSDecialist                    M N S H D
 MohamedYehia              FinancialManagement Specialist      MNAFM
 MahaMuhammadBali          ProgramAssistant                    MNC04
 Suha Rabah                ProgramAssistant                    MNC04
 KirstenBurrrhardt Propost Counsel                             LEGEM
 HyacinthBrown             Sr. FinanceOfficer                  LOAFC
 FarisHadad-Zervos         Sr. Operations Officer              MNC04
 HegeHope Wade             Operations Officer                  MNCA4
 Afaf KhalilAbbassi        Procurement Specialist              MNAPR

IHjalte
 FredKranz                 Consultant                          MNAPR
       Sederlof           IConsultant




                                     31

                                                Annex 8
                                        West Bank and Gaza
                           Third EmergencyServices Support Project
                                     Documentsin ProjectFile



Multi-Donor TrustFund Concept Note, Emergency Services Support Program(ESSP), June 2006

Multi-Donor TrustFund Technical Annex, ESSP, August 2006

Multi-Donor Trust Fund Project Operational Manual, ESSP, August 2006

ESSPprogress reports (submittedby PCU), ESSP PCU, Dec 2006 / March2007 / June 2007

Interim Evaluation Report, ESSP,The World Bank, June 2007

Temporary International Mechanism (7IM)Interim Evaluation, EuropeanCommission,July 2007

Public Expenditure Review:from Crisis to Greater Fiscal Independence, The World Bank, ReportNo.
38207-WBG, February2007

TrustFundfor Gaza and West Bank Status Report, The World Bank, ReportNo. 38026-WBG,
                                    -
December2006

TrustFundfor Gaza and West Bank Requestfor Replenishment & Proposed Moratorium on Service
                                    -
Charges and Commitment Fees, The World Bank, Memorandumof the President,November2006

Food Security Update, World FoodProgram/ Food& Agriculture Organization, June 2007

Food Security and VulnerabilityAssessment, World FoodProgram, January 2007

WestBank & GazaSurvey, Near East Consulting, June 2007

Two YearsAfter London: Restarting Economic Recovery (Economic Monitoring Report to the Ad Hoc
Liaison Committee), The World Bank, September24, 2007

Temporary International Mechanism Financial and Operational Review Jun -Dec 2006 & Jan -Aug 2007,
EuropeanCommissionDelegationWest BankandGaza




                                                    32

                                                    Annex 9
                                             West Bankand Gaza
                              Third EmergencyServices Support Project
                                      Statementof Loansand Credits


As ofNovember I,2007

                                                                                                 Differencebetween
                                                                                                 expected and actual
                                                 Original Amount in US$Millions                    disbursements

                                                                                                              FlTn.
Project ID FY   Purpose                         IBRD      IDA       SF      GEF  Cancel, Undisb. Orig.       Rev'd

P100568    2007 Avian/Hurnan InfluenzaControl
                & Prevention                                       10.0                  $8.82    $0.5

PO96777    2007 PalestinianNGOProject I11                          10.0                  $8.50    $1.7

PO74594    2007 EmergencyMunicipal Service
                RehabilitationII                                   10.0                  $8.01    $0.3

PO65920    2005 Gaza I1EmergencyWater                              20.0                  $9.77    $4.8

PO74595    2005 North Gaza EmergencySewage
                Treatment                                           7.8                  $1.00    $0.7

PO80892   2005  LandAdministartion                                  3.0                  $1.35    $1.3
PO83767   2005  Tertiary EducationProject                          10.0                  $7.31    $2.9
PO65921    2004 EmergencyWater                                     12.5                  $1.69    $1.7       -$0.5

PO81477    2004 Social SafetyNet Reform Project                    10.0                  $7.33    $6.0        $1.5


PO69986    2002 IntegratedCommunity
                DevelopmentProject                                 15.0                  $4.24   -$0.8


PO54051   2001  Solid Waste and Environmental
                Management                                          9.5                  $1.21    $1.2        $1.1


                                         Total:  0.0      0.0     117.8      0.0  0.0     59.2    20.3        2.1




                                                           33

 West Bank and Gaza at a glance                                                                                                                9/28/07

                                                                                                              II
                                                                       West        M. East       Lower
Key Development Indicators                                              Bank       &North       middle
                                                                     & Gaza          Africa    income           Age distribution, 2005
(2006)                                                                                                                       Male               Female

Population,mid-year (millions)                                           3.7           311       2,275            7 5 t                E
Surface area (thousand sq. km)                                           6.0          8,990     28,549
Populationgrowth (%)                                                     3.1            1.7         0.9
Urban population(%of total population)                                    72             57         47

GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                         4.5           771       4,635
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                    1,230           2,481      2,037
GNI per capita (PPP, international$)                                                  6,447      7,020

GDP growth (%)                                                           1.4            5.4         8.8                                 0        10     20
GDP per capita growth (%)                                               -1.7            3.6         7.9                              percent

(most recent estimate, 2000-2006)

Povertyheadcountratio at $1 a day (PPP,%)                                                 1
Povertyheadcountratio at $2 a day (PPP,%)                                                20                    IUnder-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)
                                                                                                               I'"1
Life expectancyat birth (years)                                           73             70          71
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                                  21             43          31
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                                 5             14          13

Adult literacy,male (% of ages 15 and older)                              97             83          93
Adult literacy,female (% of ages 15 and older)                            88             63          85
Gross primaryenroilment,male (% of age group)                             89            106         117
Gross primaryenrollment,female (% of age group)                           88             99         114

Access to an improved water source (% of population)                      92             90          81
Access to improved sanitationfacilities (% of population)                 73             76          55                    1990   1995    2000    2005

                                                                                                                           (3West Bank and Gaza
                                                                                                                           EMiddle East 8 NorlhAfnca

Net Aid Flows                                              1980         1990          2000        2006
                                                                                                               LOT
(US$ millions)
Net ODA and official aid                                                179             637       1,102         Growth of GDP and GDP per capita (Yo)
Top 3 donors (in 2005):
  United States                                                          19              60         180
  Noway                                                                    0             28          74
  Germany                                                                                17          40

Aid (%of GNI)                                                                          13.3       25.0
Aid per capita (US$)                                                     81             215         304


Long-Term Economic Trends

Consumer prices (annual % change)                                                       1.6         1.7
GDP implicit deflator (annual % change)                                                 2.9        -0.3

Exchange rate (annual average, local per US$)                                           4.1         4.5
Terms of trade index (2000 = 100)                                                       100        105
                                                                                                                  1980-90     1990-2000       2000-06
                                                                                                                        (average annual growth X)
Population,mid-year (millions)                                           2.0            3.0         3.7                               4.1           3.9
GDP (US$ millions)                                                                    4,113       4,059                              7.3            0.2
                                                                         (x ofGDP)
Agriculture
Industry
  Manufacturing
Services

Householdfinal consumption expenditure                                                 95.5       95.0                               5 3           -0 6
General gov't final consumption expenditure                                            27.0       32.0                              12 7            2 1
Gross capital formation                                                                32.7       26.9                               9 2           -0 8

Exports of goods and services                                                          16.0        15.7                              8 7           -0 7
Imports of goods and services                                                          71.2       69.7                               7 5           -0 8
Gross savings                                                                           7.8        10.4


Note: Figures in italics are for years other than those specified. 2006 data are preliminary... indicatesdata are not available.
a. Aid data are for 2005.

DevelopmentEconomics, DevelopmentData Group (DECDG).


                                                                                 34

                                                                                                                                    West Bank and Gaza

 Balance of Payments and Trade                            2000       2006

 (US$ millions)                                                                         IGovernance Indicators, 2000 and 2006

Total merchandiseexports (fob)                              674       433
Total merchandise imports (cif)                           2,490     1,866                 Voice and accountability
 Net trade in goods and services                         -2,270     -2,191
                                                                                        1         Political stability
Workers' remittances and
    compensation of employees (receipts)                   842        436                        Regulatory quality


Current account balance                                  -1,025      -672                               Rule of law
    as a oh of GDP                                        -24.9      -16.6                    Control of comption
 Reserves, including goid                                                                       .2006                0      25          50            75     100

 Central Government Finance                                                                                            Country's percentile rank (0-100)
                                                                                                  2000                   hlpher values mply befferratings
(% Of GDP)
Current revenue (including grants)                         23.9      39.0                Source KaUfmann-Kraay-MastruzzlWorld Bank
    Tax revenue                                           19.4
Current expenditure                                        28.9      31.1
                                                                                      Technology and Infrastructure                                  2000    2005
Overall surplus/deficit                                    -5.3       -1.8
                                                                                      Paved roads (% of total)                                     100.0     100.0
Highest marginal tax rate (%)                                                         Fixed line and mobile phone
    Individual                                                                          subscribers (per 1,000 people)                                 151     398
    Corporate                                                                         Hightechnology exports
                                                                                        (% of manufacturedexports)
 External Debt and Resource Flows
                                                                                      Environment
(US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                                                  Agricultural land (% of land area)
Total debt service                                                                    Forest area (% of land area)                                     1.5     1.5
Debt relief (HiPC, MDRI)                                       -                      Nationally protected areas (Ohof land area)

Total debt (% of GDP)                                                                 Freshwater resources per capita (cu. meters)
Total debt service (% of exports)                                                     Freshwaterwithdrawal (% of internal resources)

Foreign direct investment (net inflows)                                               C02 emissions per capita (mt)
Poilfolio equity (net inflows)
                                                                                      GDP per unit of energy use
                                                                                        (2000 PPP $ per kg of oil equivalent)
   lCompoeitlon of total external debt, 2005                    (data-
    are not avallable)                                                                Energy use per capita (kg of oil equivalent)




Private Sector Development                                2000       2006

Time required to start a business (days)                      -        93
Cost to start a business (% of GNI per capita)                      324.7
Time required to register property (days)                     --       72

Ranked as a major constraint to business
   (% of managers surveyedwho agreed)
     n.a.
     n.a.

Stock market capitalization (%of GDP)                     18.6      111.1
Bank capitalto asset ratio (%)


Note: Figures in italics are for years other than those specified. 2006 data are preliminary                                                               9/28/07
.. indicates data are not available. -indicates Observationis not applicable.

Development Economics, Development Data Group (DECDG).


                                                                                 35

Millennium Development Goals                                                                                                West Bank and Gaza


With selected targets to achieve between 1990 and 2015
(estimate closest to crate mown +/- 2 years)


Goal 1: halve the rates for $1 a day poverty and malnutrltlon                                           I990         I991           2000           2001
 Poverty neadcodntrat o at $1 a aay (PPP % of popLlation)
 Poveny neadcomt ratio at national poveny ine (% of popdlation)
 Share of income or consumptionto the poorestqunitile (%)
 Prevalenceof malnLtrition (% of children Jnder 5)                                                                    4.1                           4.9

Goal 2: ensure that chlldren are able to complete primary schoollng
 Primaryscnooi enrolment (net, %)                                                                                                      96             80
 Primarycompletion rate (% of re evanl age group)                                                                                    103              98
 Secondary school enro lment (gross %)                                                                                                 81             99
 Yodtn literacy rate (% of people ages 15-24)                                                                         97                             99

Goal 3: elimlnate gender dlspsrlty In education and empowerwomen                 -.   . .-.- -
 Ratio of girls to boys in pr.mary ana secondaryeaucation 1%)                                                                        104            104
 Women employe0 n the nonagr cLltLra sector (% of nonagr cLItura employment)                              10           12              14             18
 Proport~onof seats he d bywomen in national parliament (YO)

Goal 4: reduce under-5 mo~alltyby two-thirds
 Unaer-5mona.ttyrate (per 1 000)                                                                          40           33              27             23
 Infant mortality rate (per 1.000I;veD nhs)                                                               34           28              24             21
 Measles immunization(proportlon of one-year 010s ImmJnizea, %j                                                        73              93             99

Goal 5: reduce maternal mortsllty by three-fourths
 Maternalmortality ratto(modeiea estimare. per 100,000 ive b nhs)
 Blnhs attenaea by ski1eo healin staff (% of total)                                                                   9s               97

Goal 6: halt and begin to reverse the spread of HIWAIDS and other major diseases
 Prevaence of rllV (% of pop-lat on ages 15-49)                                                                                      . ~.
 Contraceptivepreva,ence( % of women ages 15-49)                                                           .. ,       42                             51
 lnciaence of Lbercuosis (per 100000 peope)                                                               31           31              26             21
 TLbelCJlOSIS cases Detected,mer DOTS (%)                                                                                              10              2

Goal 7: halve the proportlon of people wlthout surtalnable access to basic needs
 Access to an improvedwater SoLrce (% of POPJ ation)                                                                   92              92            92
 Access to mprovea sanitaton facilsies (% of population)                                                               73              73            73
 Forestarea (% of total lano areal                                                                       I .5                         1.5            1.5
 Nationally protecteaareas (% of total lana area)
 C02 emissions (metric tons per capita)
 GDP per milof energy Lse (constant 2000 PPP $ per kg of oil equivalent)

Goal 8: develop a global partnenhlp for development
 F xea loneand mob le phone subscribers (per 1 000 people)                                                34           42            151            398
  nternet users (per 1 000 people)                                                                         0                           12             67
 Persona compJters (per 1,000peop e)                                                                                                  39             48
 Youth demployment (% of total labor force ages 15-24)                                                                              34.8           39.8


   Education indicators (%)                                JIeasles immunization (%of I-year oids)           ICT indlcators (per 1,000 people)

                                                           100                                                   1
                                                            75                                                400

                                                                                                              300
                                                           50
    25                                                                                                        200

                                                            25                                                100
           2000        2002              2005
                                                             0                                                  0
                                                                       1990   1995    2000    2005                    2000     2002          2005
       -0-Pnmarynetenrollmentratio

       *Ratio       of gids to boys in pnmary 8                       1WestBankandGaza                                 OFixed + mobile subscnbers
              secondaryeducation                                      0 Middle East 8 NorthAfnca                       1Internetusers



Note: Figures in italics are for years other than those specified. .. indicates data are not available.                                          9/28/07

DevelopmentEconomics, DevelopmentData Group (DECDG).



                                                                                  36

MAP SECTION


                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD 33512R1

                                                                                                             3500'E                                       To
                                                                                                                                                         Nazareth                       3530'E
              WEST BANK
                                                                                                                                To Haifa
               AND GAZA
                SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                RIVERS                                                       3230'N                                                     Yamounmoun                                                            3230'N

                                                                                                                                                                     Jenin
                                                                                                                                                                     Jenin
                MAIN ROADS                                                                                                               Ya'bada'bad
                                                                                                                              Kaffeen
                                                                                                                              Kaffeen
                RAILROAD                                                                                                                                  Qabatia
                                                                                                                                                          Qabatia

                ARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINES, 1949                                                                                                   JENIN
                                                                                                                                                    JENIN

                NO-MAN'S LAND AREAS,
                ARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINE, 1949                                                    To Netanya             TULKARMTULKARM
                                                                                                                                   AnaptaAnapta                                  Tubas
                                                                                                                                                                                 ubas
                                                                                                                                                                                      TUBASTUBAS
                JERUSALEM CITY LIMIT, UNILATERALLY                                                                       Tulkar
                                                                                                                          ulkarm
                                                                                                                                                                                  Tammun
                                                                                                                                                                                   ammun
                                                                                                                                                                                    mmun
                EXPANDED BY ISRAEL JUNE 1967;
                THEN ANNEXED JULY 30, 1980                                                                                                           Mt. 'Eval
                                                                                                                                                     Mt. 'Eval
                                                                                                                                                     (940 m)
                                                                                                                                                     (940 m)
                GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                      NablusNablus
                                                                                                    QalqilyahQalqilyah
                ADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARY                                                                                 QALQILYAH
                                                                                                                        QALQIL                           NABLUS
                                                                                                                                                         NABLUS
                                                                                              To                                                                                                                    To
                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                    Tel Aviv                                                                                                             Um Qais

                                                                                                                               SALFIT
                                                                                                                               SALFIT
                                              3430'E                                                                                Salfit
                                                                                                                                     Salfit    W e s t
  This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
  The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                       To                                                                                           River
  shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                        Ramla                                                                                              JORDAN
  Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                             B a n k
  endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                           To                                                                                                    nadroJ
                                                                                       Tel Aviv
3200'N                                                                                                                                                             Tallll Asur
                                                                                                                                                                           Asur                              To 3200'N
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Amman
                                                                                                                                                                    (1,022 m)
                                                                                                                                                                    (1,022 m)
                                                                                                                                    RAMALLAHRAMALLAH                                  JERICHOJERICHO

                                                                                                                                                  Ramallah
                                                                                                                                                  Ramallah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                                                                        JerichoJericho          Amman
        M e d i t e r r a n e a n
                                                                                                                                                    JERUSALEMJERUSALEM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  To
                          S e a                                                                                                                                                                                 Amman
                                                                                                                                                     JERUSALEMJERUSALEM


                                                                                                        To                                        BethlehemBethlehem
                                                                                                      Ashdod
                                                                                ISRAEL
                                                                                                                                                    BETHLEHEM
                                                                                                                                                    BETHLEHEM
                                                                    To
                                                                  Tel Aviv
                                                                                                  To
                                                                                               Ashqelon                                                                                Dead
                              JABALYA
                                     Beit Lahia                                                                                    (1,020 m)
                                                                                                                                   (1,020 m)                                            Sea
                           Gaza City                                                                                               Hebron
                                                                                                                                   Hebron
                                                   Jabalya
                                                   Jabalya
                    GAZA CITY                                                                                                                                                                                   3130'N
   Gaza                                                                                                                        HEBRON
                                                                                                                               HEBRON
                     Nusejrat
DEIR EL BALAH                                                   To                                                               Yattah
                                                                                                                                  attah
                                   El Bureij
                                   El Bureij                Beersheba
        Deir el Balah                                                                                                 Zohar
                                                                                                                      Zohar

      KHAN
      YUNIS
                     Khan
                     Khan                                                                                                                                                    To
                     Yu is
                     Yun                                                                                                                                                    Zofar
                                                                                        To
                                                                                     Beersheba

            Rafah
            Rafah
                           RAFAH                                                                                                                                                            JORDAN
               Abu 'Awdah
               Abu 'Awdah
  To           (105 m)
               (105 m)
El Arish
                  To                          WEST BANK
                  Elat                          AND GAZA

 ARAB                                                                                                      0          5    10   15 Kilometers
REP. OF
EGYPT                                                                                                      0              5       10             15 Miles

3100'N                                                                                                                                                                                                         3100'N


                                                3430'E                                                       3500'E                                                                    3530'E

                                                                                                                                                                                                               JUNE 2007

