Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF050575
Netherlands Grant Agreement
(Relating to the Emergency Services Support Project
in the West Bank and Gaza)
between
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION
(for the Benefit of the Palestinian Authority)
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(As Administrator of the Grant provided by The Government of  Netherlands)
Dated August 26, 2002
Netherlands GRANT NUMBER TF050575
NETHERLANDS GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated August 26, 2002, between the INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION, acting as administrator (the “Administrator”) of a grant (the 
“Grant”) provided by THE GOVERNMENT OF NETHERLANDS (the “Donor”), and 
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (for the benefit of the Palestinian Authority) (the 
“Recipient”).
Page  2
WHEREAS (A) under an agreement dated March 1, 2002, between the Administrator 
and the Recipient (the Trust Fund Credit Agreement or “TFCA”), the Administrator has agreed 
to provide the Recipient with a trust fund credit (the “Credit”) in an amount equivalent to twenty 
million United States dollars (US$20,000,000) to assist in financing the carrying out in the West 
Bank and Gaza (“WBG”) of  the Emergency Services Support Project described in Schedule 2 to 
the TFCA (the “Project”);
(B)
the Donor, has agreed, under a letter of arrangement with the Administrator, 
dated July 17, 2002, (“Letter of Arrangement”), to provide a Grant in an amount in United States 
Dollars equivalent to five million eight hundred eighty thousand Euro (€ 5,880,000) to assist in 
financing the Project;
(C)
the Donor and the Administrator have agreed, under the Letter of Arrangement, 
to assign the responsibility for administration of utilization of the proceeds of the Grant for 
purposes of the Project to the Administrator; and
(D)
the Administrator undertook under the Letter of Arrangement to carry out the 
procedures and conclude the agreements required to implement the Arrangement and to achieve 
the objectives of the Grant.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions, as amended, referred to and modified in Section 
1.01 of the TFCA (the “General Conditions”) shall apply mutatis
mutandis
 to this Agreement.
Section 1.02. The several terms defined in the TFCA, the General Conditions referred to 
in the preceding Section and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings 
therein set forth, and (a) the term "Grant Account" means the account maintained by the 
Administrator, in which the amount of the Grant is deposited, and (b) the term "Grant Special 
Account" means the account to be opened by the Recipient pursuant to the provisions of Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and 
conditions herein set forth or referred to, the Grant in an amount in United States Dollars 
equivalent to five million eight hundred eighty thousand Euro (€5,880,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of works, goods and 
services approved for financing from the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the provisions 
Page  3
of this Agreement.
(b)
The Recipient may, for purposes of the Grant, open and maintain in United 
States dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Administrator, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into and payments out of the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, works, goods and 
services to be financed from the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to the TFCA.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2003 or such later date as shall be 
determined by the Administrator in agreement with the Donor. The Administrator shall promptly 
notify the Recipient of such later date.
Section 2.05. Disbursement from the proceeds of the Grant (including deposits into the 
Special Account) shall be made only to the extent that resources adequate to meet such 
disbursement shall have been transferred from the Donor to the Administrator.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Except as the context may otherwise require, Articles III and IV of, and 
Schedules 2, 3 and 4 to, the TFCA are hereby incorporated into this Agreement with the same 
force and effect as if they are fully set forth herein. For this purpose all references in said 
Articles and Schedules to: (a) the "Administrator" shall be deemed to be references to the 
International Development Association as Administrator of the Grant; (b) the "Credit" and 
"Credit Account" shall be deemed to be references to the Grant and the Grant Account; and (c) 
the "Special Account" shall be deemed to be references to the Special Account referred to in 
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
ensure that the entire amount of the Grant shall be allocated for works, goods and services 
required for the carrying out of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon signature thereof by the 
parties hereto and shall continue in effect until termination of the Letter of Arrangement or until 
the Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their 
obligations thereunder, whichever occurs first.
Section 4.02. In accordance with the Letter of Arrangement, the rights and obligations of 
the Administrator under this Agreement may be terminated under a notice from one party to the 
other. The Recipient accepts and agrees that, upon notice by the Administrator to the Recipient to 
Page  4
that effect, the Donor shall, ipso
facto
,
from the date specified in such notice, be substituted in all 
rights and obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement as if the Donor had been an 
original party to this Agreement, without any further action or formality required on the part of 
any party, and from such date the Administrator shall cease to have any rights or obligations 
under this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Representatives
Section 5.01. The Minister of Finance of the Palestinian Authority shall be the 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
c/o Ministry of Finance of the Palestinian Authority
Beirut Street, Rimal
Gaza City, Gaza 
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
  MCI 248423
Washington, D.C.
  MCI 64145
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representatives duly 
authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Gaza
 
as of the 
day and year first above written.
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION
(for the benefit of the Palestinian Authority)
By /s/ Salam Fayyad
Page  5
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the Grant provided by
the Government of Netherlands 
By /s/ Nigel Roberts
Authorized Representative
Page  6
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Category to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant, 
the allocation of the amount of the Grant to such Category and the percentage of expenditures for 
items so to be financed in such Category:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
  % of Eligible
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Euros
)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works under Part C
1,200,000
100%
of the Project
(2)
Goods under: 
100%
(a) Part A of the Project
   500,000
(b) Part C of the Project
 1,200,000
(c) Part D of the Project
    220,000
(3)
Consultants’ services under
               120,000
100%
Part C of the Project
(4)
Food Costs under Part D
   880,000
100%
of the Project
(5) Incremental Operating Costs
100%
            under:
(a) Part C of the Project
   800,000
(b) Part D of the Project
   500,000
(6) Unallocated
   460,000
TOTAL
 5,880,000
Page  7
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means expenditures incurred by the 
Palestinian Authority on account of utility charges, maintenance, fuel, office supplies, banking 
charges, communication services, translation charges, audit costs, domestic travel costs 
(including transport and per diem), labor costs, solid waste dumping fees, vehicle insurance, 
office rent, school rent and rent of facilities for MOE, MOLG and MOSA, and other related 
expenditures; and
(b)
the term “Food Cost” means expenditures incurred by the Palestinian Authority 
on account of food contracts for old people’s homes, orphanages and homes for the disabled 
under the management and/or supervision of MOSA.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, except as the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures 
prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for: (i) contracts for goods or works costing less than the 
equivalent of $100,000; (ii) contracts costing less than the equivalent of $100,000 for services of 
consulting firms; (iii) contracts costing less than the equivalent of $50,000 for services of 
individual consultants; (iv) Food Costs; and (v) Incremental Operating Costs, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
5.
It is understood that the percentages of expenditures to be financed under the table set 
forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule have been calculated on the basis of an undertaking by the 
Ministry of Finance of the Palestinian Authority to exclude taxes and custom duties from the sum 
total of any and all amounts requested to be withdrawn from the Grant Account for the purpose 
of financing works, goods and services under the Project.  It is further understood that the 
levying of taxes and/or customs duties on works, goods and services financed under the Project 
shall lead to the decrease of the percentages referred to above in accordance with the provisions 
of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions.
Page  8
SCHEDULE 2
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)(a), (2)(b), (2)(c), (3), 
(4), (5)(a), and (5)(b) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of works, goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant allocated to the eligible Category in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to one million 
United States Dollars (US$ 1,000,000) to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Administrator a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit in the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Administrator requests for deposits into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Administrator shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Administrator the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
para-graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Grant Account under the 
respective eligible Category, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
Page  9
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, 
at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the Administrator such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Administrator shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Category, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Grant allocated to the eligible Category shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Administrator, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator: (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Administrator may request; or (B) deposit into the Special 
Account (or, if the Administrator shall so request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the 
Administrator shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General 
Conditions.
Page  10
