                                                               CONFORMED COPY

                     ADMINISTRATION AGREEMENT


1. In pursuance of the Cofinancing, Technical Assistance and Consultant Trust Fund
   Framework Agreement between the Government of the Italian Republic ("Italy")
   and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development ("IBRD") and the
   International Development Association (the "Association") (collectively the
   "Bank") dated January 5, 1999 and amended in March 15, 2002 (the "Framework
   Agreement"), I am pleased to inform you of the intention of Italy to make
   available a grant (the Grant) of five million Euro (EUR 5,000,000), to be
   administered by the Bank for the West Bank and Gaza Emergency Services
   Support Project (Trust Fund No.050878).

2. The terms of the Framework Agreement shall apply to the Grant. The Bank shall
   administer the Grant in accordance with the provisions of the Framework
   Agreement, except as otherwise provided herein.

3. The Grant is for a Bank-Administered cofinancing Project and shall be use
   exclusively to mitigate the deterioration of basic social and municipal services
   brought about by the conflict situation currently prevailing in the parts of the
   West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority, and its
   negative impact on economic activity and revenue generation.

4. Promptly following confirmation of this Agreement, Italy shall deposit the Grant
   funds with the Bank, in IBRD's Cash Account “T? (Account No. 6008-62952017,
   Swift Bic Code: BOFAGB22, Internal Route Code: BOFALO) with the Bank of
   America NT and SA in London, United Kingdom.

5. When arranging for the deposit into the "T" Account, Italy shall instruct Bank of
   America NT and SA London, United Kingdom to advise the Association’s
   Treasury Operations Department as to the amount received; that it is from Italy
   for the West Bank and Gaza Emergency Services Support Project (TF050878)
   and, the date of the deposit. In addition, when arranging for the deposit, Italy will
   also arrange to fax a copy of its deposit instruction to the Association’s Trust
   Funds Division utilizing Fax Number (202) 477-7163. The Grant funds may be
   commingled with other trust fund assets maintained in the T-Account. The Grant
   funds deposited in the T-Account will be kept separate and apart from the funds
   of the Association. The Association will disburse, or arrange for the disbursement
   of, the Grant funds in the T-Account to pay for expenditures eligible for payment
   under the Project and, for this purpose, the Association may exchange the funds in
   the T-Account for other currencies.

6. It is expected that the Grant funds will be fully utilized in accordance with the
   provisions of this Administration Agreement by December 30, 2003. The Bank
   shall only disburse the funds for the purposes of this Administration Agreement
   after such date upon the approval of Italy.


7. Italy hereby authorizes the Association to allocate the Grant funds to finance
   works, goods, services and/or sub-grants required for carrying out the Project and
   other activities sought to be financed by the Grant Funds.

8. The Association shall take such measures and enter into such agreements with the
   Palestine Liberation Organization (for the benefit of the Palestinian Authority) as shall
   be required for utilization of the Grant for the purposes for which it has been
   provided. A copy of any such agreement shall be furnished, promptly upon the
   conclusion thereof, by the Association to Italy.

9. The Association shall supervise the implementation of activities to be financed
   from the proceeds of the Grant with the same care and diligence that it exercises
   in the administration and management of its own affairs, but shall be under no
   further obligation or responsibility to Italy in respect thereof.

10. Except as Italy and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Association shall
    apply to the procurement of goods, works and services to be financed from the
    proceeds of the Grant the same procedures applicable to the procurement of
    goods, works and services to be financed from the proceeds of the Emergency
    Services Support Project Trust Fund Credit Agreement (TF050473).

11. The Association may invest and reinvest the funds provided by Italy under this
    Administration Agreement pending their disbursement. The Association will
    credit all income from such investment on a monthly basis to a separate
    investment income trust fund TF029037 (the "Italian Income Account") which the
    Bank may also invest and which shall be returned to Italy as specified in Section
    6.03 of the Framework Agreement. In order to assist in the defrayment of the
    costs of administration and other expenses incurred by the Association under this
    Administration Agreement, the Association may deduct from the Italian Income
    Account and retain for its own account, an amount equivalent to two percent (2%)
    of the amounts deposited by Italy with the Association in accordance with
    provisions of this Administration Agreement. No payment aside from the amount
    referred to in the preceding sentence, shall be due to the Association for
    administering the Grant funds.

12. The Association shall maintain separate records and accounts in respect of the
    Grant and of disbursement by the Association from the proceeds thereof under
    this Administration Agreement, and shall furnish to Italy at the end of each fiscal
    year an unaudited statement of account with respect to such records and accounts.
13. The Bank shall maintain separate records and ledger accounts in respect of the
    Contribution funds and disbursement thereof. Within 90 days of each March 31,
    June 30, September 30 and December 31, for as long as any Contribution funds
    remain in the T-Account, the Bank shall prepare an unaudited financial statement
    with respect to the Contribution funds and forward a copy to the Donor.

14. The Bank shall provide the Donor annually a management assertion together with
    an attestation from the Bank’s external auditors concerning the adequacy of
    internal control over financial reporting for trust funds as a whole. The costs of
    such attestations shall be borne by the Bank.

15. Italy and the Association shall exchange views from time to time on all matters
    related to the implementation of this Administration Agreement. Accordingly, the
    Association shall: (i) keep Italy informed of progress in the carrying out of the
    Project in general and of the components thereof financed from the proceeds of
    the Grant in particular, and, to this end, shall furnish to Italy all relevant progress
    and performance reports relating to the Project; and (ii) inform Italy of any
    forthcoming supervision missions and meetings in connection with the Project
    and shall, subject to the consent of the relevant authorities, take appropriate
    measures to enable representatives of Italy, if Italy so wishes, to participate in
    such missions and meetings.

16. The provisions of this Administration Agreement may be amended only by the
    written agreement of both parties.

17. If, at any time, either party determines that the purposes of this Administration
    Agreement can no longer be effectively or appropriately carried out or if the
    Agreement is terminated, this Administration Agreement may be terminated at the
    initiative of either party by giving the other party a three (3) months' written
    notice to this effect. Upon the termination of this Administration Agreement, and
    unless the parties hereto agree on another arrangement, any grant agreement
    entered into by the Bank, as administrator on behalf of Italy, shall also terminate
    at such time, and any funds or other property of Italy held hereunder by the Bank
    shall be credited to the trust fund account specified in SECTION 6.07 of the
    Framework Agreement, and the Bank's administration shall be considered
    terminated.

18. This Administration Agreement shall come into force and effect upon signature
    thereof.

19. Any dispute arising under this Administration Agreement shall be settled through
    consultations between the two parties.

20. The Bank may disclose this Administration Agreement and information with
    respect to this trust fund in accordance with the Bank’s policy on disclosure of
    information.
   21. Any notice to be delivered from one party to the other in connection with the
       effectiveness, execution or termination of this Administration Agreement shall be
       considered as so delivered when notified to the party to whom it is addressed at
       the following address:



       For Italy:

               Ministry of Foreign Affairs
               Direzione Generale Per La Cooperazione Allo Sviluppo
               Ufficio III, Roma
               Italy

       For the Association:

               International Development Association
               Middle East & North Africa Region
               Country Department II
               1818 H Street, N.W.
               Washington, D.C. 20433
               U.S.A.

        I would like to propose that this letter shall, upon your confirmation in the manner
indicated below, constitute an agreement between Italy and the Bank.


                                                                     Sincerely yours,

                                     /s/ Authorized Representative for the Italian Republic
                                                             (Authorized Representative)
Confirmed and agreed:

International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development/International
Development Association

/s/ Nigel Roberts
Authorized Representative

Date: February 24, 2003
