Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
\03
TF050880 
 
Denmark Grant Agreement 
 
(Relating to the Emergency Services Support Project 
in the West Bank and Gaza) 
 
between 
 
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION 
(for the Benefit of the Palestinian Authority) 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(as Administrator of the Grant provided by  
the Government of The Kingdom of Denmark) 
 
Dated February 15, 2003 
 
Page  2
DENMARK GRANT NUMBER TF050880 
 
DENMARK GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated February 15, 2003, between the INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION, acting as administrator (the “Administrator”) of a 
grant (the “Grant”) provided by THE GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF 
DENMARK (the “Donor”), and PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (for the 
benefit of the Palestinian Authority) (the “Recipient”). 
 
WHEREAS (A) under an agreement dated March 1, 2002, between the 
Administrator and the Recipient (the Trust Fund Credit Agreement or “TFCA”), the 
Administrator has agreed to provide the Recipient with a trust fund credit (the “Credit”) in 
an amount equivalent to twenty million United States dollars (US$20,000,000) to assist in 
financing the carrying out in the West Bank and Gaza (“WBG”) of  the Emergency 
Services Support Project described in Schedule 2 to the TFCA (the “Project”); 
 
(B) 
the Donor, has agreed, under an administration agreement with the 
Administrator, dated November 20, 2002 (“Administration Agreement”), to provide a 
Grant in an amount equivalent to Danish kroner nineteen million six hundred thousand 
(DKK 19,600,000)
 
to assist in financing the Project; 
 
(C) 
the Donor and the Administrator have agreed, under the Administration 
Agreement, to assign the responsibility for administration of utilization of the proceeds of 
the Grant for purposes of the Project to the Administrator; and 
 
(D) 
the Administrator undertook under the Administration Agreement to carry 
out the procedures and conclude the agreements required to implement the Arrangement 
and to achieve the objectives of the Grant. 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The General Conditions, as amended, referred to and modified in 
Section 1.01 of the TFCA (the “General Conditions”) shall apply mutatis
mutandis
to this 
Agreement. 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
Section 1.02. The several terms defined in the TFCA, the General Conditions 
referred to in the preceding Section and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth, and (a) the term "Grant Account" means the account 
maintained by the Administrator, in which the amount of the Grant is deposited, and (b) the 
term "Grant Special Account" means the account to be opened by the Recipient pursuant to 
the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Grant 
 
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and 
conditions herein set forth or referred to, the Grant in an amount equivalent to Danish 
kroner nineteen million six hundred thousand (DKK 19,600,000)  
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of works, goods and services approved for financing from the proceeds of 
the Grant in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for purposes of the Grant, open and maintain in United 
States dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Administrator, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into and payments out of the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, works, goods and 
services to be financed from the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 3 to the TFCA. 
 
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be August 31, 2003 or such later date as shall 
be determined by the Administrator in agreement with the Donor. The Administrator shall 
promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
 
Section 2.05. Disbursement from the proceeds of the Grant (including deposits into 
the Special Account) shall be made only to the extent that resources adequate to meet such 
disbursement shall have been transferred from the Donor to the Administrator. 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. Except as the context may otherwise require, Articles III and IV of, 
and Schedules 2, 3 and 4 to, the TFCA are hereby incorporated into this Agreement with 
the same force and effect as if they are fully set forth herein. For this purpose all references 
in said Articles and Schedules to: (a) the "Administrator" shall be deemed to be references 
to the International Development Association as Administrator of the Grant; (b) the 
"Credit" and "Credit Account" shall be deemed to be references to the Grant and the Grant 
Account; and (c) the "Special Account" shall be deemed to be references to the Special 
Account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
ensure that the entire amount of the Grant shall be allocated for works, goods and services 
required for the carrying out of the Project. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Effectiveness; Termination 
 
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon signature thereof by the 
parties hereto and shall continue in effect until termination of the Administration 
Agreement or until the Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement 
have fulfilled their obligations thereunder, whichever occurs first. 
 
Section 4.02. In accordance with the Administration Agreement, the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement may be terminated under a notice 
from one party to the other. The Recipient accepts and agrees that, upon notice by the 
Administrator to the Recipient to that effect, the Donor shall, ipso
facto
,
from the date 
specified in such notice, be substituted in all rights and obligations of the Administrator 
under this Agreement as if the Donor had been an original party to this Agreement, without 
any further action or formality required on the part of any party, and from such date the 
Administrator shall cease to have any rights or obligations under this Agreement. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE V 
 
Representatives 
 
Section 5.01. The Minister of Finance of the Palestinian Authority shall be the 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
c/o Ministry of Finance of the Palestinian Authority 
 
Beirut Street, Rimal 
 
Gaza City, Gaza  
 
For the Administrator: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
 
 
Telex: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
  MCI 248423 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  MCI 64145 
Page  6
-
5
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representatives 
duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Gaza,
 
as of the day and year first above written. 
 
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION 
 
(for the benefit of the Palestinian Authority) 
 
By /s/ Salam Fayyed 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
as Administrator of the Grant provided by 
the Government of Kingdom of Denmark  
 
By /s/ Nigel Roberts 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Category to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant, the 
allocation of the amount of the Grant to such Category and the percentage of expenditures for items 
so to be financed in such Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Grant Allocated  
 
  of Eligible 
 
(Expressed in   
 
 Expenditures 
 
Category
Danish kroner
)
to be Financed
(1)  Civil works under Part C 
9,996,000 
100% 
 
 
of the Project 
 
(2) Goods under Part C 
  2,142,000 
100% 
 
of the Project 
 
(3) Incremental Operating 
4,284,000 
100% 
 Costs 
 
(4) Unallocated 
3,178,000 
 
 
__________ 
 
TOTAL
 19,600,000 
 ==========
 
2. For 
th
e
purposes of this Schedule the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means 
expenditures incurred by the Palestinian Authority on account of utility charges, 
maintenance, fuel, office supplies, banking charges, communication charges, translation 
charges, audit costs, domestic travel costs (including transport and per diem), labor costs, 
solid waste dumping fees, vehicle insurance, office rent, school rent and rent of facilities for  
MOLG. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, except as the Administrator 
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate 
amount not to exceed three million eight hundred sixty one thousand two hundred twenty 
eight Danish kroner (DKK3,861,228) equivalent, may be made in respect of Categories 
(1), (2) and (3) on account of payments made before that date but after November 20, 2002. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
4. 
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for: (i) contracts for goods or works costing less than 
the equivalent of $100,000; and (ii) Incremental Operating Costs, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
5. 
It is understood that the percentages of expenditures to be financed under the table 
set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule have been calculated on the basis of an 
undertaking by the Ministry of Finance of the Palestinian Authority to exclude taxes and 
custom duties from the sum total of any and all amounts requested to be withdrawn from 
the Grant Account for the purpose of financing works, goods and services under the 
Project.  It is further understood that the levying of taxes and/or customs duties on works, 
goods and services financed under the Project shall lead to the decrease of the percentages 
referred to above in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), and (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant allocated to the eligible Category in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to two 
hundred eighty thousand United States dollars (US$280,000) to be withdrawn from the 
Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this 
Schedule. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, 
the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and 
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have 
requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Administrator shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On 
the basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf 
of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit 
Page  10
-
9
-
into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Grant Account under 
the respective eligible Category, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have 
been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Administrator 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or 
 
(b) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Category, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Category shall follow such procedures as the 
Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will 
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Administrator, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator: 
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may request; or (B) deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so request, refund to the Administrator) 
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Administrator shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Administrator into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
Page  11
-
10 - 
 
(b) 
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator, 
refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) 
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions. 
 
