Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF050691
European Community
Grant Agreement
(Relating to the Emergency Services Support Project
in the West Bank and Gaza)
between
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION
(for the Benefit of the Palestinian Authority)
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(As Administrator of the Grant provided by the Commission of European Communities, 
acting on behalf of the European Community)
Dated August 26, 2002
EUROPEAN COMMUNITY GRANT NUMBER TF050691
EUROPEAN COMMUNITY GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated August 26, 2002, between the INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION, acting as administrator (the “Administrator”) of a grant (the 
“Grant”) provided by the COMMISSION OF EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES (the 
“Commission”), acting on behalf of the European Community (the “Donor”), and PALESTINE 
Page  2
LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (for the benefit of the Palestinian Authority) (the “Recipient”).
WHEREAS (A) under an agreement dated March 1, 2002, between the Administrator 
and the Recipient (the Trust Fund Credit Agreement or “TFCA”), the Administrator has agreed 
to provide the Recipient with a trust fund credit (the “Credit”) in an amount equivalent to twenty 
million United States dollars (US$20,000,000) to assist in financing the carrying out in the West 
Bank and Gaza (“WBG”) of  the Emergency Services Support Project described in Schedule 2 to 
the TFCA (the “Project”);
(B)
the Donor, has agreed, under a administration agreement with the Administrator, 
dated June 21, 2002, (the “Administration Agreement”), to provide a Grant in the amount of nine 
million eight hundred thousand Euro (€ 9,800,000) to finance the activities described in Annex 1 
to the Administration Agreement (the “Activities”);
(C)
the Donor and the Administrator have agreed, under the Administration 
Agreement, to assign the responsibility for administration of utilization of the proceeds of the 
Grant for purposes of the Activities to the Administrator; and
(D)
the Administrator undertook under the Administration Agreement to carry out 
the procedures and conclude the agreements required to implement the Arrangement and to 
achieve the objectives of the Grant.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions, as amended, referred to and modified in Section 
1.01 of the TFCA (the “General Conditions”) shall apply mutatis
mutandis
 to this Agreement.
Section 1.02. The several terms defined in the TFCA, the General Conditions referred to 
in the preceding Section and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings 
therein set forth, and (a) the term "Grant Account" means the account maintained by the 
Administrator, in which the amount of the Grant is deposited, and (b) the term "Grant Special 
Account" means the account to be opened by the Recipient pursuant to the provisions of Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and 
conditions herein set forth or referred to, the Grant in the amount of nine million eight hundred 
thousand Euro (€9,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Page  3
Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services 
approved for financing from the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the provisions of this 
Agreement.
(b)
The Recipient may, for purposes of the Grant, open and maintain in United 
States dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Administrator, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into and payments out of the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, goods and services to be 
financed from the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to the TFCA.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be January 31, 2003 or such later date as shall be 
determined by the Administrator in agreement with the Donor. The Administrator shall promptly 
notify the Recipient of such later date.
Section 2.05. Disbursement from the proceeds of the Grant (including deposits into the 
Special Account) shall be made only to the extent that resources adequate to meet such 
disbursement shall have been transferred from the Donor to the Administrator.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Activities
Section 3.01. Except as the context may otherwise require, Articles III and IV of, and 
Schedules 2, 3 and 4 to, the TFCA are hereby incorporated into this Agreement with the same 
force and effect as if they are fully set forth herein. For this purpose all references in said 
Articles and Schedules to: (a) the "Administrator" shall be deemed to be references to the 
International Development Association as Administrator of the Grant; (b) the "Credit" and 
"Credit Account" shall be deemed to be references to the Grant and the Grant Account; and (c) 
the "Special Account" shall be deemed to be references to the Special Account referred to in 
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
ensure that the entire amount of the Grant shall be allocated for goods and services required for 
the carrying out of the Activities as described in Annex I to the Administration Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon signature thereof by the 
parties hereto and shall continue in effect until termination of the Administration Agreement or 
until the Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their 
obligations thereunder, whichever occurs first.
Section 4.02. In accordance with the Administration Agreement, the rights and 
Page  4
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement may be terminated under a notice from 
one party to the other. The Recipient accepts and agrees that, upon notice by the Administrator to 
the Recipient to that effect, the Donor shall, ipso
facto
,
from the date specified in such notice, be 
substituted in all rights and obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement as if the 
Donor had been an original party to this Agreement, without any further action or formality 
required on the part of any party, and from such date the Administrator shall cease to have any 
rights or obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Representatives
Section 5.01. The Minister of Finance of the Palestinian Authority shall be the 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
c/o Ministry of Finance of the Palestinian Authority
Beirut Street, Rimal
Gaza City, Gaza 
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
  MCI 248423
Washington, D.C.
  MCI 64145
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representatives duly 
authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Gaza
 
as of the 
day and year first above written.
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION
(for the benefit of the Palestinian Authority)
Page  5
By /s/ Salam Fayyad
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the Grant provided by
the Commission of European Communities, acting on behalf of 
the European Community.
By /s/ Nigel Roberts
Authorized Representative
Page  6
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Category to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant, 
the allocation of the amount of the Grant to such Category and the percentage of expenditures for 
items so to be financed in such Category:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
% of Eligible
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
Euro
) 
to be Financed
(1) Goods under Part B of the Project
    5,000,000
100%
(2) Consultants’ services under 
 250,000
100%
Part B of the Project
(3) Food Costs under Part B of 
     600,000
100%
the Project
(4) Incremental Operating
  3,400,000
100%
Costs under Part B of the   
Project
(5) Unallocated
    550,000
TOTAL
 9,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule
(a)
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means expenditures incurred by the 
Palestinian Authority on account of utility charges, maintenance, fuel, office supplies, banking 
charges, communication services, translation charges, audit costs, domestic travel costs 
(including transport and per diem), labor costs, solid waste dumping fees, hospital cleaning 
services, vehicle insurance, hospital hazard insurance, office rent, health facility rent and rent of 
facilities for MOH and other related expenditures; and 
(b)
the term “Food Costs” means expenditures incurred by the Palestinian Authority 
on account of food contracts for hospitals under the management and/or supervision of MOH.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, except as the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures 
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to 
exceed one million five hundred thousand dollars ($1,500,000) equivalent, may be made in 
respect of Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) on account of payments made before that date but after 
January 1, 2002.
Page  7
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for: (i) contracts for goods costing less than the equivalent of 
$100,000; (ii) contracts costing less than the equivalent of $100,000 for services of consulting 
firms; (iii) contracts costing less than the equivalent of $50,000 for services of individual 
consultants; (iv) Food Costs; and (v) Incremental Operating Costs, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
5.
It is understood that the percentages of expenditures to be financed under the table set 
forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule have been calculated on the basis of an undertaking by the 
Ministry of Finance of the Palestinian Authority to exclude taxes and custom duties from the sum 
total of any and all amounts requested to be withdrawn from the Grant Account for the purpose 
of financing goods and services under the Activities.  It is further understood that the levying of 
taxes and/or customs duties on goods and services financed under the Activities shall lead to the 
decrease of the percentages referred to above in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 
of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 2
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Category in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to two million 
United States Dollars (US$ 2,000,000) to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Administrator a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit in the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Administrator requests for deposits into the Special Account at such 
Page  8
intervals as the Administrator shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Administrator the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
para-graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Grant Account under the 
respective eligible Category, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, 
at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the Administrator such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Administrator shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Category, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Grant allocated to the eligible Category shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Administrator, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator: (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Administrator may request; or (B) deposit into the Special 
Account (or, if the Administrator shall so request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the 
Administrator shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
Page  9
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General 
Conditions.
