                                      Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                                        Report No: 32356

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
       (TF-50473 TF-50492 TF-50691 TF-50575 TF-50880 TF-50879 TF-50899 TF-50878)

                                         ON A

                                        CREDIT

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20 MILLION

                                        TO THE

                                  WEST BANK AND GAZA

                                        FOR AN

                        EMERGENCY SERVICES SUPPORT PROJECT




                                       June 3, 2005




Human Development Sector
Middle East and North Africa Region

                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective February 28, 2002)

                      Currency Unit = New Israeli Sheqalim (ILS)
                               ILS 1 = US$ 0.22
                              US$ 1 = ILS 4.63

                             FISCAL YEAR
                       January 1     December 31

               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CFAA       Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CoF        Co-Financing
CPPR       Country Portfolio Performance Review
DFID       Department for International Development (UK)
DPD        Development Projects Directorate
EC         EC European Community
EMSRP      Emergency Municipal Services Rehabilitation Project
ERL        Emergency Recovery Loan
ESSP       Emergency Services Support Project
ESSP II    Second Emergency Services Support Project
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GOI        Government of Israel
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
IMC        Inter-Ministerial Committee
IMF        International Monetary Fund
MOEHE      Ministry of Education and Higher Education
MOF        Ministry of Finance
MOH        Ministry of Health
MOLG       Ministry of Local Government
MOSA       Ministry of Social Affairs
NCB        National Competitive Bidding
NGOs       Non-Governmental Organizations
OPT        Occupied Palestinian Territories
PA         Palestinian Authority
PCU        Project Coordination Unit
PER        Public Expenditure Review
PHC        Primary Health Care
TFGWB      Trust Fund for Gaza and the West Bank
WHO        World Health Organization




                    Vice President:       Christiaan J. Poortman
                 Country Director:        Nigel Roberts
           Acting Sector Manager:         Setareh Razmara
               Task Team Leader:          Sima W. Kanaan

                                 WEST BANK AND GAZA
                             Emergency Services Support Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              7
6. Sustainability                                                                  8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   9
8. Lessons Learned                                                               10
9. Partner Comments                                                              11
10. Additional Information                                                       12
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             13
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             18
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             19
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             21
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                22
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            23
Annex 8. Partner Comments (Borrower/Implementing Agency)                         24
Annex 9. Other Partners' Comments (Stakeholders Report)                          33

Project ID: P075984                                                  Project Name: Emergency Services Support Project
Team Leader: Sima W. Kanaan                                          TL Unit: MNSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 3, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Emergency Services Support Project                       L/C/TF Number: TF-50473; TF-50492;
                                                                                                     TF-50691; TF-50575;
                                                                                                     TF-50880; TF-50879;
                                                                                                     TF-50899; TF-50878
   Country/Department: WEST BANK AND GAZA                                                 Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Health (46%); General water, sanitation and flood protection sector
                            (27%); General education sector (17%); Other social services (7%);
                            Central government administration (3%)
                  Theme: Other urban development (P); Health system performance (P);
                            Education for all (P); Other social protection and risk management
                            (S); Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/06/2001                                     Effective: 03/01/2002                03/01/2002
     Appraisal: 11/11/2001                                         MTR:
      Approval: 02/28/2002                                      Closing: 06/30/2004                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY/MINISTRY OF FINANCE; PALESTINIAN
                                           AUTHORITY/SECTOR MINISTRIES AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Nigel Roberts                                  Nigel Roberts
Sector Manager:                 Setareh Razmara                                Zafiris Tzannatos
Team Leader at ICR:             Sima W. Kanaan                                 Qaiser Khan
ICR Primary Author:             Hjalte S. A. Sederlof; Christian
                                Bodewig


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S

                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The objective and design of the Emergency Services Support Projects must be viewed in the context of an
environment of protracted political and economic crisis affecting public services and the welfare of the
population in West Bank and Gaza. With the outbreak of the crisis in 2001, poverty was increasing, and
scarce public resources were no longer sufficient to adequately provide for essential services. Education
services faced increasing demand from a growing school-age population, but also fewer resources, as
parents found it increasingly difficult to pay school fees, which typically account for some 50 percent of
school recurrent budgets, and scarce fiscal resources were unable to make up for the shortfall. As a
consequence, access to and quality of general education worsened, with overcrowded schools, deteriorating
physical infrastructure and scarce materials and equipment. Institutions of higher education, mainly
dependent on fees, faced serious financial shortfalls. Health services felt the effects of constrained budgets,
reflected in shortages of drugs and inadequate maintenance and operations budgets for basic services. In
addition, many facilities operated under extreme circumstances of conflict with urgent needs for timely
medical supplies. With increasing poverty, the social safety net came under unsustainable pressure,
generating arrears in benefit payments and was unable to cope with the increased demand for social
services. Municipal services declined in the face of revenue shortfalls, raising concerns over health
conditions resulting from environmental hazards. The result was a rapid increase in the need for
coordinated donor support to maintain essential services at operational levels.

Consequently, the objective of the Emergency Services Support Project (ESSP I) was to mitigate the
deterioration of basic social and municipal services brought about by ongoing conflict and its negative
effects on economic activity and Government revenue. As an emergency operation, ESSP I was processed
as an Emergency Recovery Loan (ERL).

In retrospect, the project objective was well chosen. It accurately reflected the priorities that existed at the
time, i.e., the need to keep essential social programs operational, and it was well-focused: It did not include
other elements, in particular institution building, which would have delayed delivery of urgently needed
resources and, in the view of the ICR team, would have diluted the impact of the project. An alternative
approach might have been generalized budget support, but the ICR team believes that the project made the
right choice in targeting support to key social services as these may have been compromised by the pressure
on the Palestinian Authority (PA) to use its limited resources to fulfill its wage bill obligations. The choice
of this approach proved critical to attracting funding from donors who preferred to earmark their funds
towards social services that ultimately benefited the population at large.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The objective was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

The project had six distinct components whose allocations were based on the Ministry of Finance's (MOF)
estimates of recurrent non-salary operating costs in the line ministries for a period of six months:

Component 1: Education Services (total cost US$8.10 million; IDA US$3.30 million): this component
consisted of financing: (i) local printing of scientific and technical textbooks; (ii) replacement of furniture


                                                       - 2 -

and equipment in existing schools; (iii) non-salary operating expenses such as communications, fuel,
utilities, and rent; (iv) maintenance contracts for school facilities; (v) learning materials and other materials
for laboratory facilities; and (vi) goods and services needed to train teachers in the new curriculum. The
ICR team's assessment confirms that this component was targeted towards expenditure items that were
most critical for sustaining the capacity of schools to continue to operate. Given the dire fiscal situation,
funds made available through this project were used fully for financing items (i) ­ (v) while teacher training
was financed through other donor projects.

Component 2: Health Services (total cost US$25.9 million; IDA US$8.75 million): this component
consisted of: (i) essential drugs and other medical consumables; (ii) non-medical costs of operating health
facilities, including communication, fuel, utilities, rent for health facilities, stationary, etc.; and (iii)
contracts with nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) and private sector hospitals for specialized care not
offered by Ministry of Health (MOH) facilities. While the selection of expenditure items eligible for
financing under this component corresponded to the needs in the sector, the limited capacity of the MOH in
handling procurement arrangements under items (i) and (iii) made it difficult to deliver on these items in as
timely a fashion as was necessary given the prevailing emergency situation.

Component 3: Municipal Services (total cost US$39.93 million; IDA US$5.20 million): this
component consisted of financing: (i) solid waste management, including the maintenance of land-fills and
solid waste vehicles, spare parts and new garbage containers, contracts with the private sector to provide
services, and the purchase of new solid waste vehicles; (ii) water and waste water management, including
maintenance of main water lines, well heads, internal network and pumps, new pumps and electric
switchboards, rebuilding sections of the network where there are significant water losses, and maintenance
of waste water lines and pumps; (iii) electricity generation, transmission and distribution, including electric
network maintenance, power generator maintenance and fuel costs for power generators; and (iv)
maintenance of roads which have been over-utilized due to closures of main roads. The inclusion of this
component was justified on the grounds that no other instrument was available to respond in a timely
fashion to the challenge that municipalities were facing in their need to rehabilitate damaged infrastructure
and sustain basic services. This component was dropped in the subsequent Phase II of the Project after an
Emergency Municipal Fund was established.

Component 4: Social Welfare Services (total cost US$11.96 million; IDA US$1.3 million): this
component consisted of financing: (i) goods and services needed to operate and maintain welfare shelters;
(ii) goods and services for training and rehabilitation centers that provide school dropouts with labor
market skills; and (iii) social welfare payments (the Bank did not participate in the financing of welfare
payments). While the financing of (i) and (ii) was aimed at keeping the Ministry of Social Affairs'
(MOSA) social institutions functioning, the financing of welfare payments (sub-component (iii)) was not
possible since other donors were guided by the Bank's up-front decision not to contribute to this program.

Component 5: Project Management and Capacity Building (total cost US$1.11 million; IDA US$0.61
million): this component consisted of financing project management, external audits and, to the extent
opportunities emerged during implementation, capacity building aimed at improving performance of key
ministries and municipalities in areas such as budgeting and financial management. The financing of a
management information system to improve the MOSA's management of its social welfare programs was
also proposed.

Component 6: Labor Union Federation Support (total cost US$21 million; IDA zero): this
component (the "Solidarity Fund") consisted of providing financing to compensate workers who lost jobs in



                                                       - 3 -

Israel or in the territories due to contraction of economic activities. The financing of compensation
payments was not possible since other donors were guided by the Bank's up-front decision not to contribute
to this program.

In summary, the components selected for financing, with the exception of Component 6 and sub-component
(iii) of Component 5, corresponded to the project development objective. Their contents were chosen in
close consultation with the authorities and, in the opinion of the ICR team, were targeted at essential
services in each of the social sectors. The ICR team is not aware of any assessment of the capacity of
participating agencies to implement the components, beyond the standard review of their capacity to apply
Bank procedures for procurement and financial management. However, these were ongoing programs, and
the purpose was to maintain them "as is," if possible. An assessment may well have concluded that
capacity building could improve implementation in many cases, but the introduction of such components
(or sub-components) would have jeopardized the project objective. More critical for implementation was
procurement and financial management capacity which, even with the introduction of safeguards, was still
underestimated in the view of the ICR team.

3.4 Revised Components:

The components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Quality at Entry is rated satisfactory. The ESSP was prepared as an ERL in a relatively short period of
time (five months) and was well devised: (i) it was in line with the Bank's strategy for West Bank and
Gaza; (ii) consistency between program objectives and Government and Bank priorities was ensured
through strongly collaborative preparation arrangements that also developed strong PA ownership of the
project: a newly established inter-ministerial committee worked closely with the Bank team to determine
the project objective and contents; (iii) project implementation arrangements at entry included support
mechanisms to guard against and compensate for institutional weaknesses in participating agencies; (iv) the
task team took a pragmatic approach to monitoring indicators, which served to ensure that the objective
was being achieved (see discussion under Section 4.1 below); and (v) donor participation was facilitated
through flexible arrangements that allowed donors to earmark their funds within the framework of the
project and ensured that they would be applied as intended under IDA monitoring arrangements.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Achievement of objectives and outcome was satisfactory. The ESSP ensured that the PA's social
ministries were able to continue to provide essential services by financing non-salary operating costs.
Between 2001 and 2003, the share of donor financing of the MOH's total operating budget rose from 31 to
87 percent, and the share of donor financing of the MOEHE's operating budget rose from 44 to 87 percent.
Since ESSP served as the main conduit for channeling donor funding to the PA's social operating budgets,
it provided protection against a potential collapse in the PA's social service delivery systems, which may
have resulted from the steep budget deficits that the PA's ministries were facing in early 2001. Indeed, and
as shown in the table below, the initially wide non-salary operating budget deficits in the both MOH and
MOEHE narrowed significantly between 2001 and 2003 (from 37 to 13 percent and from 5 percent to
balanced budget respectively).




                                                       - 4 -

                        Ministry Non-Salary Operating Budget, 2000-2003 (US$ million)
          Ministry of Health                         2001                2002             2003
          Budget allocation                          51.2                47.8             528
          Funds received from MOF                    16.1                10.3              0
          Funds received from other sources          16.1                31.2              45.9
          Financing gap                              19.0                 6.3              6.9
          % financing gap                            37%                 13%              13%
          Ministry of Education and H.E.             2001                2002             2003
          Budget allocation                          14.6                17.2              14.2
          Funds received from MOF                     3.0                 3.5              2.7
          Funds received from other sources           6.4                11.1              12.3
          Financing gap                               5.2                 2.7              -0.8


This assessment is confirmed by stakeholder views solicited for the ICR and presented in Annex 9. The
MOF and line ministries confirmed that ESSP funding was essential for maintaining adequate levels of
municipal, social, health and education services. Although it is hard to pinpoint the impact of ESSP on the
general performance of the PA's social systems, the deterioration in some basic social indicators would
have been worse in its absence. As an example, the educational system has managed to sustain, to a large
extent, its performance at the pre-Intifada level. This is evidenced by the fact that the same average
student/teacher ratio has been sustained through the period of crisis. Similarly, the net school enrollment
rate dropped only 4% from what it was before the crisis. The building of new schools kept pace with the
annual increase in the number of students. While most health indicators have not yet been severely
affected, and per capita recurrent expenditures had only slightly declined from their pre-Intifada levels, the
trends in malnutrition rates were initially negative and the psychological well-being of children and youth
deteriorated significantly.

The Quality Enhancement Review conducted at the outset of the project's implementation noted that there
was a need to develop more specific monitoring indicators in education, health, and some of the municipal
investments to determine how effective the assistance program has been in restoring essential social
services, as well as to monitor problems of access to these services by municipal populations subject to
severe periods of conflict and sustained periods of closures. While the ESSP's key role in supporting the
PA's ability to maintain essential social services is evident in the amount of donor funding channeled
through the social sector ministries and the fact that social service providers continued to operate for the
benefit of the population, such specific impact or outcome monitoring indicators were not developed or
used under the project. Instead, the task team did apply available indicators based on procurement and
disbursement monitoring, as well as qualitative information from implementing agencies and field-level
observations and interviews, which served to establish that the objective was being met. Evidence on
service delivery and quality was also published in the Bank's "Intifada, Closures and Palestinian Economic
Crisis" reports, three issues of which were published during the ESSP implementation period.

It is more difficult to discuss efficiency considerations. Since the interventions aimed at keeping existing
processes going, attention was not paid to potential improvements that might have been undertaken in the
efficiency of service delivery systems. Still, the program did open the possibility for capacity building,
particularly in the areas of financial management and procurement, that have resulted in more competitive
prices. The program also introduced a management information system that has contributed to improving
the budget planning process.

4.2 Outputs by components:




                                                       - 5 -

Achievement of outputs by components was satisfactory. The achievement of physical outputs in terms of
the delivery of essential goods and services was monitored closely through the quarterly progress reports
issued by the MOF's Project Cooperation Unit (PCU). In addition, regular physical spot checks were
conducted by an auditing company hired for this purpose. A review of project reports confirms that
acceptable output results were achieved. Below is an illustrative account of outputs achieved by
component.

Health: the achievement of outputs under this component was satisfactory. This was the most essential
component of the ESSP, and involved the procurement and provision to hospitals of essential drugs and
medical supplies and disposables, kept health centers and hospitals operating for both routine treatment and
emergency interventions throughout the West Bank and Gaza. By early 2005, both ESSP I and II had
financed the procurement of US$44 million worth of essential drugs. The Project also financed annual
recurrent expenditures, including utilities, spare parts, and medical gases, for more than 450 primary health
care centers and hospitals, and it provided specialized treatment for up to 14,000 patients in local
nongovernmental hospitals.

Education: the achievement of outputs under this component was satisfactory. The Project financed the
printing of over 875,000 scientific textbooks and the contracting of monitors for high school general
examinations allowing a total of an estimated 50,000 students to undertake these exams. It also enabled the
MOEHE to pay for the cost of renting additional educational premises, and provide the necessary furniture
and school supplies, including much needed laboratory equipment.

Municipal Services: the achievement of outputs under this component was satisfactory. With ESSP
budget support, the Ministry of Local Government (MOLG) was able to finance essential rehabilitation of
infrastructure damaged as a result of the conflict; rehabilitation included road repair, water and waste
water rehabilitation and maintenance of the electricity networks. Procurement of services and equipment
such as solid waste containers, vehicles and tools was also financed under this component.

Social Affairs: the achievement of outputs under this component was satisfactory. The Project allowed
the MOSA to continue rent payments for 43 buildings that were operated by the Ministry as shelters and
rehabilitation centers. It also enabled the MOSA to procure much needed equipment, learning materials
and supplies for youth training centers, juvenile centers and rehabilitation centers, in addition to paying for
the cost of food supplies provided to beneficiaries of these institutions.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

No Net Present Value or Economic Rates of Return were calculated for the program.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

No fiscal/financial analysis was undertaken for the program.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The institutional development impact was modest. This was to be expected considering the nature of the
project­an emergency intervention with no institutional development ambitions beyond improvements that
were necessary for successful project implementation. Institutional development, therefore, was confined to
the introduction of a management information system to facilitate monitoring of project implementation,
budget planning and procurement. Institutional capacity building was also provided on an opportunistic



                                                      - 6 -

basis through training provided by country-based Bank staff and consultants on financial management and
procurement procedures­something which line ministries confirmed was helpful in building institutional
capacity for ESSP implementation across all line ministries.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The environment of continuous conflict and insecurity as well as restrictions on movement of people and
goods influenced the pace of program implementation and monitoring. Conditions of closure, both internal
and external, resulted at times in considerable delays in the delivery and distribution to public clinics of
essential drug items. It also limited the procurement process, mainly to local suppliers, and prevented West
Bank bidders from participating in tenders for Gaza, and vice-versa. Travel and communication both
within the West Bank and between the West Bank and Gaza remained difficult throughout the project.
These unusual conditions made it difficult for implementing agencies to ensure timely transmission of
supporting documentation which resulted in delays in processing payments to suppliers. Restrictions on
mobility also increased the time needed for delivering documentation from Gaza to Bank Headquarters.
However, in retrospect, the Bank's fiduciary procedures were not always well-suited to the emergency
nature of the ESSP I, i.e., an environment where the provision of necessary equipment and materials (e.g.,
for health care) often was critical. In some instances, delays were caused by unfamiliarity with IDA
procedures in implementing agencies. Under normal circumstances, the latter could have been mitigated at
the preparation stage, but with the urgency of the quick project preparation, this was difficult. Close and
continuous collaboration between IDA and implementing agency staff reduced much of the friction that the
procedures otherwise might have caused. The engagement of field-level staff in the operation may have
been key to finding relatively timely solutions to fiduciary issues as they arose, and possibly crucial to the
ultimate success of the project. Raising authorized allocation levels on local accounts, allowing line
ministries to operate sub-accounts and putting in place a system of advance payments to municipalities
were examples of measures introduced by the Bank in line with emergency procedures to address the
particular circumstances facing the Project. Bank staff, especially the field office in both the West Bank
and Gaza, collaborated closely with the authorities, which significantly facilitated implementation.
Incursions and closures at the beginning of the project implementation exacerbated initial disbursement
lags.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Budget management: Experience gained in project implementation as well as the MOF's efforts at
improving efficiency and transparency of budget planning and management allowed for a better alignment
over time. Still, there is much room for additional improvement in the budget process, especially in
strengthening coordination between line ministries. The inter-ministerial committee was envisaged as
fulfilling this function, but this has not happened.
Procurement: The large volume of procurement done under the project, particularly in the area of
pharmaceuticals, posed a challenge to the existing procurement capacity within the line ministries. This
impacted on the overall procurement performance throughout implementation, which was mitigated by
timely and often intensive assistance from IDA procurement staff. While this was appropriate under the
circumstances of the ESSP, the ICR team believes that sustained technical assistance would be required to
bring PA procurement procedures up to par. This is best done in the context of investment or technical
assistance projects or programs. An instance where appropriate technical assistance of this nature could
achieve significant efficiency improvements is in the area of procuring and contracting for provision of
specialized health services from nongovernmental providers.



                                                     - 7 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Disbursements remained below the target during the initial months of project implementation partly due to
the inexperience of ministry staff with the
Bank's procurement and disbursement procedures. To help mitigate this, the PCU within the MOF
pursued proactive on-the-job capacity building for their counterparts in the line ministry on procurement
and financial management which helped speed up the implementation in the second half of the project.

5.4 Costs and financing:

Since the West Bank and Gaza is not a sovereign state, it cannot apply for membership to the International
Monetary Fund (IMF) or the World Bank Group, and is therefore not eligible for the sources of financing
normally available to member countries. To overcome these legal and practical obstacles, the Bank's Board
of Governors established the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank (TFGWB) in 1993 as a financing
mechanism for the Bank's portfolio of projects. The TFGWB is financed from Bank surplus/net income,
and credits to the PA are provided on regular IDA terms.

The planned overall cost for the project amounted to US$108 million, US$59 million of which was covered
through donor financing, with IDA providing a total of US$20 million. In retrospect, the amount of
funding secured was sufficient to cover the basic budgetary needs of the benefiting ministries for a period
of six months but would not have been sufficient to provide financing to the Solidarity Fund and the MOSA
welfare scheme. A full summary of the project cost and financing is in Annex 2. The table below shows a
summary of all trust fund grants under the ESSP I. All grants were fully disbursed, with the IDA Trust
Fund Credit fully disbursed one year ahead of the project's closing date.

ESSP I Trust Fund Grants
Trust Fund Grant                           Amount in US$ (Equivalent)
IDA Trust Fund Credit                               20,000,000
EC Grant                                            10,144,510
Netherlands Grant                                    5,405,405
DFID/UK Grant                                        7,644,000
Denmark Grant                                        3,086,202
Swedish Grant                                        5,179,723
Finland Grant                                        1,358,016
Italian Grant                                        6,090,229
TOTAL                                               58,908,085



6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

In discussing sustainability, the PAD of ESSP I noted that "this is an emergency response and its objective
is to mitigate the consequences of the ongoing conflict ... (and) maintain basic services." The ICR team
supports this approach and suggests that the ICR does not provide a sustainability rating for ESSP I.
However, if the ICR still requires a sustainability rating, it should be rated as Unlikely. As an emergency
operation, the Project aimed at maintaining essential services in a situation of conflict and until such time
as normal operations based on an improved economic and financial situation in the PA could be resumed.
In this context, the intervention was essential for the sustainability of the targeted services over an interim
period, and it was successful. It provided earmarked budget support and was not intended at creating or



                                                       - 8 -

developing sustainable systems, rather at sustaining public services over a period of crisis. Even before
ESSP I closed, the PA was still facing a very precarious budgetary situation and was not likely to be able
to sustain its provision of basic social services without significant amounts of budgetary support. The
Program was, therefore, followed by a second intervention, slightly modified.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The ESSP projects compensate for insufficient local resource mobilization caused by the conflict situation
and extended poverty of the population. As long as this situation persists, projects of this nature that
provide earmarked budget support are needed. The strength of the ESSP is manifested in its focus on fast
disbursements of such budget support which helped maintain essential services without attaching any
conditionality. At the same time, there should be other, parallel, interventions focusing on institutional and
structural change. This is already reflected in the Bank's operations portfolio ­ this ESSP was followed by
two other resource transfer operations that operated in parallel with standard investment operations for
education, health and social protection, as well as conditionality-bound budget support under the parallel
Reform Trust Fund.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's performance during preparation is rated satisfactory. The operation was prepared in a
collaborative fashion; it drew together the resources from a large number of donors to focus on services
that are essential for the welfare of the population. The implementation arrangements engaged all the major
stakeholders and worked well. While implementation faced extraordinary external difficulties, it was
undertaken with surprisingly few problems, and the main concerns expressed are ones often voiced by
borrowers: cumbersome procurement procedures and slow disbursement. While efforts were made to
streamline procurement from the outset, the emergency situation in West Bank and Gaza continued to
provide a challenge to the Bank's procurement methods and disbursement arrangements, which are more
geared towards development operations than emergency interventions. However, the team put a
commendable effort into minimizing delays and facilitating the procedures, for example by agreeing to
accept faxed withdrawal applications from closed-off Gaza so as to accelerate disbursements. At the same
time, more of an effort could have been put into trying to develop better indicators by drawing on available
databases in the implementing agencies and taking advantage of ongoing sector work and investment
projects in targeted sectors (see also 7.2).

7.2 Supervision:

The Bank's supervision performance is rated satisfactory. Over the course of project implementation, the
task team leadership was shared between staff based in Washington and in the field, with a gradual shift in
responsibilities towards the latter. The project experience confirms that under a complex emergency
situation, it is beneficial to have the task team based in the field, with backup at Headquarters. It is
because of the field-based task team that implementation issues were identified early on and the Bank was
able to respond quickly. Given the field presence, supervision took the form of a continuous dialogue,
and/or coaching of implementation agencies, which considerably facilitated implementation. The Bank team
also facilitated regular quarterly meetings between the donors and the PA to review progress. While
supervision of the ESSP I was sufficient for project implementation, exchange of information between the
ESSP I task team and the task teams of ongoing investment operations, as well as closer linkages with the
policy dialogue in the areas covered by ESSP I, could have been beneficial both to the ESSP I and those
other activities. In retrospect, the "leveraging" of knowledge gleaned from Bank operations and sector



                                                      - 9 -

work could have enhanced outcome monitoring under ESSP. At preparation, it had been anticipated that
performance indicators would be monitored during implementation, but this did not happen.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The Bank's overall performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The performance of the Borrower during project preparation is rated satisfactory. During preparation, the
PA was constructively engaged in the dialogue with the Bank to ensure effective implementation
arrangements. In fact, the decision to rely on a single PCU located in the MOF, rather than having separate
PCUs in the individual line ministries, was based on a proposal from the PA.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The Government's implementation performance is rated satisfactory. Line ministries implemented the
project under difficult circumstances. While project funds and technical support by the task team played a
key supportive role, the implementing agencies "made it happen": They were able to procure materials and
equipment and deliver the services in a manner that ensured a minimum of disruption during a time when
much of the implementation occurred in conflict situations. Where performance was weaker, although not
necessarily detrimental to any significant degree to project implementation, was in the role of the IMC, as
well as inter-and intra-ministerial communications. While the role of the IMC originally was envisaged as
a clearinghouse for priorities and for allocating resources between ministries, in addition to overseeing
project implementation, this clearinghouse role never materialized. In retrospect, the IMC still came to
play an important, and probably key, role by exercising an important oversight function that ultimately
provided an additional degree of cohesiveness to the operation. Communication both between and within
ministries did not always function well, most notably in the MOH in the context of contracting private
health care providers. This led to delays in implementation on the borrower's side.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The performance of the implementing agency ­ the MOF and its designated ESSP PCU ­ is rated
satisfactory. Given the difficult emergency context, the PCU and MOF's Budget Department managed the
project in an efficient and proactive fashion, such as by identifying capacity gaps in procurement and
financial management in line ministries and trying to bridge them through training which helped to speed up
the initially fledgling implementation.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory, given the difficult conditions under which the project
was implemented and the extraordinary challenges associated with the emergency situation on the one hand
and the overall effective and speedy implementation on the other.

8. Lessons Learned


l An operation focused on fast disbursement and without explicit developmental objectives is an
    efficient and effective vehicle to respond to emergency and crisis situations. Any conditionality or



                                                     - 10 -

    reform requirements, as well as explicit capacity-building components, risk disrupting the flow of
    critical financial resources, endanger adequate service provision, and undermine the functioning and
    credibility of the public agency. Policy reforms supported through conditionality-based budget support
    and investment operations may accompany an emergency operation and should be linked to it, but
    should not be an integral part of an emergency operation itself.
l Delegation of implementation responsibility to the relevant units in participating agencies and line
    ministries leads to more effective and efficient implementation. A project structure with a central PCU
    in the MOF as opposed to individual PCUs in line ministries promotes the standard budget
    management relationship between MOF and recipient line ministries, ensures centralized coordination,
    and provides essential support to the key financial oversight role that should be the purview of the
    MOF.
l Close supervision, in particular though field-based staff, and flexibility in adopting the program to
    local realities, as well as the ability of the Bank and implementing agencies to quickly respond to
    urgent needs and changing requirements through reallocation of resources, are important elements in
    ensuring success in emergency operations.
l It is necessary to ensure that implementing agency staff understand Bank requirements for
    implementation. A project is likely to suffer disbursement delays at the outset, given agency staff
    inexperience in Bank procurement and disbursement methods. Even under emergency conditions, this
    can be mitigated by means of proactive capacity-building through field-based Bank procurement staff,
    training programs and the establishment of a central oversight mechanism with the Borrower.
l While an emergency project is focused on fast disbursement, project implementation should also
    include output and outcome monitoring indicators.. It is advisable to explore, even under difficult
    emergency conditions, alternatives to monitoring outputs and, whenever possible, identify and monitor
    outcome indicators. However, the emphasis should be on choosing readily observable or available
    indicators for monitoring and use, rather than setting up new monitoring structures that may
    overwhelm the administration at the expense of an emergency focus.
l Multi-Donor Trust Funds offer a more suitable arrangement for managing large donor-financed
    operations. The management under the ESSP of a large number of single-donor trust funds placed a
    significant burden on the Bank team to administer this operation.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Palestinian Ministry of Finance expresses its agreement and endorsement of the Implementation
Completion Report, and its satisfaction with the achievements of the ESSP project in respect of its planned
goals, which have been much of help in maintaining the services of the social sector ministries as indicated
in our report in Annex 8. The performance of the Bank's involved staff notably contributed to the success
of the project.

We believe that the implementation process and the dedicated support of the Bank's staff did open chances
for capacity building, and that more capacity building efforts are required to further advance the skills of
the PCU staff and the supporting staff at the beneficiary ministries, particularly in subjects related to
procurement. The continuation of the ESSP services is deemed indispensable, and the reliable performance
in implementing the project hitherto establishes solid base to urge for persisting its fundamental services.

Borrower/implementing agency's detailed report can be found in Annex 8.

(b) Cofinanciers:

Discussions with participating donors reflected appreciation and support for the ESSP's objectives and of



                                                      - 11 -

its relevance in the current situation. The leadership role played by the Bank in mobilizing funding for this
project and administering an operation of this scale was also acknowledged. However, having participated
in two ESSP operations, donors expressed a shared concern about the absence of sufficient monitoring of
project impact and its limitations in improving the efficiency and effectiveness of service provision ­ it was
simply maintaining present practices. At the same time, there was recognition that the ESSP is not a
vehicle for supporting structural and development policy reforms, but rather a means to provide
well-targeted and effective emergency budget support for the social sectors. Donors recognized that
institutional development would be provided by means of parallel investment operations and the Reform
Trust Fund.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

Consolidated Stakeholders' Report can be found in Annex 9.

10. Additional Information




                                                     - 12 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                       1
                Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Greater availability of essential drugs, school                             Total ESSP budget is US$ 59.15 million,
supplies and better municipal services.                                     which was totally disbursed by ministries.

                                                                            Average annual disbursement of the main
                                                                            three ministries (MOH, MOEHE, and MOSA)
                                                                            covered 77% of their annual budget for the
                                                                            last three years; in case cash transfer and
                                                                            items not covered under the bank's
                                                                            guidelines, were excluded.
Improved quality of life measures such as                                   Figures clearly indicate that there has been
education levels, basic health conditions and                               quite an increase in the launched efforts
number of people living below the poverty                                   towards (i) improving basic health conditions
line.                                                                       via ensuring greater availability of drugs and
                                                                            the continuity of medical services; (ii)
                                                                            improving municipal services in the fields of
                                                                            water, waste water and roads; (iii) improving
                                                                            quality of life for the disadvantaged through
                                                                            sustaining social welfare services offered by
                                                                            the rehabilitation centers and the social
                                                                            shelters; and (iv) upgrading the levels of
                                                                            schools' functional and professional
                                                                            capacities through renting extra educational
                                                                            premises, and providing additional furniture,
                                                                            equipment, and facilities needed for having
                                                                            have such schools and educational
                                                                            institutions adequately prepared to absorb the
                                                                            increasing number of attending students.




Output Indicators:
                                                                       1
                Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Education Component: (i) scientific and                                     A total amount of US$ 658,177 was
technical text books available for the school                               disbursed to purchase 583,672 textbooks.
year;

(ii) emergency replacement furniture,                                       Total amount of $1.77 million was paid for the
equipment and supplies available;                                           replacement of school furniture, and the
                                                                            amount of $0.27 million was utilized to
                                                                            purchase learning and lab materials.
(iii) schools are open and kept operating
through payment of rent and utilities;                                      Almost US$5.94 million was allocated to
Schools, Colleges, and Universities continue                                cover the administrative expenses, general
to function.                                                                examination including stationary, Tawjihi
examinations take place                                                     general exams, water, electricity,
                                                                            communication, and transportation. This
(iv) teachers trained in new curriculum.                                    enabled around 1,500 schools to provide their
                                                                            services to more than 700,000 student
(v) improve and sustain educational facilities.                             annually during the second half of the school
                                                                            year of 2001-2000, and the school year of
(vi) Continued school attendance of children                                2002/2003, enabling 653,650 and 636,507
from the poorest families.                                                  students to participate in the general exams
                                                                            for the school year 2001-2002 and
                                                                            2002-2003 respectively. Another important
                                                                            part of this amount covered the per dime cost
                                                                            for 9,897 examiners and controllers, allowing
                                                                            the ministry to smoothly conduct the general
                                                                            examinations for the year 2001-2002,
                                                                            enabling 52,023 students to participate in
                                                                            Tawjihi exams. Additionally, figures clearly




                                                         - 13 -

                                                             indicate additional furniture, equipment, and
                                                             facilities needed for having have such
                                                             schools and educational institutions
                                                             adequately prepared to absorb the increasing
                                                             number of attending students. As such, more
                                                             than 130,000 student were enabled to attend
                                                             school annually. These figures are a
                                                             consequential result to the furnishing, and
                                                             equipping process of schools.
Health Component:                                            A total of $18.42 million was disbursed to
Increased availability of essential drugs.                   purchase essential drugs, medical supplies
Availability of primary, secondary and tertiary              and lab materials.
health care services.                                        The amount of $7.96 million was disbursed
Availability of basic services in the health                 on covering incremental operating costs
sector, including food and nutrition services.               including electricity, communication, fuel,
                                                             water, cleaning services, cleaning materials,
                                                             and transportation, in addition to covering
                                                             annual rental cost of more than 140 PHC,
                                                             hospital, and administrative building for the
                                                             years 2002. In addition to covering other
                                                             operating expenses such as office supplies
                                                             and stationary, textile, spare parts and
                                                             medical gases for more than 450 primary
                                                             health care centers and hospitals during the
                                                             year 2002. The amount of 1.25 million dollars
                                                             of the incremental costs was utilized to cover
                                                             cleaning contracts.
                                                             Moreover, US$1.13 million were disbursed in
                                                             providing food supplies for hospitals.
                                                             More than 8,953 patient benefited from
                                                             special health services that are not available
                                                             at public facilities, This in turn helped in
                                                             reviving and supporting medical institutions in
                                                             both private and NGO sectors, and enabled
                                                             them to maintain and develop their functional
                                                             capabilities to providing services.
Municipal Component: Improved municipal                      Since its beginning, the emergency support
services in the fields of water and waste                    funds to municipalities under ESSP has
water, roads, electricity sector, and thus                   totaled US$16.27 million, of which around
improvement of life quality for people.                      $6.7 million was disbursed on the 201 civil
                                                             work projects, $7 million was disbursed
                                                             under the goods component, covering around
                                                             413 projects such as providing supplies for
                                                             water and electricity networks, waste water
                                                             networks, and electricity generators.
                                                             Approximately $2.6 million was also
                                                             disbursed as incremental costs including
                                                             solid waste dumping fees, electricity,
                                                             communication, fuel, water which enabled
                                                             many municipalities to sustain their services
                                                             to these localities inhabitants.

                                                             The implementation of these municipal
                                                             services projects had definitely resulted in a
                                                             positive impact on people's lives, especially
                                                             projects aimed at rehabilitating the water
                                                             sector and waste water management which
                                                             helped provide clean water, reduce leakage
                                                             and increase water pressure, and reducing
                                                             floods during rainy seasons, and thus
                                                             improved health and environmental status of
                                                             the inhabitants of 30 localities in the Gaza
                                                             Strip and 119 localities in the West Bank
                                                             where these projects were implemented.
                                                             Similar constructive results were also
                                                             generated through road rehabilitation
                                                             projects, such as providing better
                                                             accessibility of people and transportation




                                                   - 14 -

                                                            means, and maintaining higher level of
                                                            personal safety, especially for children.
Social Assistance Services Component:                       During the years 2002 and part of 2003, US$
Centers for the disadvantaged population                    0.461 million was used to rent more than 43
function and training centers for school                    building which has been utilized to provide
dropouts function.                                          shelters, and rehabilitation and training
Increased number of benefited inhabitants.                  services to MOSA beneficiaries.
Providing better quality of services.                       Under both the social shelters program and
availability of services offered by the                     rehabilitation and training centers program,
rehabilitation centers and the social shelters              MOSA disbursed approximately the amount
operated under the Ministry of Social Affairs;              of US$ 2.2 million for the purposes of
Rehabilitation centers and shelters are better              providing adequate equipment, furniture, and
equipped.                                                   learning materials for youth training centers,
continued or increased attendance of schools                juveniles centers and rehabilitation centers,
and health centers by poor children whose                   and the amount of $ 0.493 million was
families receive Child Welfare Grant Program                disbursed to cover necessary maintenance
assistance.                                                 work on 12 rehabilitation and training centers.


1End of project




                                                  - 15 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                           Estimate       Estimate       Appraisal
                     Component                             US$ million   US$ million
Emergency support programs for education services             8.10             8.64          106.7
Emergency support program for health services                25.90           30.33           117.4
Emergency support programs for local government and          39.93           16.30            40.8
municipalities
Emergency support program for the social affairs sector      11.96             3.04           25.2
Project management, capacity building and monitoring          1.11             0.84           75.7
Solidarity Fund                                              21.00             0.00              0

Total Baseline Cost                                         108.00           59.15
                        Total Project Costs                 108.00           59.15
                  Total Financing Required                  108.00           59.15


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB               NCB               2        N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                           0.00              1.16         1.86          14.51       17.53
                                  (0.00)            (1.16)      (1.86)          (0.00)      (3.02)
2. Goods                           0.00              3.83         5.82          32.07       41.72
                                  (0.00)            (3.83)      (5.82)          (0.00)      (9.65)
3. Services                        0.00              0.00         1.70          9.05        10.75
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)      (1.70)          (0.00)      (1.70)
4. operating costs                 0.00              0.00         4.78          4.50         9.28
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)      (4.78)          (0.00)      (4.78)
5. Unallocated                     0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)      (0.85)          (0.00)      (0.85)
6. Solidarity Fund and             0.00              0.00         0.00          28.72       28.72
Other Benefits                    (0.00)            (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)
   Total                           0.00              4.99        14.16          88.85       108.00
                                  (0.00)            (4.99)      (15.01)         (0.00)      (20.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB              NCB                2      N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                           0.00              1.52        0.21           5.59        7.32
                                  (0.00)           (1.52)       (0.21)         (0.00)      (1.73)
2. Goods                           3.81              3.45        4.01          18.82       30.09
                                  (3.81)           (3.45)       (4.01)         (0.00)      (11.27)
3. Services                        0.00              0.00        1.46           1.55        3.01


                                                 - 16 -

                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.46)            (0.00)           (1.46)
   4. operating costs                       0.00               0.23              5.31             13.19            18.73
                                           (0.00)             (0.23)            (5.31)            (0.00)           (5.54)
   5. Unallocated                           0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Solidarity Fund and                   0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
   Other Benefits                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
        Total                               3.81               5.20             10.99             39.15            59.15
                                           (3.81)             (5.20)           (10.99)            (0.00)           (20.00)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Emergency support               3.30                      4.80        3.53                    5.11       107.0             106.5
programs for education
services
Emergency support               8.75                     17.15        9.29                   21.04       106.2             122.7
program for health services
Emergency support               5.20                     34.73        5.28                   11.00       101.5              31.7
programs for local
government and
municipalities
Emergency support               1.30                     10.66        1.30                    1.74       100.0              16.3
program for the social
affairs sector
Project management,             0.61                      0.50        0.60                    0.24       98.4               48.0
capacity building and
monitoring
Solidarity Fund                 0.00                     21.00        0.00                    0.00        0.0                0.0




                                                           - 17 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable. This is an emergency operation.




                                               - 18 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                       (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year    Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              September 2001              7    TTL (1); Sr. Operations Officer       S               S
              till October 2001                (1); Implementation/Municipal
                                               Development Specialist (1);
                                               Operations Analyst (1);
                                               Procurement Specialists (2 ); FM
                                               Specialist (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              Appraisal:                  8    TTL (1); Sr. Operations               S               S
              November 11 to                   Officer (2); Operations
              November 17,                     Officer (1); External Affairs
              2001                             Officer (1); Municipal
                                               Development
                                               Specialist/Consultant (1);
                                               FM Specialist (1);
                                               Pharmaceutical
                                               Specialist/Consultant (1).
              Negotiation:                8    TTL (1); Lead Counsel (1);            S               S
              December 20, 2001                Implementation Specialist (1);
              to January 7, 2002               Sr. Operations Officer (1); FM
                                               Specialist (1); Sr. Disbursement
                                               Officer (1); Procurement
                                               Specialist (1); Program Assistant
                                               (1)

 Supervision
              June 2002                   6    TTL/Co-TTL (2); Sr.                   S               S
                                               Operations Officer (1);
                                               Procurement Specialist (1);
                                               Municipal Specialist (1);
                                               Operations Analyst (1), FM
                                               Analyst
              October 2002                7    TTL (1); Sr. Operations Officer       S               S
                                               (1); Procurement Specialist (1);
                                               Municipal Specialist (1);
                                               Operations Analyst (2), FM
                                               Analyst (1).



              April 2003                  7    TTL (1); Sr. Operations Officer       S               S
                                               (1); Procurement Specialist (1);
                                               Municipal Specialist (1);
                                               Operations Analyst (2), FM
                                               Analyst (1).
              October 2003                7    TTL (1); Sr. Operations Officer       S               S
                                               (1); Procurement Specialist (1);
                                               Municipal Specialist (1);



                                                - 19 -

                                             Operations Analyst (2), FM
                                             Analyst (1).

 ICR
               January - March        10     TTL (1); PROCUREMENT                S    S
               2005                          SPECIALIST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             Pharmaceutical Specialist
                                             (1); Consultants (4); FM
                                             Analyst (1); Program
                                             Assistant (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                 Actual/Latest Estimate
                                  No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                 7                             26
  Appraisal/Negotiation                     30                             99
  Supervision                               45                            206
  ICR                                       12                             25
  Total                                     94                            356




                                             - 20 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 22 -

 Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

 1. ESSP Project Appraisal Document.
 2. ESSP II Memorandum and Recommendation Of the President (MOP) and Technical Annex.
 3. Trust Fund Credit Agreement (ESSP 1) and Trust Fund Grant Agreements (ESSP 1 and ESSPII).
 4. ESSP Quarterly Progress Reports.
 5. Monthly Disbursement Monitoring Reports for ESSP 1 and ESSPII.
 6. Project Status Reports (PSRs).
 7. ESSP 1 and ESSPII Audit Reports and Financial Statements.
 8. ESSP1 and ESSPII Co-financing Matrices.
 9. Mission Aid Memoires.
10. WEST BANK AND GAZA: Emergency Services Support Project (P075984) - Final Quality at Entry
    Assessment (QEA5) Report.
11. Fifteen Months - Intifada, Closures and Palestinian Economic Crisis, An Assessment; World Bank,
    March 2002.
12. Long Term Policy Options for the Palestinian Economy, The World Bank, July 2002.
13. Twenty Seven Months - Intifada, Closures and Palestinian Economic Crisis, An Assessment; World
    Bank, May 2003.
14. Four Years - Intifada, Closures and Palestinian Economic Crisis, An Assessment; World Bank,
    October 2004.
15. ESSP - ICR Borrower's Report + Annexes (Co-financing Matrices for ESSP 1 and ESSP II).
16. Consolidated Stakeholders' Report.
17. West Bank and Gaza, Emergency Services Support Project (ESSP) ICR Mission: Lessons
    learnt from Phases 1 and 2 and implications for a possible Phase 3, April 2005.




                                                   - 23 -

Additional Annex 8. Partner Comments (Borrower/Implementing Agency)


CONTEXTUAL FRAMEWORK:

The Emergency Support Services Project (ESSP) embodies the collective effort of various Donors under
the leadership of the World Bank, in response to the emergency situation that occurred in the OPT and the
fiscal and economic crisis that hit the PA due to the ongoing Israeli closures and restrictions, including
Israel's refusal to pay PA's owing revenues, which have indeed hindered the PA's financial capacity in
meeting its responsibilities.

Movement restrictions and the ongoing border closure policy led to a dramatic increase of unemployment
rates, and thus proportion of people living under poverty line has increased. Access to primary health care
was also limited and flow of medical supplies and other goods were restricted, not to mention the material
damage that harmed some medical premises and infrastructure during Israeli aggressions. In many areas,
restrictions on movements, closures, and aggressions obstructed access to educational institutions as well.
Additionally, closures and restrictions, along with the sharp decrease in revenues, caused the municipal
councils to face plenty of difficulties and obstacles which prevented them from functioning properly.

Such circumstances contributed to the unprecedented economic and social hardships generated among large
scale of the Palestinian people, and thus conveyed the urgent need for immediate intervention. Therefore,
the main concept behind launching ESSP was to ensure the continuation of flow of essential services under
the status quo, through helping the PA in covering the non-salary recurrent expenditures in the social
sector; including health, education, social services, and local governing by providing required funds for
sustaining essential supplies in drugs and medical supplies, maintaining availability of school supplies, and
sustaining municipal services such as waste management, electricity and water.

PROJECT DEVELOPMENT and OBJECTIVES:
The main concept of the ESSP is to mitigate the deterioration of education, health and municipal services
by financing essential drugs, school supplies and municipal solid waste management, thus, the main
components under Phase I of the project consisted of providing fund to cover six-months needs for the main
ministries of the social sector which are MOH, MOE, MOSA, in addition to a particular component
designed for providing support to municipalities to cover emergency projects in various sectors such as
solid waste, water, waste water, electricity, and roads. The particularity of such component is derived from
the fact that the PA budget does not cover such municipalities costs.

Owing to the increasing rates of unemployment within the Palestinian society, it was deemed necessary to
having a special component with total amount of US$ 21 million, to provide financial support to labor
unions. In spite of our knowledge that such component would unlikely be covered by the World Bank, we
hope other donors would show interest in funding it. No donations were pledged under such component as
of yet.

The planned budget for the first phase of ESSP, which was formally launched in 28 February 2002, totaled
US$ 109 million, of which US$ 59.155 million dollars were made available by donors under this phase.
Most of such funds were allocated to cover the needs of the main ministries of the social sector, where
almost 100% of the planned budget for these ministries could be reported covered if we exclude some
uncovered components of the emergency budget, such as the social safety net for hardship cases program at
MOSA, and abroad tertiary health care at MOH.



                                                      - 24 -

Built over the experience of implementing the first phase of ESSP; planning the second phase budget was
more coherent, through excluding the uncovered components of the first phase, and the MOLG component
which was later covered under special bank financing program (EMSRP) due to its particular nature.
Instead, two additional components were added to the second phase. The first was to benefit the higher
education institutions in light of the merging between MOE and MOHE, and the financial crisis through
which the higher education institutions are going. The second component was titled `other ministries', and
aimed at covering small portions of operating expenses for main PA ministries.

The success and the positive impacts that the phase I of ESSP had on the main ministries of the social
sector encouraged us to plan the second phase budget to further cover the annual needs of these ministries,
as opposed to the six-months budget of the first phase.

Funds were available to cover the planned budget of ESSP II, and due to the urgent need of having more
funds for line ministries, it was suggested that the third phase of ESSP be launched. Yet, and due to the
time consuming nature of the planning process, MOF and the Bank agreed to extend the work under ESSP
II to cover the budget of 2004 so supplemental fund of US$ 15 million was channeled by the Bank under
the same phase which brought the total IDA contribution under this phase to US$ 40 million.

KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS:
The particularity of the emergency nature of the project, plus the complicated circumstances under which
the ESSP has been functioning, implies less measurable performance indicators per se to evaluate the
achievements and outcomes brought about by the project implementation, which could primarily be
attributed to the specific character of such outcomes and achievements, being more of an abstract-value
oriented rather than a assessable product.

However, and in light of the absence of a coherent set of performance indicators of the outcomes, and
derived from the importance of having proper evaluation of the project performance and outcomes, the
main performance indicators that we have adhered to were basically based on ensuring that all planned
goals and objectives of the project were fulfilled properly, such as those related to ensuring the constancy
of educational services and upgrading of education levels and facilities, assertion of the availability of basic
health services and upgrading the quality of such services and thus reach better improvement of health
conditions, and working towards providing better quality of services for MOSA benefited hardship cases
and people living under poverty line, and finally putting more efforts towards supporting the local
governments in developing the services capacity of the municipalities, councils and other local governing
facilities.

In order to provide further clarifications, details on the performance indicators that we deem compatible are
presented with reference to each sector through employing the available figures to present as inclusive as
possible of an analysis of the development indicators in each sector, along with Annexes which includes
tables with further details.

ACHIEVEMENTS:
At this stage, and after two phases of the project, we can certainly state that the functional capacity and
structure of ESSP has been positively established and developed vis-à-vis its outlined goals, and as opposed
to the previously-existing situation before the program was launched in March 2002. Further description of
the outlined objectives, the output indicators, and achievements/status regarding each component of the
social sector are presented hereunder.




                                                      - 25 -

Throughout the two phases of the ESSP project, 10 out of 15 grants and credits were successfully closed.
Additional 3 grants are expected to be closed soon. This brings the total disbursed amounts by IDA to US$
147 million, out of the total budget of US$ 169 million. Under the first phase of ESSP, the amount of US$
58.4 million were disbursed out of total budget of US$ 59 million. By the end of 2004, we can declare the
first phase of ESSP successfully finished.

As for ESSP II, approximately US$ 90 million were disbursed, out of a total budget of US$ 110 million.
Since the beginning of 2004 and up till now, 45% of the total social sector expenditure, including ministries
of health, education and higher education, labor, women's affairs, social affairs, detainees affairs, have
been covered by the ESSP. This clearly reflects the vital and crucial role that ESSP is playing in supporting
maintaining the functional capabilities of such sector.

a. Ministry of Health (MOH):
Objective: Emergency Support to health services through financing: (i) essential drugs and medical
consumables; and (ii) non-medical recurrent expenditures, such as costs of operating and maintaining
health facilities including communication, fuel, water and electricity utilities, rent for health facilities,
cleaning services and materials, transportation, uniforms and stationary; (iii) contracts with NGOs to
provide unavailable health services; (iv) nutrition services and hospital food contracts.

Output Indicator: Increased availability of essential drugs and rehabilitation services.

Achievements/Status: the Palestinian health sector was one of the main sectors that was directly affected by
the deterioration of the socio-economic situation of the occupied territories, not to mention the dramatic
increase of health requirements and needs in light of the ongoing Israeli invasions and attacks. This justifies
the fact that 57% of the ESSP available funds were allocated, or disbursed, under the health sector. In
addition we can state that approximately the whole 2004 MOH budget was covered through ESSP, except
for minor components that were not entitled to be covered by the Bank such as covering costs for abroad
tertiary health care and overseas travels. Up to date, more than 97 million US$ were allocated to cover the
health sector's expenditures, of which US$ 40 million were disbursed on providing essential drugs,
vaccines, laboratory and blood bank materials and other medical supplies.

More than US$ 23 million were disbursed to cover annual operating costs including electricity,
communication, fuel, water, cleaning services, cleaning materials, transportation, stationary, textile, spare
parts for more than 430 primary health care centers and hospitals during the last three years, in addition to
covering annual rental cost of more than 140 PHC, hospital, and administrative building. Moreover, US$
2.7 million were disbursed in providing food supplies for hospitals.

One of the most important components in supporting the health sector was related to financing special
contracts with private/non-governmental medical institutions. Disbursement under this component helped
more than 11,000 patient benefiting from special health services that are not available at public facilities,
and also helped reviving and supporting medical institutions in both private and NGO sectors, and enabled
them to maintain and develop their functional capabilities to continue providing services to the community.

b. Ministry of Education and Higher Education (MOEHE):
Objective: Emergency support to basic education including: (i) recurrent expenditures such as rent or
school buildings, transportation (including fuel) and vehicle maintenance, water and electricity utilities for
schools, communication, maintenance of equipment and buildings; (ii) printing of scientific textbooks for
all school grades; (iii) general examinations including financing of stationary, printing of examinations; (iv)
financing materials required for school activities such as sports, arts, science, home economics, and other


                                                     - 26 -

summer school activities; (v) vocational and commercial education schools; and (vi) support for higher
education institutions.

Output Indicator: (i) improved and sustained educational facilities for students; (ii) sustain educational
services at all levels.

Achievements/Status: Since the beginning of ESSP and up to date around US$ 41 million was disbursed
under the education component of ESSP; of which US$ 8.7 million were disbursed under the first phase of
the project, and US$ 23 million were allocated to the higher education institutions. This indicates the
reinforcement of the role of ESSP as opposed to annual budget, i.e. in 2004, around 67% of the MOEHE
annual budget was covered through ESSP. The remaining 33% of the budget was covered by MOF since it
was related to `textbooks' item which the Bank partially covered, and to higher education institutions
benefits.

Almost US$ 16 million were allocated to cover the administrative expenses, general examination stationary,
and tawjihi general exams. This enabled around 1,500 school to provide their services to more than
700,000 student annually during the last three years, enabling 48,498 and 52,023, and 59,100 students to
participate in the general exams for the school year 2001-2002, 2002-2003 and 2003-2004 respectively.
Another important part of this amount covered the per dime cost for examiners and controllers, allowing
the ministry to smoothly conduct the general examinations.

Additionally, figures clearly indicate that there has been quite an increase in the launched efforts towards
upgrading the levels of schools' functional and professional capacities through utilizing US$ 2.60 million in
favor of renting extra educational premises, and providing additional furniture, equipment, and facilities
needed for having schools and educational institutions adequately prepared to absorb the increasing number
of attending students. As such, more than 130,000 student were enabled to attend school annually. These
figures are a consequential result to the rehabilitation, furnishing, and equipping process of schools,
through which the amount of US$ 2 million was disbursed.

c. Ministry of Local Governments (MOLG):
Objectives: Emergency support to Municipal services through providing emergency support for (i) solid
waste sector; (ii) water and waste water management; (iii) electricity sector; (iv) road sector.

Output Indicator: implementation of projects structured to improve municipal services in the fields of water
and waste water, roads and electricity sector, and thus improvement of life quality of people.

Achievements/Status: since its beginning, the emergency support funds to municipalities under ESSP has
totaled US$ 15,9 million, of which around 6.6 million was disbursed on 201 civil work projects, 6.7 million
were disbursed under the goods component, covering around 413 projects such as providing supplies for
water and electricity networks, waste water networks, and electricity generators. Approximately 2.3
millions were also disbursed as incremental costs including solid waste dumping fees, electricity,
communication, fuel, water which enable many municipalities to sustain there services to these localities
inhabitants.

Under the current conditions of the occupied territories and the ongoing Israeli aggressions and assaults,
many municipalities experienced sharp decline in their revenues because consumers cannot pay water and
electricity charges and other services fees, and thus municipalities have been forced to reduce their
recurrent expenditures which lead to decline in the provided services including their inability to dispose
solid waste properly and the break down of the electricity and water systems as a result to the lack of spare


                                                    - 27 -

parts. Therefore, the main designed goals of supporting municipalities and village councils was not
developmental in the first place, but rather was designed for ad-hoc intervention. For example, in case there
has been Israeli invasion that resulted in destruction of water, waste water, electricity, and road
infrastructure, municipalities had to be prepared for immediate action, which did not exist prior to
launching the ESSP. This also justifies the frequent reallocation of fund requested from the Bank under
MOLG component.

The implementation of these projects had definitely resulted in a positive impact on people's lives,
especially projects aimed at rehabilitating the water sector and waste water management which helped
providing clean water, reduce leakage and increase water pressure, and reducing floods during rainy
seasons, and thus improved health and environmental status of the inhabitants of 30 localities in the Gaza
Strip and 119 localities in the West Bank where these projects were implemented. Similar constructive
results were also generated through road rehabilitation projects, such as providing better accessibility of
people and transportation means, and maintaining higher level of personal safety, especially for children.

It could confidently be argued that large scale of the Palestinian society benefited from MOLG projects as a
consequence to the quality and quantity of the rehabilitation projects that have been was carried out by
MOLG during the two phases of ESSP, and the broader locations where such projects were implemented.

d. Ministry of Social Affairs (MOSA):
Objectives: Provide support to cover (i) recurrent operating budget of MOSA and its shelters/rehabilitation
and training centers; (ii) upgrading essential equipment used in shelters and vocational training centers; and
(iii) covering minor rehabilitation works on shelters/rehabilitation and training centers.

Output Indicators: (i) having better equipped facilities; (ii) increasing number of benefited inhabitants
from such services; (iii) and providing better quality of services.

Achievements/Status: Since the beginning of ESSP, the allocated funds for the benefit of MOSA reached
more than US$ 5 million under various categories, covering recurrent operating budget of MOSA
directorates, shelters, rehabilitation, and training centers, which provides services for thousands of needy
persons.

During the last three years, US$ 650,000 were used to rent more than 43 building which has been used to
provide shelters, and rehabilitation and training services to MOSA beneficiaries.

Under both the social shelters program and rehabilitation and training centers program, MOSA disbursed
approximately the amount of US$ 3.4 million for the purposes of providing adequate equipment, furniture,
and learning materials for youth training centers, juveniles centers and rehabilitation centers (this includes
the amount of 1.6 disbursed under incremental operating cost category to cover the cost of electricity,
water, transportation, maintenance, insurance). Additional funds of US$ 450,000 were also channeled
toward providing food supplies for the residents of these centers, while amount of 540,000 was disbursed
to cover necessary maintenance work on 9 rehabilitation and training centers.

e. Project Management and Other Ministries:
Objectives: Assisting MOF in (i) providing support to the Project Management structure and Capacity
Building for ministries and municipalities; and (ii) financing selected operating budget items of other
ministries focusing on incremental expenditures, including rent, transportation (including fuel), vehicle
maintenance, licensing and insurance, water and electricity utilities, communication including telephone and
mail, consumables, minor maintenance of equipment, and heating fuel.


                                                     - 28 -

Achievements/Status: MOF was in charge of maintaining the overall supervision and coordination duties of
the financial management tasks of the two phases of ESSP, while each of the four ministries managed its
own components and separate Special Account. Additionally, MOF was responsible for all related financial
transactions, and was also in charge of preparing and submitting progress reports of the ESSP to the World
Bank on regular basis. Due to the lack of fund, important efforts were dedicated by MOF to assist line
ministries in identifying their priorities.

Total amount of US$ 4.1 Million was allocated to cover some of the main PA ministries operating
expenditures; utilities, communication and rent, which enabled most of PA ministries to carry on with their
daily tasks.

- Capacity Building
Under the capacity building terms, financial support of US$ 255,000 was provided to line ministries,
through ESSP grants, to facilitate purchasing equipment and supplies considered necessary for maintaining
and enhancing the functional capabilities of those ministries, including computers and associated
accessories, furniture, and other office equipment. Another important achievement under the capacity
building component was realized through supporting line ministries in providing training services on
procurement guidelines.

- Procurement and Financial Management
ESSP fund were channeled through 28 special accounts (related to 15 Grant and Credit), 12 of which were
administered directly by the Development Projects Directorate (DPD), since these accounts consisted of
smaller funds to be distributed among many ministries. The residual accounts were administered by the line
ministries, which contributed to building the capacities of such ministries

PCU played a major role in enhancing the capacity of these line ministries through building on the existing
financial management information system, a matter that helped many of the line ministries' staff shift their
performance to be procedure oriented rather than transaction oriented. In some cases, performance level of
some ministries was in need of more capacity building and supervision. For example, in case of MOSA,
closer and frequent monitoring was required to ensure World Bank guidelines have been followed properly.

As a result to the long and close interaction and cooperation between the World Bank staff, DPD staff are
now better versed regarding Bank procedures, and able to provide accurate and up to date information to
their administration and to the Bank, and have provided the Bank with more than 19 acceptable and
unqualified quarterly and annually financial and spot-check audit reports, indicating that the financial
statement present fairly in all material respects the financial position of the project.



INFLUENCING FACTORS:
The implementation process of the two phases of the ESSP faced number of influencing factors, above all
are the continuous Israeli invasions and attacks taking place in the occupied territories on daily basis,
particularly due to the ongoing closures and movement restrictions on goods and personnel which resulted
in hindering the implementation process and the delivery of services and goods, in addition to the inability
of the PCU staff to travel to the West Bank to conduct the required monitoring of activities on various
locations. Additionally, such situations prevented international bidders from participating in bids, and
prevented many West Bank bidders from participating in bids which requires delivering goods to Gaza, and
vise-versa.
The ongoing closures also resulted in increasing the time needed for delivering withdrawal applications


                                                      - 29 -

from Gaza, via pouch, to the Bank HQ in DC, bearing in mind the rapid expenditure process of ESSP
which resulted in increased number of submitted WA.

World Bank Involvement:
Bank staff maintained close and continuous cooperation, especially staff in the regional office who were
available to provide support and advice around the clock, and even in holiday times. The understanding of
the Bank staff to the special nature of this project and of the circumstances through which the Palestinian
people and Authority were going, helped simplify the application of the procurement guidelines, and in
many events MOF got waivers from the Bank for various procurement processes. The World Bank raised
the authorized allocations and accelerate the replenishment process as a response to the increased number
of submitted WA and the delays of its delivery due to the closures.

Project Implementation:
PA financial crisis and thus inability to cover recurrent expenditures enforced the PA to depend on
tendering bids based on funds availability, while the continuous changes on the needs, particularly on the
health sector, required that tender be based on actual needs. This issue was partially solved by tendering a
semi-annual bids after reaching a mutual understanding on this mechanism with the World Bank.

Some difficulties related to the recruitment of PCU staff were faced in the beginning of the ESSP, which
was reflected in the slow implementation during the first six months of the project. Such difficulties were a
result of following the typical system of reviewing qualifications, experiences, and TOR. This does not
guarantee the appropriate selection of a candidate, particularly when the qualification required are for
dynamic leadership, which could be difficult to identify through a CV. This left MOF with no choice rather
than the sole-sourcing contracting of suitable candidates in many cases.

Before launching ESSP, procurement staff in benefited ministries were following the PA procurement
guidelines, which differs from the WB guidelines. However, during the implementation of ESSP, MOF was
required to apply the WB guidelines without breaking that of the PA. The rational behind such step was to
enhance the PA guidelines through adopting some of the applicable WB procurement practices, which was
clearly witnessed later in the bids tendered through the General Procurement Department and other PA
related facilities.
Derived from the PA's lack of experience in handling international bidding, delays in the tendering process
used to occur in the beginning of the project.

LESSONS LEARNT:
l Delegation of duties to the competent units within the benefited ministries under continuous supervision
    and follow up was the most effective and efficient way to implement the emergency projects.
l Success of emergency projects is based on close supervision, and readiness to be flexible in adopting
    the project to domestic realities, in addition to the quick response from financiers and implementing
    agency to the urgent needs and changed requirements through reallocation.
l Time constrains should be taken into account, especially with the nature of this project, where some
    levels of tension could arise between the need to upgrade the knowledge of line ministries staff of the
    WB guidelines from one hand, and the need to get the job done quickly from the other hand.
l To achieve best practices, it is recommended that neither the MOF nor the WB guidelines be
    exclusively used, without taking into consideration the other guidelines, in order to enhance the line
    ministries' performance on long term.
l Given the nature of budgetary support operations and compared to other programs, the implementation
    rate of emergency projects is quicker, therefore disbursement procedures should be simple and quicker,
    and procurement procedures should be simplified.


                                                       - 30 -

l In case of vital needs such as drugs, it is better to follow mid-term tenders, for example annual or
    semi-annual tenders.

SUSTAINABILITY:
Potential Developments
The improvement, or deterioration, in the socio-economic situation in the OPT is directly connected to the
development of the political process. According to IMF figures, the expected real GDP growth under a
status quo scenario of no significant political progress is 2% in 2005   11
                                                                          .  In case the status quo situation
continues to dominate, there might be a very minor development chances in the economic satiation as per
IMF figures which indicate an increase in the PA revenues from 914.02 million dollars in 2004 to 968.98
million dollars in 2005 and 1018.3 in 2006. Yet, unemployment rates in 2005 and 2006 would increase to
be 29.2% and 31.8% respectively, compared with 27.5% in 2004 .    2




Lest the Israeli separation wall was completed, unemployment rates would increase particularly due to the
potential decline in employment rates inside Israel, in addition to further movement-restrictions on
Palestinians' access to their agricultural lands and industrial facilities which the wall would impose.
Unemployment rates are expected to increase from 27.5% in 2004 to 32%, 37.4% in 2005 and 2006
respectively. PA revenues are likely to witness a slight increase from 914.27 million dollars in 2004 to
927.34 million dollars in 2005. However, revenues are expected to decline again in 2006 to reach 917.24
million dollars.

In case the disengagement plan was adopted by the GOI, positive impacts, if at all, would not be felt until
end 2005 and would be completely dependent on the quality of such plan, especially in relation to the
internal closures and roadblocks, settlement status, and other elements that would impact the economic
recovery growth in Gaza.

Nonetheless, and should the disengagement plan produce some positive development in the political
process, some level of economic recovery could be predicted. According to IMF report, unemployment
rates are expected to decline from 27.5% in 2004 to 24.5% and 21.5% in 2005 and 2006 respectively. PA
revenues would increase from US$ 914.27 in 2004 to 1050.25 and 1208.23 million dollars in 2005 and
2006 correspondingly .3




However, and as stated in the IMF report, given the uncertainties of the disengagement plan, the status quo
scenario does not factor in any large impact of the plan, even beyond 2005 .4




ESSP Role:
In light of both the positive and negative scenarios of the political process, it is unlikely that a dramatic
boost in the socio-economic situation would take place in the occupied territories within the near future,
even if some constructive efforts were done towards ending the political stalemate. Thus, the need to
preserve the emergency services for the social sector might remain inevitable, and donor support to cover
the needs would thus remain necessary.

Association with Reform:
Owing to the emergency nature of the ESSP, there are almost no immediate institutional and policy reform
objectives directly associated with it. Nonetheless, number of reform-oriented activities particularly those
related to the capacity building efforts component were evident throughout the implementation process of
the two phases of the project. The main contribution of ESSP was highlighting the weaknesses points in the
financial and procurement system, which needed to be discussed and dealt with, and was a major source of



                                                    - 31 -

information for many assessment and supervision missions, such as CFAA, CPPR, and PER.
______________________________________

1See: IMF Macroeconomic and Fiscal Development, Outlook and Reform in the West Bank and Gaza. AHLC Meeting, Oslo,
December 8, 2004.
2Ibid
3Ibid
4Ibid




                                                          - 32 -

Additional Annex 9. Other Partners' Comments (Stakeholders Report)

CONSOLIDATED STAKEHOLDERS' REPORT

INTRODUCTION

1.       The purpose of this report is to provide the views of the ESSP I & ESSP II stakeholders in Gaza
and the West Bank towards the finalization of the ICR by the end of February 2005. All the information
stated was compiled from interviews performed in Gaza from Sunday, December 19, through Wednesday,
December 22 in addition to interviews conducted on January 4, 2005. Interviews in the West Bank took
place during the months of December 2004 and the beginning of January 2005. Semi-structured
questionnaires were mostly used in the interviews in addition to reports submitted to the World Bank by
line ministries and the Project Coordination Unit at the MOF.



CONSOLIDATED VIEWS OF STAKEHOLDERS

Assessment of Project Relevance & Performance Against Objectives:

2.       All of the interviews at different levels clearly indicated that ESSP I & II have served very well in
avoiding a potential crisis in the operations of the PA at the benefiting line ministries. The project made it
possible for line ministries to maintain an adequate level of services at a time when the PA was
experiencing a sharp decrease in revenues and, accordingly, an acute budget deficit. The MOF thought
that the design and mission of ESSP were a result of a shared understanding between the international
community and the PA for the urgent development needs of Palestinians. The MOF representative
acknowledged that the design of ESSP was flexible enough, in most cases, to be able to deal with the
growing emergency needs.

3.       All interviewees agreed that the project was successful in delivering the expected outputs. This
was demonstrated in the MOH being able to procure and provide medical services and supplies on a
continuous basis; the MOEHE's ability to continue to support schools and accommodate new students
every year; universities being able to provide full salaries to their staff consistently and with much less
delay; the continued ability of MOSA to support basic social services; and the MOLG's enablement of
several municipalities of different sizes and locations to continue to provide the basic services for their
communities.

         The MOEHE adopted a policy to manage different sources of financing and implemented this
         policy at different levels in the ministry. At the school administration level, ESSP contributed
         mainly to cover electricity, water and telephone expenditures. It also partially contributed to school
         maintenance and necessary school office furniture. Tuition fees and funding from other donors
         covered other school expenditures. Interviewees from the MOEHE confirmed that the general
         schooling conditions were maintained during the project period. In their view, the ministry was able
         to continue offering basic education.      For them this was the overarching achievement of ESSP.
         Without ESSP funds, it would have been hard to believe that schools would be able to survive.

4.       For the most part, all interviewees at line ministries agreed that the design of the project was
suitable for meeting the project's objectives and delivering the expected outcomes.




                                                      - 33 -

5.       Institutionally, the project positively impacted the benefiting line ministries in that it refined the
procurement activities of these ministries as a result of their adoption of the World Bank procurement
procedures. All line ministries involved in the project have successfully applied the procurement
procedures of the World Bank and some have permanently adopted these procedures as is the case at the
MOEHE. The financial administration at the MOEHE indicated that ESSP instigated the internal capacity
building for the departments involved in ESSP's implementation.

6.       At the beginning, the PCU played a major role in processing the financing applications and
preparing the documentation required. The PCU and the World Bank helped the staff involved in learning
the procedures and regulations required, and gave space for the ministry staff to mange the process. The
financial administration at the MOEHE continued to seek support from the PCU, but only on specific
issues which needed special arrangements with the World Bank. Officials at the MOEHE commended the
PCU staff for their facilitation which, in most cases, was within a reasonable time. There were, however,
some concerns over delays in fund replenishment.

7.       ESSP helped the MOLG cover several areas of its immediate needs, including maintenance of
public and municipal buildings, municipal roads, water networks and environment and sanitary projects.
The ministry adopted project selection criteria based on the geographical outreach, the council's financial
status, emergencies, population and poverty indicators and availability of projects from other donors.
According to the MOLG, ESSP was mainly used to finance projects through municipalities and councils.
Less than 5% of ESSP was used to cover direct operational needs of the ministry. This was a success
indicator; reflecting the ability of the MOLG to adequately mange the funds of donors. The MOLG highly
recognized ESSP as a very successful project compared to other donors' financed projects such as the
municipal fund. This is due to the flexibility of ESSP which helped MOLG in managing the emergency and
basic needs of local government authorities.

8.       None of the interviewees directly or indirectly stated that ESSP funds are inadequate to cover the
needed running expenses and services. However, almost all of them unanimously stated that more services
that are not covered within ESSP are surely needed and would benefit from any additional ESSP funding
should it become available. The linkage between the project's budget and the annual budgets of the line
ministries was done according to the percentages of the overall PA budget. That is, the percentage of
ESSP funds allocated to each benefiting line ministry was equal to the percentage that the line ministry's
budget had in the overall PA budget for that year.

9.       All interviewees stated that without ESSP, the PA would not be able to offer most of the services
which ESSP funds; and that amounts to the majority of services offered. The severe deficit in the PA
budget is due to the current political and security situation which has lead to a severe decline in the
revenues of the PA line ministries. Not only did the PA have to sustain the social services offered to
Palestinians, but also had to respond to the unexpected growth in demand for these services during the last
three years. Therefore, this project cannot be sustained by the PA, relying on PA resources only, without
external assistance. With the exception of improvements in the procurement systems in some line
ministries, none of the interviewees offered commentary or suggestions on ways to link ESSP to reform
efforts intended to introduce efficiencies in public spending in any of the line ministries visited.

    Implementation Difficulties & Adaptation Mechanisms:

10.      The almost continuous Israeli closure and separation between the West Bank and Gaza has lead to
several complications in the implementation of the project. To cite a few examples, there were significant
delays in procuring materials such as school books and the transportation of drugs and medical supplies


                                                      - 34 -

from Gaza to the West Bank (since procurement of drugs by the MOH is centrally managed and
performed in Gaza). Moreover, the MOH experienced increasing levels of delays in deliveries of drugs by
suppliers who could not honor the delivery dates due to Israeli closures. In the year 2004, this lead to an
increased level of drug-inventories that are paid for but undelivered.

11.      While most drugs were available at the MOH Central Medical Store in the West Bank, for
example, some shortages were experienced especially during the year 2003 as compared with the year
2004. The procurement process for necessary drugs, as identified by the WHO, suffered from lengthy
procedures which took more than 10 months, calculated from the time of preparing a bill of quantities to
actual delivery to the ministry's drug store in the West Bank. This led to a shortage of at least 25% in
necessary drugs at all times during years the 2003 and 2004. It is important to note, however, that looking
into the inventory monthly status reports, a remarkable improvement was made during 2004 compared to
2003.

12.      The MOLG faced similar challenges with significant delays of construction materials for projects
performed by the municipalities that the MOLG worked with. Additionally, the Israeli incursions into the
West Bank and Gaza have, in many cases, caused unexpected burdens on the emergency services funded by
ESSP. Additionally, one of the interviewees at the MOLG cited an example of payment delays from the
MOLG to contractors. This was due to delays in replenishing the MOLG's special account which was
managed by the PCU at the MOF.

13.      Factors within the reach of the line ministries' control which have influenced the achievement of
ESSP's outcomes were several. First, the interaction between the line ministries involved was performed
on an as-needed basis and, often, informally via telephone, e-mail or individual meetings. The
Inter-ministerial Steering Committee seemed to adopt the same approach in communication and follow-up,
in most cases. The lack of knowledge of the level of commitment and timing from the donors presented an
issue for line ministries when planning longer term projects. This presented challenges in the procurement
process down the line, as well.

14.      Some examples offered by interviewees illustrate what can be described as self-imposed challenges
which take place more frequently than expected, at some line ministries. For example, the occasional
disparity in allocating funds to different directorates and schools within the MOEHE lead to an allocation
of funds that did not necessarily reflect emergency needs. An illustration was a directorate purchasing a
car in the West Bank while a school was not able to fix broken windows, or while another school was
forced to cancel a class due to the lack of funds.

15.      The institutional development at the line ministries was limited by the fact that they had to apply
several procurement procedures simultaneously. Some of the interviewees thought that the procurement
procedures within some of the line ministries benefiting from ESSP were very lengthy without necessity
when requesting simple services such as car maintenance. Moreover, the World Bank procurement
procedures were, in some cases, thought of as very time consuming to an extent that compromised the
ability to properly plan and manage inventories; at the MOH as an example.

16.      However, and in contrast, it is important to mention that to a certain degree the MOF and other line
ministries developed some plans to alleviate the impact of the uncertainties they faced. The line ministries'
success in exercising such plans depended on their management efficiencies and abilities to coordinate
between different departments in different geographical areas. A good example of this was the MOLG.
Despite its limited resources, the ministry usually allocated 30% of committed funds to "unaccounted for
necessities". This proved to be of great value as it enabled the MOLG to respond in a timely manner to


                                                      - 35 -

urgent needs such as cutting off of power and water networks as a result of unaccounted for military
action. The MOEHE showed similar examples.

Recommendations for Improvement & Lessons Learnt:

17.      Some of the implementation practicalities hinted at possible improvement opportunities in the
design. Examples were the MOF PCU having to manage twenty seven different donor accounts, and
applying lengthy and time consuming World Bank procurement procedures such as ICB. Other challenges
cited by line ministries were these ministries having to apply the World Bank procurement procedures in
addition to the procurement procedures mandated by the PA and other donors.

18.      As for possible transition arrangements that would enhance the performance of a follow-up project,
the interviewees stated that practical complications in applying different procurement procedures need to be
resolved for improved performance. A request was made to expedite the replenishment of donor accounts
in addition to improved clarity with respect to long term spending commitments from donors. A better view
into future donor commitments was cited as a critical factor in the ability of line ministries to better plan
for their future services.

19.      The interviewees who did have a line of communication with the World Bank staff (PCU) stated
that they worked well with the World Bank staff dedicated to follow-up on the project in the Gaza office as
well as those who visited on supervisory missions from the West Bank.

20.      Interviewees linked between ESSP and the level of management skills and efficiencies at the line
ministries. Delays in delivering services were mostly caused by a line ministry's inability, in some cases, to
manage approvals and compliance requirements. Recommendations for improvement included setting up
well-focused training programs for heads of ministries of the related departments including the financial
administration departments on the procedures and regulations of the World Bank.
21.      It was recommended that a closer coordination between the World Bank and Palestinian legislators
take place to ensure that the new PA Procurement and Public Tendering Law will be in conformity with the
procedures and regulations of the World Bank.
22.      Special attention was suggested to be given to ensure that social services effectively reach less
advantaged communities. This is especially important in the health and education sectors, where raising
funds from communities are less likely to happen; much less yield adequate funding.

23.      Ministry officials interviewed recommended a focused review on the procurement system of the
MOH. The review should consider less centralized procurement decision-making procedures. It was also
suggested that the World Bank considers providing technical assistance towards upgrading the Ministry's
information and inventory systems.

24.      As for lessons learnt, the creation of the PCU at the MOF illustrated an example for the successful
design of the project. The PCU played a significant coordinating role in the project. In some cases, it
assumed a bigger role in terms of proper documentation of procurement processes to ensure compliance
with the regulations and procedures of the World Bank. Together with the World Bank staff, the PCU
transferred their knowledge to the procurement and financial administration staff of the line ministries
involved. Line ministries which succeeded in building internal capacity to apply the World Bank's
procedures and regulations continued to seek support from the PCU on non-standard issues which arose.




                                                     - 36 -

- 37 -

